
    ----CITATION----
        Thomas, Annie, (1838-1918) Henry, George W. Williams, John B., M.D.. Lady Lorme's Stratagem .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6199 wright2-0669
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
               PUBLISHED MONTHLY.
               RAILROAD READING.
               LADY LORMES STRATAGEM AND OTHER STORIES.
               THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, Publishers,
               121 Nassau St., N. Y.
            
                    
         
         
            
            
               LADY LORME'S STRATAGEM, AND OTHER TALES.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY, 
                     121 NASSAU STREET.
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Lady Lorme's stratagem
            
               
               LADY LORME'S STRATAGEM.
               By Annie Thomas.
               AUTHOR OF "THE CROSS OF HONOR," "THE HOUSE IN PICCADILLY," &c.
               
                  
                     THE FATAL LEAP.
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER I.—LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM.
                  TWENTY miles from Rugby—I will not say in what direction—the road suddenly breaks out of the deep shade of the pine-tree wood, through which it has for some distance been modestly contented to run in obscurity, and turns boldly away to the left.
                  It widens, too, considerably, and is altogether, from its superior state of macadamization, a more imposing road than it has been during its passage through the black pines. But though the improvement in its appearance strikes one the moment one leaves the shade of the trees in the rear, its good qualities do not come to a climax till it nears the massive iron gates and the turret-shaped lodge which marked the entrance into a gentleman's grounds.
                  The gates are old, strong, and surmounted with a row of grinning mastiffs' heads; the turret-shaped lodge has a hue of brown commingled with its red, that tells of no modern erection. The trees—nearly stripped of their leaves on that late October afternoon, on which we see the place first—bear witness, with all the mighty eloquence of their grand, old, lofty tops and knotted massive trunks, to the antiquity of Combhurst, the name of the fine family mansion and estate of Sir Robert Lorme, Baronet.
                  The avenue is long, long enough that is, to speak well for the size of the estate which could afford to give so much of itself up in avenue, and yet not long enough to make a pedestrian stranger rave at the distance from the turret-shaped lodge to the dark, gray, turret guarded b n itself.
                  Combhurst might have claimed to be called a castle without a particle of ridicule attaching to the claim; but it expressed in its title no such dignity, though it did fully and well its appearance. A real old castle it looked, and had armed men sprang into view on its battlements, a flag waved from its topmost turret, and men in armor clanked across its paved courtyard, I doubt if a nineteenth century observer would have felt a momentary throb of surprise.
                  But Combhurst, far from affording such a medval spectacle, sent out from its wide portals on this autumnal day a far fairer one. A lady and gentleman, attired in the orthodox costume of the period, came out, accompanied by a bounding yelping troop of dogs, and skirting the paved courtyard, they gained the avenue, up and down which they walked for upwards of an hour, and meanwhile the day was dying.
                  The lady was about nineteen or twenty, and though the hat shaded her face, and the long cloth palett her figure, it could be seen at a glance that both were rarely moulded. A proud, determined step—a proud, frank, fair, generous face—bright, rippling, chestnut hair, with a tinge of gold, where the ripples came, and almost black shades in other places—rather above the middle height, even putting that at the extreme, slenderly and gracefully formed, and gifted with a voice like a full-toned bell, rich and clear; all this could be seen and heard as Miss Lorme raised her dark, trailing linsey from the damp, leafy ground, with one hand, and placing the other on her companion's arm, earnestly interrogated him as to his opinion about something.
                  He was a man seven or eight years her senior, this companion of hers, whose opinion she sought to learn so earnestly. A fine, dark, handsome man, with a polished, graceful bearing, that was never effeminate and never put on apparently, and that yet could on occasion be exchanged in a moment for a fierce, impetuous ferocity, that it was ill work to raise. Lord Evesham had led a wild, irregular life abroad for many years, men said; but now he was come home to be good, and to marry Audrey Lorme, who loved him with an affection that forbade her attaching any credit to the tales some of her friends had told to his disadvantage.
                  "No, don't go yet, Fred," she pleaded, as she saw him surreptitiously looking at his watch. 'Evesham is only nine miles distant, and what is nine miles to Cock Robin? Even if you will not do as I wish you, stay and dine with us, and see this bride my brother is bringing home in such an extraordinary manner."
                  "Cock Robin isn't used to your Warwickshire roads, you see, Audrey, and to tell the truth, Cock Robin's master has done pleasanter things during his past career than ride at night through a confounded wood that appears to have been originally designed for the express convenience of those who covet their neighbors' goods, and are not particular as to the means they take to get them. Every other step is on to a boulder, too, it seems to me, and the intermediate one is a rock, and those are things that don't agree with Cock Robin. So I think I shall be off while the daylight lasts, and leave the paying my respects to Lady Lorme for a few days."
                  "What a long speech, Fred; and what an unsatisfactory one! It means that you won't stay."
                  "Exactly; better without me to-night, my darling, believe me. Robert doesn't bring his bride home under such remarkably brilliant auspices that he need care to have other eyes than his own witness her first interview with his sister."
                  "Robert—Robert has been mad, I think," said Audrey Lorme, turning her face, now flushed into crimson, towards her lover. "Fancy a Lorme giving any one occasion to speak as you have just spoken!"
                  "Oh! a maniac, decidedly!" said Lord Evesham, shrugging his shoulders; "every fellow is who goes and marries from the ranks—who doesn't know who he's marrying, in fact—"
                  "Ah, that! perhaps," interrupted Miss Lorme, hastily; "but when you say 'marrying from the ranks,' you imply marrying some totally illiterate and uneducated person; and that, until I have personal evidence to the contrary, I will never believe that Robert has done."
                  "Well, I tell you what it is, Audrey," said Lord Evesham, clasping very kindly the little hand that lay upon his arm, "you are too fond of your brother to make it necessary that I should say it, but still I will; remember it won't be for long, so, for your own sake, give as warm a greeting to, and make things as pleasant for Lady Lorme as may be."
                  "You mean well, and you are always kind, Fred," said the lady of his love, somewhat more haughtily than she had ever spoken to him before; "but if you think that if I find Lady Lorme a little ignorant nonentity, I shall patronise her; or a great, strong minded, arrogant woman, I shall kneel down and do homage to her, you are mistaken."
                  "I do not think you will find her either the one or the other, Audrey. Excuse me, I can't help laughing; the vision you have conjured up of a possible 'my lady' is so amusing."
                  "Why do you not think I shall find her like either the one or the other object my imagination has conceived, Fred?"
                  "Because—oh, half a dozen reasons occur to me, if I only liked to give them; but one or two will be sufficient for sensible Audrey. One is, that ladies invariably conceive something erroneous relative to the appearance of their unknown sisters; another and better one is, that Robert must have had some rarely fair excuse for making such—an ass of himself!"
                  "Yes," said the girl, "that, after all the talking about it, is what the matter resolves itself into. That my brother, Sir Robert Lorme, has been weak and foolish, it's hard to bear, Fred—harder than you think. Robert, who was so lofty-minded, so honorable, so sensible, so staid—Robert, whom I loved as a brother and respected as a father—Robert, to have let himself be tricked into a private marriage with a girl whose antecedents he either abstains from giving me, or does not know himself! I am hurt in my love for my brother as well as in my pride for our name, Fred; and it's useless even for you to argue against it."
                  "Look here! now, do be reasonable," said Lord Evesham, impatiently. "Do you think I should not take fire soon enough if I thought for one moment Robert had married a woman with anything more against her than being beneath him in rank? I should insist quickly enough, if I thought he had done worse than a weak thing, on your giving me the right to remove you from the shadow of a shade even. But I don't doubt his moral circumspection in the least; I only doubt his worldly wisdom. But I shall leave you now, Audrey, for I am detaining you from dressing, to receive the bride, for no good end. We'll go in, if you please, and ring for my horse. I shall call in a day or two to pay my devoirs to my lady."
                  "Why not to-morrow, Fred?"
                  "To-morrow I shall go up to town. By-the-bye, can I bring you anything? Wouldn't you like to have some trifle to offer as a bridal gift?"
                  Miss Lorme laughed.
                  "You are determined that I shall not fail outwardly in all that is due to Sir Robert Lorme's bride from Sir Robert Lorme's sister. Well, Fred, I love you the more for defending his dignity, though I may have seemed to take it ungraciously Yes, bring me a brooch or a pair of ear-rings. I leave the choice to you."
                  "Why not a bracelet?" he asked, carelessly, as he took his notebook out and prepared to jot down the commission.
                  "Well, a bracelet; perhaps it would be better; yes, let it be a bracelet," said Audrey, with a woman's quick acquiescence in whatever is proposed by the man she loves. "Here's Cock Robin; I must go and speak to him," she added, as the groom led Lord Evesham's horse round.
                  And then Cock Robin's head was caressed and his praises were sounded for a few minutes, and then Lord Evesham mounted and rode away, leaving Audrey watching him till a turn in the avenue hid him from sight.
                  "Dear Fred!" she murmured to herself, as she re-entered the house; "how fond he is of Robert, to be sure;" and then she sat herself down on a sofa in the drawing-room, and thought very kindly of the brother who was that evening going to bring home an unknown and unwelcome bride.
                  Presently the daylight died out completely, and she sprang to her feet and rang for her maid and a candle, saying, "Fred is right; I must go and dress; for the best reception that can be given her is due from me to Lady Lorme."
                  Ordinarily Miss Lorme's toilette was a matter of not the slightest difficulty to her. She was one of those specially gifted people who look well in anything, or almost anything; added to this, though fastidious, she was not fussy; so, as I have just stated, ordinarily her toilette was not a matter of the slightest difficulty to her.
                  But to-day Lucy, her maid, found her not capricious, but undecided—uncomfortably undecided. She did not wish to be either too richly or too simply attired. Had her brother been about to bring home the bride Sir Robert Lorme ought to have brought, Miss Lorme would have experienced no misgivings on the subject of the dress befitting the occasion. As it was, she had many. Supposing Lady Lorme should prove to be a humble-minded, commonplace individual, who should show herself to have been unequal to the task of having provided herself with a trousseau worthy of her sudden exaltation, in that case splendor and elegance on the part of Miss Lorme would make not only my lady but my lord uncomfortable. On the other hand, too simple a dress would make too low an appreciation of the affair altogether for Audrey to tolerate the idea of it long.
                  "I tell you what it is, Lucy," she said at last, "I'll wear that low green silk with a black lace Zouave jacket; it's not at all remarkable in any way, and it's a favorite of Sir Robert's;" and when she was arrayed in it, had any possible readers of these pages been there to see, they would have owned that after all Miss Lorme had made a wise selection.
                  Even dressing in a state of indecision was better than sitting alone in the drawing-room, as she found herself doing, waiting for the advent of the travellers. It was all lighted up brilliantly, and the fire leapt up in cheerful spasmodic blazes, and flowers bloomed freshly in hanging baskets and in vases on the side-tables, but Miss Lorme had never found the room dull or unpleasant to sit in alone as she did on this evening.
                  "They were to be here by this time," she said aloud, in her impatience, as the clock on the mantelpiece marked the half hour after six; "dining at seven, Lady Lorme will hardly have time to take off her bonnet. Robert should have named a later hour to spare his bride embarrassment."
                  And as she said it a carriage drove up to the door.
                  Miss Lorme rose to her feet, and as she did so her eyes fell on her own form reflected at full length in a glass before her. Little vain as she was, she could not avoid seeing that she was beautiful, in a grand proud style that might strike discouragement into the heart of the new comer, if she was indeed, as Lord Evesham had suggested, "raised from the ranks;" and in the same moment that she saw this, she took the resolution of going out into the hall to meet and greet them less stifly, more warmly and cordially than be waiting in the drawing room.
                  She went out quickly, and there was a confusion of tongues and a rush of cold air in the hall, and then she was clasped round the waist and kissed by her brother.
                  "Robert, my dear Robert, I'm delighted to see you back, and this is—"
                  She stopped in utter surprise as a lady came daintily forward, with little languishing steps, whose hand Sir Robert took in an almost devotional manner, saying, as he did so:
                  "This is my dear Leonie, Audrey; this is your new sister; you must love each other for my sake at first—you will soon have to do it on even better grounds."
                  And as Miss Lorme bent down to kiss the stranger's white rounded cheek, the stranger said, in a charming, sweet, exquisitely modulated voice, that had a touch of some kind of accent about it that rendered it doubly piquant, "I have no doubt we shall get on excellently; will some one show me to my room?"
                  Audrey need not have feared overpowering Lady Lorme by the richness of her attire, or the dignity of her presence, that was very evident. On the contrary, Audrey acknowledged to herself that she was considerably overpowered by the apparition before her.
                  All that Sir Robert "had condescended"—as his sister had phrased it in her anger—to tell her about the lady he had married with such velocity was, that she was a music mistress, and that he had fallen in love with her from seeing her come to the house of the friend with whom he was staying in town for a fortnight, to teach crotchets and quavers to one of the friend's daughters. He had sought her impulsively, made her an ofter, found her rather superior to his preconceived ideas of an angel, and married her by licence privately at an old church in the city. From such folly, as Lord Evesham had said, Audrey might have guessed he had "a rarely fair" excuse, and so he had.
                  The lady who had come forward with dainty, gliding steps was shorter by a head than Audrey Lorme. Her face was marvellousely fair, with that peculiar tint of wild rose-leaf fairness that is generally found united with blue eyes and golden hair; but the eyes that gleamed brightly in Lady Lorme's most lovely face were cut out of dark gray velvet—soft, lustrous, shining, dark gray velvet; and the hair that was banded back smoothly, just leaving the tips of her white jewel-laden ears visible, was black as a raven's wing.
                  Her face was oval; the delicate lines of it were as softly yet as clearly and decidedly defined as those of an egg. The shape of her nose, chin and mouth was of the truest, purest order of beauty; the form of the rounded cheek could not have been improved had Phidias himself been set to the task. It was indeed a singularly lovely face, and startling as it was in its beauty, it was still more startling in expression. You looked at the brow, and saw sorrow; and you looked at the mouth in the same instant, and saw scorn, and you darted an interrogatory glance at the eyes, and, lo and behold! you were baffled entirely, for they gleamed forth nothing clearer to read than satirical observation. And all in a moment as Audrey saw this in her sister-in-law's face, it changed to a tender sweetness, and then with gliding step she followed her own maid up to her own room.
                  "Rather an extravagant travelling dress, even for the wife of a rich baronet," thought Audrey Lorme, as she walked in the drawing-room again followed by her brother; and well she might think so, for my lady was robed in dark blue velvet—dress and cloak alike; "and I needn't oppress myself with putting her diffidence at ease," she added to herself, as she gained the sofa from which she had started to welcome them, "for I see plainly enough that Lady Lorme is quite equal to the position."
                  "Well, Robert," she said, aloud, as he came and stood before her, "what have you to say for yourself? Surprises are over in life for me now. Sir Robert Lorme has made a secret and romantic marriage."
                  She said it all laughingly, but many a true word is spoken in jest.
                  "Say for myself?" he replied, taking her hands in his, and looking down into her face affectionately, "you have seen her, therefore no excuses are needed. But tell me, Audrey, what do you think of my wife?"
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.—LADY LORME KEEPS DINNER WAITING.
                  THE question asked at the close of the last chapter is perhaps the most embarrassing that the tongue of man can frame. You may think a man's wife detestable, but when he, with a touching reliance on her charms, asks you what you think of her, you cannot tell him so—at least if you do he will hate you, and think your taste vilely bad into the bargain.
                  It is not all bridegrooms who are weak enough to catechise the rest of the world as to its opinion on the individual member selected by him to share his name and fortunes; if he does ask, and his male friends can with any semblance of truth, they get off their strait neatly by clapping him on the shoulder heartily, and telling him that "by Jove! he's a lucky fellow." But ladies cannot utter this speech in the order of things, and would not if they could, so their case is hard when asked in the first bloom of matrimonial enthusiasm by friend or relative what they "think of his wife."
                  Audrey experienced all these difficulties at which I have hinted in their full force. Lady Lorme and Lady Lorme's blue velvet costume had been before her eyes too short a time for her to come to a proper decision as to her respective merits; the short vision she had enjoyed had, to use a nautical phrase, flabbergasted her altogether. She felt that if she was candid she should not be kind, and that if she was kind she could not be candid. She thought for a moment of Lady Lorme's graceful beauty and Lady Lorme's aptitude for marrying advantageously out of hand; she thought of the sorrow on her brow and the satire in her eyes, and the sudden change in both the moment she saw they were seen. She knew her brother was impatiently awaiting the verdict he had asked from her lips, and she rushed at her fence bravely.
                  "I think her the prettiest woman I ever saw in my life, Robert, dear, and I have no doubt I shall think her all that you do in a very short time—there's the dinner-bell, it will hurry her dreadfully I am afraid."
                  Miss Lorme had been mistress of Combhurst a long time, and as she thought of Lady Lorme being hurried by the clanging bell the hostess rose superior to the sister. "I will send and hear, or go and hear, when she will be ready, shall I, Robert?"
                  "Perhaps I had better go," said Sir Robert, hastily; he had had the benefit of a fortnight's travelling experience with my lady, and he knew some of her idiosyncrasies better than Audrey could be supposed to do. As he left the room the bell ceased ringing, to Audrey's momentary surprise.
                  A feeling of annoyance that still she could hardly define crept over Miss Lorme as her brother's footsteps died away. "Poor dear, noble hearted fellow, she'll make a slave of him," she muttered to herself. "Fred was right; she is different to everything I had imagined; I wish she would come down, there is something about her that makes me long to see more of her."
                  But Miss Lorme was not destined to see more of her new sister-in-law just directly, for at this juncture of her thoughts a footman came in with subdued and seething wrath in his face and manner to announce that "My lady had sent down word for the bell to stop, and the dinner to be put off till eight."
                  "Upon my word," said Audrey, as soon as the man was out of the room and hearing, "she gives her orders, does Lady Lorme, with a freedom and graceful determination to assert her rights at once, that speaks well for the feminine adaptability for any niche she may be required to fill; there will be no severe strain on my exertions, I perceive, to make her feel quite at home." And then Miss Lorme looked about for something to while away the time until Lady Lorme should be good enough to allow her to eat her dinner, and, as might be expected, did not succeed in finding anything that would do it. It is very disagreeable to have the reins taken out of your hands by a stranger before you have time to offer to give them up. Miss Lorme took to turning over her carte de visite album, and found that every one looked ugly; that failing to amuse, she made Mephistopheles, her white sky terrier, retrieve the sofa cushion; but for all that Meph. was a lively and inspiriting companion when well roused, that hour lagged in the drawing-room at Combhurst.
                  And how, meanwhile, was it speeding upstairs in my lady's dressing-room? Lady Lorme had ordered a hot bath immediately on gaining her own room, and now after having taken it and being considerably refreshed thereby, she was sitting to have her hair dressed before a large cheval glass, talking at intervals to her husband, who was in the adjoining bedroom, through the open door.
                  Lady Lorme's maid, Dickson, had only been in her possession—I mean service—since her marriage; the time was short, and Dickson not thoroughly broken in to her work yet. In various odd numbers of the penny novels she had occasionally perused with devouring interest, Dickson had read of eyes fla hing; she had believed that they might do so in the enchanted world in which George Reynolds and others of that ilk dwelt, but she had scarcely credited that orbs did anything of the kind in the realms in which she lived and moved and had her being. But now standing before the glass in which her mistress's face was clearly revealed, she had her doubts set at rest at once and for ever. Lady Lorme's maid let the brush slip in its passage over the silky tresses, and Lady Lorme's eyes flashed up like great black diamonds on the surface of the glass. "Do that again and you go to-morrow morning," she said, in her pretty, piquant tones that were so witching and beautiful; and then she turned round and caught the wrist of her astounded abigail with a grip you had deemed it impossible such a tiny, white, blue-veined hand could give.
                  "What were you saying, Robert?" she then asked aloud of her husband, who forthwith repeated a remark he had made when the brush was slipping or about to slip, viz, that "Audrey had probably put dinner off for half an hour, but hadn't she better make haste now?"
                  "I have sent down word about dinner, Robert; it never occurred to me to consult Miss Lorme about it. I hope you will forgive the omission."
                  "My dear Leonie, 'forgive;' what a word! You will find neither Audrey nor me tenacious about anything you do, or do not do."
                  "How beneficent of the future Lady Evesham," said the fair bride, laughing; "your sister is not so handsome as you had led me to believe her, Robert; when she came out into the hall she looked as if she had been sitting too near a roasting fire."
                  "Audrey always colors a good deal from excitement," said Sir Robert, sauntering in and leaning against the door, while he watched the final touches being put to the pale pink moire antique in which his wife was now arrayed.
                  "Ah, that was it, then, probably," said my lady, holding out her tiny, exquisitely-rounded, white arm for a cameo bracelet to be clasped upon it. "All the blood of the Lormes was in her face as she came out to view the intruder. I wonder what she expected to see? a milkmaid who would drop her a curtsey and say, By your leave miss, judging from her look of anything but gratified surprise when she saw me."
                  "Audrey was what every one must be, enchanted with you."
                  "She told you so?"
                  "Well, not in so many words; but I know her manner better than you do, and I saw it at once. I—may I offer you my arm, my dear Leonie?"
                  "To go down? No, not yet; I want to look at my rooms; besides, I hate going down to a drawing-room with nobody in it. I shall keep the drawing-room to amuse myself with after dinner; now you shall make a little tour of inspection with me and hear my opinion of the arrangements that have been made for your wife. In the first place, the furniture of this room is old, scrubby and unbecoming. Green! who ever heard of having green or a lady's dressing room—can't I, may I not have other color, Robert?"
                  She, that velvet-eyed Venus in pink moire, had her arms clasped caressingly over one of his, as she asked the question. He looked down at her with such deep, hearty love and admiration, that she loosed her hold and asked suddenly for another bracelet; "She was like a dog with only one ear," she said, laughing. Was it that the young bride was too bashful to stand unmoved beneath the admiring gaze of her lord, even?
                  "My dear Leonie, as if you were not sure that your wishes shall be law with me. Consult nothing but your own taste, and then you may be sure that I shall be pleased."
                  My lady was standing now before the fire with one little daintily bottined foot poised upon the fender. As her husband finished speaking she called him to come nearer, and when he came close to her and put one arm round a waist slender as the now famous one which the Empress of Austria has achieved, she asked: "Tell me the name and title of the man your sister Audrey is going to marry again, please, Robert. I have a very bad memory for things that only concern other people, and I have forgotten it; but she will think us both indifferent, and all sorts of dreadful things, if I betray ignorance on the point."
                  "Frederick Austin Compton, Lord Evesham of Evesham and half a dozen other places. He's one of the nicest fellows in the world; I wish he had been here to-night; I forgot to ask Audrey about him."
                  "Yes, I wish he had." replied the lady; "I shall be glad when the terrible ordeal of being shown to the only two people likely to be prejudiced against me and to prejudice you against me is over. When are they to be married?"
                  "In December." (Sir Robert elected to ignore the other part of her sentence.)
                  "Oh, indeed; so soon? Well, now, Robert, if you like, I will go down to dinner."
                  And Sir Robert Lorme did like; for, devotedly attached as he was to his young and lovely wife, he had felt the pangs of that unsthetical thing ycelpt hunger pretty sharply during the last quarter of an hour.
                  Beaming with smiles and looking ten times more lovely than she had done an hour before in the hall and the blue velvet, Lady Lorme came in now to the presence of the considerably discomfited Audrey and inflicted another palpable suspense upon her.
                  "Ah! I am so grieved to have kept you waiting," she began, imploringly, quitting her husband's arm and gaining his sister's side with a gliding rapidity of motion that had something fairylike and unearthly about it; "but what could I do, worn out and ill as I felt from the effects of the shaking railway-carriage to which we were condemned today? You will forgive me—say you will forgive me and I will never forget my duty as hostess again so shockingly."
                  Audrey, so soon going to be the mistress of stately Evesham and "half a dozen other places," as her brother had said, could well afford to laugh at this determined arrogating to herself of the rights of hostesship on the part of the diplomatic Venus whom she despaired of ever finding out—i.e., "understanding," but whose mtier she fancied it now seemed to be to will to please by a flattering rule that should alternately "bother and beguile." Of course Audrey accorded a most affectionate forgiveness for the inhospitality shown, and they sat down to dinner on social roses, with the thorns all carefully nipped off, or, at least, put out of sight.
                  Rumors of "my lady" being a promoted "teacher" had been wafted down in some wonderful way to Combhurst, therefore the way in which she raised with her jewelled hand the jewelled eyeglass and glanced through it round the diningroom, the walls of which were hung with flyblown portraits of departed Lormes, was much derided by those sticklers for caste, the denizens of the servants' hall.
                  "They might ha' been he mud under her feet, through which she've trodden many and many a time I make no doubt, and through which, the Lord be willin', she'll tread again, by the way she turned them eyes of hers upon them, and then they wasn't a lookin'; but I see it plain as plain, she dropped her eyes with the selfsame look on Miss Audrey."
                  "Ah! get 'long, do," said Mrs. Wilson, the old housekeeper, "don't come any of your rubbidging talk here, John Povers. As if the master, bless his heart, would have brought a lady home who'd go for to drop her eyes on Miss Audrey unseemly—taint likely!"
                  "Well, I shouldn't a thought it likely, but I see her do it," said John, solemnly.
                  Later in the evening Lady Lorme was good enough to enact a new part.
                  She was seated on a low velvet chair, enthroned on one side of the fireplace, and Sir Robert was doing homage over the back of it, after the manner of bridegrooms.
                  "Are you not tired of work?" she asked of Audrey, who had been assiduously stitching a riding-collar all the evening.
                  "No,"Audrey answered, "not at all."
                  "I wish you would play something to me—or, stay, I will play something to you, if you'll let me use your piano till my own arrives."
                  She rose as she spoke, and was advancing to the instrument, when Meph's recumbent form met her view.
                  "Pretty boy," she said, waking him with a little kick, "nice dog!"
                  Meph protested with a deep rumbling growl against the kick, at the same time wagging his tail in acknowledgment of the polite language.
                  "Horrid temper he seems," said Lady Lorme, emphatically; and as she spoke she inserted the point of her slipper into the hapless Skye's eye again.
                  "Oh, no, he's not a badtempered dog, poor old pet," remonstrated Audrey, but the growl that rumbled forth in even deeper tones than before seemed to contradict her.
                  To be roused from his evening nap and kicked by a stranger, it was more than had ever been asked or expected of Meph before. As Lady Lorme was advancing her foot for a parting salute, Meph sprang up and seized it with an angry yap.
                  Once more, had Dickson been in the room, would she have had ocular demonstration as to the flashing of eyes. My lady bent down, and before her husband could interfere, she had choked the dog off; with one little white hand she held him down with a strength against which he vainly struggled, and with the other she belabored him until his howls of rage and pain brought a passionately indignant remonstrance from the lips of his mistress. Then Lady Lorme quitted her hold and the dog slunk away—beaten.
                  "Did you know that Lady Lorme reckoned dogtaming amongst the list of her accomplishments, Robert?" said Audrey, when the tumult was over. "Believe me, I feared for your fingers," she continued, "for you had teased him into such a passion as he has never been in since I have had him."
                  "Sir Robert does not know half my accomplishments yet, Miss Lorme; he'll learn them in time, though, I've no doubt. Meanwhile, mark how thoroughly your dog is subdued in our first round. If we ever have another it will end in the death of one of us; which one do you think it will be?"
                  "My dearest Leonie, don't jest so," interposed Sir Robert; "play me something—anything—or, stay, play me the piece you were playing when I came into the room and saw you for the first time."
                  "Why, that," said my lady, "was an exercise that I was teaching General Airey's stupid daughter to play! Teaching—strange, isn't it, Miss Lorme?"
               
               
                  CHAPTER III—THE LEPRECHAUN RUSHES HIS FENCES.
                  ALL the neighborhood came to look at—or perhaps I ought to phrase it as they did, and say to call on her in a few days, and if wishes had power to blast prosperity my lady's career would have been withered up at once. Sir Robert Lorme had been an eligible man in that county side too long for it not to quiver with rage and hate to the soles of its daintiest Balmorals when he dared to marry in haste—a stranger.
                  What dinners had been given to him by fond mothers, capable, in their unselfish love for their rapidly-maturing "eldest," of causing the junior members of the family to subsist upon cold mutton till pastoral pleasures, from their association with sheep, became odious to them. What sumptuous silks had Rugby tradespeople weekly supplied on the strength of the report of Sir Robert Lorme's attentions to various young ladies! What dozens of fair wrists had been flayed and fingers crippled for awhile through amateurish attempts to do for him at archery meetings! What debts had been contracted by yielding papas, under their wives' representations, that "it must come to a point soon, and then they could retrench till——" till such time as a baronet appeared on the surface again to be hooked for the next daughter. And now the end of all these things was that he had gone up to London and married—a nobody.
                  They all came prepared to crush her when they heard that Lady Lorme was at home—came prepared to put her down and make her husband feel sorry that he had prepared such a mistake. But hardly had they been a moment in her presence before they were glad to hoist the white flag and cry, from the bottom of their souls, "quarter!"
                  She was merciless in making them all feel that she did not acknowledge their superiority; she was terribly at her ease before them; their hearts bled to perceive that she was just a little bored. One or two of them took her on the topic of music, hoping that a consciousness of the "reports they had heard" would humble her a little. But she baffled them here completely; with her piquant voice, just a trifle elevated that all the room might hear, she detailed some of her experiences as a teacher of music in the families of upstarts, in little accented telling sentences that were bewitchingly effective. Then a grandiose woman, the Countess of Corbyn, daughter of a duke and wife of an earl, tried her lofty hand at putting her in her proper place by a series of allusion-phrases to the very high and mighty stratum of society in which dukes' daughters do dwell; but Lady Corbyn held her daggers when she found, as she did presently, that she had simply been making the running for the baronet's lady, and that the soil she had been wont to farm with such clat was taken out of her hands and tilled in a far superior manner by this new school acquaintance.
                  And all the while Lady Lorme was suave and charming to a degree; she made every one of her guests uncomfortable, but she made them so in the most polished style; they all hated her, but they could discover no flaw, no blot on the faultless surface she offered to their view.
                  Miss Lorme felt rather dull in these days, for Lord Evesham found business in London which detained him on and on indefinitely, and Sir Robert was always on duty with his bride.
                  When a man of thirty-seven gives the reins of his heart, head and understanding into female hands, he does it entirely, and never thinks of attempting to get the bit between his teeth. Lady Lorme ruled her husband with a rod of iron, and he liked it and thought it sweet.
                  There were great doings at Combhurst soon. She disliked going out to people's dreary houses, she said, but she gave dinners and balls at her own lavishly. And masculine Warwickshire bent the knee in adoration before her, and won nothing in return for its service but the tips of her dainty fingers and level glances of something that would have been scorn if the smile on her lips had not seemed to contradict it, from the gray velvet eyes. And in the midst of it all November was born and nearly buried, and Lord Evesham came back with the bracelet.
                  Miss Lorme retained her own room and her own habits undisturbed, for they were not too congenial these sisters, though they kissed each other on the cheek and called each other dear; and it was to Audrey's room, which she didn't call her boudoir, that Lord Evesham turned his steps when he came over to pay his long-deterred devoirs to my lady.
                  Lord Evesham's business had been tedious and wearing, that Audrey declared she could see at once, for he looked pale, and wan, and weary.
                  "What had it been about?" she asked. "Estates, or settlements, or anything she could understand connected with business?"
                  Audrey had a kind of undeveloped notion that when a man was about to marry, the "settling up" and turning over a new leaf might be a troublesome proceeding.
                  He explained matters as clearly and succinctly as a man ever can or will explain matters to a woman, however near and dear she may be to him. He had been bothered and worried, he said, looking over old estate-deeds was dry work. Lawyers in office hours were dry beings. But all that sort of thing was over now, and he only hoped Lorme would think he had acted as it behoved him to act in his position.
                  This was all very well—no expectant bridegroom could be expected to say more. To Audrey he was all that a man about to marry a woman in a fortnight should be to that woman; the chivalrous devotion of the lover was already tinged with the more sober and deeper respect of the husband. He seemed, in fact, to love Miss Lorme very dearly and to lean upon her in a measure.
                  "And, by-the-bye, I have not thought of it before, how do you like your sister-in-law?" he asked, suddenly, when their interview in Miss Lorme's room had lasted for about half an hour.
                  
                  "Fred, she's incomprehensible—utterly incomprehensible."
                  Miss Lorme rose as she said it, and pensively balanced her right foot on the fender and her hands in her waistcoat pockets.
                  "Why? What is there extraordinary about her?"
                  "Oh, nothing extraordinary in an outr sense; she is perfection in appearance and manners; she never fails in her 'part,' and, putting her determination to rule absolutely in the house out of court, she is all that a sister-in-law should be?"
                  "And how as to her as a wife?"
                  "Well, I own I am bewildered, Fred; if she adored Robert she would behave exactly as she does behave, and ye:——"
                  "'And yet,' what, Audrey?"
                  "I do not think she does adore him. Perhaps the expecting such a thing as adoration may seem extravagant, and the speaking of it at all absurd; but it will not seem so to you after an hour's observance of my lady's manners and customs. She kneels down before Robert's chair and bends her graceful head down when she's asking for a trifle sometimes, and shell sit on the ground at his feet, and she'll walk with him half-way down the avenue of a morning when he's going to ride over the land, and she'll plod with her mites of delicately-kidded feet over ploughed fields with him, and nurse one of his sick pointers, and never rest for an instant while he is cut of the house; and yet, for all that, I doubt the depth of her love for him."
                  "God of heaven!' cried Lord Evesham, hastily starting to his feet, "what more would you have her do? She does all this, does she? It's sickening, absolutely sickening to hear it."
                  "You won't say so when you have seen her, Fred. You will think then that if it's genuine, my lady's is the most graceful affection that anybody ever evinced for anybody else yet in the world. But I often see her eyes when she does not happen to know that their sheeny velvet glances are visible to me, and they have taught me to doubt her affection for my brother, and to believe in the doctrine of the transmigration of souls."
                  "How so?"
                  There's a double look in them. They are the loveliest eyes in the world, Fred, you will acknowledge that, even if I wickedly prejudice you against her. Some eastern queen has looked like my lady does on a serpent about to sting her, and the serpent has looked back with the other glance that lives in Lady Lorme's eyes upon the eastern queen."
                  "In fact," said Lord Evesham, laughing, "she is a combination of Cleopatra and the asp, according to your account. Come on, I am getting anxious to be introduced to Lady Lorme."
                  They left Audrey's room, and walked through the hall and into the drawing and dining-rooms without finding her; and then Audrey gaily continuing the search—for she was in exuberant spirits naturally enough at Evesham's return—went upstairs and in my lady's chamber she found Dickson ready with the information that "my lady had gone out to ride with Sir Robert."
                  "She is gone out to try the Leprechaun colt, Fred, I find; I forgot it before, but I remember now that Robert planned a surprise for her this morning—the gift of the nicest horse in his stable he considers it; you know the Leprechaun?"
                  "Isn't he that good-looking brown with a white off foreleg?"
                  "Yes; he has only lately come home from the breaker's, and I fancy Robert intended him for me, for he is perfectly trained for a lady. But the other day Lady Lorme began the subject of riding, and from her tone Robert as well as I discovered that she had more than a penchant for it; he told me after that he should give her the Leprechaun."
                  "She will look splendid on horseback," said Lord Evesham eagerly; "let us go out and see them come up the avenue."
                  "How do you know how she will look?"
                  "I can judge pretty well from your description of her," he answered rather testily. "Ugly women look well on horseback generally—pretty ones divine."
                  "We shall see them very well from this window, Fred," said Miss Lorme, going to it. "I don't relish the idea of going out in the cold to get a passing glimpse—for that is all we should get by going into the avenue. Lady Lorme is too good a judge of effect to suffer a hasty introduction; she would not pull up."
                  "Audrey," said Lord Evesham, suddenly coming up close behind and smoothing her chestnut hair with a caressing softness that is strangely pleasant to a woman from the hand of the man she loves—"Audrey, I think I shall let Evesham for a time; I dislike English life and the English climate, and if you have no objection to the plan, I should rather go abroad for a few years."
                  "Anywhere with you," said the girl, cordially and fondly; "you will find me willing to live wherever you like, Fred. But isn't this rather a sudden resolution?"
                  "No," he said, he had been thinking of it for sometime. And then there was a silence, a happy silence on the girl's part, for she was following out the train of thought his proposition had aroused. "A life abroad," in the sunny South probably, with the man she loved; no, Audrey asked for nothing happier than this.
                  They came after a time, slinging up the avenue at a sharp trot, and Lord Eyesham's prophecy was right. Lady Lorme did look splendid. At the first glance you could tell the square seat and the light hand were not superficially gained things.
                  "Fred," Audrey exclaimed, admiringly, as Lady Lorme reined up sharply, and leant forward, patting the brown colt's neck, "my brother's wife is fairer than the fairest dream of woman that anybody can ever have had: isn't she superb?"
                  "Yes, she's rather pretty," said Lord Evesham, hesitatingly.
                  Lady Lorme in her hat and habit never for an instant lost sight of her tender delieacy—her piquant reliance on her husband—her thousand little feminine airs and graces. Some women rush into Amazonianisms as soon as they doff crinoline and a bonnet, and hold their whips under their arms in a way they would die rather than hold their parasols. They step, too, more determinately very often, and speak louder when in a horsey atmosphere, and altogether try to unsex themselves
                        AUDREY LORME.
                      selves a little—just enough to correspond with their costume. But Lady Lorme knew better. She rode magnificently; she mounted well, she sat well, she handled his mouth well, and she rode judiciously; and with all this she was the thorough lady still. She did not become a diluted jockey the moment she touched the saddle, though the most casual observer could see at once that she was perfectly at home there.
                  She came into the room where Lord Evesham stood awaiting his introduction to her with his back to the window—came in with a gliding grace of motion, and the wild rose blooming brightly in her most lovely face; and when she had advanced a yard or two into the room, she paused and looked at him.
                  With a strange look for a young hostess to give a stranger guest—especially when that guest is a gentleman on the brink of matrimony with her own sister-in-law-it was a glance of thrilling interrogation, and yet of most biting scorn, that went out of those dark gray velvet eyes, and fastened itself on the countenance of the man to whom she presently bowed with her sweetest grace, and offered her hand in the most gracious manner, and welcomed to her "husband's house as her husband's future brother."
                  Sudden as the glance had been, and suddenly as the glance had been quelled, one had seen it who would have given a year of her life not to have seen it. Had not that look shown knowledge of Lord Evesham in other days? With proud, fearless honesty of her nature and her race, she resolved upon hearing the truth at once.
                  "You have known Lord Evesham before, though, I imagine, Leonie," she said; "I need not have introduced you."
                  "You are mistaken, then, in your imaginings," said Lady Lorme, coolly. "I never saw Lord Evesham before today."
                  "What, then," thought Audrey, "could that fell glance of hers mean?"
                  She sat down to luncheon in her habit, taking her hat off, and throwing it down on a chair behind her, and proving satisfactorily by the perfect organization of her glossy tresses, that she was not one of that unfortunate and unpleasant race who always come in towsled from a ride. And she was more graceful and feminine in the tight, plain, dark cloth body and sleeves than any other woman could have been with all her feminine paraphernalia of silks and laces and ribbons about her. Sir Robert Lorme felt that she was so, and Sir Robert Lorme looked his triumph at the undoubted success his brilliant, beautiful bride was achieving before his stidious friend.
                  As for the fastidious friend, his late business trials told upon him more and more as the luncheon went on; his paleness became pallor, and his weariness dejection.
                  "I want Leenie to let me give her another horse," said Sir Robert, after a time, in allusion to the Leprechaun; "not but she rides him admirably; but she means to course with me, and the Leprechaun rushes his fences rather wildly."
                  "A horse that does that is a bad mount for a lady," opined Lord Evesham. "You had better agree to a change, Lady Lorme; a horse who rushes things wildly will never wait for a safe lead, and is apt, into the bargain, to get other horses into mischief."
                  Lady Lorme's eyes were fixed on her plate while he was speaking, but she raised them when he concluded, and—could Audrey be mistaken a second time?—there was the self-same glance that had been in them when she first caught sight of Lord Evesham.
                  "I will bear what you say in mind believe me, I will be very careful, and if I promise that I am sure Robert will let me keep the horse; in fact, what you have sail about his being 'dangerous' to other horses will effectually prevent my being rash at all, for I shall only ride with my husband."
                  Admirable young matron!
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.—LADY LORME TAKES THE BRACELET, AND LORD EVESHAM AT A DISADVANTAGE.
                  LADY LORME did not generally linger long over the luncheon-table; to say the truth, her ladyship found a family party tedious, and so, on ordinary occasions, was glad enough to get out of the way of their discovering that she did find it so, hastily. But today she lingered in the dining-room long after the last succulent morsel had been dispatched—lingered, too, not unwillingly, but with an evident determination to stay as long as the rest did.
                  It was very aggravating, for she wanted them out of the room; but both Sir Robert and his sister showed an inclination to remain where they were, also. Sir Robert had opened a topic he loved with his far from apparently enthusiastic brother-elect. This topic was hunting; the nobleman who had hunted the foxhounds for many years was just dead, and it was a great question in He County whether or not Lord Evesham could be persuaded into taking them. Sir Robert, in numerous conversations with many of his neighbors, had so far presumed on his approaching relationship with Lord Evesham, as to hold out great hopes that he would take them, and to be very sanguine altogether as to the superior way in which "Evesham would hunt them, and keep up the whole thing, if he did take them."
                  "There's a capital site for the kennel over at Evesham," he continued, "and it will be keeping up the character of the hunt better than if it's allowed to subside into a mere subscription pack."
                  "But I don't think I shall be much at Evesham for some years to come," said Lord Evesham, when Sir Robert had wound up with this eloquent appeal.
                  "Not be much at Evesham? what on earth do you mean?" exclaimed Sir Robert. "Not be much at Evesham! I cannot part with Audrey," said my lady.
                  "I mean exactly what I say," said Lord Evesham, answering Sir Robert, and allowing his hostess's speech to pass unnoticed. "I wish to live abroad, and Audrey is willing to live abroad; so the end of it is that abroad we shall live for some time to come; you had better take the pack yourself, Robert."
                  "Ah! it is not the pack I am thinking of now,' said Sir Robert, getting up and crossing over to his sister. "Audrey, dear," he continued, bending down and kissing her on the forehead, "I needn't tell you how sorry I am that Fred and you have come to this conclusion. I little thought that when that day we have all been looking forward to as such a happy one did arrive, that I should give my sister away literally."
                  "Don't say that, Robert; neither time nor distance can estrange us! We shall meet often, I hope; and Leonie," she continued, turning to the lustrous face that was bent attentively upon all three, "you like the continent, I know; you must persuade Robert to leave his dear old Combhurst sometimes, and come and see us; will you?"
                  "Yes," Lady Lorme said, "when they were married she had no doubt that Robert and herself would frequently give themselves the felicity of going to gaze on their happiness."
                  This being one of those speeches which are unanswerable, conversation flagged, and presently Lady Lorme rose and proposed an adjournment.
                  Audrey and Lord Evesham were going out in Audrey's pony-carriage; Sir Robert followed his sister out of the room when the latter left it, saying she would go and dress, so for one moment the hostess and her guest was alone in the room. He paused at the door, for he, too, had meditated a hasty exit, apparently—paused, and held the door open, with a haughty inclination of his head to the lady in indication of his desire that she would pass out before him.
                  "So, my lord," she said, stopping suddenly when she was close to him, "you will not remain at Evesham; I had hoped to have you for a neighbor."
                  She had laid her hand on the one of his that was holding the door open—laid it on with a gentle pleading clasp at first, but as she concluded her sentence she tightened it to a strong grasp, and at the same time pushed the door from his hold and shut it.
                  He shook her off, apologised for his roughness instantaneously, and attempted to pass her.
                  "Won't you let me speak to you for a moment?" she asked, as he opened the door, and again she laid that firm little white hand of hers on his arm.
                  "Not for one moment, Lady Lorme," he answered, and
                  "Oh, you coward!" was her comment on his refusal.
                  Lady Lorme went along through the hall, and up the wide staircase, with her face unruffled, her lips smiling, despite her angry words. Went along hall and staircase and corridor, and into her own room; and when she reached it and found it empty, she dropped the unruffled look, and the smile and the regard for appearances, and the gliding pace of motion, and sprang to the sofa, with her hands clutching at her glossy dark hair, and buried her face in the cushions, and gave vent to a stormily spasmodic burst of execrations and ejaculations for a few minutes.
                  The room was completely metamorphosed. When a bride on the night of her arrival in her adoring husband's halls finds fault with the fittings-up of those portions specially dedicated to herself, the chances are considerably in favor of those things with which she has found fault being speedily removed. Lady Lorme's dressing-room was now worthy of the honor of being the casket for so fair a jewel as herself.
                  It was a turret-room, and its walls and toilette table, its couch and easy chairs, were all draped with rich crimson silk; all its appointments, too, were ruby, Bohemian glass and silver, and scentless flowers of gorgeous hue bloomed luxuriantly in its solitary window. Therefore, as far as outward appearances went, all was couleur de rose.
                  
                  Ah, these "outward appearances!" how vilely mockingly deceptive they are. How often, when the physical path is over Turkey carpets and polished boards, is the mental and moral one over ice of the thinnest and ways of the thorniest. How hollow, what seems substantial! How wicked, what shows to the world as virtuous! How godless your Sunday pietist! How glitter may dazzle the eyes of the casual observer to the weight of the cross of iron that is borne on some uncomplaining breast! How poverty brightens up and makes the best of itself! How hate decks itself in the garb of loving kindness; how envy swears it is only gentle tender interest! How family quarrels huddle themselves out of sight at the sound of the visitor's knock! How—but I may as well leave these moralizings till I write an essay against "outward appearances."
                  Suffice it to say then here, that the outward appearances which would lead one to suppose that all was couleur de rose in the interior of that extravagantly-bedecked little dressing-room—the soft glowing rich hue shone not in the soul of its lovely mistress—all was blank desolation there, and gray despair.
                  "The coward!" she kept on reiterating from between her clenched teeth—"the coward! not to give me a word of recognition or comfort; to be so careful of the dignity of that pink and white piece of delicate china, that he must act his lie even when we were alone together. I'll make him feel; I'll make him speak; I'll—" she had not time to say what else she would do, for there came a knock at the door.
                  In a moment she had started up, and was standing before the glass with her hair let down and her face toned back to its normal state of lustrous beauty, and in another moment her voice was perfectly under command, and she was capable of uttering, with all her usual fascination of tone and manner, the words
                  "Come in!"
                  And then the door opened, and Audrey Lorme came in, with a little leather case in her hand.
                  "Oh!" said Lady Lorme, languidly, "I thought it was Dickson come to take off my habit; I have been here ever so long" (the time had seemed long to her) "waiting."
                  Audrey explained that she had merely come in for a minute to offer her wedding gift—a trifle, and a long delayed one; but Evesham had been commissioned to get it, and she had left the choice of it entirely to him, as in her (Audrey's) opinion his taste was good.
                  "Oh, faultless!" Lady Lorme assented quickly, and then she took the case and opened it, and gazed, as Audrey thought, with almost too absorbed admiration on the bracelet which reposed in it.
                  As a bracelet it deserved the enwrapt regard bestowed upon it—as a gift it deserved something more. It was a broad band of brilliants and opals, with a pendant locket thickly studded with the same stones.
                  "The locket opens in two places in a most peculiar manner," said Audrey at last, feeling that though it was an awkward thing for her to break the silence, it would be a still more awkward thing for her to allow it to continue unbroken; "it's a mysterious little locket; shall I show you how it opens?"
                  To her surprise Lady Lorme achieved the opening it even as she spoke.
                  "I must have pressed by accident on the light stone," she said. "Audrey, it is a magnificent present! I can never thank you sufficiently for giving, or Lord Evesham for getting it for me."
                  And then the two ladies kissed each other, after the manner of women when a present has passed from one to the other, and, indeed, on all the important occasions of life; and Audrey, feeling that she could now leave the room without embarrassment ment, sketchily stated that she wanted Robert to give her some money, as she probably should go to one of the neighboring towns and buy something, walked out, leaving Lady Lorme still standing with the bracelet in her hand.
                  Presently she opened the door, and—it was a mean thing, but she was capable of worse than that—listened. She heard her husband shout out.
                  "Go to the library, Audrey, will you, and I'll be with you in a minute."
                  She watched that minute pass according to the clock on her mantelpiece with bated breath, and then she tore off her habit, and dressed herself in her voluminous crinolines and trailing silks, with a rapidity that would have caused Dickson's hair to stand upon end with great awe. And then she rushed downstairs noiselessly, and into the drawing-room, where she found Lord Evesham.
                  She was by his side before he saw her enter, her hand was on his own, and she was flashing the jewels before his eyes.
                  "What made you select this as a wedding gift from your affianced bride to me?" she asked in a hissing whisper.
                  "I don't know," he answered doggedly, after an instant. "I was foolish to do it; I did not mean to hurt your feelings."
                  "You have not done so; now be quick in replying to all I may ask you, or down goes your fabric of happiness, for Audrey Lorme will come in and find us. Your bringing me that bracelet makes me think you more of a man than I did just now; it shows to me clearly and well that you remember what is past. Now, why did you leave me?"
                  "I obeyed your command."
                  "What! a woman's outbreak of impatience, and you took advantage of it; why did you conceal your accession to fortune and tide, Frederick Compton?"
                  "What would have been the use of letting you know it?" he asked, impatiently. "We were separate!—parted by your own will and wish. I had formed another attachment—that is to say—'he stammered.
                  "Go on," she interrupted, scornfully.
                  "That is to say, my love for you was weakened; I believed that you had ceased to care for me; there would have been folly under these circumstances in seeking to renew the dream that you yourself awoke me from."
                  She thought for a moment; he was a lord—rich, with a place in the land far higher than any mere baronet could attain; then she spoke.
                  "And I love you still, Fred! Heaven help me! how dearly I can never tell. One word of soothing for the poor wretch who has blighted her life under the impression that it could never be re-united with yours. Had I been a free woman—were I a free woman—would you fulfil the vow you once made me?"
                  Poor Lord Evesham was in a pitiable place; he was in the house of a friend, and that friend's wife was making love to him and raking up old memories of the days gone by, when he had thought she was going to be his wife. Added to which, the girl to whom he was betrothed was liable to come in at any moment. She wasn't free, and there was not the remotest possibility of her being free till he was himself bound to the girl he now most dearly loved, indissolubly; he had been passionately attached to the lovely Leonie; there could be no harm, he thought, in telling a white lie, since it would soothe her.
                  "Yes, I would," was the result of his cogitations; and then they heard footsteps approaching and Lady Lorme was herself again, and able to go forward and show the beautiful present to her husband.
                  Sweet little woman! who would have thought—here, again, outward appearances were so fair—that she nourished a black pain and a black crime in her heart, as she stood talking leisurely to Audrey, and Sir Robert, and Lord Evesham and Meph. She caught up the white Skye in her arms, and disregarding his cross growls, carried him to the door to see his mistress off. She was quite bright, and sparkling and vivacious. No one would have thought that she had been clenching her hands and tearing her hair, and moaning up in the privacy of her own room ten minutes before. Still less would any one have thought who witnessed the clinging affection with which she hung on Sir Robert's arm, have deemed that five minutes before she had been passionately adjuring another man to tell her that he loved her still, and informing him that her marriage had blighted her life. Consummate little actress! how admirable her tact would have been if she had not a soul to be blackened by such falsehood, to be lost through such vile deception and trickery. She even gaily called out a laughing order for some lollipops to Lord Evesham, and merrily wished them a pleasant drive. And then she went back into the house with her husband and entreated him not to leave her all the afternoon—or at any rate, if he must go out over part of the land, to let her walk with him. In fact, if Sir Robert Lorme had not believed before that my lady adored and would go through fire and water for him, he would have been justified in believing it from this date.
                  Later, when the dull November day was closing in, she went to the glowing turret-room again, and Dickson was summoned, and the shrine was brilliantly illuminated, and then Lady Lorme achieved a ravishing toilette.
                  The robes she wore were always rich and but to-night she was resolved to excel herself, and to dazzle the man who had confessed that he loved her still, even when the beauty he had once idolized had been simply set off by the riding-habit. "Would not that beauty win his heart yet more through his eyes," she thought, "when set off by splendor?"
                  So my lady was robed in a clouded white moire, covered with a light running pattern of delicate white velvet leaves; and over this she wore the tiniest white velvet Zouave jacket, embroidered with the matchless gold tracery of Corfu; this jacket was fastened at the throat with a diamond and opal clasp, and its sleeves falling wide and open from the elbow, left one lovely arm entirely bare, while on the other sparkled Audrey's present to her—yet not Audrey's present either, for that she had safely locked away in a drawer. Besides, in this locket, had she opened it, might have been seen a pair of exquisitely painted miniatures; and the painting on the one side represented with rare fidelity the face of Lord Evesham, and the painting on the other side the face of Lady Lorme.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.—THE UNSELFISH WISH.
                  
                     
                        
                           Well, peace to thy heart, though another's it be,
                           And health to thy cheek, thought it bloom not for me.
                        
                     
                  
                  WHEN Moore wrote these lines he had ceased to care for, or at least to love, the apostrophised one. We don't wish the one—the cherished one—all manner of good things as the bride of another, while we still retain desires that she should have been our own. Peace to the heart that has been false to us may be wished, but not while that heart is still the dearest image on earth to us. Health to the cheek is a thing that men don't pray for when the owner of the cheek has first proved fickle or meanly jilted them; they do that when the lady is superseded in their hearts and imaginations, but not before—not while the wound is young.
                  Lord Evesham had prepared for the in w with the woman who had once had the power to sway his soul powerfully with mixed feelings. He had dreaded the display of any lingering feelings of tenderness towards himself on the part of this lustrous-eyed venus; he had writhed under the thought that possibly she might display tenderness towards her lord. Now this last was a very wrong thing, and he soon killed it; but he found himself so wrought upon by Audrey's story of Leonie's devotion to Robert, that he did not care to have Leonie herself come and hammer the fact down harder. Leonie was not a woman that you could love one day and leave off loving the next; she was formed to hold as well as to win, and though Lord Evesham was very loyal in his soul to Audrey, he had loved Leonie very dearly in the days that were gone by.
                  He had met her under romantic circumstances, and there had first roused his interest and then excited his love. Staying one night at an hotel in Marseilles en route to the East, he had been disturbed by a wild commotion and a general uproar amongst which the shrill voices of his countrywomen were terribly apparent. As a rule, Fred Compton troubled himself little and cared less as to the affairs of his compatriots abroad; but on this occasion he happened to ask what had caused the row, and from information received he gathered that an English milord and his lady had quarrelled on account of a cousin of the latter. Pursuing the subject further, that the lady was querulous, middle-aged and plain—that the lord was gay and gallant to the cousin, who was young and lovely. The lady, he heard, had gone off in a rage, carrying with her husband, courier, luggage, in fact, all her belongings save and except her cousin, whom she had left behind her in a fit of jealous frenzy and weak spleen, penniless, helpless and alone.
                  When a mean, cowardly, cruel wrong is wrought upon a woman, you will generally find, if you search into the case, that another woman is at the bottom of it. When a blow in the dark falls on a feminine head, be sure that it is dealt by a feminine hand. When a condemnatory tone pervades in a speech that is uttered relative to a girl who has neither of those mighty barriers, "care and cash," surrounding her, doubt not for an instant that it is spoken by a woman. Men never descend to such depths of base bitterness as do the ministering angels of our hearts, homes and lives.
                  The being meanly suspected of a vile wrong by the only relative she had left in the world to claim kith and kin with turned the milk of human kindness sour in the breast of poor Leonie Powers. Young, beautiful, and orphan, and—harder than all else to endure—poor, she had sweetened the bread and water of dependence on her ungenial cousin by a sort of half-friendly, half-sisterly intercourse with that cousin's husband. The intercourse was harmless enough, God knows, and poor enough in its compensating powers for the numerous trials, hardships and mortifications of her life; but it was the brightest thing she had in her gloomy daily path, and its brightness was soon sullied therefore, and clouded.
                  The man was a fool—a vain, handsome, weak fool, but nothing worse; the wife was a hard, ugly, vain, selfish woman, nothing better. The result was that, through masculine folly and feminine unkindness, and low, pettifogging jealousy, suspicion fell upon one whose heart and life was pure and open then, and perverted the nature formed for better things.
                  She was left alone—alone in Marseilles—alone in the world, for the wife was rich and the husband poor, and he liked his bread buttered thickly too well to risk angering his wife by asking for justice for poor Leonie. Alone, with little money and fewer friends; alone in a foreign land, and in a fashionable place.
                  But the girl had a spirit that quailed at nothing, and dreaded nothing, and dared anything—a spirit that had made her race noble and feared in the days when they had a name in the green isle from whence she came—a spirit that misfortune could not daunt, that loved difficulties and dangers for the sake of overcoming them, but that burned to be revenged upon one who had cast the semblance of the shade of dishonor on her—that seethed to take a higher place in the world than the woman who had spurned her could boast—that panted and throbbed to attain a position from whence she could look in scorn on the cold, heartless cousin who had steeped her soul in the waters of bitterness.
                  She wanted no help, she claimed no protection; she told her story with haughty frankness, and defied censure. The consul came to see her, and she was polite, but not grateful; the consul's wife called, and Miss Powers was affable, but absorbed; the fact was, she explained, that she "was anxious about getting music lessons." And very soon she got them, and when she had given them long enough to establish a claim to recommendations, she left Marseilles and came back to London: and all this time Fred Compton, instead of being in the land of the cypress and myrtle, was following her like her shadow, and worshipping her in silence.
                  They met at last, and then he spoke, and she listened eagerly enough, for by marriage alone could she gain the place see wanted, and the power to sting socially the one who had stung her. He was young, clever, handsome, well-born, wellbred, well-connected, but alas! he was not rich. She accepted him, and determined to wait for a while and take the goods the gods gave her, in the interim; and so for a time Fred Compton was happy and contented, and believed his betrothed to be the same. And it was during this calm that the miniatures were taken, and the diamond and opal bracelet purchased.
                  At last she tired, not so much of the lover as at the poor prospects that lover could offer. He began to feel that she was interested; he strove to keep her heart by freely showing her his love and trust and confidence in her, and without any appeal to certain faint hopes he had of succeeding to a title and estates and wealth, and all the rest of the things she longed for—and he failed. With words of prudence she counselled the closing of their intercourse, the cancelling of their vows. She was cold, cautious, calculating. He could not win her from her purpose of parting with him, so he left with his heart wrung and wounded, and his faith in womankind considerably weakened.
                  Now the tables were turned. When he heard from Audrey Lorme that her brother had married a Leonie Powers his heart had gone quicker than was well at the thought of this woman from whom he had parted in anger five years before. He had even avoided seeing her till he had used himself to the fact of her being another man's wife; with a touch of the old romance he had bought a trinket like one he had given her when he had deemed himself dear to her, half hoping that it might awaken kindly, tender thoughts in her breast towards himself. He had no intention of rousing the torrent of passion that he had aroused; the woman frightened him with her vehemence and her wildness, and her power of subduing both when others approached; he turned with a feeling of fatigue from her to the calm haven of rest a union with Audrev would afford. Altogether, Lord Evesham felt that she was a dangerous woman to deal with, this once adored, gray-eyed Venus, and to wish that he was safely clear of Combhurst with his own wife.
                  Meanwhile my lady was chewing the cud of disappointed mortification; she had whistled Fred Compton down the wind because he was poor and unimportant; and now here, after she had married a baronet for whom she was beginning to entertain a mild feeling of distaste, Fred Compton came on the surface again, and crossed her path with all this world has to bestow of titles and riches and honors.
                  "If I had only been free," she muttered, fiercely; "if I had not been plodding along my sordid way so grovellingly, I should have known him—heard of him as an earl; but I never cared to look at papers, and I, a music-mistress, was never thrown with any of his friends. I should have been a countess if I could have waited. I could have put my foot on the necks of those who slighted and stung me in old times"
                  And then Lady Lorme clenched her little hands together till the veins stood up like cords on their backs, and ground her glittering teeth till Dickson suffered from "gooseflesh."
                  Then a more composed stage followed: she sat down on the couch and indulged in dreams of what she would have been if she had been a countess. With her beauty and grace, her talent and wit, her rare accomplishments and matchless fascination these dreams were not absurd. She pictured herself leading the fashions and being queen of the most select coterie in London: she saw herself ruling in that world of ton, at which she had gazed as an outsider. She fancied the sensation she would have caused when first that world saw her in the coronet of a countess. And then she thought of the humdrum life that would be hers probably in Warwickshire, and she loathed her position and her husband.
                  Inordinately ambitious, extravagantly beautiful, extravagantly vain and fond of display and splendor, brilliant as a diamond and hard as one, Lady Lorme, as she sat on the couch with her dainty fingers twisting the bracelet round and round her fair white arm, was as much to be dreaded as a hungry panther. Utterly fearless, utterly unscrupulous, with a mind capable of planning much, and a will capable of carrying out unflinchingly whatever she planned, with such beauty as an angel might have envied, and a horrible gnawing at her soul, she sat there a thing to be admired, feared and fled from.
                  The flickering firelight fell on her head and brow as she sat there brooding over her fancied wrongs and disappointments; the sheeny, silver light of the wax candles in the toilet-glass fell on her rich white robe and made it silvery, too, and in the mingled light the embroidered jacket sparkled and glittered with gorgeous effect. An Eastern queen! No Cleopatra could have been fairer, for she could do no more than make "defect perfection," and that did Lady Lorme.
                  At last—what thought could have crossed her mind?—she started from her seat with a low cry of almost horror—a gasping, stifled cry it was, and it seemed to rend her lips asunder and to come fraught with agony from her heart. Heaven help the woman who utters that kind of cry, for either a horrible crime or a horrible fear oppresses her.
                  She started up, with her hands spread out before her face, as if she would shut out some horrible vision, and then she tore them down with an effort, and looked at her face in the glass and shuddered, and trembled and panted. The face she saw was livid, the lips were bloodless, the brow livid, and the eyes—those soft, gray, velvet eyes—were flaming like coals of fire. No wonder that, seeing such a face as this, my lady should shudder, and tremble, and pant. It was a face that it was not well to see.
                  "What can I do?" she muttered to herself, after a minute or two, and Dickson, in the next room, heard the mutterings, and thought her mistress called her, so she came and was dismissed with a sharp reprimand. But the break to her thoughts had been sufficient, they would not disorder her again now they had been interrupted in such a commonplace manner.
                  "She shall never rule in the place that ought to have been mine—of that I'm fully determined; so I must do the best I can and befriend myself, since I am not likely to get any one to aid me in such an undertaking. Oh, that something would happen that I could be free to claim his promise before the next maddening fortnight has passed, at the end of which I shall lose (or gain) Lord Evesham for ever!'
                  It was evident that Lady Lorme could not wish "health" to Lord Evesham's "cheek," and "peace" to Lord Evesham's "mind" under the circumstances by which he was surrounded. Her ladyship did not pause to reflect, or if she did the reflection brought no comfort to her, that she herself was to blame for all that was unpleasant to herself in her life. If she had not banished Fred Compton she would have married Lord Evesham. Her principal rage was directed against Audrey, for that young lady having had the audacity to step into her place, and next in order of hatred, after Audrey, came Audrey's brother.
                  He had been kind to her and generous and loving to a degree, and now not one of these things softened her bitter feeling against him for standing in the way of her attaining the heights she would have pawned her soul to gain. She had nourished ambition and hatred, and revenge in her heart so long that they had blackened it and made it dense to the perception of the line between right and wrong. In fact, fair and soft, gentle and sweet as she was outwardly, she was unsexed by the cruelty of her own heart and feelings, and was a woman no longer in her soul.
                  When the clock struck seven my lady rose, and now she could gaze in the glass with pleasure again, for the wildrose bloom had come back, and the lustre of her face had renewed itself. Once more the full sweet lips pouted rosily, once more the smooth broward cheek were unruffled, once more the light came softly shaded by the long lashes from those glorious eyes. Once more the tension was removed from the lip and the mind, and once more lovely Lady Lorme was herself again.
                  She had dressed to some purpose. She saw that the moment she entered the drawing-room where Sir Robert, and Audrey, and Lord Evesham awaited her. Her husband came to meet her with unchecked pride in her radiant grace and tastefully set-off beauty. Audrey complimented her upon her appearance in the piquant little jacket, and a half-frightened admiration came into Lord Evesham's eyes and made the arm on which the hostess leant on her way to the dining-room a trembling one.
                  All through the dinner my lady never flagged. How gay she was! How witty, and bright, and vivacious! She startled Audrey, and enchanted Sir Robert, and puzzled Lord Evesham.
                  "Well, since she can carry on like this," he thought, "I may hope, I suppose, that she won't attack me any more." And like a wise man he prayed most fervently to be delivered from the temptation. "She's made me tell one falsehood," he thought; "for if she was free fifty times over, I wouldn't change Audrey for her."
                  And Lord Evesham pitied his friend profoundly for having such an excitable wife, instead of envying him for such a charming one.
                  They might have known that one chord was wrongly strung, if they had only paused to think of those three luckless ones who were so unconscious. In a party of four something must have been false for the evening to seem sombre and dull as it did, when a bridegroom and his bride, a lover and his betrothed made the quartette. My lady seemed to lull down as the hours passed on, and at last she took refuge in the assertion that she had a nervous headache. So Sir Robert piled the cushions up comfortably on the mest luxurious couch in the room, and placed thereon, with the tenderest care, the richly-robed form of his enchantress, and she lay there with her filmy handkerchief pressed to her brow, weaving her spells still more strongly around him as he sat by her side. Sir Robert was happy enough, but somehow or other the atmosphere seemed oppressive to both Audrey and Lord Evesham.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI—BRAVE HEART.
                  HAS a period ever been passed by you, reader of these pages, which, without being absolutely unfortunate, has been provokingly unlucky—a period when the friend you liked best in the word was either sent to the other end of it on a special mission to the most unscrupulous of cannibals, or went into those paths of life at home into which many things forbade your following him—a period when the run of luck was constantly on the noir, while you, in pursuance of some pertinaciously followed plan, betted as constantly on the rouge—a period when your boot crushed your foot ruthlessly whenever you wanted to walk the earth without any visible cause—a period when all the gloves you became possessed of split up the centre, leaving the palm of your hand exposed when you did not want the palm of your hand exposed—a period when the letters from the friends you loved went to enlighter the minds and enliven the tedium of the clerks in the dead-letter office, while the ones from the friends you hated arrived with maddening regularity—a period when your pet pug strayed from his home and caused you much anguish—a period when your dinners were perpetually under or over cooked, and your richest relations, from whom you had expectations and who were also fastidious to a degree, were always coming in to dine with you—a period when the boldest, blackest and most legible calligraphy could not keep things "right side up?" If such a period has ever passed by you, you will understand and sympathise with the anger and annoyance of Audrey Lorme when the different days appointed for the arrival of the different articles of her trousseau came round and the millinery itself came not.
                  There was dire wrath and confusion and commotion at Combhurst, not alone on the part of Audrey, but on the part of Lord Evesham. He was livid with fury when the special messenger dispatched to Swan & Edgar's, to Eagle's, to Howell & James's, and Harry Emanuel's brought back from each and every place the same answer, which was to the following effect:
                  That a gentleman, looking like a lawyer, had shown Miss Lorme's written direction that the things should be handed over to him, and paid the sum due for them on the spot. There had been no robbery; for the articles in every case that had been handed over to him full payment had been made, but there had been a forgery, for no such document had ever been signed by Audrey Lorme.
                  Lady Lorme was voluble in her prettily uttered regret that such an unforeseen circumstance should have arisen to delay the marriage; Sir Robert was savagely indignant with the originator of so bold and daring a robbery. "But it had not delayed the marriage, I should think," he added, when the special messenger had narrated and renarrated all he had heard. "Audrey can get up a wardrobe after her marriage as well as before."
                  "Yes," Lord Evesham interrupted, eagerly, "in Paris."
                  But this my lady would not heart of for an instant What! her sister-in law from her house to be married in aught but the garments befitting the bride's future high station and her (Lady Lorme's) own! No on; the wedding must be put off. New things must be ordered. All could be rearranged by the first week in January. The end of it was, that the husband conquered the brother, and Sir Robert came round to his wife's view of the case.
                  In vain Lord Evesham grumbled and protested; there was no appeal for him, for Audrey was too indignant with my lady to interfere.
                  "For the sake of us all, let it be when we always meant it to be, Robert," said Lord Evesham; "you don't know what cursed mischief may come out of it if you don't. Audrey, be firm."
                  But Audrey looked at her brother, and saw her brother weakly consulting the eyes that were so eloquent in their gray velvet depths; and Audrey turned and left the room in a passion of womanly disappointment and sisterly jealousy.
                  "You must consent to wait. Fred, till my sister can go from my house as my sister ought to go. Leonie says all can be ready by the first week in January, and in the mean time I'll put a detective on the track of the clever thief."
                  "For God's sake don't do that," cried Lord Evesham, starting to his feet.
                  "Why not?" asked Sir Robert; "extraordinary fellow you are, to be sure. Why not? Don't you think it would be better? in fact, only right, Leonie?"
                  Leonie, lovely Lady Lorme, doubly lovely in her graceful part of the pacemaker, rose also from her seat with rather less than usual of her languid ease; how brightly, too, the wild-rose bloomed in her fair cheeks as she crossed the room and clasped her pretty white hands over her future brother-in-law's arm.
                  "You must not get angry with each other, Robert; and you," she said, plaintively, "if you think it better to let the matter drop I will not raise my voice to urge Robert to carry it on. You shall decide, Lord Evesham."
                  Lord Evesham's arm trembled like a leaf in the clasp of his friend's wife. He kept his face averted from her, crossly Sir Robert Lorme thought; and when he did speak it was with an effort.
                  "I have been bothered and worried quite enough," he said; "I shall take it unkindly, Robert, if you moot the affair again; let it drop."
                  "Let it drop!" echoed my lady. "Robert, dear," she continued, quitting Lord Evesham's side, and lightly laying her hand on her husband's arm, "now that I see he really wishes it, I join my request to his; take no further notice of it—promise me."
                  "Well, on my word," exclaimed Sir Robert, pettishly, "you two people take the greenest view of things; first, Evesham's frantic with rage and all that sort of thing against an insolent, bold scoundrel who could be traced out and hunted down in no time if only proper steps were taken. It is dead against my principles to shield a theif—a dirty, low, unscrupulous thief and forger, as this fellow must be."
                  Lady Lorme laughed; her little, trifling, bell-like laugh ran round the room, and then she put both her slender white hands up to her hair and pushed it back with a free, almost a childish action of impatience. Her face looked so freshly fair as she did it—so young, and unsullied and pure.
                  "Robert," she said, growing grave again suddenly, "What a regular John Bull you are to be so dense, and to force your poor little wife to explain things a little, if she would not see a quarrel. I may be wrong, but I fancy Evesham would not care to have things traced perhaps, because—"
                  She paused, and flung a half-frightened, half-defiant glance at Lord Evesham, who sedulously kept his eyes turned away from her.
                  "Because what?" asked her husband, angrily.
                  "Because—now be quiet, and good, and calm, Robert, and above all things avoid a scene and a disturbance which will do nothing but aggravate Audrey—because, good boy as Evesham is now, he may have loved and ridden away, and left some fair, unscrupulous damsel in the lurch who has dared to pay herself for his defection by appropriating his bride's dresses. That is my solution of the affair."
                  "By my soul this is too much!" And so it seemed, for Lord Evesham's voice was thick with passion. "Let me pass, my lady. Lorme, it was not for my sake that I urged tolerance; hunt the forger down to the death—I will not be the man to stay your hand."
                  How theatrical he is!" exclaimed Lady Lorme, as the enraged lover and insulted lord left the room. "You see, Robert, I was right; it was very imprudent of me to say it before him of course, but I wonder you were stupid enough not to read the truth in his unwillingness. You must now, for Audrey's sake, let the matter rest. He has been very gay, you know, and a worthless woman will stop at nothing."
                  "True, true," said Sir Robert, rather absently. "I could have wished though you had not enraged him so. At any rate say nothing to poor Audrey about it, for they are uncommonly attached to each other."
                  "Oh, uncommonly!" replied Lady Lorme; "don't be distressed about Lord Evesham's indignation with me—I think I can make it up with him. Are you going out?"
                  Sir Robert was not sure; he was uncomfortable about Evesham; he did not like any ill-feeling of that kind rankling in a fellow's mind; it was annoying for a fellow to have a thing of that sort dragged into notice before the brother of the girl he was going to marry, just when he was going to marry her.
                  Lady Lorme had another plan, however, than Sir Robert's going to seek Lord Evesham.
                  "You go out for a ride or something, Robert, as you had intended, and leave me to attend to the 'wounded proper feeling' of this reformed Don Juan. You must seem to have forgotten it when you come in, and you will find him soothed. But do have sufficient regard for him to drop all idea of making a stir in an affair that when sifted might not redound to his credit. Will you?"
                  When could my lady's solicitations fail of having their due effect on her husband. Certainly not now when she brought all her beauty, and grace, and charm of manner, and exquisite devotion—wifely this last, but very delightful—to bear upon him. Sir Robert sealed his promise with a kiss, and forgot his annoyance at Audrey's disappointment and its cause, in admiration for the eyes whose gray unclouded depths were turned towards him, courting perusal, or sounding rather.
                  "Then as I am not permitted to bear him the olive-branch myself, as you (my darling) resolve upon being mediatrix-in-chief between us, I will do the next best thing under the circumstances, go out for an hour on the Leprechaun and quiet him."
                  Sir Robert Lorme was holding both the little white slender-fingered hands of his wife, holding them in his strong loving clasp, and bending down over them with the sort of uncontrolled admiration men sometimes display towards the wives of their bosoms—an admiration that comes of mingled pride of possession and loss of reasoning powers—and as he stood thus with his eyes, riveted on her fair face, he was in a position to see that the wild-rose tint resigned suddenly in favor of a deadly pallor.
                  Those who have seen a sort of pale yellow quiver gradually creep over and over a blushing face beloved by them, the gazers will alone understand the sort of revulsion of feeling that came over Sir Robert Lorme when the face before him altered, and so to speak, from the couleur de rose of love to the greenish blue of fear.
                  "What is the matter, Leonie?" he asked, suddenly. "My darling wife! these scenes are too trying—too much altogether for you. What a brute I am!" he continued, tenderly winding his arm round the fragile round waist as he spoke with aught but "brutish" instinct, "to subject you to all these—to all the—in short, to allow anything unforeseen to be brought under your notice anniyingly. Evesham ought to have known better—Audrey might have had some little feeling—the fact is, the deuce is in it if my wife is to be upset with impunity!"
                  He was just in the frame of mind in which a man can be most successfully "worked." His love for her was alarmed; so was his pride for himself. That she, Leonie, should have been perplexed, harassed, and overwrought was abominable; that all these sensations should be caused to his wife—to Lady Lorme—was disgusting in the extreme. He was evidently angry with Audrey for not putting by any small feeling of disappointment that she might have experienced when her trousseau made to itself wings and flitted away with her prospect of matrimony for a fortnight. He was angry in a sort of undefined way with Lord Evesham for not falling in with all his views respecting the steps to be taken in the affair immediately. And he was more angry still with both Audrey and Lord Evesham, for being the cause remotely (and for not expressing more symypathy with the efforts) of his wife having an unbecoming yellow-hued tremor pass over her frame and face.
                  Lady Lorme, with a woman's quick comprehension of the state of mind of the man—no matter how astute—who loves her, read in a moment the thoughts and feelings that were making the tour of her husband's brain, as he stood and looked at her, and raged against his sister and his friend. Now, while the iron of anger was hot to white heat was the moment, to strike; Lady Lorme saw that it was the moment, and—struck remorselessly.
                  "I—I am very foolish, I fear you will think, in my engrossing affection for you, Robert; ascribe it to everything but selfishness and affectation, dearest; and forgive me when I say that I tremble for Audrey's—for your sister's happiness, if this marriage is urged on by you in any way just at present."
                  She dropped her words, her cutting words, to a man who had brotherly and family pride raging in his soul, out slowly, sweetly, softly. They fall, rounded and distinct, like polished pebbles on his ears, and they caused a smarting, bruised sensation to ensue on falling.
                  "Good heavens, Leonie! folly, selfishness, and affectation would die from off the earth speedily enough if they were compelled to try for quarters in your bosom; I know that well enough; I shall never accuse you of anything of the sort. But you are too tender for me; for my honor—the pride, and honor, and name of the man you've blessed with your love. There is no hauling back, no wishing to get out of it, no lukewarmness on Evesham's part, believe me; had there been, Audrey would have seen and resented it, and Audrey's brother would have known the reason why."
                  "A woman's pride weighs lightly in the scale against a woman's love, Robert," she said, with the piquant accent softened into a most mournful cadence. "Audrey loves him—in that you have the solution of much forbearance; you are the soul of honor yourself, and so, naturally enough, are not on the look-out for baseness and cowardly trickery; while I bring all the wit of my sex to bear on the subject, sharpened up to the point of divination by my consuming love for—you. The marriage of Lord Evesham with your sister, unless you force it on immediately, will never take place."
                  She rang out her ill omened sentence with the thrilling force of a prophetess; he could not doubt her loving acumen when the loving face he adored grew white with emotion, and the eyes dilated and the lips trembled with anger for the slight she supposed was to be put upon him. He could not doubt her when she sank back on a couch gracefully, breathing hard, but with her toilette entirely uninfluenced by her emotions, looking like a fashionably costumed fairy queen remarkably well got up. He could not doubt the woman whom he had married a month ago for love, and whose every look, and tone, and gesture betrayed soulfraught devotion to himself. In fact, he could not doubt the creature his imagination had conceived dwelt beneath that peerlessly lovely form; so, he really was wrought upon by her statement, and still feeling it to be a profoundly unpleasant thing to distrust Evesham and to take the preliminary steps towards making the pet sister whom he had always cherished from boyhood miserable, he did what a man is pretty sure to do under such or similar circumstances, stood still and pulled at the end of his moustache.
                  "I think you are wrong, Leonie, 'pon my word I do; it's no honor even for Evesham to marry a Lorme, you know; and even if you are right, what am I to do—what can I do, now things have gone so far? It is quite a different thing seeking any fellow's alliance, and proclaiming to the world the fact that your sister is jilted—that you're thrown over in fact."
                  "Patience, patience is the only thing, Robert; don't urge on the marriage by making those suggestions about her getting her trousseau in Paris; he can but agree when you suggest, you know. Leave it to time, the great prover, and chance, the great providence of us poor mortals. In the meantime I promise you that all I can do I will do to bring things to that end I would see them brought to."
                  And having made this gratifying promise to her lord, Lady Lorme dismissed him to the hour's "gentling" of the Leprechaun that he had contemplated, and then betook herself to the dark, cosy old library, where, as she had anticipated, she found Lord Evesham.
                  All that passed during the interview shall not be chronicled here; suffice it to say that the last words uttered by Lord Evesham, when my lady was leaving him to array herself in fresh millinery triumphs for dinner, were—
                  "The old legends about selling one's soul seem to be verified in my case; for the sake of us all—for your own take—for the sake of a poor wretch who feels even now the horrors of the perdition you are hurrying him into—stop."
                  "On the road I am taking?" she asked, with a brilliant smile flashing over her face like lightning. "Never, for you love me, Lord Evesham."
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.—IN WHICH SIR ROBERT LOOKS SOLEMN, AND THE ANCESTRAL EVESHAMS SAD.
                  AUDREY LORME would have laughed and considered it no more than a semi-annoying, semi-amusing contretemps a month ago, had her trousseau been appropriated by another and her countessship delayed a while. She would have been vexed in her taste, because she herself had made her selections of robes and bonnets and bijouterie with the care and thought a pretty woman will lavish on the adornments which are destined to enhance her beauty in the richest bloom of life—her young married days. But her heart would not have been affected by the occurrence at all, and she would have been the first to soothe Evesham's impatience and side with Robert's view of things, that it would be unbecoming for his sister to leave Sir Robert Lorme's house while aught that could be considered proper for his sister to leave remained unsupplied.
                  But now the case was different. Clearly there was something unpropitious in the air. She could not account to herself for the fierce pang that shot through her heart when she caught the interrogatory glance levelled by her brother at his wife, and read the answer shot back by the gloriously lovely and only too eloquent gray eyes.
                  She saw that that answer counselled delay. Had she simply felt indignation at such interference she would have been happier; but she could not take comfort to her heart with the thought that it was only indignation which she felt. It was a sudden, hot pang of sickening fear that the deferred marriage was a blow at the chain which bound the man she loved and herself together. She looked at her brother, and saw a weak expression of waiting on his wife's award; she looked at her lover, and saw in his face an expression of profound discomfort and a pallid excitement; and then she remembered that though, had the wretched trifle which conventionality was making a thing of magnitude not occurred, she would have been in a week bone of his bone, flesh of his flesh, one with him in sickness and health, in sorrow and joy, till death parted them; she remembered, I say, that now it was his to speak and hers to be silent, even though a word from her might settle all those wavering scruples, and bid the happy end come on speedily. And remembering this—her love and her pride up in arms against each other—sorely distrustful of something she knew not what, Audrey Lorme left the room in a sorrowful rage.
                  When one has been laboring for a couple of hours under the delusion that the organ, yclept a heart, has sunk to the lowest ebb of despair, it is astonishing what a shock it administers to the whole system when something unexpected occurs, and the heart goes down with rapidity to even more hopeless depths.
                  Audrey, during her hour's cogitation over her dressing room fire, had declared to herself that she was profoundly miserable, under the influence of some intangible possible evil which she dreaded, she did not know why. That hour over, she roused herself sufficiently to dress and to submit to a daintily becoming organization of her fair luxuriant hair being achieved, still at intervals repeating to herself the declaration that it was "so unpleasant that she almost wished she was not going to see Evesham until she felt in better spirits and better temper." Nevertheless, when she went down into the drawing-room and found her brother and his wife there alone, and heard from the latter, in a tone of much sympathy, that "Lord Evesham had not felt very well, so he had gone home and left a little note for Audrey," the latter felt even more than heretofore that grief was gathering in the clouds, and that she would be drenched in the waters completely before—what?
                  The note was common-place and matter-of-fact enough. Audrey, reading it in the light of her indignation at his abrupt departure, could little guess what an effort it had cost him to pen those words. His soul was tossed in a whirlwind of passion as he wrote; a love that he felt to be guilty, and to be liable to lead on to even greater guilt if not checked—thrown out with scorn for ever—was crushing his heart. A terrible fear of a something terrible that might, that surely would come on, seized him even before Lady Lorme had left him, and it reigned triumphantly when he was alone. He could not sit through an evening with the silent reproach of Audrey's pure, noble beauty, and Audrey's loyal, frank, open heart before him, and beating in imaginary nary response to his own (he loathed himself as he acknowledged it) false one. He invoked a curse on the syren, whom still, with all the fierce, ungovernable heat of his hot heart, he was growing to love again. And this was the frame of mind in which he had to write the few following lines, all properly kind and calm, to Audrey:
                  
                     "DEAR AUDREY—Why have you kept away all the afternoon? leaving me to do battle alone against my old enemy, neuralgia, which has reached the maddening point in my head. I am useless, socially, when an attack comes on; so I am off to Evesham, hoping that the sharp ride will do me good—it often does in such cases. Of course I shall see you in a day or two."
                  
                  And then, with the customary termination, he signed himself, "hers always, Evesham," and the lie as he wrote it did not wither him up.
                  The pleasures of domesticity are very great, and a quiet winter evening at home with one's natural friends, i.e., relations, is the truest bliss this world can offer, say the storybooks of that good old fading out class in which all the mild goodnesses of life were carefully but prosily inculated. Many people have found out that the pleasures have been rather overrated and the bliss overstated; but no one deemed them greater fallacies than did Lady and Miss Lorme on the evening in question.
                  Sir Robert was not quite happy either. Leonie's loveliness was something superb, but the flush on Leonie's check bespoke a mind ill at rest, and Sir Robert thought that Audrey might have noticed it and attempted to subdue it by showing herself less enwrapt and displeased about something. Considering how carefully Leonie was keeping her suspicions as to the cause of the appropriation of Audrey's effects to herself, thus striving to save Audrey a foolish little feminine pang of jealousy at a thing no woman can ever be brought to understand; considering Leonie was doing all these magnanimous things, even though Audrey didn't know it, Audrey ought to be good, and grateful, and cheerful, and not try to make their paradise boring and tedious to my lady. Sir Robert did not say all this but he looked it; and Audrey, being far from opaque, understood perfectly well what was going on in his mind, and forthwith had this pang superadded to the other, viz., that her brother, whom she most dearly loved, was learning to be indifferent to her hopes and fears, pleasures and disappointments.
                  My lady was hot and restless, and her heart, though not full of care, was full of wild schemes and wilder passions; the burden laid upon her of not being as great and as grand as she might have been had she only been gifted with patience, was greater than she could bear. Besides, now that she was bound legally and Evesham bound honorably to another, she felt that the strongest love of which her nature was capable—and it was capable of not a trifle—was given to this man to whom, in the order of things, her husband's sister would be shortly married. No wonder her cheeks were flushed and her eyes bright, and her gestures fraught with a more impassioned pantherlike grace than ever.
                  Is it well that we do not know the thoughts of those who are around us always; or should we gain much safety through the loss of a little peace of mind? Surely the former; the pang the knowledge that we had the hearty contempt of the friend we loved would cause, would more than counterbalance the knowledge that, by taking an arduous course, we might escape being socially garotted by the friend we hate. The Palace of Truth would be a hideous dwelling-place for the majority of mankind.
                  So, on the whole, I am inclined to think it well that when Sir Robert stood with his hands resting on the velvet-covered shoulders of his most lovely wife, the while she was playing him the melodies he loved, he did not know that the active brain contained in the bright head before him was planning how she could leave him, win a higher rank, and yet save her fair fame, for the sake of the place she wanted in the world.
                  "I wish he'd clasp me to his heart!" the little fury thought, as she turned from him with impatience, "and bruise my arm in doing it; I would have up him at the Divorce Court for cruelty, and swear my way to freedom and Evesham."
                  At least, if these were not the identical words in which her sentiments were framed, these were the very ideas that passed through her mind as she rose up and—no, she had few redeeming points, if any—not freed herself from, but responded to, her husband's embrace.
                  Who does not know, who has not experienced at some period or another of his or her existence, an aching sense of despondency at being undervalued and unquestionably not wanted in the society which one may be chancing to adorn at the time? Sometimes this feeling is born of an overweening sense of one's own importance; sometimes of a long series of slights and insults that makes one see a foe behind every bush and steel-blade ready to fall and cut in every look. In both of these two cases the feeling is more blameable than deserving of sympathy; it should be fought and battled against—conquered if possible; but it is when the feeling rushes upon us in connection with those who have hitherto loved, and valued, and cherished us, that the sting once felt cannot be uprooted; then no struggling against, no explaining away will avail, for we feel that distrust of them could not have arisen had they loved us as fondly as heretofore.
                  By which prosing route I come gradually round to the statement of the following plain unvarnished fact. Audrey learnt, with a bitter pang, that night that she was less dear to her brother than she had been—learnt that he could be harsh and unsympathetic in his judgment of her, when he viewed her through the glamour his wife had thrown over him.
                  The evening passed drearily after the pretence of tea had been gone through. Woolwork is a delightful institution, but it requires two or three animated conversationalists round the frame, or one devoted and absorbing holder of skeins to prevent its palling upon one. As Audrey placed stitch after stitch in the crimson rose which she had begun under Evesham's auspices a few evenings before, she felt that woolwork brought no great comfort to a heart ill at ease. Lady Lorme treated her to a sort of pitying goodnature, and Sir Robert with a sort of angry forbearance, and neither of these modes of treatment agreed with Audrey Lorme.
                  "This is the last evening I spend in this way," she thought. "Robert's intention of sacrificing not alone his own dignity but mine at the feet of the wife who rules him with a magic that is not love, becomes more painfully apparent every hour that we live together. Robert!" the exclaimed aloud, "Christmas is coming on fast; there will be no wedding festivities to stand in the way of the usual gaieties of the season. Can't you, with Lady Lorme's leave, arrange something to while away the time pleasantly?"
                  Sir Robert Lorme was a good, noble-hearted man, sensible and well-educated and a gentleman; but for all that he was one of those distressing people who take their ill-temper solemnly. Now it is very possible to forgive any one for frightening you out of your life with a burst of passionate anger without reason, but it is barely possible to forgive the one who maintains a solemnly reprehending demeanor to you for a lengthened period, whether you have done anything to deserve it or not. Sir Robert Lorme had not the great art of being affable soon after being angry. He deemed Audrey unreasonable—that was the way he framed it in his mind, though what poor Audrey had done to deserve such a sentence it would be hard to say. And deeming Audrey unreasonable, he thought it would be only right to let Audrey know that "them was his sentiments." So he did it as unpleasantly as a man and a brother could do it, and that was neither slightly nor lightly.
                  He was sorry, he said stiffly, that she found it so dull with only himself and Leonie. She would soon doubtless be in a position of so much higher rank and greater wealth (Lady Lorme's eyes flashed fire, and Lady Lorme's pouting, dewy mouth wreathed itself into a bitterly insulting smile as he said it) than they were, that a distaste for the quiet pleasures with which they were contented would be only befitting her exaltation. But in the meantime he thought it would be only kind of her not to show such utter weariness and ennui in the home that had been hers—he had hoped happily—for so many years. He wound up by saying that it would have shown better taste and better temper if Audrey had not been so palpably put out by the postponement of her marriage.
                  "That speech was never dictated by your own heart, Robert,' his sister cried, pushing the work-frame from her with quick, proud gesture of scornful impatience; "it is meanly unkind, and, more than that, it is meanly untrue."
                  "Do you think that I prompted him, Audrey? Oh! how can you be so unjust? But no—I will not resent what you say now. I pity you too much."
                  "What for?" asked Audrey; "really, Lady Lorme, one requires the patience of Job, or a donkey, to deal with Robert and you to-night. I know of nothing connected with myself individually that can claim your pity. Is it the loss of the trousseau that you sympathise with? or is it Lord Evesham's neuralgia? or were you so nervous when your own matrimonial prospects were on the tapis that you think, of necessity, delay means defection?"
                  "No, I had no fear, for Robert loved me; but by your asking me that question, poor unhappy girl, you evidently fear it yourself. Don't doubt him yet, Audrey dearest; you hate me—I know that; but let me plead for your happiness against yourself. "Wait; don't distrust him yet, Audrey, and all may be well."
                  She said it in all her sweetest tones; there was nothing in lip, or eye, or manner, or tone that could be found fault with; it sounded like an outburst of nervous affection and anxiety for Audrey; and yet if the woman had been practising for ten years instead of ten minutes she could not have put words together more deftly that would surely go well home to the heart and wound. To be told by one you hate not to "doubt and distrust" one you most dearly love is the very refinement of feminine cruelty. The gauntlet was thrown down now, and Lady Lorme and Audrey knew that they were enemies—to the death.
                  "Have I gone too far," thought my lady, as she sat by the fire, one hand clasped in her husband's and the other shielding her cheek from the blaze. "Have I put her on her guard, or only incensed her? If she comes to an explanation with him before my plans are matured, I am ruined as far as obtaining freedom (and a place) is concerned."
                  And while these two women, the one lofty souled good, trustful, and pure—the other madly ambitious, passionate, and recklessly unscrupulous, were both aching at heart for him, what was the young lord lover doing to pass away the hours of that long December night?
                  He had ridden Cock Robin home at a terrible pace, but black care was faster, and was at Evesham ready to receive him when he entered. Then—it may seem an undignified thing to mention in connection with a man who is meant to be a hero, but these minor things are very important in the great drama of life—then his dinner was hurriedly prepared (it had been supposed that he would dine at Combhurst, and the cook was disgusted at the interruption his return caused to a convivial party she was entertaining) and badly cooked. The room he elected to take his wine in was cold, for the fire had been suffered to go out, and now when it was lighted hastily it burnt under protest. The Cornhill was given to him, smelling of patchouli from the handkerchief of the housemaid, who had been reading the "Roundabout Papers" and wondering what such rubbidge meant, when the serial was demanded from her aggrieved hands in haste for her impatient master by a sympathetic flunkey, who opined in strong language that it was a wrong thing of any one to come home and make a bother when it was reasonably anticipated that he would stay away and leave folks to enjoy themselves. All these things militated considerably against Lord Evesham passing even a comfortable evening as far as externals were concerned.
                  The room in which he was sitting, before the fire that wouldn't burn well, was the library. Every library has its speciality, and from it generally better than any other room in a house may you gain an insight into its owner's mind. Some rush recklessly into rich bindings and huge, gorgeously emblazoned tomes. Some go in for ponderosity, others again for prettiness, while the was a soldier every inch of him; a tall, firm, upright figure, a graceful, lithe gait and bearing; a face that was not strictly handsome when taken line by line, but that had a marvellous charm in its mobility. Eyes that would flash one moment with, ungovernable temper, glitter the next with the wildest fun, and soften the next with an indescribable pathos that is never seen save in Irish eyes; bright, curling, dark-brown hair; a complexion southern in its dark warm pallor, and the finest cut mouth out of which the matchless accents of Erin have ever fallen. A handsome man altogether you will admit it, and felt to be so by the Lady Grace Corbyn.
                  "I am tired of this life," said the gentleman, starting up and going to the window; "old Corbyn's books are dry and dusty, and his daughters are worse. After all, though I have been kicked out of the service for no fault of my own, it is a mean thing of me to come here and pretend to catalogue these books with anything like understanding." Then he paused and whistled the first few bars of a pathetically sweet melody, his eyes the while taking that steadfastly absent look eyes will have when their owners are looking back into the past; and then he softly sang, in a rarely sweet, full, luscious voice: 
                        
                           "Give a sigh to those times,
                           And a blessing for me to that alley of limes."
                        
                     
                  
                  "'Give a sigh to those times,'" he repeated bitterly. "Why should she give a sigh for the time when that bleak, cold Chesterfield walk on dull Blackheath was fraught with golden fancies, as full of love's young dreams to us—she, the frank, unsullied schoolgirl—I, the not less frank cadet as ever that 'alley of limes' was to Moore in Bermuda. That's all past and buried, and I was a fool to come into the neighborhood for the sake of trying to resuscitate it. I can't even catch sight of her."
                  It was at this moment that Lady Grace entered with the invitation list.
                  "Oh, Mr. O'Brien," she said, "we have a dinner-party on the 20th; will you be kind enough to help me with the invitations?"
                  Mr. O'Brien's answer was all that a polite Irishman's is sure to be. His thought was:
                  "Why couldn't she have left me the list and rid me of her company, the sandy-haired old coquette?" but he did not express that in his mother tongue.
                  "You will be sure to give us your company on that evening. I hope, Mr. O'Brien; it will be very unkind and unfriendly of you if you will not?"
                  He was just going to refuse and plead a previous engagement with an imaginary old regimental friend who would be in the neighborhood; but before he could speak his eye caught the next names on the list, and he saw they were those of "Sir Robert, Lady and Miss Lorme."
                  "Thank you, Lady Grace; since you are kind enough to wish it, I will be sure to do myself the honor," he said.
                  And Lady Grace's cheek flushed to a corresponding hue to the one which overspread his face as he bent down and continued his task.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.—A CHANGE FOR THE BETTER.
                  WHEN the Corbyns called the following day at Combhurst, they were more surprised than pleased to find neither Lady nor Miss Lorme in sackcloth and ashes. Their own invitation lay upon the table in Lady Lorme's little drawing-room, and Audrey laughed and pointed it out to them, and said they were going to send "a satisfactory answer to it," for they were all that was fair and smooth to each other, these ladies of Corbyn and Combhurst.
                  "And Lord Evesham," said Lady Julia, with an air of calm, confidential frankness, "we have sent him an invitation too—though mamma said it was nonsense, because she has heard that he is gone on the Continent; but of course, under existing circumstances, we knew that such a report must be false—utterly absurd."
                  Now Lord Evesham had not been over to Combhurst since that day when neuralgia drove him off so suddenly he had written to Audrey—written with most affectionate regularity—but he had not come; and Audrey was aggrieved thereat, and very properly indignant with him for his shortcomings, and with any one else for noticing them.
                  But now when Lady Julia Carbyn fired her little shot, indignation dropped suddenly, and something like a regretful qualm made her heart collapse. Was this little cloud that had arisen so ignominiously going to overshadow her whole life?
                  She murmured in reply some common-place words of explanation, but even as she murmured them she felt that they were failing of the impression she had hoped they might make on her guests of herself having feelings of reliance and security in all being right. And then she could hardly tell whether it was gratitude for the championship, or annoyance at the audacity, which staggered her completely, when Lady Lorme cut into the conversation with her perfectly modulated tones, and said:
                  "You were right to call such a report 'false and utterly absurd;' believe me, Lord Evesham has neither the intention nor the inclination to go on the Continent until he can take his bride with him."
                  In speaking of it afterwards, Audrey said that "My lady could have given her neither kinder nor more effectual aid, but at the same time, even while she was acknowledging it and trying to feel grateful, she knew that it was offered by her deadliest foe."
                  "We thought of getting up a charade for the evening," said Lady Margaret, after a time; "would you take a part, Audrey? It is Grace's idea, or rather an idea that has been put into her head by a man who has just come to papa as secretary or something—a Mr. O'Brien, an Irishman."
                  "I knew an O'Brien a long time ago," said Audrey, laughing, "who, singularly enough, had a great passion for charades—indeed, for acting of all sorts. I would not mind taking a part, if a part is offered me that I can get through creditably. What word do you think of taking?"
                  "Oh, we should have more than one. I have determined on 'Blue Beard.' Margaret thinks that a good deal might be done with 'Parsimony.' (Audrey had a smile in her heart, though not on her cheek, as she thought that undoubtedly at a state dinner at Corbyn a good deal would be done with "Pursimony.") And Mr. O'Brien—for in a case of amusement we don't mind taking him into our councils—has recommended 'Forgotten' to our notice. He says it's an excellent word."
                  A flash like a sunburst passed over Audrey's face; it was such a smiling, pleased blush.
                  "Why," she exclaimed, with animation, "If I could think it possible that the gayest soldier I have ever met could turn secretary and bookworm, I should think it must be the same O Brien I once knew, for I acted in that very word with Dillon O'Brien when I was a schoolgirl at Blackheath, and he an ensign at Woolwich."
                  "His name is Dillon," said Lady Julia, "actually Dillon; we didn't think much of him, but papa always declared he was a gentleman, and so it seems he is by your account."
                  "That bit of retrospective sentimentality shall be dully reported to Evesham," thought my lady; "he thinks her rather loftier than the angels, though he has no love for her. I wonder what he will think of stagey flirtations with Woolwich men and blushings-up when she hears the name of one mentioned?"
                  "At any rate," she said aloud, "you may tell Mr. Dillon O'Brien that he is not forgotten by Miss Audrey Lorme. Perhaps—who knows? for young people will be young people (as is sapiently observed by mediocrity when it has not anything better to say in defence of foll;)—he came here misled by a false woman's vow, he had better make the best of it, and stay to drink health, not to the Baroness, but to the Countess of Evesham."
                  "Lady Lorme is pleased to make a joke out of nothing, you will perceive," said Audrey, rather scornfully; and then the Corbyns, having arrived at nothing, took their leave, and drove home grandly in a coronetted carriage drawn by two screwed horses.
                  The dinner-party at Corbyn was to come off on the 20th of the month, and as day after day passed and brought it nearer, Audrey began to realise that it would be unpleasant to meet Evesham there, unless his neuralgia, which, according to his diurnal notes to her, had rather increased than otherwise, allowed of his coming to Combhurst first. There was a wretchedly despondent tone about his letters, short as they were, which shook the girl's soul both with anger and sorrow. She felt that a man on the brink of marriage could not indulge in such a frame of mind without offering an insult to the woman whose fate was about to be linked with his.
                  His letters did not come by post, he sent them by a messenger, so that Audrey had no special interest in and anxiety for the arrival of the letter-bag. But on the morning of the 19th she did, contrary to her custom, intercept the bag on its way to Lady Lorme's dressing-room, and take out such epistolary communications as were in it.
                  There was one small, narrow missive, in a handwriting she knew well; it was addressed to "Lady Lorme," and when Lady Lorme came out of her room impatiently, watch in hand, Audrey gave her the note without a word; without a word she took it, and for a minute or two they stood facing each other steadfastly and silently, looking into the depths of each other's eyes, striving with all their woman's wit to fathom each other's souls. Gradually into Lady Lorme's eyes there came a mocking, laughing devil of defiance.
                  "Have you anything to say to me. Audrey, that you stand and stare at me so?" she asked.
                  "Only this," replied Audrey, "God knows, I have no desire to pry into your secrets; but do you mean to show that letter to my brother?"
                  "I don't know yet," said my lady; and then Audrey turned away to get somewhere by herself and think, leaving Lady Lorme with the Earl of Evesham's letter in her hand.
                  That they were living in an atmosphere of mystery, deceit, sorrow, and, she feared, sin, Audrey felt strongly. That until it was all cleared up and Fred could show her a stainless surface again, there could be no marriage between them, she immediately resolved. That her heart would be tried and sorely wrung should the separation be for ever, she frankly admitted; but the thing about which she could come to no conclusion was, would she be justified in concealing or communicating her still vague suspicions of the wife he idolized to her brother. "I must tell him what I have seen and thought," she at last said, "out of no revenge to her for having blighted me, but out of my deep love for my brother and his honor."
                  The fate of one who interferes between man and wife is proverbial. When Audrey, with the tenderest delicacy, and with a repression of her own strong anger that showed the stout hearted breed from whence she came, told her brother the incident of the note, and asked him what could a private correspondence between Lord Evesham, and Lady Lorme mean, Sir Robert elected to be high-minded and lofty, and to pity and forgive Audrey for her capricious unkindness and suspicions of his wife. Nevertheless, when Audrey left him, he rushed up rather hastily into my lady's room, and found her in tears.
                  "She had burnt the letter, the letter from Evesham," she said, "burnt it in a pet, for it was so very unkind. He told her plainly that he considered she wanted to make mischief between Robert and himself; that that was the reason why he had stayed away; and that he begged to know how such an unfounded dislike had arisen against a man who had never wittingly offended her. Do ride over, Robert," she continued, "tell him first that I have told you all this, and then say that I am quite sorry for having let my tongue run away with me the other day—will you?"
                  "Yes," said Sir Robert slowly, "but I am sorry you burnt the letter; I should like Audrey to have seen it."
                  "It is a pity," said my lady, hastily; "but now I'll make all the amends in my power. I'll ride the Leprechaun over with you and induce him to come back."
                  And so she did, and a hollow peace reigned between the betrothed that evening, for Audrey was touched by his evident illness and suffering. And my lady smiled and was gayer and lovelier than ever, and her heart beat hotly the while against the letter she had declared to be burnt. It might have been in truth if a woman's warmth of guilty love and the passionate outpourings of her guilty lover could have power to burn; for never wilder words of passion have been penned than those which lay over and rose and fell on the white bosom of Lady Lorme, and they had come from the heart of Lord Evesham.
                  The Propagation of the Gospel subscription had been stopped and the liveries furbished up effectively. The butler who announced the names of Sir Robert, Lady and Miss Lorme, in magnificent sonorous accents, was brilliant as to buttons and lace. Knowing this, he came further into the room than, he had been wont to do of late, and his person thus intercepted the view Mr. O'Brien would otherwise have had immediately of the advancing party.
                  "Bah! She won't remember me," he thought, impatiently. "Why the deuce should I wait on her looks? My prospects ain't so remarkably bright that I need care to flash them before her."
                  But the next minute his face was i lumined from within in a way that made Lady Grace feel yellow and sick, for Audrey Lorme stood before him tendering her hand with all the old cordiality and far more than the old grace.
                  "It is a long time since we used to meet at the Braham's, on Blackheath, but not long enough for us to have forgotten how to meet as friends, Mr. O'Brien."
                  I will not assert that the handsome Irishman had kept herimage—idolised "early love" as she had been—spotless in his heart of hearts—I should not be believed if I did assert it—but he had kept it there brightly, and the chords of passion, were swept strongly at the tones of her voice.
                  "A long time ago I thought it, till I saw you, Miss Lorme; now it seems but yesterday. But things are altered, though you are not."
                  "You are altered since those days," she said. And she thought, "for the better."
                  Ah, well, we all of us have our "alley of limes," down which we wander, and, I hope, breathe a blessing on the one who used to wander through it with us occasionally. Cold is the heart that has not beaten warmly in response to some other heart in the days gone by, in the golden hours of vanished youth. Colder still the heart that does not beat more quickly when the memories of those days—perhaps the only heritage they have left us—are revived. Loving once does not with the majority mean loving always; but it speaks ill for one or the other when love dies out and no kindly feeling remains. Woe for that woman or man who can think of the "alley of limes' and invoke aught but a blessing on the head of the one who made it a thing to be remembered. The love that dies out in hate and contempt, in coolness and dislike, dies a bitter, cowardly, cruel death. Keep the kindly feeling that in the morning of life made life delicious; keep the kindly feeling, and remember that what was all good in your eyes once cannot be all bad now simply because time. Circumstances and distance have exerted their powers of severance. There is nothing sadder in the whole range of sorrowful experience than hearing that one is dead whom you once loved—especially if you have grown to regard that one with but a light interest. The death might have wrung your heart with more mournful selfish grief if the love had still flowed freshly; but it would not have in that case crushed and subdued it with remorse, with the thought that it had been so lightly withdrawn. We acknowledge to the dead everything; but the love that is poured out freely to a memory is little worth. So in avoidance of a possible pang—which is, after all, but a selfish way of putting it—keep and cherish kindly feelings towards the once loved.
                  The charades went off brilliantly, so at least the whole company said; the assertion that they did so was made with particular force, though, by two or three of the elderly portion of the audience who had been taken in the act of going to sleep. But people invariably go to sleep if they are planted as audience to charades in which their own daughters are not acting with eligible men after a heavy dinner. They were forgiven their somnorific tendencies, therefore, and their criticisms were allowed to have some weight.
                  O'Brien had been indefatigable in getting things well organised after he had seen the invitation list; he had shown himself an adept in the art of situation and stage-management generally. Audrey, too, had entered with Great Spirit into the thing and she had always been reputed a good actress. But the honors of the evening were not with the versatile Irishman and the recognised "capital hand at charades," but with Lady Lorme and the Earl of Eve-sham. They chose—or rather she did, and he was prompt to follow suit—to alter the authorised conception of their respective characters in the word "forgotten." They turned wit into pathos, and puerilities into passion, and the charade did, as the audience declared, go off "brilliantly."
                  "My own Leonie! you are exerting yourself too much," Sir Robert said, when his wife, the charades over, came and sat down by his side; "you look pale and tired."
                  But no one could say that of my lady ten minutes after, when the conversation turned upon the great topic of the day, the scandalous desertion of a husband by his wife for a man of higher rank.
                  All the women were particularly hard upon the divorced wife, whom her seducer had just married—that was one of those matter-of-course things to which my lady paid no attention. Some one mentioned that "the Queen would not receive her." And then Lady Lorme pricked her ears up more keenly, and asked of a handsome, wellborn guardsman.
                  "What sort of place she would take in society—fashionable society, you know?"
                  "None at all," the guardsman told her, with a stare at the simplicity of the question. "That is to say," he continued, "she'll have the best house in town, as far as amusement goes, for she's a clever woman and a beauty. Men will go there—the best men will go there."
                  "But she has been quite a queen in society." Lady Lorme said, flushing vividly; "and now with higher rank than she had before—"
                  "Oh, she wont be in society, you see," the guardsman interrupted; "women won't clash with her at all, because they won't have her."
                  "Then, thought Lady Lorme, "there is no help for me can forfeit my place—and I can't give give up Evesham."
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER X.—IN WHICH SIR ROBERT GETS INTO COLD WATER AND MY LADY INTO HOT.
                  THAT dinner-party and charade-acting evening at Castle Corbyn was not a thing to conduce greatly to Miss Lorme's peace of mind, or to in any way restore Miss Lorme's lightheartedness. People—observant people with grown-up daughters—wagged their heads and remarked that Lord Evesham was clearly tired of the engagement, and ready enough to "break," if only the one to whom he was engaged would give him the opportunity. It was always so. Just when a girl's heart is sorest, her friends and acquaintance show themselves ready—aye, ready—to kick the beam in her disfavor, and to send her down, down to any depths of unsympathised despair.
                  But it was not only people whom she did not care for seeing things that caused disquietude to Audrey; she read—was it not written in legible characters enough for any one to read during the last scene in the last charade, when the word "forgotten" was fully portrayed?—she read then. I say that a passion, and that no light one, lived in the hearts of Lady Lorme and Lord Evesham for one another.
                  Strong-mi did women can take refuge in scorn when their lovers desert them or show themselves false and foully fickle; but the woman whose love has been worth anything cannot do this so readily, she will continue to fondly love—long, long after she doubts.
                  For several months all Audrey's thoughts, plans and feelings had been interwoven with this man; he was her present, her future, her all, her everything. It was very hard to awake suddenly to the know ledge that he could be this no longer, very hard indeed, and the certainty that it was inevitable did not make it at all the easier.
                  Long after the pangs of the affair were past and over, when peace was restored to her mind, and health to her cheek, and happiness to her heart, she could still, with the very slightest mental effort, recall every incident connected with that evening's agony. She could remember how the lights had danced and the faces of the guests had swam before her when she first caught the glance that went like lightning from the lovely gray velvet eyes of Lady Lorme—the glance that was reciprocated immediately from the eyes of Lord Evesham. She could remember how languidly she had fulfilled her own part after seeing it, and how grateful she had felt—grateful though annoyed—to Dillon O'Brien for exerting himself immediately and diverting the attention of others from her shortcomings. She could remember the sort of nervous thrill that ran through her being when this same Dillon O'Brien performed the cloaking operation for her on their departure; she could remember how gratitude and annoyance again struggled in her mind for precedence, as he palpably showed her, by his earnest and successful endeavors to prevent other people from witnessing Lord Evesham's neglect, that he saw it himself. Everything, in fact, she could remember—the very flavor of the meagrely-flavored jelly she ate and the sort of defiant warmth and glow the wine which Dillon handed to her infused into her heart—the idle words of conventional parting friendship, the light laugh home light joke called forth, the position of every one in the room as she looked round on leaving it and saw them all—and the last of Lord Evesham.
                  There was, there could be, no real friendship between these sisters-in-law now; a hollow truce reigned, and that was all. For it had come to this, that Audrey allowed my lady to perceive how heartily she despised her; and my lady was not at all backward in allowing Audrey to perceive that she cordially hated Miss Lorme.
                  Lady Lorme could find no rest on her downy couch that night; she was suffering from a nervous headache, she said, and nothing but her dressing room to herself and a book could assuage her agony. Sir Robert betrayed much fussy anxiety, but he was, to his surprise, snubbed and sent off to such slumbers as he might be blessed with, in a most extraordinary, vehement and peremptory manner.
                  And then Lady Lorme dispatched her maid, and had, what she desired, the room to herself.
                  A passionate, ambitious woman, baffled at the outset in a plan on which she has set her heart and soul—or rather, her mind and hopes—is not a pleasant spectacle. At any rate, Lady Lorme would not have been such even to the proverbial and oftalluded-to mouse in the wall. The way she took to improve her nervous headache when she was "alone, quite alone," was, to say the least of it, extraordinary. She rained down torrents of tears in a cataract, until her beautiful face was all swollen and distorted, blistered and crimson; she gnashed her little white teeth in a way that strongly tested and effectually proved their reality; she gave vent to expletives that her husband could have sworn her lovely ears had never heard or her lovely lips brought themselves to utter—to expressions of vile hatred and disappointment, and passionate loathing and fierce resolve. And then she left off and calmed down with deceitful rapidity, and presently rose and first bathed her head with eau-decologne and then drank a quantity of it. And when she had had her rage and taken her recipe, she sat down on the crimson couch by the brightly leaping fire, and began to think and plan afresh.
                  Baffled! baffled in the only path that could lead her to her guilty end without involving the commission of a double crime!
                  "The world urges me to it," she said, the unscrupulous traitress; "the world, which makes a woman lose caste if she leaves one legal lord to gain even another legally and of higher rank. I can't be a nothing, even for Evesham."
                  She rose up and looked at herself steadily in the glass.
                  "Suppose he should die," she said to herself—"die of a fall from his horse, say, and they brought me the news, and told me while they could see my face? I wonder if my face would be a coward and betray me? I'll try it., Lady Lorme, your husband is dead! Bah! They wouldn't tell me in that way, and even if they did, I could look through everything, I am sure—look my way to respectability and freedom, a new life and love."
                  She huddled the folds of her dressing-gown closer round her now, and took a shawl and laid down on the couch and covered herself with it. As soon, strange as it may appear to those who deem that she wicked can know no rest, she was buried in the majority stick to what is legitimate, and get properly supplied with the right kind of books wholesale. The speciality of the Evesham library was not in its books, strangely enough, but in its pictures. The bookshelves merely ran a few feet up the walls, and the space between the tops of them and the ceiling was filled entirely with fine but sombre and flyblown ancestors of the dark, gloomy man who sat by the fire and glanced round on them occasionally, with a look half scornful, half mournful.
                  There were refined Vandyke beauties and cavaliers; there were voluptuous dames, whose charms had been immortalized by Lely, and bird-and-dove carrying shepherdesses of a later date. They were all handsome, those Eveshams, men and women too, but the thing about them which attracted most—which struck their descendant painfully to-night—was the deep shade of melancholy which lived in the steady dark eyes and on the broad resolute brows of all.
                  "They all—all came to bad or sad ends," he muttered; "we are doomed, we Eveshams, to be wicked or unhappy."
                  
                     A WEDDING SONG.
                     BY ADA VROOMAN.
                     
                        OH, Love, though life's secluded ways
                        Allure us on with many a smile,
                        With many a sweet and tender wile,
                        We may not waste our precious days.
                     
                     
                        As sealights on a rocky shore
                        Illumine all the gloom around,
                        And guide the sailor homeward bound,
                        When dark and angry tempests lower
                     
                     
                        So we, from our sweet height of bliss,
                        May be the blessed light which saves
                        Some toilworn battler with the waves,
                        Who never knew a love like this.
                     
                     
                        Sweet faith and trust shall be the crown
                        That brightens both our happy brows,
                        And faith in love and wedded vows
                        Shall cheat the world of worldly scorn.
                     
                     
                        And Love when envious storms assail,
                        Our hearts made by each other strong,
                        Shall do brave battle with the wrong,
                        And turn to love the bitter gale.
                     
                     
                        Our two souls, blended into one,
                        Shall walk in humble trust in God,
                        The way our blessed Saviour trod,
                        Until our earthly work is done.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  THE PARSIMONIOUS EARL.
                  
                     
                        COMBHURST
                     
                  
                  PERHAPS the next worst thing to a beggarly nobleman is a parsimonious one; I should be inclined myself to give precedence in badness to the mean man, but I know the way of the world is to regard the moneyless one as the greater sinner, therefore I will only claim for the Earl of Corbyn second-rate honors in the contempt of my readers.
                  Mention has been already made of his wife in these pages; she was the lady who tried her noble hand at "putting down" Lady Lorme, when that estimable woman first came into the neighborhood. She was the lady whose failure in that womanly attempt was duly chronicled.
                  When she, the second daughter of the Duke of Oldmaynham, married the Earl of Corbyn, she knew that though from a financial point of view she was not doing a very brilliant thing, still it was the best thing she could do. Her father had nothing but his blessing to give his children, and that, taking into consideration what a character he had borne from the time he could speak plain, was scarcely worth having. However, as it was all he had to give, his daughters took it when they married, and between them made up an income for him, and pensioned him off at a London hotel while he lived; his son declined the honor of contributing to the filial purse; he regarded his father with the warm feelings sons of expensive habits are apt to have towards the fathers who have ruined them. Lady Corbyn's early married career was one struggle between the promise she had made to her sisters, and the difficulty she experienced in getting possession of a pound. The earl's income was not colossal—his care of it was; the result was a style of living that was imposing when seen from a distance, but very uncomfortable to those within its circle.
                  The blood of the Corbyns was as blue as it is possible to conceive anything short of indigo could be; and the Oldmaynhams were blessed with a fluid circulating in their veins of an equally orthodox hue. Nevertheless the daughters of the house of Corbyn, Lady Julia, Lady Grace, and Lady Margaret, showed more bone than blood, and were Consequently spoken of even by the warmest admirers of their rank as "fine girls, but not pretty."
                  This last fact not even their father's being an earl and their grandfather a duke could alter. They were tall, they had mealy faces, rather fine blue eyes, and more than rather sandy hair; their figures were not good, and they were not graceful; but for all that they were not cast in the mould of beauty, they were plentifully gifted with feelings of profound admiration for themselves, and of the loftiest matrimonial aspirations. The youngest—Lady Margaret—had been destined by her fond parents from her cradle to be Lady Evesham; she had accepted the fate they proposed to her with a readiness that spoke as well for her taste as it did for her dutifulness, for Evesham was unexceptionable. Those little peccadilloes of his which got noised abroad she paid no manner of attention to—not because, like Audrey Lorme, she loved, but, on the contrary, because she didn't love, and hoped that the more "scrapes," as she called it, that he got into the less likely he would be to marry any one else before he came in the way of her net. It had been a hard and a horrible thing to endure, when at the grand ball they (the Corbyns) gave in his honor on his return from the Continent, after coming to the title, to see him palpably fall at once a willing victim to Audrey Lorme. It had been wofully painful to endure that interval of surmising and uncertainty before the match was proclaimed as a thing that really was to come off. But when the match was settled, with the beautiful bravery that comes of "blood" they made the best of it, pressed the thorn of envy closely home in secret to their right honorable bosoms, kissed Audrey in the course of a morning call of congratulation, and determined that as Margaret was not to reign at Evesham, it would be only wise to make an ally instead of a foe of the lady who was.
                  I have hinted that the earl was parsimonious; the countess, I may as well state here, was worse—she was a pretentious screw. She had given her daughters cheap French, Italian and German governesses, and these had not imparted the best of either accents, morals or manners to their aristocratic charges—but with that my story has nothing to do. She would give them splendid silks—thousands of yards of ethereal tulle to hang about their gaunt persons—and the most elegant and becoming bonnets that Madame Thoumal's taste and ingenuity could devise when they were going out; but she grudged them flannel enough to keep them warm, and was severe upon their appetites down at Corbyn, and that tradesman was unlucky who chanced to have a "remnant" on his counter when the countess sailed into his shop, for she was sure to have it for next to nothing.
                  The matter of the postponed marriage was soon carried to them by that wonderful little bird who is perpetually going about with its venomous whisper. They talked it over, the mother and her three daughters, in the dressing-room of the former, before they went down to their early luncheon, which was the first meal at which they found it convenient to make their appearance, for "any old robe de chambre did for upstairs and saved dressing till it was time to go out." So now in their dingily draped, crinolineless, unadorned ugliness they sat and discussed the affair, and naturally enough—for were they not of the softer sex?—accused Audrey in ten minutes of every crime and folly in the calendar of feminine crimes and follies.
                  The extraordinary thing about a broken engagement is, that no matter what the circumstances, the woman always gets blamed as well as pitied. Those of her own sex heave huge sighs of compassion over her blighted prospects, but at the same time they contrive to depreciate her claims to that compassion by elevating their eyebrows and screwing up their lips.
                  The Ladies Corbyn did not come to their matutinal meal in good spirits or good tempers, any more than they had in distress. They dropped in one after the other with their sandy hair pushed away unbecomingly under nets, their cheeks leadenhued from over-sleep, and eyes dull from lack of excitement. The tea "was overdrawn," Lady Julia declared pettishly as she poured out a cup and prepared to drink it; the remark roused the countess from the perusal of a letter she had just received, and her speech when she was aroused infused new life into the whole party.
                  "Put the eggs in," she exclaimed, "they'll be be boiled by the time we've had prayers" (she was a very pious woman, and never omitted heating up prayers and thanksgivings every morning). "I have such news, girls! there's a scandal of some sort come out at Combhurst, and Lord Evesham has started off to the Continent."
                  "I always thought Audrey Lorme a detestable girl," said Lady Margaret, energetically. "I am glad, though, whatever it is, that it has come out before poor Evesham was indissolubly tied up with her."
                  "It may not be Audrey, after all," said Lady Julia, who had not quite such good grounds for hating Audrey as her sisters had: "most probably something has been discovered about that horrid woman Sir Robert picked up in London. I always thought she was a mere adventuress—I always said so. Too bad of him to thrust her upon society in the way he has done, contaminating other people."
                  Lady Julia had at one time thought of marrying the baronet herself; therefore her virtuous indignanation against the possible past of his wife was a genuine thing.
                  "Do let us have prayers; the eggs will be too hard," said Lady Grace.
                  "What a bore it is that Buckle always will carry my soft hassock away to her own room," remarked the countess, picking up the volume of "Family Devotions" in a casual kind of way. "Suppose I sit in the easy chair, and read them. I can't kneel down—it makes me sick."
                  "Suppose we have breakfast first," said Lady Grace. "You have not given me the food for my mind that you have Julia and Margaret; you see, I never wanted to marry either Evesham or Lorme."
                  "And I never heard that either of them wanted to marry you, my dear," snapped Lady Margaret.
                  "Precisely the remark that I was about to append to my former sentence respecting yourself, my love," replied Lady Grace. "Let us give Audrey Lorme the benefit of a doubt, and hope that it's not so bad as mamma's letter has led her to imagine; you know how these things always get exaggerated."
                  "My correspondent is reliable," said the countess, buttering some cold toast: "but I tell you what we will do—send out invitations for a dinner-party to-day, and call on the Lormes to-morrow; we owe them both a dinner and a call, and we may get at the truth that way a little."
                  "That nasty little wretch, his wife, is capable of braving anything out, if it's about herself," said Lady Julia. "Who had better go with you, mamma, to-morrow?"
                  "Margaret and yourself, I think. Tiresome it is that the Gospel Propagation subscription is due, for we must have new lace and buttons on the liveries before a dinner. I think I shall write and say that I disapprove of the principles on which it is conducted; your father, as a politician, considers christianizing the heathen a mistake. I am very sorry for it, of course; but as a wife, my first duty is to consult my husband's scruples."
                  "Well, you needn't waste your reasons for doing what is convenient on us, mamma. No more tea, thank you, Julia. I sha'n't wait for prayers now; for if the invitations are to go out to-day, they ought to be filled up and sent. I will give O'Brien the list, mamma; I suppose the usual people are to be asked?"
                  Lady Grace rose as she asked her question, and put, with something like feminine coquetry, her net on more becomingly.
                  "Yes, the usual people," said the countess; and then she added, in a crosser tone, "your father insists that his secretary, librarian, whatever he may be, is always to be invited properly, and treated like a guest at our formal dinner-parties. For my own part, I don't see why he should be; he chooses to sit by himself and nurse his fallen grandeur in his own study at other times, when we really would be glad of him to amuse us; but your father is so full of whims about the wretched Irishman, that you must invite him, Grace."
                  "I don't fancy myself that Grace will object to that part of the mission at all," said her eldest sister, as Lady Grace left the room. "It's a fortunate thing for us that Grace is no beauty, otherwise I am very much mistaken if we should not have to bewail a msalliance."
                  "Oh, nonsense!" said the countess. "No one with the blood of the Oldmaynhams in their veins would think for a moment of marrying a servant."
                  And then they finished their eggs, and being now quite warm and comfortable, said their prayers with much unction.
                  The late Earl of Corbyn had been a great bibliomaniac; with much care and at much expense he had collected together, from every quarter of the globe, books and manuscripts, pamphlets and parchments. Not being anything of a philologist, he had been rather imposed upon in many of his transactions; and as his son and heir was possessed of even less learning and greater vanity than himself, the state of the Corbyn library (to which was usually prefixed the epithet of "great") was chaos.
                  That it was so had been pointed cut to him during the shooting season of the year of my story, by a devoted but indiscreet friend; and it was to remedy all its defects, and get it in the order which it behoved the great Corbyn library to be in, that the services of Dillon O'Brien, Esq., had been secured.
                  Now, all kinds of persons may be expected to answer when a "nobleman of literary tastes" advertises for "a librarian and amanuensis." Broken-spirited, conscientious English scholars, with care on their brows and holes in their gloves, are sure to appear; so are mournful-eyed Italians, who call themselves counts, and have been couriers—German barons of noble lineage, wearing a professional aspect and large boots, assist to swell the list—Frenchmen who skip and gesticulate, and wind up with a shoulder-shrugging confession of their ignorance of all matters in heaven and earth, and under the latter, offer their animated services. But it is rarely indeed that a son of Erin can be found ready to enter into the ranks of drudgery of the great army of learned-dom.
                  Lord Corbyn knew little enough, heaven knows; but he did happen to have that much knowledge of the law of chances, viz: that if the handsome, refined young Irishman, who presented himself with a card and without a single letter of introduction, was worth anything, he would be worth much as librarian and literary slavey to himself.
                  The interview was satisfactory so far to both parties, that Lord Corbyn agreed to take, and Mr. O'Brien to give his services. "What they were worth," O'Brien said, "could be better determined at the end of the year." It was a very loose and unpractical kind of arrangement, but Lord Corbyn was just gentleman enough to resolve upon one thing—that noblesse oblige should not be the cause of the proud, chivalrous young Irishman losing anything.
                  It is one of the cries of this practical age that noblesse oblige "does not pay." I hope it is not true; I hope that it is fashionable cynicism alone which utters and endorses such sentiments. I lack faith in many an old tradition; I have learnt to laugh and deride at things which I once held to be true and great; but I have not learnt, and I trust I never shall learn, to doubt the gentle feeling that springs from gentle blood. At any rate, even if I doubted it, Dillon O'Brien did not; he resolved to trust for his treatment to Lord Corbyn's honor, and Lord Corbyn knew this, and resolved that his honor should not fail him.
                  On the morning when the countess and her daughters discussed the broken troth—as they hoped it might prove—between Lord Evesham and Audrey, Mr. O'Brien, my lord's secretary, sat alone in his study, smoking—I am sorry to say it—a pipe of Turkish tobacco.
                  Had he been standing instead of sitting, you would have seen, if you had entered that room, reader, that the sword had more to do with his early days than learned tome or pictured page. He sleep that comes blessedly to all—the happy and unhappy, the sinful and the sinless alike. And in that deep and apparently guileless sleep she was found in the morning by her husband, whose rest, poor fellow, had been sadly disturbed by that aforesaid rebuff.
                  Perhaps Lady Lorme would have paused in her path and "held her daggers" if she could only have seen the few lines Miss Lorme indited and dispatched to Lord Evesham on the morning of the 21st. Audrey had also passed a feverish and unhappy night; she had plenty of pride and plenty of the courage that comes from noble birth, high-breeding and high heartedness, and these qualities would not suffer her longer to allow the least link to remain between the man who was evidently ceasing to love her and herself. She released him, not coldly, not callously, but with a proud, mournful firmness, against which, even had he been so inclined, there could be no appeal. But neither her pride, her courage, nor her high-heartedness, made the pangs of that parting easier, the past pleasanter to look back upon, or the future a more endurable prospect. She sent off the little slender missive to Evesham by her own groom; it was delivered soon and safely, and Lord Evesham, after reading it, ordered his portmanteau and valet to follow him, and at once himself started off for London.
                  But Lady Lorme did not know any of these things, therefore she did not pause in her path.
                  Her appetite was more daintily capricious at luncheon this day than had ever been observable of that daintily-capricious appetite before. In vain did sedulous love offer her succulent morsels; she could not touch them, but she drank wine, not "more than a lady ought to drink"—vide Thomas Ingoldsby—but enough to restring her nerves a little and get some of her quailing determination back again.
                  "This wretched, murky December weather tells upon me strangely," at last she exclaimed, languidly, rising up as she spoke and going to the window, and being shut up in a close carriage has made me nervous from my infancy."
                  "You are welcome to my pony-carriage, Lady Lorme," said Audrey, who looked upon the speech as a broad hint for the offer to be made.
                  "Thank you: you are very kind," said Lady Lorme, with dulcet peevishness; "but your ponycarriage always appears to me to be discomfort embodied. If you sit upright in it you tumble against the dashboard; and if you lean back properly, you appear to be dropping out behind."
                  "As you please," said Audrey, haughtily. "I thought you wanted it, or I should not have offered it to you."
                  "Will you go for a ride, Leonie, dear?" asked Sir Robert, eagerly. "The Leprechaun will be rather fresh, I fear, but I'll have him exercised for half an hour, while you are getting ready; and you have such a splendid hand that he'll carry you magnificently, I don't doubt."
                  "Yes, if you wish me to do so, Robert; certainly, as I don't feel well, staying in the whole of this long, dreary afternoon would be bad for me. So, though I hardly feel up to the Leprechaun. I will go and put on my habit. Please don't have the horse harassed into dejection before we start, though; I would rather have him 'fresh,' as you call it."
                  And then she left the room, flashing them a brilliant parting smile, and saying "Au revoir!" in her sweetest accents.
                  The Leprechaun was full of corn and spirits and devilry evidently when his mistress came out and stood on the top of the steps, waiting for her husband's inspection of saddle and bridle arrangements to be completed before he allowed her to mount. How careful he was! How he tightened the curb and regulated the stirrups, and looked to the girths, and how tenderly and well he finally gave her a hand-up and adjusted her flowing habit! It was a pretty picture, even heartsore Audrey thought, as she stood at the window and watched that devoted husband and brilliantly-beautiful and accomplished Amazon.
                  My lady had always deprecated unnecessary leather about a horse's equipments; so to-day, when she prettily insisted upon the Leprechaun's martingale being taken off no one but the groom wondered at it. Sir Robert mildly protested that as they were simply going along the high road, and as the Leprechaun's trick of throwing his head back violently was rather increased than diminished, that it would be just as well to retain the slight check. But Lady Lorme hated a martingale, she said, and would have it off, and accordingly off it came.
                  Lady Lorme's spirits had risen to an exuberant pitch before they had passed out of the avenue; they matched the Leprechaun's, in fact, and were bounding, unchecked, startling. The strong, wellbuilt, powerful hunter Sir Robert rode caught the infection, and curvetted and pranced too, and was only with difficulty reduced to a proper roadster's order again by the sharp application of a spur, and the firm, heavy, inflexible grasp of the curb.
                  "Why, how lighthearted Pantaloon is!" said my lady. "Isn't he a favorite, Robert, that you so seldom ride him?"
                  Sir Robert explained that Pantaloon was a famously good horse for straightforward heavy work: that though bought for a hunter, he was better on the roads than 'cross country, as he had a habit of blundering at his hedges and bearing awkwardly on his bit, but that, altogether, he was a nice horse.
                  "A very nice horse," said my lady; "then he doesn't leap at all?"
                  "Oh, yes! Moderate places could be well managed by Pantaloon," Sir Robert said.
                  Providence, fate, chance—different people call the same things different names, and fight with each other as to the correctness of the respective nomenclatures—led them along the road to Evesham. They could see its grand old woods and lofty towers; its lands lay around them on all sides; its park wall bounded their path, and looking over it, they could see troops of deer rushing madly about or browsing quietly.
                  "A fine place," said Sir Robert, thoughtfully. "I wish with all my heart Audrey was married and settled here."
                  "A very fine place," said my lady; and if Sir Robert had not given the reins to his thoughts and allowed them to wander off to his sister's prospects,
                     
                        LADY LORME AND THE LEPRECHAUN.
                      he would have been startled by the strained, hoarse tones that issued from the lovely acquiescent lips of his wife.
                  "Let us ride back another way, Robert," she exclaimed, aloud; "I hate the straight monotonous road; let us go homer and by the pine-tree wood, it will lengthen the ride a little and make it pleasanter."
                  As she spoke the Leprechaun bounded, and tried to shake her in her saddle by a series of spasmodic leaps, but my lady brought him under again presently with her steady hand and gentling voice.
                  "What made him do that, I wonder?" said Sir Robert; "you didn't touch him with the spur, did you, Leonie? I saw you had one on to-day; he wont stand the spur."
                  "No; Lady Lorme declared she had not given him a taste of her armed heel; but she had, and the spirited Irish colt was ready now to jump out of his skin, his mettle was so magnificently up.
                  In the middle of the rough, dark pine-tree wood, through which my readers passed in the first page of this story, a break occurred in the regular growth of the trees. There was to the right of the road leading to Combhurst a long alley; a dark, uneven, cheerless grove it looked, and down this alley, when they came to it, my lady suddenly turned her horse.
                  "Don't go that way, Leonie," said Sir Robert, hurriedly; "it's a horrid road as far as it goes, and there's no outlet at the bottom of it; it leads down to the Devil's Dyke."
                  "I wish to go, dear," said Lady Lorme, fawningly, and as spoke she leaned down and patted her husband's horse on the shoulder. "I have a great desire to go down and see this famous leap that I hear baffled a whole field last year when a stag chose to take it; what gallant riders Warwickshire turned out that day, to be sure!"
                  "There were plenty of good riders out," said Sir Robert, "and the whole field wasn't baffled; some men cleared it, but of course those whose horses must have infallibly jumped short would have been fools to try it."
                  "Ah! indeed; but it sounds as if they were very cowardly, doesn't it?" said my lady. And then they drew near to the bottom of the alley, and looked at the famed Devil's Dyke.
                  It was an ugly leap, and no mistake, especially when viewed from the side on which they were. A dark, wide, deep chasm, with a low rolling roar sounding up from the waters which rushed along at the bottom of it, welling up to add to its horrors Immediately below where they stood, chasm and waters alike buried themselves under a hill, and the course the water took was down—down to that dark grave in the earth where its secrets would be safely buried for ever.
                  Suddenly Lady Lorme slackened her curb, and settled herself still more firmly to the saddle.
                  "We can take that leap easily, Robert," she said, "and shame all Warwickshire for ever. Come on."
                  She saw in the one moment she had to see anything, doubt and distrust, and agony at feeling it, flash from her husband's eyes, and flush her husband's face. And then the remorseless beautiful woman, who looked like an angel and was cruel as a fiend, dug the spur into her own horse's side, lifted him to the leap, and at the same moment struck Pantaloon on his shoulder. She was whirled through the air—for the Leprechaun came of a gallant stock that never refused anything, and when he alighted with a scramble on the opposite side, she looked round and saw Pantaloon leaping short and falling!
                  A fierce, indomitable courage rose in her heart and prevented its quailing or sinking, even when the dull heavy fall into the dark waters smote her ears. She lifted her hat off her hot head, and wiped the clammy sweat of intense excitement off her brow, and then shook the reins and laid the whip furiously across the shoulder of the horse who had served her ends so well. In a moment she was flying off home like the wind, but fast as she rode, her mind travelled faster, and she saw herself—a few months of hideously tiresome seclusion past—queening it in society, an unsuspected woman, as Countess of Evesham.
                  "Home!" she exclaimed, with frightful exultation; "home! to play the disconsolate widow, and to send for Evesham at once as the sympathising friend."
                  The mastiff's heads on the massive iron gates seemed to grin and gnash their teeth at her ominously as she drew up her panting steed and cried out for admission.
                  "Lord love us! there's something wrong," the old woman who kept the gate said to her cat and teakettle, when she went back into her cottage after admitting her mistress. And well she might say so, for my lady's face had gleamed like a star through the coming darkness, by reason of its death-like pallor and the brilliancy of her eyes.
                  Miss Lorme was in the hall when the sound of horses' hoofs coming up the avenue at a reckless pace alarmed her.
                  "Something has run away with somebody," she said, and she called the porter to open the door quickly, and herself followed out on to the step. The sight that met her was her sister-in-law alone, and overwhelmed with grief and horror.
                  "Why, Leonie," she cried, in her anxiety, quite forgetting that she had grown in these latter days to call her Lady Lorme, "what have you done—where is Robert?"
                  "Dead! dead! in the Devil's Dyke!" said my lady, with wild energy, and then she was saved from further questioning, for Audrey Lorme fainted.
                  "Send for Lord Evesham instantly—instantly," said my lady; and then she rushed to her own room to nurse her woe in solitude. She remained there till late in the evening, when she rose up and unbolted the door, and called to one of the wondering domestics.
                  "What message from Evesham?"
                  "The earl is gone to town, my lady, and they don't know his address.
                  "She's right worrited out of her life, poor lamb," the aforesaid domestic observed afterwards.
                  "When I was speaking to her she cried out, 'Oh, my God!' and fell down like a stone."
                  All the neighborhood joined in the search for the body of the kind landlord, the generous gentleman, the esteemed friend and good master, before nightfall. But the result was even more miserable than had been anticipated. The body of poor Pantaloon was found bruised and water inflated, but not a trace of his master could be seen anywhere. Clearly he had been detached from his horse by the force of the current, and washed under the hillside.
                  So the last of the Lormes died, and had not even a Christian burial.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XI.—"SINFUL SISTER, PART IN PEACE."
                  WHEN such a tragedy as that recorded in the last chapter is enacted in a country neighborhood, especially when it concerns the magnates of it, it takes that neighborhood some considerable time to recover the shock. Every one was intensely sympathetic, and they brought the intensity of their sympathy to Combhurst and offered it to the bereaved wife and sister.
                  For a short time the widow had "borne-up," as people called is, wonderfully; and poor Audrey had given way to the widest and most passionately uttered reproachful bursts of grief. But after a period their respective states were changed, and why they were became a problem that their friends and acquaintances would have forfeited a good deal to solve.
                  The Combhurst estates were entailed on a female, in default of a male heir; so, after the reading of the will, Lady Lorme was legally a cipher at Combhurst, and Audrey was lady of the soil and mansion. But these were not the circumstances, even their greatest detractors admitted, which elevated the spirits of the sister and depressed those of the wile.
                  When "poor Lorme's sad fate" ceased to be so all-absorbing a topic, men began to talk about a mysterious rumor that had arisen with regard to the Earl of Evesham. He was spoken of as having turned Catholic and renounced the world in some way or other; and many-tongued Rumor multiplied herself, and assigned all sores of causes for such a proceeding, amongst which madness and murder found a place.
                  Lady Lorme began to droop just after this rumor arose, not that she believed it, but she was frantic with impatience to hear from or see him; and he neither wrote nor came.
                  Corbyn Castle was just about the same time the scene of much domestic discord, for Lady Grace's temper became soured by Mr. O'Brien's repeated absences, frequent visits to Combhurst and other signs of profound indifference to her own right honorable charms. Her sisters, with the proverbial amiability of that particular class of kith and kin, lost no opportunity of probing her woes in this respect, "wounding to heal," in fact, as only jealous, spiteful women can.
                  Lady Grace's must be acknowledged to be a hard face. She had shown herself, not alone to him—that would not have mattered, for Dillon O'Brien was a gentleman every inch of him—but to her family, as ready and willing to forget her claims to honor and glory, to come down from her high estate and marry the poor, landless, penniless secretary. And now here her heroic willingness and readiness were thrown back upon herself, for Dillon O'Brien clear did not want to marry her.
                  It was sufficiently mortifying without her mother and sisters persisting in moralizing over it perpetually. But as Lord Corbyn forswore handsome secretaries for the future, his daughters knew that an opportunity was not likely to arise for their weaknesses to be tried, so they lashed their youngest sister's unmercifully during the period that elapsed between Dillon O'Brien giving the agreed upon notice to quit and quitting.
                  It was hard and mortifying when so many people were awaiting the opportunity of bearing down upon her remorselessly, wish censure severe and cutting, that Miss Lorme should have left her home about this time to go and travel on the Continent with the family of an uncle, thus depriving friends and foes alike of subject-matter for conversation as far as regarded "Audrey Lorme's extraordinary proceedings." Some had hoped she would have married the young Irish secretary, with whom she appeared so strangely and unaccountably friendly, and thus give room for, and rise to, scandal for so soon forgetting her old love and her brother's horrible fate. But Audrey did not do this; and to the few who saw her before she left Combhurst she gave no hint of it its being her intention to do it. Neither did she rail against or avoid all mention of Lord Evesham's name. On the contrary, when one kind and clever tactician, in the person of Lady Julia Corbyn, pressed her on the point with pungent indelicacy, she said that his conduct seemed strange and dishonorable even, but might not be for all that. She could not even be induced to be severe in her judgment on Lady Lorme, or to utter suppositions as to her probable present and future destiny. For Lady Lorme had elected, immediately on her jointure being secured to her, to go off on a pilgrimage alone.
                  So Audrey Lorme went away to join her uncle, her mother's brother. Mr. Audrey; and the grand suite of rooms on the groundfloor were clothed in brown holland, and my lady's crimson-lined boudoir was darkened and shut-up, and Combhurst was left to the care of servants, and to its memories and the rats. And so months passed away, and the horror of these things passed away too.
                  "Poor fellow! His whole life sacrificed to an idea!"
                  The speaker was Dillon O'Brien. The time was the July following the and December when the last of the Lormes had gone to his long home and found his death in the Devil's Dyke. The place was the drawing-room of Mr. Audrey's house in Park lane, and the one addressed by the whilom secretary was Miss Lorme.
                  "Poor fellow! Poor fellow, indeed!" said Audrey bitterly. "But everything has been tried, Dillon. I have wept, and prayed, and implored; my uncle has commanded and intreated him to come out of his seclusion, but it's all of no avail; we only pain him by asking, he says, and the sooner I am married the happier he will be."
                  "Then all my scruples ought to vanish," replied Dillon. "But it seems rather a queer thing for one fellow to step into such happiness as mine will be through the circumstance of another man's utter defeat and downfall. What a devil that woman was to have bewitched him so!"
                  From which short and jagged bit of conversation it will be perceived by the intelligent reader that Audrey Lorme and Dillon O'Brien had arranged matters so satisfactorily that they had no longer any occasion to give a sigh when they looked back or wandered in memory through the alley of limes.
                  The marriage ceremony was solemnised in that edifice where every marriage is, or ought to be, in novels, viz., St. George's, Hanover square. The bride looked lovely, as a matter of course, in white moire antique, and the eight bridesmaids wore a judicious combination of pink and blue, with May blossom wreaths—typical these last of their extreme juvenility and surprising innocence.
                  In addition to the inevitable invited guests, a large concourse of people assembled to see the wedding of the lady who was such a great heiress through her brother's untimely death. An item—a mere item, she was so fragile and slender—in the crowd seemed to think it the reverse of a sad sight to see a "gay and girlish thing give up her maiden gladness for a name and for a ring;" for when the last works were spoken, and the knot that only Sir Cresswell Cresswell could loosen was tied, this lady gave vent to an exclamation of passionate pleasure, and clapped her hands till they sounded and made people look at her, seeing which, she went out rapidly and entered a neatly-appointed little brougham, d awn by a horse whose paces fully entitled him to have been paired for a mail-phaeton, or promoted at once to a private cab. "Home!" she said, "Home, quickly!" and home she was driven to a bijou house in Old Brompton lane, which looked a mere cottage of content, and was a miniature palace of luxury.
                  She was a pretty woman this owner of the brougham and mistress of the house—a pretty woman, but a pale, haggard, careworn one. Her face was lovely as to form and feature, but terrible in its cold, wan pallor, in its ashy deadness of hue. Her eyes were painfully large and glittering, painful in their look of long unrest, painful in their ceaseless expression of watchfulness, painful, above all, in the brilliancy of their anxiety. She had suffered evidently, the Venus of this abode of bliss—suffered much and long, and "what about?" her servants wondered, she so young, so rich and beautiful.
                  It was about one o'clock when she reached the bijou house in the Old Brompton lane, and there were dainty little birds, daintily roasted, awaiting her on a hot water dish, on the luncheon-table. There was a tempting pate, too, and a marvellous pudding, for her cook was a German and profound in rare confectionery. But she turned from all these succulent morsels with inpatient loathing, and drank eagerly some sparkling wine that sent new light into her eyes, and new life into her veins, and courage to her heart. Woe for the woman if she had come to this.
                  She was dressed in black silk, this lady—in rich, lustrous, yet not shiny black silk. It was made long, full, sweeping like the garment of a queen, yet absolutely without trimming or adornment, like the garb of an anchorite. There was nothing to relieve its black surface, no plain white collare or coquettishly neat cuffs—nothing, absolutely nothing, save a dead gold cross, suspended from a black velvet round her throat.
                  So, while the bridal pair were speeding away on that eternal tour which is being taken daily by deluded pairs, as a precursor to long years of calmer domestic felicity, the lady who had watched them from behind the pillar, sat and waited with impatient yearning for the shades—the tender, soft shades of summer evening—to come on.
                  "Unless his burial in the church has made him less of a man than he was in the world," she said at last, when she had entered her brougham, and directed it to the chapel, "he will hear me now—hear my confession, absolve, and be to me once more what he was when I risked my soul to gain him."
                  There was a beautiful, soul-subduing, gentling influence in the atmosphere of the chapel when she entered it. We Protestants do wrong, I think, in ceasing from all these things that soften the heart through touching the taste. surety none are further from heaven through finding the odor of incense and roses sweet while here on earth. In another respect, too, we undoubtedly are wrong, and are wronged: why should we be condemned to sit through five-and-twenty or thirty minutes of boring platitudes droned out frequently in a bad voice, and with a bad style of pronunciation? It is an insult to well-educated people, and those who are refined as well as religious, to have to sit and listen to what may be pious and virtuous, but is unquestionably priggish and vulgar.
                  She had been agitated, excited, greatly wrought upon during her drive hither, but now when she entered the church where this old religion was celebrated, a strange calm, a holier influence fell upon her, and soothed her into unnatural quiescence.
                  Yet all unnatural as it was it rested and calmed her, ceased the throbbing he art and the beating brain, and the frightfully gnawing excitement, for a time at least. And then, when the calm had reigned for a few minutes, this penitent went into the confessional; the moment was come when, strong in her recently gained knowledge of an important fact, she could face with fresh hopes and fresh courage her priest, and former lover.
                  Could he who had fanned the flame of her love be false and cold to her now? Could the hot heart that had burned, and the hot words that had been uttered in the dead buried "long ago" be as nothing to the man who felt it and uttered them? Perish the dread of such perfidy! perish since it could never be justified! Or had—oh terrible fear—asceticism and the holier influences of Mother Church been found sufficient to work the charge that should cause him to think of his soul with more anxiety than of herself?
                  We know how women cling to the straw while a splinter of it remains where their hearts are engaged; we know how they hope against hope and buoy themselves up against despair. We know how they will excuse to others and to themselves, with equal volubility, any shortcomings on the part of the one loved. But we also know how bitterly they will feel these shortcomings, and yearn for a kinder era to dawn for them and their suffering hearts.
                  Now there had been nothing ennobling about the mad, hot-headed, ambitious passion Lady Lorme had felt for Lord Evesham. But such as it was it had been powerful and fierce enough to call forth an equally strong one from him in return. Honor, friend hip, all, everything had bidden him depart from her too captivating presence, when he discovered to what audacious lengths she was prepared to carry her schemes for first protracting and then utterly frustrating his marriage engagement with Audrey Lorme. He had seen through and despised her for the transparent deception practised upon them in all that matter of the trousseau; but at the same time (the race of Evesham were, as he had said, almost invariably unhappy or wicked), he had been unable to resist her charms and his increasing love for her. Then, like even bolder, better, braver men, he had taken the one course open for him to pursue when Audrey's dismissal reached him—he had run away. Away! from all these earthly trials and temptations which ever beset unwary, weak, sinful man while he is in the world; away from his cares and responsibilities, his love and his bane, his shame and his sorrow; away, to bury them all in the bosom of the church.
                  You may have passed through many a harsh and trying ordea l, reader, but have you ever passed through one after which there is, you find (oh! sorrowful that it should be so), no more pain and suffering for you; an ordeal, coming out of which you find that everything has decreased in value and importance; that poverty means only starvation, rags, dirt and wretchedness, and is, therefore, nothing; that health means only a fuller and stronger power of feeling, and is, therefore, little worth; that sickness means only a shortening of the time you may be compelled to live in the world that has used you so hardly; that riches will buy you anything save the one thing you needed, and that grief and anguish attained their full and lasting away on that day when you passed through your ordeal, and can never be assuaged or added to, let what will come? If you have, you will understand and sympathize with the feelings of the penitent who quitted the priest on that fair July evening.
                  The brougham had come for her again at the time appointed by her when she went into perform her orisons and make her plea. The handsomely appointed brougham, lined with fawn-colored and blue silk, with its pockets for scent bottles, and shelving rests for books, with its seft, luxurious cushions and splendidly working springs. Never a jolt nor a jar could be felt by its occupant, no matter what the road over which it rumbled. Many eyes followed the little brougham in which reclined gracefully so passing fair a woman, and between the shafts of which was placed so magnificently actioned a horse.
                  The coachman, without thinking that aught could exist to render a contrary course desirable, did as was usual, and turned into the Park till seven. No curly white-haired dog looked from the window, nor were the silken blinds lowered to attract attention; yet many a glance was levelled with inquiring admiration at that "neat turn-out," and its occupant. But she sat there still in the prime of her youth, dead, lost, stonily indifferent to everything. On the clear evening air were borne to her murmurs from the gay. well-modulated voiced crowd around—borne to her, but not to her ears and senses. Blind to the sight, dead to the sense, deaf to the sounds of the park, and ring, and promenade, she saw but one thing—a tonsured head bowing low, in a crueller agony that even she would have inflicted; heard but one sound, the voice of a man signing the death-warrant of her heart and life in the words. "Sinful sister, part in peace."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.—SUNSHINE AT COMBHURST AGAIN
                  I DOUBT the fact of there ever having lived a man so accursed by fate, whose life has been so utterly desolate, but what he has found one woman in the world to love him—not for what he has, but for what he individually is. No matter what his personal appearance, some woman will be found to adore a baboon with a soul in it.
                  But when a man's fortune and station in youth have been the mark at which many crafty and designing women have aimed, betraying the while they did it, most tactlessly, that they were indifferent to himself; and when, added to this, a woman, fair without and foul within, has been adored by him in his maturity, and has used that adoration for her own fell purposes—a man, when he arrives at the age of forty, may be excused for deeming himself that one singular accursed one on whom the heart of woman has never been set.
                  In a house about eight miles from London, on the old Dover road, about six months after the sentence recorded in my last had been passed by the priest on his penitent, a family party, two or three members of which we have met before, were assembled in earnest conclave. The master of the house, a tall, careworn man, robed, though it was evening, in the dressing-gown of habitual and sluggish seclusion, occupied a seat on the left side of the fire; close to his elbow a lady was seated, pleading in cordial, heartfraught accents for a boon to be granted her, and while she sits and pleads thus fervently, we will lock leisurely at the aforesaid master of the house, and cursorily at his guests.
                  I have said that he was a tall, careworn man; this expresses little, for every other man one meets in the world is tall and careworn—or short and the same. This was a sorrow-worn man, a disappointed, a shocked man, a man who had evidently not attained that fine height and broad, powerful, massive form under the influence of the "something" that now bent his head low with such brokenhearted meekness. Forty is not wont to have such deep, pallid wrinkles round its lips and under its eyes, and forty has no right whatever with such straggling, thin, white hair.
                  A man "broken" early in life is always a sad, miserable spectacle—so is a woman for that matter, but through the man having been originally stronger you feel that the breakage must have been caused by a worse fall than would have sufficed to mar the delicate surface of a woman. And this man was so thoroughly "broken," you read that he was so in the drooping, almost crouching attitude, the look, in his inert ways and disconsolate tone. You read it in the restless, nerveless habit he had of twisting and twirling his fingers about as if they were too many for him and he wished they would lay down. You read it in the very feebleness of the half-slippered feet, in the uninterested eye, and in the giving up of all things which characterized his untidy costume.
                  In addition to the mental languor which was preying upon and threatening to devour him, you could see at a glance that physical suffering must have been raging frightfully in that not long ago stalwart form. He was thin and attenuated, besides which his left brow was scarred, and the whole of the left side of his face seamed as with fire or a fall.
                  Will one of my readers be prepared from this account of him to hear that the man who sat by the fire in the room of the house on the Dover road was the one whom all alike down in Warwickshire had mourned as lying drowned, dead, buried for ever in the bottom of the Devil's Dyke?
                  Yes, it was Sir Robert Lorme himself! and how he came to be there in the flesh shall now be told—sketchily perforce, but truly nevertheless.
                  Dillon O'Brien, wandering about that December afternoon in the purposeless pedestrian manner to which unhappy people ill of a heart-wound are prone, found himself strangely attracted to the vicinity of Combhurst. Now, when it is borne in mind what Combhurst contained for him, nothing wonderful will be discovered in this by sensible people—but still, taking all things into consideration, it was marvellously lucky that he should have gone where he did.
                  Walking in a desultory way through an alley in the pinetree wood, his ear and attention had been caught by the sound of horses' hoofs and human voices. Pursuing his investigations further, he discovered that the horses were bearing the forms of Sir Robert and Lady Lorme, and that the voices proceeded from them (from the baronet and his wife, that is to say, not the horses).
                  They were riding down the gulley to the fatal leap when he saw and heard them first; something flashed upon him that caused him to dread mischief, so he followed them close up—close enough to hear the words she said, to divine her fatal intention, and to see her give the cut which caused poor Pantaloon to leap for his life and lose it, but not near enough for the exclamation of horrer he gave to reach the ear of the excited woman who leapt the chasm, and then looked back seeing nothing but escape from the fate she had grown to loathe.
                  He had faced many dangers and overcome many difficulties in his life; Irishmen are proverbially hot-headed in everything but danger; so now it was now with an unfaltering step and a cool, firm hand that Dillon O'Brien let himself down, when my lady galloped off, the side of the dark chasm at the bottom of which he anticipated finding the mutilated dead body of the brother of the girl he loved.
                  Pantaloon was stone dead, with his neck broken; the poor horse was nearly, but not quite, immersed in the water, a projecting piece of bank had caught his flank and propped it up, and along over the horse, bleeding and senseless, lay the master. To get him up by dint of earnestness and strength combined, such as man but seldom brings to bear upon anything—to stay with him till speech and sense returned faintly and partially—to then procure assistance from a surgeon friend of his (Sir Robert's), on whose prudence the latter declared he could rely—these were a few of the things Dillon O'Brien did for Audrey's brother.
                  One thing at first, only, Sir Robert's terrible weakness and prostration induced him, in mercy to the poor, betrayed, half-murdered man, to consent to, and that one thing was the observance of profound secrecy. "You don't know how I loved and trusted, and worshiped that woman," he said, while they sat by his bed in his friend's house that night, expecting the lamp of life momentarily to go out. "You don't know how I loved, and trusted, and worshipped that woman. I can't expect you fellows to know it, for you're younger than I am, but I never touched a woman's hand with warmth before! After that, oh, my God! even now, how the thought of her breaks me. I couldn't proclaim her what she has proved herself; I couldn't shame her by letting her read in my eyes that I know what was in her heart when, when—"
                  You see how it was? He could not go back to life, because he could not shame the woman he had loved—he still loved—by the sight of him alive, and nothing her after she had striven to compass hid death. He could not go back and be as he had been before to her, for he was true, and could not have lived a lie. He could not go back to the world and proclaim her for what she was, and claim his release from one who had broken his heart, but who had been so dear to him.
                  So for an "idea," but the idea was honor—the honor of his name and of her who had been his wife, he desired that no one but Audrey should know he still lived. And that was the reason Audrey had brightened and recovered after her first interview with Dillon O'Brien; for in that interview Dillon O'Brien told her all about her brother and a good deal—the circumstances must be his excuse—about himself.
                  No I must go back to the special pleading alluded to by me in the opening of this chapter, and see how it has progressed during the retrospective and resuscitating flight.
                  The lady who leant on the arm of the broken prematurely old man was his sister Audrey, Mrs. O'Brien. With all the force of her old love for him, the sister pleaded that he should come out of his retirement and resume his proper place in the world. She used every argument seemingly that affection could devise, and she failed; he only shook his head and said he could not, he could not. What agonies she would suffer, poor lost thing, if she knew that her guilt was patent to him.
                  Then Mrs. O'Brien rose and signalled to her husband to leave them, which he did, taking with him a guest they had brought up from Combhurst, Blanche O'Brien, Dillon's sister, a golden haired beauty, with laughing, surprised blue eyes.
                  When they were alone Audrey's purpose, whatever it had been, seemed to fail her. At last, with a great effort she gasped out—
                  "Robert, she knew it—she knew that you lived."
                  "Knew?"
                  "Yes; after my marriage—long, long after, a Roman Catholic priest came to see me; can you not guess who he was?"
                  "Evesham?"
                  "Yes, Evesham, Father Gabriel, now Lord Evesham no longer. On the evening of my wedding-day he learned enough under the seal of confessional from your erring wife to justify his seeking me, vilely, vilely as he had formerly insulted us. He told me nothing—no priest would peril his soul by betraying his penitent—but he came to give me the assurance for the sake of the honor of his family, he said, that never again, even in the church, would he see or hold converse with her. I guessed from that what she had told him; so then—forgive me, Robert—I told him that you lived."
                  So far Sir Robert had listened patiently; now he raised his head, and asked quickly:
                  "You said 'knew.' What do you mean? does she not know now? Don't try to puzzle me, Audrey—don't, I can't bear it."
                  "She knows all things now, God have mercy on her soul!" said his sister; and then she flung her arms round, her brother's neck and sobbed, and Sir Robert Lorme knew that his wife was dead.
                  He acknowledged with contrition how faulty his idea had been when he emerged at last many weeks after this scene from his retirement, and heard the popular roar of indignation against the course he had pursued, and the popular rumors as to the reason why he had pursued it. The soft, genial, invigorating air of Italy was requisite to restore his mind to its healthy tone; it did this partially, but the cure was completed after all at Combhurst, where his sister, her husband and Blanche O'Brien continued to reside for some time after his tour in pursuit of health had ended.
                  When Sir Robert Lorme came back to dwell in his old family mansion, a free man, a widower, "without incumbrances," and in all respects, it is hoped, improved and chastened by the great sufferings he had undergone, many a fair bosom heaved high with hope. He would surely act on the lesson given him, and not the second time marry a "nobody," said the ladies. Men even went so far as to say that the lesson would be thrown away if a second time he married at all! However, that remained to be proved: so, on the chance of proving it, the Countess of Corbyn stopped another subscription (commenced in a weak hour, when the star of an archdeacon was in the ascendant with Lady Margaret) and gave a ball.
                  As it turned out, this ball was the worst thing the unfortunate lady and devoted mother could have given, for at it appeared Blanche Dillon in a blaze of youthful charms that put out everybody else as effectually as moonbeams do a tallow candle. Sir Robert Lorme had got used to seeing her at home at Combhurst; she excited no surprise in his mind then, for he had grown accustomed to seeing her; but at the ball the case was different.
                  He marked with astonishment how lovely she was, and he marked with displeasure how lovely all the men seemed to think her. He tried to remember the blackest portions of the horrible ordeal he had passed through pleasing his taste and his heart in his choice of a wife, even when he was younger and keener than he was now. And he could not remember anything clearly, for Blanche was constantly whirling past and dazzling him.
                  He called himself an old, blighted man, and scoffed at himself for looking at her, and carried himself, by a gigantic exercise of will, out of the ballroom, and into the midst of a body of politicians, who directly made a set at him and bored him, and drove him back incontinently into the ballroom, where he fell to staring at Blanche harder than ever, so hard indeed that she caught the glance and blushed. Altogether he was fain to confess to himself that night, in the solitude of his own room, that he had had many tussles with the spirit that was urging him on to defy fate a second time, and that in every tussle he got a fall that rendered him weaker and more open to the attacks of the sweet enemy who had been hitherto so disregarded.
                  Blanche O'Brien was one of those fair, delicately handsome women with retrousse noses and graceful ways, who carry their point by dint of sheer fascination. With a tender frankness that belonged entirely to her character, she had allowed Audrey to see that Audrey's brother was dear to her in the very early days of their intercourse. "It would be good for him to marry me, because I love him so," she said, with true womanly logic. And in time Sir Robert came to think that it would be good, too, and to struggle against his golden-haired fate no longer.
                  They were married at Combhurst church, as was right and proper for a Lorme to be. There was no mistake about Blanche's trousseau, though her sister-in-law had he entire management of it. The bride went from her brother's house, for the O Briens had hired "a place" close to Combhurst and gone into it a short time previous to the wedding, in order that the Lady of Combhurst might not go to her husband from her husband's roof.
                  Lady Lorme wanted to raise a little monument of thanksgiving and commemoration close to the spot where her husband's life had been so providentally saved by her brother. But loving lord as he was, in this one thing he was stern, that never, by look, word or gesture, should the "present" refer to the crime of the "late" Lady Lorme.
                  So the little monument was never raised down by the Devil's Dyke. However, in spite of this solitary prohibition, there was sunshine again of a rarely golden order down at Combhurst. The young, beautiful wife, whose only subtilty was her love, renewed the life which the former one had so nearly blasted. He was gray-haired, 'tis true—nothing but dye, not even happiness, restores the color of the locks when once it has fied—but his face soon ceased to be pallid and grief-seamed and despair-farrowed. He had another vast comfort, too, putting all others out of the question—his wife was less clever than himself! When the reverse is the case, when the early love glamour is over, the man, even if his wife be devoted to him, will rue the day he took steps towards perpetually supping sorrow by the spoonful.
                  Here we will take leave of them and of each other, reader. "My dream is passed, my hour of pride is over."
                  But before the book is closed, bear with me and bear me company a moment longer. The scene shall close in a far-west of London cemetery. A grave, grass-covered but devoid of flowers, is visible under the silvery moonbeams, through which I stand and look at it. A small headstone, with just the letters "L.L." on it stands out clearly and distinctly, and a form is kneeling by the grave—the form of a man, robed in the straight, long garment which covers and closes in so many proud, loving, aching hearts. And as he lifts his clasped hands aloft in passionate, prayerful appeal to the "Lady of Heaven," his tones ring out in genuine agonised entreaty the words that all who live and may sin will join in—"God assoil her."
                  [CONCLUDED.]
               
            
            
               THE PEWTER RING.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  "HOLLA! my fine lady, what are you doing there, seated upon a rock starting at nothing like a sluggard and a sneaking shirk-work as you are, when you ought to be milking the cow and off to the town with the milk.
                  The young girl to whom these rude words were addressed started like on awakened from a dream, and replied in sweet and trembling tones:
                  "Forgive me, mother, I had forgot the hour; I will go at once."
                  "Aye! you are always forgetting and hiding 
                        LEON'S GIFT OF THE PEWTER RING AT THE "PARDON OF THE PROMISE."
                     
                      yourself in some out-of-the-way corner with folded hands, waising for fortune to drop in your lap. But I shall cure you of your laziness, you may be sure of that, girl; if your father chooses to humor your whims, I'll let you see that you can't fool me."
                  The menacing tones in which this reprimand was uttered caused tears to fill the eyes of the gentle maiden, who hastened away like a d fawn, to escape the volley of invectives that assailed and followed her; and as she milked the meagre cow, who mean while browsed upon the seaweed thrown upon the sterile shore, the tears of the poor child cropped fast.
                  This task being accomplished, she placed the can of milk upon her head and directed her rapid steps towards Roscoff.
                  Whilst wish a heavy heart, bare feet and naked arms, she lightly pursues her course, let us cast a glance upon the spot she has just quitted, and recall some of the events that have preceded the time at which our tale commences.
                  The village of Laber is a very small and wretched one, if one can even venture to bestow the dignified appellative of village upon a collection of miserable hovels, scattered along the sandy shore and hemmed in by inaccessible rocks, whose base is constantly laved, by the tumultuous billows that dash and foam in impotent rage against their iron sides. It is also a favorite nock with the impetuous Boreas, who delights to whirl around that sequestered spot, to flung about and toss on high whatever may chance to cross his way, when his mood is fierce. It is nevertheless precisely to this lonely, barren locality, among those huts with walls of clay and roofs of thatch, that we purpose to conduct our complaisant reader, if he or she will have the patience to accompany us, with, no other object than that of becoming acquainted with a poor but lovely maiden.
                  Let my reader then imagine one of the wildest and most rugged sites along the coast of Finisterre, a desolate strand which cannot be contemplated without a feeling of profound melancholy; and there, upon the very sand, in the midst of fantastic rocks, behold a not less fantastic assemblage of ruinous huts, serving as shelter to a band of miserable fishermen, whose lives are passed upon the sea in half decayed boats, whilst their wives and children—ill-fed and scantily clothed—are occupied in drying and mending their nets, or carrying around the environs the fish and milk, from which source alone they draw the supplies for their sad existence.
                  Such is Laber—and in is within the most wretched and gloomy of all these huts that we shall find the fisherman named Ewen, a brave and industrious man, who, like the staunch oak, had a rough and weatherbeaten bark, but whose heart was replete with tenderness.
                  The third year of his marriage Ewen had followed his beloved companion to the grave, and he was only induced to form new ties by the desire of procuring for his little Ivonne a tender and careful mother; his child was too young to be left alone in the hut when he was away pursuing his calling. Unfortunately his choice fell upon a creature endowed with none of those qualifications requisite to form a good wife, still less was her nature adapted to become a good stepmother. Quarrel-some, envious and revengeful, she tyrannized over all who approached her, and more especially over Ivonne, whom she could not endure, on account of her beauty, her playfulness and her delicate organzation.
                  Barbara had no children of her own, nevertheless she was jealous of the caresses which the fisherman lavished upon his daughter. She made his indulgence a continual subject of invective, and reproached him for his paternal tenderness as if it were a crime. Thus it was not long before the unhappy father discovered that, instead of the kind protector whom he had hoped to secure for his child, he had only succeeded in placing her under the control of a stern and selfish, stepdame. But it was now too late to repair the evil. Occupied both day and night in fishing, Ewen was unable to shield his little girl from the harsh treatment of Barbara, upon whom all his chidings and sermonizing were utterly thrown away; no sooner had he left his cabin than the wicked nature of the shrew burst forth with renewed violence upon the infant head of poor Ivonne.
                  Ewen, being at length convinced of the inefficacy of his efforts to produce a change in his wife, was compelled to bear all with resignation, and now only sought, during the short intervals he passed under his own roof, to atone for the severity which his child endured when he was absent. The caresses of her father caused Ivonne to shed tears of happiness and gave her new courage to support the ill-treatment that invariably ensued.
                  Ivonne thus attained her seventeenth year. She was a charming girl. With hair black and lustrous as the crow's wing—eyes of deep blue, with a soft, melancholy expression—a profile of Raphaelic purity—a skin whose velvet smoothness was gilded like a ripe peach by the sun and air—a form slender and flexible as a reed, whose outline was easily defined beneath the thin garments that veiled it—with arms, hands and feet as symmetrical as the antique statues. Such was this poor child of Bretagne, whose trials we are about to relate.
                  This portrait is the beau ideal of an artist, exclaims the one; it is the creation of a poet, ejaculates the other. Let these sceptics but give themselves the trouble to explore the coast of Brittany, and we assure them that they will find the living reality of the picture, aye, far more beautiful, more attractive than aught that the pen can describe or the pencil trace. It is only necessary to search patiently, as one must ever do when seeking the beautiful.
                  To all these external advantages Ivonne united a most angelic disposition. Being of a gentle and affectionate nature, she suffered greatly from the harshness of her stepmother, but she never complained, and felt quite happy when the return of her father caused a short suspension of the persecution to which she was constantly a victim; for Barbara never wearied with tormenting the poor child and compelling her to undertake the rudest labors.
                  No sooner had she returned from carrying the milk and fish to the neighboring town than she was sent to pick up wood in the forest, or to search for shells among the rocks, and that without a moment being allowed her for repose; she was not even permitted to eat in tranquillity the portion of black bread that was grudgingly allotted to her. Sometimes the hapless girl returned to the hut, bending under a load too great for her strength, with, bleeding feet and frame exhausted by fatigue and hunger; but her stepmother seldom noticed her sufferings, or if she did remark them, it was merely to rally her upon her carelessness and want of energy. Such was the daily existence of Ivonne.
                  One evening that Ewen had returned earlier than usual to enjoy a moment's repose at his own fireside, and being seated in a corner of the chimney, while a fagot of branches slowly consumed and crackled upon the hearth, he drew his daughter near to him and kissed her tenderly, and holding her small hands within his own callous and tar-stained palms, he said to her:
                  "It is now a whole year since I have been collecting, penny by penny, a sufficient sum to buy thee a petticoat, a justin" (a sort of bodice worn by the peasants of Bretagne), "and a kerchief, so that thou canst go like other girls to the dances and the Pardons" (a religious fte). "In eight days we shall have the fte of St. Barbe, the Pardon of the Promise, and I wish you to go to it, my dear child. Here, take my savings, the bag is not heavy, but I think that it contains sufficient to procure thee a decant dress and to make thee look as brave as thy companions."
                  So saying he threw her an old tobacco pouch, made of a bladder, filled with coppers, amongst which, however, there shone a few white pieces.
                  Ivonne, deeply affected by her father's kindness, wound her smooth round arms about his neck and thanked him with a thousand playful endearments. Meantime Barbara went to and fro through the house, enraged and grumbling, But Ewen, over-joyed by the pleasure he had procured his daughter, contented himself by replying to her from time to time:
                  "Come, come, wife, don't scold so; the poor child has not much happiness; do not envy her one hour's innocent enjoyment. We have been young ourselves, woman, and should remember that young folks require recreation as much as a fish needs water. The good God permits children sometimes to forget the misery of their lot in life, shall not we follow His merciful example?"
                  "Go on, old simpleton," ejaculated the incensed Barbara, "labor until you kill yourself and hoard up your gains to dress your lazy, would be lady, as fine as a saint in her shrine—aye, I'll warrant ye, she'll dance and laugh, and never care a jot if there is bread in the kneading-trough, or if I have a pair of sabots" (wooden shoes) "to my feet."
                  If the truth must be told, Barbara would have infinitely preferred that Ewen's coppers should have been transformed into gills of brandy for her own private consumption, for among her other defects might also be found the vice of intemperance, which, if not the origin of all the other vices, at least contributed greatly to augment her ferocity towards Ivonne.
                  The much desired day at length arrived to which the daughter of the poor fisherman, Ewen, had so anxiously looked forward, when, for the first time in her life, she was to participate in the pleasures of her age.
                  She arose at an earlier hour than usual to milk to the cow and carry the milk to Roscoff, from whence she returned in all haste to dress herself for the High Mass which that day was celebrated in the chapel of St. Barbe.
                  Never had the poor girl beheld herself so well attired. A neat linen coif of snowy whiteness covered her head, from which her jetty locks peeped forth in in all their lustrous darkness. A blue bodice, with short white sleeves, gracefully defined her slender waist; a brown petticoat hung around her gown in ample folds; a cotton kerchief, stamped with bright colors, was modestly crossed over her bosom; and a pink gingham apron completed her simple toilette. Be eath these unpretending habiliments how lovely she looked, with her Madonna-like countenance lit up by smiles of naive delight.
                  Her father was to accompany her, dame Barbara having positively refused to conduct her to the fte. It was a pleasure to look upon the old fisherman, with his weatherbeaten face and rolling galt, giving his arm to the fragile being who hung so lovingly upon it, whilst ever and anon he paused and gazed upon her with looks of pride and admiration, which might be construed in these words:
                  "Nevertheless, this beautiful child belongs to me!"
                  Upon their arrival in the neighboring town they joined the procession which was already slowly wending its way to the small chapel of St. Barbe. This antique edifice formed a most lovely picture in the landscape; it was reared upon the summit of an enormous block of rocks, directly facing the port of Roscoff. The day was bright and balmy, and the effect of this solemn spectacle, as seen from the opposite pier, was picturesque in the extreme. The waving banners, the large silver cross, the rich paraphernalia of the priests, marching at the head of the long file of people, draped in the historic Lonnais costume, and following the sinuosities of the coast, as they stretched along like a huge serpent and gradually ascended towards the venerated shrine.
                  One may well imagine that this long train of devotees cannot all penetrate within the walls of the chapel. But these pious followers are content to kneel around the porch and upon the natural steps of the rock. Their grouping and devout attitudes form a most beautiful tableau to the contemplative observer standing upon the pier of Roscoff.
                  At the base of the rock extends a large square; carpetted, like all the downs along the coast, with a fine short grass. Here the tents were pitched, and here were spread out in the open were pitched, and here were spread out in the open air the confectionery, toys and merchandise that attract the crowd on all similar occasions. A little farther was the plot assigned to the dancers, who impatiently waited the termination of the offices. In Lower Brittany, pardon and dancing are almost synonymous terms; no fte without a violin.
                  After the mass the officiating priest appears at the porch of the chapel, and from this rude but sublimely beautiful granite pulpit, rising as it were out of the ocean, bestows his benediction, upon the surrounding multitude.
                  Their devotions having been paid to God and St. Barbe, they turn their steps towards the square. Those who come from afar purchase white bread and a piece of bacon, quite exceptional luxuries, which they only allow themselves on these privileged days. They seat themselves upon the grass, or beneath the teat of some vendor of liquors, and feast like kings; sometimes crowning the repast with a glass of strong Bordeaux or a bumper of brandy.
                  The young girls have seen terminated their repast; they are in haste to return to the square, which they must walk around many times; they must stop at all the stalls where kerchiefs, glass beads, gilt crosses and horsehair or pewter rings are displayed. They must stop and talk of the dance and the fine dancers; must reciprocally pass in review, criticise and envy each other, and must repeat a few spiteful tales of their neighbors.
                  The young fellows, on the other side, ogle the girls, select those that please them discuss their personal attractions, and pretend to decide upon the expectations of such a one, or such another one, when she shall get married; then dive into the lowest depths of their pockets, to assure themselves that they possess the amount required to purchase some refreshments and trifling gifts for their sweethearts.
                  But again the bell of St. Barbe tolls out a solemn peal.
                  The morning's devotions do not suffice; within the chapel vespers are chaunted, whilst men, women and children join in the chorus, kneeling upon the steep gradations of the rock, and quite down to the greensward.
                  But now the Pardon is really inaugurated. The tents are crowded with drinkers—these are not the young men of the assemblage. The others rush to the call of the violin and hautbois, an appeal which no Briton who has the use of his legs can resist.
                  The sets are formed, in a few moments the dance is organised, the grave and melancholy Lennai population is set in motion. Soon these rude and poverty-stricken people are whirling in the delirious vortex of the valse; men who during the entire year bow beneath the hardest labor, eating only black bread, drinking only water, and receiving in exchange for all this toil and privation but one day of festivity—one only day of illusion and forgetfulness.
                  During the interval between the dances the young men conduct their partners to the tents, and there offer to their acceptance wine or brandy in the guise of sherbets, which are generally received and swallowed without a grimace. This is also the moment to walk around the stalls and take breath; and now follow the trifling presents. The beaux purchase needlecases, brass or pewter rings and glass rosaries—this is done without leaning to any consequences. The lads also fill the damsels pockets with almonds, filberts, raisins and prunes, and make them eat any quantity of craquelins and fonasses (a sort of crisp crackling cake, something like our wafers.). There seems to exist a sort of rivalry as to who shall show himself the most generous on the occasion, whilst they bestow upon their belles frequent slaps, by way of proving their enthusiasm, to which the fair sex delightedly reply by blows with their fists upon the back or ribs of the gallants, which signify that they find them charming. But this is peering somewhat too closely into things; let us pass onwards.
                  Ewen left Ivonne in company with several young girls of her acquaintance, and having strongly recommended her to enjoy herself, went and seated himself under a tent with some old companions, who were regaling themselves with a bottle of wine and a piece of cold bacon, while they spun long yarns, and untangled knotty questions with regard to navigation and fishing, if not with all the acumen of men of science, at least like true sea-wolves of consummate skill and experience.
                  As soon as the music struck up Ivonne was eagerly invited to join the dancers; the lads contended for the honor of leading her out, but she refused them all, under the pretext that she was unacquainted with the figures, which assertion, however, did not in the least discourage the competitors. She was thus obliged to yield to their entreaties despite her timidity, and it was with glowing cheeks that she at length consented to place her hand within that of the first candidate.
                  The young man who triumphantly bore her off appeared to be about twenty three or twenty-five years of age; he was dressed as a sailor of a merchant vessel, but his clothes were neater and of finer materials than those usually worn by seamen. His small glazed hat, placed jauntily upon his head; his fine and glossy blue cloth jacket; his full white pantaloons, and the red silk sash around his waist, all bespoke the good taste of the handsome sailor. Besides, his manly and distinguished countenance rendered him quite remarkable among his shipmates, and his easy manners and polite gestures bore a stamp of refinement rarely met with among sailors.
                  From time to time he addressed some words to the men who had accompanied him, and these replied with a tone and manner that clearly implied a certain deference, as if they were speaking to their superior.
                  
                     
                        THE MILKMAID OF BRITTANY.
                     
                  
                  When the dance was ended the stranger reconducted Ivonne to her place, and gracefully bowed and smiled his thanks. Few words had been exchanged between them, the young man was unacquainted with the language of Brittany, and the daughter of Ewen was almost equally ignorant of the French. But their eyes, those ingenious interpreters of every language under the sun—had said a great deal during the dance. Those of the sailor had frankly avowed the admiration inspired by the prettiest girl of the Pardon; those of Ivonne involuntarily confessed her timid delight at the effect she produced upon the handsomest gallant and best dancer of the fte.
                  This poor child had been so long habituated to the brutalities of her stepmother and to a life of hardships and solitude, that there seemed to her something strange and unreal in the evidences of goodwill which she read in the looks of the persons who surrounded her, especially in these of her first partner. Thus, when the next dance was forming, she east furtive glances around in quest of the young seaman with the red scarf, whose eyes expressed at the same time ardor and gentleness. She could only mentally compare his countenance to that of the Archangel.
                  Nor did the young sailor lose sight of his nave partner, and as often as he could without exciting remark, or drawing upon himself silly quarrels, he invited her to dance. Each time he smiled upon her more sweetly, but there was melancholy and regret mingled with the smile. He had also offered refreshments to Ivonne, but she refused to enter a tent and declined all the dainties, only accepting a small roll of white bread and some fruit. As to the stalls—the sailor merely glanced at them with supreme disdain; but having remarked that Ivonne had made a movement as if to approach a table covered with miserable toys, he at once entreated her to choose whatever could please her.
                  The simple girl regarded all this trumpery composed of glass, pewter or brass, with admiration and an air of indecision; she took up and examined, and replaced every article with a trembling hand; she felt that she was blushing and so became redder still. The vendor called out in a nasal squeaking tone: "Come! my pretty girls; come! all who are going to marry: come! and choose! Here are necklaces! rosaries! ear-rings! scissors! combs! rings! Rings that have been blessed at the shrine of St. Ann; rings that bring good fortune to the wearer! come! my pretty maidens, come buy!"
                  Ivonne, quite perplexed, once more advanced her hand and took a little pewter ring, ornamented with two flaming hearts surmounted by a cross, painted bright red.
                  "This also is blessed?" said she interrogatively to the vendor.
                  "Blessed at St. Ann's!" Whoever wears that ring, and after having kissed it fervently recites a pater and an ave, may be assured of becoming the happiest creature on earth, and of obtaining a good and rich husband."
                  These words were pronounced with an air of triumph by the toy merchant, whose looks wandered from the young girl to the sailor with a cynical expression.
                  Ivonne, blushing and embarrassed, was near letting the ring fall from her trembling hands. As for the sailor, he smiled contemptuously at the pedlar's impudence, and after having inquired of his companion if no other object tempted her, he said to the stallkeeper—
                  "How much?"
                  "Two cents, brave sir; no more; we never sell dear to pretty girls."
                  The sailor threw him the price of the bauble, and again offered his arm to Ivonne, who was occupied in sliding the ring on the third finger of the left hand; he offered to assist her but this augmented the blushes and embarrassment of the timid child.
                  Night was now approaching, and the town clock rung out the hour appointed by Ewen for his daughter's return. The mariner solicited another dance, but she made him a sign expressive of her intention to depart. His countenance at once betrayed deep sadness, and he strove to make Ivonne comprehend that he desired to know her name, that he might carry it with him as a souvenir of that day's happiness. He also informed her, by gestures full of eloquence, while pointing to a fine vessel which lay in the offing, that he, too, was about to depart that evening, as soon as the tide would serve. Ivonne understood him perfectly, and felt as sad as if she were about to separate from a friend. She told him with downcast eyes, while twisting the corner of her apron, that she was called "Ivonne."
                  "And I, Leon," replied the sailor with vivacity, and he bent down and kissed her hand, and then hurried away to rejoin his companions.
                  The friends of Ivonne conducted her back to her father, who, having indulged in rather copious libations, was no longer very firm upon his feet, and whose joy exhaled itself in a somewhat noisy manner. His daughter took his arm, and supported his unsteady steps as they slowly regained the hamlet of Laber. Ewen went singing along, joyous at having procured one day's diversion for his child; Ivonne dreaming of the dark eyes of the sailor, and silently regretting his departure, which would probably be for ever.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  WHENEVER Ewen's tottering steps encountered a pebble he stopped short and profited by the accident to address some words to his daughter.
                  "So—so—my Ivonniz, thou hast been well amused—eh? thou hast danced thy full share, my girl?"
                  "Yes, dear father, I did not miss a single dance."
                  "I believe it, of course, when one is the prettiest girl at the fte."
                  "Come, father, let us make haste, it will be quite dark in a quarter of an hour."
                  "Horns of the d—l! there's time enough; tell me what didst buy with the pocket pennies? come tell thy old father all about it?"
                  "I bought a white roll and a kerchief for mother, as she was left at home alone."
                  
                  "But in the name of—a pipe! what didst thou do that for? my old coppers were all hoarded up for thee, child, not for the old woman, who does nothing but scold from morning till night, and make thy life a curse."
                  "Let us not talk of that, father. I am happy to bring her something from the Pardon."
                  "Aye, my girl, thou hast the heart of they defunct mother—poor dear wife! Perhaps she sheds tears in her cold grave when she hears t'other one abuse thee."
                  Even, being doubly disposed to tender-heartedness by the remembrance of his lost wife, and by the state of unusual excitement in which he found himself, melted in tears. Ivonne was not slow to follow his example. During some minutes no sound broke the stillness of the deserted coast along which they travelled but the sighs and sobs of the old fisherman and his daughter. Ivonne was the first to wipe her eyes, as she said:
                  "Hush, dear father, don't talk in that way, you cause me to finish in tears a day go joyously commenced. Come, let us talk about the Pardon."
                  She began at once to relate to the old man all the incidents of the fte, the politeness of the sailor, his amiable and reserved manners, etc. She showed him the ring which had been blest at St. Ann's, and which was sure to bring her good luck. She exerted herself so successfully to cheer the fisherman that he laughed and sang until he reached the door of his cabin.
                  As they knocked a voice, as of one half-asleep, murmured within, "Here comes the old drunkard and his pretty doll; upon my faith, it's well they're home at last."
                  Ewen, quite preoccupied by his song—the twelfth couplet of which he had just commenced—heard nothing, but Ivonne's quick ear had instantly seized the sense of the old woman's mutterings, and a slight shudder passed over her frame. Pushing open the unfastened door, she sustained her father as he staggered against the doorpost, having lost his balance in endeavoring to step over the high and irregular stone that lay at the threshold. Profound darkness reigned within the hut.
                  "Hallo!" cried Ewen, "is every one in bed—everybody asleep?"
                  "One must be deaf to sleep where you are, you make noise enough to wake the dead," replied Barbara, who was crouched upon the large health before the shouldering cinders.
                  "Then light the resin, woman, that we may see where we are."
                  "Aye, that's it; light the resin that the master may see to untie his shoes, and that the princess may not tear her fine linen coif. I can undress myself and go to bed in the dark—me!"
                  "Will you hold your tongue, vixen?" exclaimed the exasperated fisherman. "I tell you to give us a light, is that plain—yes or no?"
                  "No matter, father, I will kindle the fire; sit down there on the bench;" and Ivonne, groping about, soon found the tinderbox, which was kept in a hole in the chimney, and having struck a light she applied it to the resinous torch which was stuck in the wall.
                  The lurid, flickering flame of the so-called poor man's candle lit up the most gloomy and squalid of hovels, one of those desolate habitations which cause the blood to run cold as one gazes upon it. A broken-legged and worm-eaten table leaned against the narrow opening which served as a window, it was unglazed and only closed by a board; a no less worm-eaten bench stood near it; opposite were two beds that resembled the berths in a ship, being one above the other, and shut in by doors, but these were off their hinges; in front of this sort of sleeping-press, which is in general use in all the houses of the poor class in Brittany, stood an old chest, which, like all that surrounded it, was also falling to decay; these things comprised the entire furniture of the wretched hut. Some coarse pottery, an old iron pot and a fryingpan with several holes in it, were ranged beneath the immense chimney frame. A hurdle, carelessly arranged, separated the stall occupied by the cow from the corner reserved to the inhabitants of the cabin.
                  Barbara, still crouching upon the hearthstone, never ceased her grumblings, like some irritated bulldog who had been disturbed from his siesta and would not be appeased. Ewen threw himself half-undressed upon his miserable bed, when, thanks to his frequent potations at the Pardon, he at once fell asleep. His sonorous snoring soon apprised the females that he was in one of those deep sleeps from which no noise can arouse the drinker.
                  "You have had great pleasure, great amusement, I suppose, playing the fine lady, that you come back so late, and had not heart enough even to watch over your old father to prevent him from filling himself with liquor like a hogshead."
                  "My father was with his friends; he bade me not come to him until the dancing was over. You know it very seldoms happens to him to drink too much—once is not a crime."
                  "Oh, no doubt, it is no crime either to trick one self out and fancy oneself a young lady, and dance with the young fellows till nightfall, whilst I am left alone with the cow, without as much as a piece of bacon to put between my teeth."
                  "But you refused to go with us, mother."
                  "I believe so; indeed, to go and show off my rags next to your finery, great pleasure that would have been truly."
                  "Dear mother," said the young girl sweetly, hoping to appease her stepdame's anger, "here is a kerchief that I bought for you, and a nice little white roll."
                  "Aye, aye, a kerchief too ugly for yourself, I dare say, and a roll that you could not eat, because you were stuffed with fonasses and craquelins. I understand that well enough."
                  Ivonne burst into tears, saying:
                  "Then, mother, you refuse my gift?"
                  "That is to say. I take them for what they are worth," said Barbara, rudely snatching the objects from the hands of the poor girl. The kerchief she thrust into the old chest, and at once commenced devouring the white roll, exclaiming between each mouthful, "If I only had the least drop of brandy or gin to wash it down with."
                  Ivonne undressed herself in silence and gazed with tearful eyes upon her holiday vestments, beneath which her youth had for an instant forgotten the sad realities of her existence, and beneath which she had been told that she was beautiful. It was the first time she had heard such flattering words, and yet she was seventeen years of age.
                  Barbara suddenly espied the ring upon her finger.
                  "What's the meaning of this, girl—jewels indeed! well that beats all! One can well see that the old fool has got more money than he knows what to do with."
                  "It was not my father who bought it for me," stammered Ivonne, blushing deeply, "it was a young man who danced with me; the ring has been blest at St. Ann's."
                  "Better, and better, my young lady has found a gallant and got the ring. When will be the wedding?"
                  Ivonne made no reply, but turned aside her head to hide her tears, and stepping lightly on a tottering three-legged stool, she sprang into her bed, which was just above that of her father.
                  Barbara blew out the torch which filled the cabin with a pungent, suffocating odor; she then, still grumbling, crowded herself in the narrow bed by the side of Ewen.
                  As soon as Ivonne was enclosed in her nest of straw, and had drawn the tattered coverings about her, she took some holy water from the little shell which hung at the head of her bed, and having devoutly signed herself, she recited her accustomed prayers, not forgetting to add a pater and an ave, preceded by a kiss upon the blessed ring. In pressing her lips upon the flaming hearts, she fancied she felt the impression left by the sailor's lips as he kissed her hand. This idea brought back the recollection of all the pleasures of the day; the different airs to which she had danced once more resounded in her ears; her past life of torment and hardships appeared like a dream; a soft bright ray seemed to gild the new horizon and shed a cheering influence. Sleep gently stole upon her in the midst of these illusions and beneficently prolonged them during some hours.
                  In the morning she was aroused by the loud and harsh tones of Barbara calling upon her to rise, while she herself still lay tucked up in her bed. Ewen had already departed to his daily labor. Ivonne arose and glanced around her, the beautiful vision of the night had vanished.
                  Many days passed on as formerly; at the hour of repose and prayer Ivonne kissed the ring and allowed herself to be transported to another sphere, and each morning the discordant voice of her stepmother rudely recalled her to her life of tears and wretchedness.
                  One morning as she was tending the cow, which sought its scanty subsistence along the downs, she gazed pensively out upon the angry ocean, whose foaming billows dashed furiously upon the shingled beach. Ivonne thought she discerned at a considerable distance a small fishing boat, which was tossed from side to side by the rolling waves, the boat was evidently unoccupied. An unspeakable dread—a deadly chill crept through the veins of the horrorstricken girl, in a moment she had clambered to the summit of an elevated rock and strained her eyes to pierce that vast extent of sea which lay stretched out beneath her feet.
                  None but Ewen had ventured out to fish on that tempestuous morning, it could only be his boat. But where was he? As these thoughts rushed upon her, the poor girl uttered a piercing, a heart-rending cry, which summoned all the inhabitants of the little hamlet upon the beach.
                  A young fisherman detached his boat, and in spite of the remonstrances and entreaties of the women, and the warnings of the men, he sprang into it and steered at once for the abandoned barque, and at length brought it back with him to the shore. It was, indeed, the no longer seaworthy boat of old Ewen, but as to the fisherman, there were no traces of him. Ivonne, distracted by fear, flew from rock to rock, unmindful of the sharp points that pierced her feet and caused them to bleed; she called in despairing tones upon her father, she invoked the blessed Virgin, "Star of the Sea," and all the saints that are held in veneration by the people who live along the coast of Brittany; she kissed her ring with the deepest feryor, and besought St. Ann to restore her father to her, while she sought him in the caverns, among the rocks and every small creek or bay along the shore. It moved the hearts of all to see and hear her.
                  Barbara had likewise hastened to the beach; but her grief had a very different character. With dry eyes and a scowling brow, she stood erect and stern, and continually ejaculated: "Who now will give me bread? Who will feed me if my man is lost?"
                  It was not until evening that the body of Ewen was borne by the surf and deposited in a little creek, where it was discovered by some children. Four of his brother fishermen bore the corpse to the hut and laid it upon the old chest that stood near the bed. Barbara then burst forth in loud lamentations; the neighbors led her away to another cabin; but Ivonne, silent and pale as marble, remained kneeling near the corpse, while she continually pressed her lips upon the icy brow and weather-beaten cheeks of him who had ever been a ford, indulgent parent. Nothing could induce her to separate herself from all that now remained of her only friend on earth, until he was taken from her and laid in the simple coffin, which all the fishermen of Laber had contributed to purchase.
                  The young girl, enveloped in one of those stiff, narrow cloaks, so generally used in lower Brittany, especially at funerals, and which entirely conceal the form, followed the gloomy procession as far as the church, and after the funeral service was ended she beheld her adored father, her friend, her protector deposited in the small cemetery attached to the church. The wretched girl sought to throw herself in the grave which was about to shut out for ever her father from her sight.
                  On her return to the hut, feeling the desire to communicate her grief and to pure out the immense sorrow that oppressed her heart almost to suffocation, she advanced towards her stepmother with outstretched arms. Barbara pushed her away, saying:
                  "Aye, weep girl—weep out all your tears. But they wont give you bread nor me either. I may as well now take a cane in my hand and go from door to door to beg for it."
                  "Mother, I will work for you."
                  "A famous worker you are indeed! Will you go fishing, as your father did?"
                  
                  "I will go out to day's work—I will do all I am able to do; but you will love me a little, will you not mother, if only to give me courage?"
                  "I! love you! What should I love you for? You are no child of mine. Didn't you go off frolicking and putting on fine airs with your simpleton of a father—Heaven forgive him!—whilst I remained alone in the house, like an old cast-off shoe? No, no! I shall not love you, but I know how to make you work without that—I'll give you courage, I promise you. The silly, good man will no longer be here to spoil you and sweeten you up like the child of gentlefolks."
                  Ivonne could not utter a word, the next moment she fell fainting upon the hearthstone.
                  Barbara, whose name so aptly expresses her cruel nature, kept her word. From that day there was neither relaxation from labor or repose from invective for her victim. She heaped toil upon her, seized the slightest pretext to strike her, sent her out to beg when the bread was wanting, and took from her every farthing of what she earned or received as alms. The money she appropriated to buy brandy, concealing the bottle in the straw of her bed that she might drink it at night.
                  Ivonne, who was endowed with delicate instincts, a soul full of tenderness and pensive dreamings, suffered all the tortures which such a life could not fail to engender, without permitting a single word of remonstrance to escape her lips and without attempting to evade it by flight.
                  But a day arrived when the burthen became too great for her endurance, she could support it no longer, she bent beneath it. Heaven endowed her with no strength commensurate with her wretchedness, no consolation to ameliorate it; she believed herself abondoned by even her guardian angel. Her courage quite forsook her; yet even now she never dreamed of seeking safety and freedom in flight. Death seemed her only refuge, the port where she would again meet her beloved father. He would doubtless be able to obtain her pardon for the crime she was about to commit, an inevitable crime imposed upon her by a life of martyrdom.
                  This reasoning, or rather this excuse, was suggested by a moment of insanity, the result of exhaustion and despair. Her bad angel had not dared to counsel her to any act more guilty still. He pointed to suicide, that gloomy passage by which the coward and the madman seek to escape the combat, forgetting that to the Supreme Judge alone belongs the right to summon from the arena the wounded or suffering soldier.
                  After having pressed her trembling lips upon the blessed ring, which had failed to shield her from torment in this world, she thought that it would, perhaps, aid her in her departure from it: nothing could have persuaded her of the entire inefficacy of this, to her, precious bauble.
                  At the dawn of day Ivonne dressed herself in her best attire, and directed her steps towards the strand of Roscoff; no longer, however, with the intention of begging or carrying milk to her customers, but simply with the design of seeking amongst the rocks a favorable spot for the accomplishment of her sinister project. When she felt satisfied that she had found a suitable place she seated herself in a chasm of the rock, which she well knew would, at flood tide, be entirely submerged. And here, with her hands clasped upon her knees, she calmly awaited the waves which should enshroud her in their voluminous folds.
                  It required a firm resolve to die, and stoical courage to adopt such a death. A moment of feverish exaltation will suffice to a man possessed of little courage to blow his brains out or to leap into a yawning gulf; but to contemplate the slow approach of death, to await it seated and motionless; to watch the crest billows as they roll over nearer and nearer, then unfold themselves and mount higher and higher; to listen to the muffled angry roar as of suppressed range; to know it is the deathknell; to feel the icy waves now lick your feet, now rise above them; to calculate the minutes, growing fewer and fewer, which must intervene ere yet these waves will drag you down beneath their green and slimy sheet. Oh, this is to will to die! This is, indeed, to have the courage to die.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  WHILST the relentless tide slowly gains upon Ivonne no shudder of fear agitates her bosom, no image presents itself to her imagination but that of her lost father, no souvenir smiles upon her but that of the Pardon of St. Barbe.
                  At the same moment a scene of a different nature was passing on the sea, at no great distance from Roscoff.
                  It was during the period of war under the Republic, when St. Malo fitted out noble vessels and armed them for the chase with valiant crews, who frequently brought their prizes to the small port of Roscoff. The aged in habitants of the town still remember the feasting and junketings of the sailors and the lavish prodigality of the filibusters and corsairs. They remember also the exuberant joy of all parties caused by the defeat of the Saczons (English) and the rich captures made by the bold Malouins.
                  One of these swift sailing vessels had just weighed anchor and was preparing to dart off in quest of new prey; with pennons still flying and spirits still joyous from the cordial reception they had met with among the hospitable Roscovites, they thundered forth their warm and loud adieux to the still sleeping inhabitants of the small town.
                  Leaning upon the outer railing was one who appeared to be the captain of the vessel. He alone wore an expression of sadness as he watched the retreating spire of the village church, which was fast fading in the distance. Then he raised his telescope and directed it towards St. Barbe, but no sooner had he done so than an exclamation of surprise escaped him. He lowered his glass, and calling to one of his sailors, he handed it to him, saying:
                  "Look, Jean Baptiste, is not that a woman seated on the rock at the foot of St. Barbe? What can she be doing there? She seems to be asleep; the tide is rising rapidly and will soon overwhelm her."
                  "You are right, captain; it is a woman—a woman, by St. Yves! She sits there as motionless as if she was hewn out of the granite!"
                  "It is very strange! But she will surely perish. Perhaps she is insane. Quick; lower the long
                        IVONNE STAUNCHING THE WOUNDS OF THE NAVAL HERO.
                      boat. If we would save her we must lose no time. We will at least see what it means."
                  And swift as lightning the captain sprang into the boat followed by Jean Baptiste, whilst the vessel hove to. They then pulled at the oars with a will, and bore down upon the spot where Ivonne sat calmly awaiting her death. But the sea was gaining fast upon the poor girl, and ere the boat could reach her an immense wave dashed over her and she disappeared in its cold embrace.
                  To throw off his coat and plunge in the foaming sea was the affair of a moment for the brave and resolute captain of the corsair. These rude sons of the ocean are ever compassionate when the feeble and helpless claim their aid. Soon he reappeared upon the surface of the water, drawing with him, by her vestments, a woman, who was either drowned or had fainted. Jean Baptiste assisted him is lifting the body into the boat, but scarcely had the captain contemplated the features of the young woman when an exclamation escaped him:
                  "Ivonne!"
                  "How, captain, do you know this poor creature?"
                  "Yes—that is to say—it appears to me that I have seen her before—last year, at the Pardon of St Barbe. Perhaps, however, it is not her."
                  "What shall we do with her, captain?"
                  "First," said the commandant, as they reached the vessel, "we will endeavor to restore her to life. If she has only swooned, we will land her at the nearest port; if she is dead, she shall have the great winding sheet from which we have just snatched her."
                  When they reached deck all pressed around with eager curiosity, but not one ventured to breathe an inquiry, not a word was spoken.
                  The captain, aided by Jean Baptiste, carried the young girl to his own stateroom, and there resorted to all the usual remedies to restore her to life. The more he gazed upon her the more he was convinced that it was indeed his lovely partner of the dance at the Pardon.
                  Ivonne, having remained but a short time beneath the water, was soon restored to consciousness. She unclosed her eyes and looked wildly around her, like one who had returned from another world. She fixed her eyes by turns upon Jean Baptiste and upon the captain, then upon the objects that surrounded rounded her. At length a gleam of light shot athwart her senses; gradually it grew stronger, and she remembered all, she comprehended all. She started up with the intention of rushing out. In this effort she threw aside the coverings in which they had rolled her to restore her to life and warmth. She found herself partially undressed. She immediately drew the blankets around her and sank back on her pillow with a deep sigh.
                  At this moment Jean Baptiste was summoned on deck, and the captain, remaining alone with Ivonne, thus addressed her:
                  "What were you doing, Ivonne, seated upon those rocks while the tide was coming in? Were you not aware of your danger?"
                  At the sound of this voice Ivonne started, and as the mariner pronounced her name she turned timidly towards him and replied, while she covered her face with her colorless hands:
                  "I wished to die!"
                  "To die! You—so young! Great Heavens! What could be your motive?"
                  "Because I was so wretched; I could no longer endure life. I wished to go to my father, who left me alone with a cruel stepmother."
                  "Poor girl! But you should have quitted her and not have sought to destroy yourself."
                  "Where could I go? Young girls who have no one to take care of them are exposed to every danger, so my dear father told me; therefore I preferred death."
                  "But I—I will not allow you to kill yourself!" exclaimed the captain, with impetuosity; "I insist that you shall live!"
                  "Ivonne, during the past year, had greatly improved; she had accustomed herself to speak French; perhaps a souvenir of her sailor partner had been her secret motive for endeavoring to assimilate herself to him. She now related her whole life to him, and described her constant sufferings, her hopeless misery. When she had told him all, she added:
                  "You desire me to live, Monsieur Leon; and what can I do if I live? I can never again return to that wicked woman."
                  "You shall remain with me; I will love and console you, and make you forget your sufferings."
                  "Oh, you are jesting, monsieur. It is unkind to banter one so unfortunate. Persons like yourself do not marry poor girls who have not bread to eat. You should have let me die. I can never be your wife."
                  In pronouncing these words Ivonne burst into an agony of tears and buried her face beneath the coverings.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  LEON, the intrepid corsair, who boarded the vessel of an enemy with the same alacrity as he sprang to a waltz, and whom the most bloody combat could not daunt, was deeply moved by the despair of this poor child; its truthful simplicity rendered it doubly touching. He felt that her inexperience and confiding tenderness of character would make her an easy victim in a moment of self-abandonment or passion. He recalled the impression which this angelic and fragile girl had made upon his imagination when he had met her at the Pardon, and he remembered also the sweetly refreshing dreams which she had brought him in the miost of his agitated existence; the humble choice which she had made of the frightful pewter ring, which still encircled her finger; the nave credulity with which she listened to all the flattering promises of the itinerant merchant; in fine, her modesty, her discretion, and the refinement of her delicate and regular features.
                  "It would be a crime indeed," he mentally ejaculated, after a pause, "to take advantage of the weakness and simplicity of this poor child. She has long believed that the ring was a talisman of happiness. I will confirm this belief, if it is in my power to do so." Then addressing Ivonne aloud, whose face was still concealed beneath the coverings, he said:
                  "Ivonne, have you still faith in the ring which was blest at St. Ann's, and which promised you so much happiness?"
                  "As the merchant deceived me, Monsieur Leon, I no longer believe in it."
                  "Why should you doubt, Ivonne, since it has saved you from death? Believe in it still, dear girl, and believe in me also. I pledge you my word as a sailor and as a man of honor that I will respect you as if you were my sister, and that you shall yourself decide upon your future destiny, with only one condition—that you shall never again make an attempt upon your own life. Do you understand me?"
                  "You will not carry me back to Laber?"
                  "I repeat to you that I will do absolutely nothing but what you desire. I will protect you from all harm—I will defend you at the peril of my life."
                  "May the blessed Virgin and all the holy Saints bless you."
                  "Your clothes are so torn that they can no longer serve you; see, Ivonne, here is a great chest filled with all sorts of dress materials—there are also some ready-made garments—they are all at your disposal. But I will leave you now that you may enjoy that repose of which you stand so much in need. This cabin is yours; no one shall enter it without your permission, not even I, myself. When you have slept and wish to arise, seek in this chest all you require, arrange a dress for yourself—they are all yours—I give them to you."
                  Thus saying, Leon quitted her and ascended to the deck; he then summoned his crew, who soon stood around him.
                  "My friends, listen to me. You have all seen the unfortunate girl whom I had the happiness to save?"
                  "Yes, captain," they simultaneously responded
                  "She is a poor orphan, driven to despair by the abominable cruelty of her stepmother, which caused her to seek death as her only refuge. I have promised to proteet her until she shall herself decide where I shall land her. It is my will that every one on board shall respect her as I do myself, and that no unseemly language, no improper word shall be spoken in her hearing. Do you comprehend me?"
                  Every head was bowed in token of obedience.
                  It was nevertheless a corsair crew that Capt. Leon commanded; that is to say, a heterogeneous collection of men, in whose breasts all the passions —all the vices were fermenting; and amongst whom sentimental ideas and delicate procedures were not common. But their leader had said: "It is my will!" and those words sufficed to constrain these lawless men of bronze to respect what their captain respected. He was the absolute monarch of his little kingdom, whose foundations were laid upon the narrow planks of his swift but small vessel.
                  At this period no disgrace attached itself to the name of Corsair. Baridar and other celebrities of the Malouine navy have proved what may be done by men intrepid to rashness, engaging in a warfare with no other inducement than the interests of the nation which authorised it, and a little for their own.
                  Leon was born in Paris, and thrown by the revolutionary whirlwind in the excitements of a life of adventure. Deprived of all scholastic advantages by the closing of the colleges, he quitted his family to see the world, above all to see the sea—which his imagination, somewhat tending to the romantic portrayed to him as a vast arena for the display of heroic deeds. Embarked upon a St. Malo vessel, commanded by a friend of his father's, and full of gigantic projects, he rushed to meet those wonders which only exist in an overheated brain.
                  He was at first designated by the crew as "the Parisian," pronounced with a certain tone of irony; but "the Parisian" soon became one of the best seamen on board, and no one ventured any longer to indulge in jokes at his expense.
                  He was soon promoted to the position of second mate, and ere long became captain; for he was full of energy and ambition, and all his economies were devoted to facilitate the studies necessary for his advancement.
                  He was thus occupied when vessels were suddenly fitted out and armed for war—a most seductive enterprise for such a fiery organization. To command a fine ship and give chase to the English—to re-enter the port victorious, with a valuable prize—to be admired—to hear one's deeds of arms trumpeted and extolled—to be envied—feared—feasted—to be regarded by the men as a thunderbolt—which flashes and strikes at the same moment—to be caressed by the women, as a hero of romance whose courage and prowess is whispered over and over again by those sweet lips; this was more than was required to decide the impetuous sailor to enter the lists. Having powerful friends he readily obtained the command of one of the swiftest vessels.
                  Endowed with an ardent and generous nature, Leon was cited as the most humane as well as the bravest of corsairs. He never permitted any act of unnecessary cruelty, he never took life until the last extremity. Nevertheless—however we may glory in the brilliant reputation of our handsome captain—truth compels us to avow that he was not a Cato. More than one peerless Ariadne was left to weep upon the shore the flight and infidelity of this modern Theseus.
                  We must also admit that for a moment Leon's mind was crossed by the thought—the infernal thought—of taking the advantage of his position with regard to the maiden who had been thrown by a strange caprice of destiny into his very arms—when he wearied of her he could land her upon some distant shore, with a purse of gold thrown into her apron.
                  What good genius—what guardian angel protected this innocent girl and saved her from a fate more dreadful than that from which she had but now escaped? It was the guardian angel of his family—that fair and smiling angel that we have all beheld in infancy, bending over our cradle, and wearing the features of our mother or our sister.
                  Leon had both a mother and a sister upon whom he doted, and whose images were ever present to him in his moments of calm reflection. On that day when he first saw that pure, virginal countenance beneath the snowy folds of the simple Roscovite coif, he at once recalled the memory of his sister, a pure and lovely being also, and his sentiments towards his pretty partner were those of respect rather than of caprice—he felt for her more tenderness than excitement.
                  In beholding once more the sweet girl whom he had just snatched from certain death, on seeing her so pale and lovely, a thrill of passionate admiration almost mastered him, but the blessed family angels rose up before him. His mother and his sister whispered in their gentlest tones, "Protect her! leave her pure and undefiled!"
                  Another motive fortified him in this generous resolution; he experienced in the depths of his soul a new emotion, an emotion quite different from those with which all women had hitherto inspired him. He felt himself attracted towards Ivonne by a mysterious charm, something he had no power to resist; he would have yielded up his life to spare her a tear.
                  Towards evening he knocked discreetly at the door of the cabin; the gentle voice of Ivonne replied at once:
                  "Enter."
                  She had arisen from her berth and had examined the contents of the large chest, which consisted of rich and beautiful English goods. She discovered after much searching a dress of dark brown, with which she attired herself; she then tied around her waist a beautiful cashmere shawl, whose value she never suspected or she would not have appropriated it. As to the head-dress—finding nothing that could supply the absence of her simple linen coif—she had contented herself with smoothing and braiding her long ebon tresses, which were still impregnated with the salt water, and parting them Madonna-like upon her fair brow. In this simple guise she was unspeakably lovely.
                  Seated upon a bench, with her hands crossed upon her breast and her eyes modestly cast down, she tremblingly awaited the visit of her preserver. Leon advanced towards her and said:
                  "How do you find yourself now, Ivonne?"
                  "Quite well, Monsieur le Capitaine, I thank you."
                  "Have you found in the chest all that you required?"
                  "Alas! no, sir; those things are all too handsome; but if I had a pair of scissors and needless, I would make myself a petticoat, a spencer and a coif—with your permission."
                  "You shall have all those things—there is nothing wanting on board the ship. Nevertheless, you are charming as you are now dressed. You are no longer anxious to kill yourself, I hope, and no longer afraid of me?"
                  "I should be very ungrateful to Heaven and you if I were either anxious to die or afraid of you."
                  "Let us then chat a little, Ivonne. You are here upon a ship of war, exposed at every hour to a surprise and to all the dangers of a combat; it is a most unbefitting habitation for a woman. What project have you formed? What place would best please you?"
                  "I am unacquainted with all places except Laber and Roscoff; I cannot return to either of them. If you know any charitable persons living elsewhere who would receive me—that is, take me into their service, I would do all in my power to please them. I am accustomed to work."
                  "You would then leave me without regret, Ivonne?"
                  "Of course I must leave you," replied the poor girl, with naivet, in a faltering voice.
                  "As for myself, Ivonne, I have another idea: I do not wish you to serve any one. You have suffered much; I desire that you should know happiness, repose, a life of ease. Ivonne, will you be my wife?"
                  Had a thunderbolt fallen at the feet of the amazed girl she could not have been more completely petrified than she was by this proposal. She remained speechless. Leon continued:
                  "Speak, dearest Ivonne, will you be my wife, my legitimate wife, in the sight of Heaven and of earth?"
                  "Holy Virgin! Me! The wife of a rich captain, of a gentleman! I, who do not know even how to read!"
                  "You will learn; you are still young. You shall be taught all that young ladies usually learn. What I require of you at this moment is to tell me if you can love me, if you will become my companion for life, before God and man. Speak, Ivonne, but one word. The ring promised you a husband; are you willing that he who gave it to you should be that husband? Say, shall this little pewter ring be our ring of betrothment?"
                  Trembling and agitated like the leaves of the sensitive plant, Ivonne buried her face in her hands. She feared that she was dreaming, and dared not utter a sound lest she should dispel the fond illusion.
                  Leon, whose emotions were all as quick as gunpowder, drew her hands from her face and contemplated her with anxiety.
                  At length a low, faint, almost inaudible "Yes!" parted the sweet lips of the daughter of Ewen, then big tears rolled slowly down her pallid cheeks. But these tears had their source in sweet and deep emotions Leon comprehended it, and his manly, noble heart beat violently. He relinquished the hand of Ivonne, and taking a handkerchief from the table, he wiped her eyes, as a brother or tender sister might have done, and then said:
                  "Now, then, my sweet Ivonn, I know what remains for me to do to insure our future happiness. As soon as my ship can return to St. Malo, I will conduct you to a family who are devoted to me. I will take the necessary steps to obtain your certificate of baptism, but as an orphan you are free to get married; we will then go, without noise or parade, to the altar. After our marriage you will return again to my friends, who will treat you like a daughter, and there you will be instructed in all that it is necessary for you to learn. Each time that I return to port I shall remain with you. Shall it not be so, my sweet Ivonne?"
                  "Oh, it is a thousand times more happiness than I merit—than I ever dreamed of for a poor girl like me. Monsieur Leon, I dare not believe it—I fear it is a temptation."
                  "Come, come, silly child, you are good and you are beautiful, you are also rich, since all I have is yours; why, then, should you fear? But when we are alone you must no longer call me 'monsieur,' you must call me Leon, as I call you Ivonne; will you not do so?"
                  "Yes—monsieur—yes, Leon."
                  "That sounds much better. Now look up, my betrothed; let me see those gentle eyes once more, and then I will go on deck. Jean Baptiste will bring you all that you require for sewing; occupy yourself, it will amuse you. Remember all that chest contains is yours; cut and arrange those things as best suits you."
                  The youthful captain sprang lightly up the narrow stairs, by which his confidential sailor, Jean Baptiste, soon after descended, bringing with him a large supply of thread, needles and scissors. But Ivonne could not immediately set herself to work; too many new and strange thoughts absorbed her mind, her imagination had been too suddenly aroused from its virginal slumber, too many varied emotions shook her soul.
                  The more she admired the generosity of the mariner, the more she was touched by the love he evinced for her, and the more, also, she felt herself poor, ignorant and beneath the condition which was offered to her; her happiness was mingled with a sort of fear. She desired to learn in a single day all that she was so ignorant of, she longed for the wand of some beneficent fairy, which should at once render her worthy of the captain's love, at once endow her with all the acquirements and 
                        IVONNE PRAYING FOR THE SAFETY OF HER LOVER.
                      graces which should adorn the woman of his choice. But it is a remarkable fact that a great distinction exists between men and women in this particular; young and intelligent women soon arrive at the height of their position, however unforeseen or sudden may be the elevation, while men rarely attain it, and may be said never to divest themselves entirely of the want of refinement of early years. For a poor girl, in the condition of Ivonne, to find herself chosen by the captain of a ship of war was assuredly a much greater event than for a simple citizen's daughter to become a queen or an empress; nevertheless, after the first moments of stupefaction had passed, she felt herself elevated, transformed by that one thought—she was loved, and this she could not doubt. Thereupon her young imagination commenced embroidering a tissue of lovely hues upon the canvas which Cupid so invitingly presented to her. Which of us, at the hour destined by Heaven, has not received this precious gift from the chubby hands of the laughing urchin?
                  She resolved that she would at first learn to read and write. She knew this was the key to all the sciences. Then, whenever Leon was absent, she would pass all her days and nights in study; she would learn in a few months as much as a rich young lady would acquire in a whole year; she would also learn to embroider and to make those pretty things she had seen the daughters of the merchants of Rocoff engaged upon; her small hands, which had become rough and hard from the rude toils to which she had been condemned, would become white and soft, as in her infancy; instead of collecting and carrying heavy burdens, as Barbara had constantly compelled her to do, she would cull sweet flowers and arrange them in vases; her slender form would no longer bend beneath the loads that cruel woman imposed upon her, and which were far beyond her strength; her bare feet would no longer be lacerated and bleeding from the thorns they encountered or the sharp stones along the beach.
                  As this delicious future gradually unfolded itself to the dazzled eyes of Ivonne, she felt her heart swelling with love and gratitude, whilst her looks sparkled with happiness. Had she thought at that moment to turn her eyes towards the mirror that ornamented the cabin, she would have found herself so beautiful, that Vanity, the familiar demon of all the daughters of Eve, would most assuredly have glided into her bosom. Fortunately Ivonne's back was turned towards the glass, and her full blue eyes, as she cast them down, only encountered the pewter ring which she had so religiously preserved. This paltry ornament, which none but a peasant of Brittany would have desired, recalled to her memory her poverty, her tattered garments, her sufferings, her toilette of the Pardon, purchased for her by the privations and the sweat of the brow of her old father, and which Barbara had traded away for some pints of gin. The life of toil and the frightful death of Ewen all suddenly reappeared to her. She gently slid from her seat down upon her knees, and prayed with all the fervor of her soul for the repose of that of her dear parent. She afterwards returned thanks for the miracle which had been performed or herself, a poor, bewildered creature, who had dared to rush, uncalled, into the presence of her heavenly Father.
                  Oh, my beloved ring!" mentally ejaculated the credulous girl, "never shalt thou leave me. I would not exchange thee for a ring of gold and diamonds worn by a duchess."
                  Ivonne knew little about sewing. It is now while watching a cow or climbing over rocks that one learns how to use a needle or how to cut and fit a dress. But we have already said that she was quick and intelligent, she proved it now in the adroitness with which she prepared the garments she so much required. She commenced by making a petticoat of beautiful black cloth, which she found in the famous chest, then she cut and made a justin, or bodice, of violet-colored velvet, some fine book muslin served for a coif, and there was an abundance of black silk from which she cut a small apron. As for the kerchief, that gave her only the trouble of selecting one to her mind, as the trunk also contained an assortment of handsome Indian foulards. She required several days to complete these things; she was alarmed by their richness, but she was compelled to clothe herself. For the want of coarse linen and serge she was obliged to employ cloth and velvet. One must do as they best can.
                  The ship sped on its way, without causing Ivonne the slightest anxiety as to the latitude they were in. Was the vessel still cruising along the coast of Brittany? Was it already afar off? What cared she? Was it not upon the land she had experienced so much wretchedness and a thousand tortures; whilst on the bosom of the ocean her sorrows had been lulled to rest, and she had been sweetly rocked, like the fondly-tended infant in its cradle, upon whom life is just opening, decked in smiles and sunshine.
                  Leon, her affianced—Leon, the only being who would henceforth feel an interest in her, repeated to her each day that he loved her, and that she should soon become his wife. He surrounded her with respectful attentions, which affected her the more deeply from their novelty and strangeness. What had she to regret? What was left for her to desire?
                  On the third day the suit was in readiness. She had devoted a good portion of her nights to hasten its completion, she was to impatient to be once more dressed as she was accustomed to be. Bashful and timid as a gazelle, she had not ventured upon the deck, but kept herself constantly confined in the cabin, which Leon had abandoned to her use, and hither all her meals were brought.
                  She had just finished attiring herself in her new costume, which she contemplated with a mixture of pleasure and embarrassment, for she blushed at its elegance, when the captain knocked at her door. Ivonne ran to open it, then drew back ashamed to show herself so richly dressed.
                  "You must be a fairy, my sweet Ivonne," cried the mariner, surprised at her graceful simplicity, "how charming you have made yourself, in so short a time, and with almost nothing."
                  "You are jesting, Leon; I sewed and ripped my work many times before I could get it to please me."
                  
                  "I never jest with you, Ivonne, but always say just what I think; the simple truth and no more. And now I hope that you will not object to going ashore with your head uncovered, and with a shawl thrown over your shoulders?"
                  "Are we near the shore?"
                  "Perhaps yes; perhaps no. I wish, however, to enter the port on account of yourself; I apprehend a combat which would alarm you, and which might expose you to danger."
                  "And you?"
                  "Oh! as for me it is very different, besides it is my trade."
                  The young girl bowed her head and became pensive.
                  "But, pshaw! why do I talk to you of these things? Nevertheless—yes, it is unavoidable; Ivonne, there are some things which you must know, and which it is my duty to make you acquainted with; one does not die any sooner for having made his will. Listen to me, dear one, and do not tremble so; there, give me your hand. I have told you that at any moment we may be attacked, or attack, ourselves. Should that arrive, dearest Ivonne, you must promise me to be as brave as the wife of a sailor ought to be; do not lose your senses, and do not leave this cabin, unless I or one of my crew desire you to do so. Do you understand me?"
                  "Yes; I will do as you desire."
                  "Yet another word—when one fights—when cannons roar—one may be wounded, killed—"
                  "Oh! in pity, Leon, do not talk so; my blood freezes in my veins."
                  "Don't be a child! this is only supposing the worst should happen; that does not make it any more certain. Strive to have courage, and forget nothing of what I have still to say to you. If an accident should befal me—if I were not in a condition to speak to you—to defend you—insist upon their landing you as soon as possible as St. Malo. My crew have their orders on this subject. Here is a letter addressed to the family of whom I have already spoken to you; you will go directly to them and they will do for you all that I could do myself. But before quitting the vessel, you must not neglect to carry with you this casket, which I shall place at the bottom of this chest of merchandise; the casket and the chest are yours, what it contains will be necessary to insure your independence."
                  Notwithstanding the effort which Leon made to utter these words in a calm and careless tone of voice, there was emotion and distress in his accent; his lips trembled, and his breast heaved painfully. To conceal his agitation, whose influence he dreaded upon the mind of the gentle girl, already too much disposed to be alarmed he arose suddenly, and pressing the hands of Ivonne between his own, left her abruptly, saying that his presence was required above.
                  Lef, alone, Ivonne abandoned herself without constraint to the apprehensions awakened in her breast by her intended husband. He might be wounded—killed before her eyes? She would be widowed before she was a bride! She would then be doomed to live alone in the world! sad and lonely, after having caught a glimpse of Paradise.
                  "Even if there were convents as formerly," thought she, "I would retire into one of those peaceful sanctuaries, and spend my life in prayer for those who have loved and left me to weep alone; but they say all the convents are destroyed. What then will become of me? Why cannot I die also?"
                  All day she dwelt upon these thoughts, and gloomy visions continually haunted her imagination; from time to time a shudder convulsed her frame, the slightest noise caused her to start in an agony of fear. Towards evening, at the hour of supper, Leon returned to the cabin; as he entered he said gaily that he had so arranged as to sup with her, if she consented.
                  "It shall be our repast of betrothal, in imitation of your Breton custom. It will procure us a moment of happiness, Ivonne."
                  "As you choose, Leon; you are the only master here."
                  "With what an air of sadness you speak, my little Ivonne. I hope you are not still thinking of our conversation of this morning?"
                  "I can think of nothing else."
                  "You silly child. I cannot permit that. You are only to remember those words in the event of some misfortune; but under other circumstances you must only think of the happiness of our being together, and the still greater happiness that awaits us when we shall be united by marriage. Here comes Jean Baptiste with the supper; let us seat ourselves at table, and do honor to the ship's fare, and we will drink a bumper to our speedy union; aye, we will imitate another custom of the Breton betrothal, we will drink from the same cup."
                  So saying, he presented his silver goblet to Ivonne, who strove to smile, as she put the cup to her lips.
                  "Now it is my turn, Ivonne, and you shall see how heartily I drink to our approaching nuptials."
                  And he emptied the goblet at a single draught.
                  As he placed the cup upon the table, the report of a cannon resounded at no great distance, and the lieutenant precipitately entered the cabin.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  "COMMANDANT," said the officer, who was armed to his teeth, "the Englishman has espied us; he has opened the affair."
                  "Tis well, Tanguy; return to the deck; I follow you."
                  Ivonne, as pale as a statue, at once arose; Leon seized her arm, and pointing to the chest, he exclaimed:
                  "It is now, Ivonne, that you must remember all I have said to you. Courage! my sweet one; my well-beloved; my wife! Be firm and hopeful. I love thee too well to die and leave thee. Heaven will protect us."
                  As he uttered these words he pressed his lips upon the hand of his affianced, who gazed upon him with affright and tenderness.
                  There was, however, no time to spare for the pouring out of such effusions of love. Leon tore himself from this painful happiness, and with a bound ascended the stairs and stood at his post.
                  We shall not attempt to give the details of the combat; celebrated marine novelists have recounted counted with the pen of experienced writers those soul-harrowing scenes, whose theatre has been a few planks tossed about by the billows; whose lustre was the fitful light of the moon or vacillating stars; whose orchestra was the rattling of grape shot in the rigging, which it rent asunder and sent crashing down; the less audible but no less fearful sound of the boarding axe; the wailing of the winds combined with the groans of the dying, and the booming cannon which kept time to the whole. Feeling ourselves quite incompetent to retrace such dreadful pictures, we prefer returning at once to the timid girl, whom we have left kneeling in a corner of the cabin, and reciting with fervor every prayer she had learned in her childhood. The pewter ring, which had already performed such miracles, was devoutly kissed between each prayer, and this simple bauble inspired her with more courage than all beside.
                  She heard the frightful din above her head, the roar of the cannon and the furious cries of the combatants. Occasionally a violent shock startled her from her devotions, then she rushed to the door with the intention of hurrying on deck to ascertain the fate of Leon, but the formal orders of the captain at once recurred to her memory; she feared above all things to displease of disobey him; then she again sank upon her knees and prayed.
                  Suddenly the cannons ceased their thundering, a silence as of death ensued; Ivonne thought that the combat had ceased, and that she soon would have the happiness of seeing her loved friend enter, anxious to reassure her by his presence, and to console her by the tidings that the danger was passed.
                  As she again approached the door, straining her ear to catch the slightest sound, a terrible shock caused the ship to crack as if going to pieces, and threw Ivonne upon the floor. She remained in the position, half fainting, for some time. As her senses slowly returned, she was suddenly recalled to the reality of her position by the increased tumult; the cries and struggles that seemed so near her; she strove to raise herself to a kneeling attitude, but her strength was gone; she sank down with her face buried in her hands—no longer praying—no longer thinking—but with eyes pressed convulsively upon the blessed ring. How long she remained thus, nailed to the floor, she knew not; she had no consciousness of the flight of time. But the door of her cabin flung open noiselessly awoke her from her lethargy. She looked up and beheld several sailors, whose faces were blackened with powder, and whose hands were crimsoned with blood, carrying in their arms a man bleeding profusely, whom they laid upon the bed; one of them said to her:
                  "Quick! young lady; do what you can for our captain, while we return to finish off those cursed Saozons, who have arranged him for us in this style."
                  Ivonne was near falling to the ground at the sight of Leon thus disfigured and ex ended there before her, bleeding and lifeless. But this weakness endured but a second.
                  Instinctively she searched for water; the wounds of the captain seemed principally about the head: she washed his face and neck, which were clotted with the blood of the brave mariner. When she had removed the hair she discovered two large wounds, one upon the forehead, the other near the ear. What most alarmed her was to find that the more she bathed the wounds the more freely flowed the blood. She then reflected that she must change her treatment, and immediately divested herself of her black silk apron, which she folded like a cravat, and tied it as tightly as she was able around his head. After this she again wiped away the blood that trickled down the handsome face of her her betrothed, who still remained unconscious.
                  Not knowing how to restore him, she called him by his name, spoke to him, laid her hallowed ring upon his temples, upon his eyes, upon his mouth, at the same time invoking the aid of St. Ann, but it was all in vain.
                  Emboldened by the imminence of the danger, she breathed upon his eyes, upon his lips; it seemed to her that her young and healthful breath must reanimate him. The instinct of woman seldom deceives her. Leon felt himself awakening beneath these beloved sighs; he raised his heavy head, unclosed his eyes, stretched forth his arms and folded them around the fragile waist of Ivonne, who was bending over him. It needed no more; Leon had no remembrance of his wounds, but he recognised the young girl, he saw her surrounded by bloody clothes, and he felt that she essayed in confusion to escape from his embrace; and then his perceptions returned and he remembered all. Resuming his energy, he sat up, and then made an effort to spring from the berth. Ivonne restrained him.
                  "In the name of the good God who has saved you, I entreat you to remain quiet  go and call some one—inquire—perhaps they no longer need you."
                  "They always need their captain, as long as a drop of blood remains in his veins. Let me go, Ivonne; let me go my beloved, my duty before everything."
                  He had reached the door, when a step approaching with caution was heard on the stairs. Jean Baptiste, still begrimed with blood and powder, came to inquire after his loved commandant. When he perceived him standing erect, he gave a shout of joy, and uttered aloud huzzah! which was heard on the deck. He then resumed with magic promptitude the quiet, humble bearing of an inferior who prepares to make a report to his chief.
                  "Captain, all is done up; the Englishman is lashed behind us, we are towing her along, and all that remains of the Saozons don't make much noise, I swear. They are as mild and gentle as so many lambs, and move no more than the saints hewn out of stone at Pongastel. It's true they are down below in the hell, tied together in couples, like so many pairs of geese going to market."
                  Here we must be permitted to introduce a parenthesis with the view of declaring that we condemn most strongly the triumphant shout of the rough and ungenerous boatswain. But at the epoch during which passed the scenes we have here essayed to reproduce the Great and Little Britain, sisters by name, and in part by origin, were yet widely separated by one of those ancient hatreds born of barbarism and ignorance; a hatred as absurd as impious, and against which even the teachings of Christianity must yet for a long time prove abortive. For a Breton of the old race an Englishman was still a Saozon, i. e. a sworn enemy, as was also a Gal ec (Frenchman) some centuries earlier. But if the Gospel and civilization, which is the natural consequence of the former, should at length overcome these old animosities between nations, and if the brave Champions of the Thirty could arise from their tombs, one would see them bowing down before the miracle accomplished in the nineteenth century, however great might be their surprise at beholding the flags of England and of France floating upon the breeze together and entwining their folds in friendly embrace.
                  But let us return to Jean Baptiste in time to catch his last phrase, which was this:
                  "The lieu enant says the prize is well worth the powder"
                  "Where is the lieutenant?"
                  "In his hammock, captain. The English have worked his left leg in fine fashion. Yourself and he have suffered the most; as for us, we are not so much damaged, some scratches and bullet-holes, that's all."
                  "Go, my good fellow, and tell them that I am not killed. Wounds on the head are the least dangerous as long as the brains remain in their box. Go ahead, and tell them that I am about to follow."
                  Leon remained to reassure Ivonne, to congratulate her upon her courage, to thank her for her care, and to press his lips to the pure brow of the young girl in a kiss as chaste as that of a brother.
                  The next day the corsair, commanded by Captain Leon, returned to St. Malo in triumph, towing in its wake the English merchantman, whose rich cargo greatly rejoiced the crew.
                  Two months later Leon and Ivonne were privately married at midnight in church, without other attendants than the required witnesses. The bride wore an elegant Roscovite costume, having refused to adopt the dress of the city as long as she remained an ignorant peasant girl.
                  The captain selected a fancy costume which set off his manly beauty to the best advantage. As for jewels, Ivonne declared that she would not exchange her pewter ring for a wedding ring of gold. The ring blessed by St. Ann had brought her happiness; she would never separate herself from it. She only accepted a small gold cross, which was hung about her neck on a narrow velvet, and this completed her costume.
                  If the reader wishes to learn more, like curious children, who always say at the end of a story, "What happened after?" we request him or her to follow us to the deserted shore of Labor, in front of the ruinous hut of Ewen, and to imagine that eight years have passed since the corsair conducted Ivonne to the altar.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  THE sea was calm, the breeze light, the surge was gently unrolling itself upon the silvery beach, bordered by a rich fringe of foam, it might have been compared to an immense drapery of blue satin, trimmed with Flanders lace. A barque was rocking on the bosom of the waters at a short distance from the shore.
                  A lady, still young and beautiful, and dressed with elegant simplicity, was walking along the fine sand which sparkled with the fragments of broken shells; she was leaning upon the arm of a handsome man, whose frank and smiling countenance was a never-failing passport; a little boy between four and five years of age was running near them, sometimes before them, sometimes stopping to pick up a pretty shell or pebble, which he brought exultingly to his parents.
                  On the left of the trio might be seen a cabin falling to decay, on the threshold of which stood an old woman, bent almost double, emanciated, ragged and filthy, who gazed stupidly at the strangers.
                  "How my heart beats!" exclaimed the lady to her companion. "You see that miserable hut, dear Leon, it was there that I was born, there where my father lived; there, where one night he was brought back cold and lifeless. It was there that I wept and suffered. Seest thou that poor old woman, wan and wretched? It was she who treated me so cruelly that I resolved to die, and—"
                  "That heaven sent me to receive you in my arms."
                  "Mamma, I am thirsty, so thirsty; I would like to have some milk," cried the little fellow.
                  "Have you any milk?" inquired the gentleman. The old woman did not reply or move.
                  "Ask her for las, dearest," whispered the lady to her husband, "and she will understand you."
                  "She has not even milk!" said the stranger, sadly; "and yet every year we have sent her a sufficient sum to live upon."
                  "I want a drink, a drink of water then," resumed the boy.
                  This time the old woman slowly arose, and entering the hut, took a porringer with a broken edge, which was greasy and disgusting, dipped up water from an old pail and presented it to the child; but Ivonne seized it and rinsed it out, and then refilled it and gave it to her son to drink. Barbara watched her with a frowning brow, this act of cleanliness she considered a reproach and an insult.
                  Ivonne had examined and recognised every familiar object; a suppressed sob broke from her breast; Leon saw her turn pale and totter.
                  "Enough!" said he, in an authoritative tone, and he drew his wife away; but before she recrossed the threshold she took the old porringer, and placed in the black and withered hand of her stepmother a piece of gold.
                  "It was in this porringer that my father drank, and always made me drink before himself. This souvenir will always remind me of the indigent cabin in which I was born and reared, as this ring at every moment speaks to me of the happiness that I owe to thee."
                  Leon raised the small and delicate hand of his wife to his lips, still decked with the pewter ring alone, the poverty of which was not contrasted by any other jewel.
                  Many inquired of the lovely wife of the rich ship-owner: "Why do you wear that horrid ring?" to all of whom she replied" "That is my secret—it is the secret of all my happiness."
               
            
            
               A SECRET.
               By Geo. W. Henry, Jun.
               INTRODUCTION.
               
                  
                     THE AULD LANG SYNE COURTSHIP RENEWED.
                  
               
               CAN you keep a secret?
               If I "a tale unfold," which holds a secret, will you not immediately go and impart it to your very dear friend, who will surely not repeat it to another very dear friend?
               "Oh, of course not!" "Oh, never speak of it again, for your sake!"
               But who will, notwithstanding saying this, retail it out to one or two very intimate friends, and so spread it until dear Mrs. Grundy hears of it all, and the secret is mine no more.
               The secret is "A Secret" no more.
               I seem to hear a sweet, gentle, "still small voice" of fair reader say:
               "Oh, I will never whisper it to mortal. Do tell me. I am curious to hear about your secret!"
               But it is not my secret, dear lady; but the other man's, even Abijah's.
               As you promise so well to keep the secret—secret, I will trust it, in the story following, to your keeping. You will not let Mrs. Grundy get it? She is a dear old lady, but she cannot keep a secret.
               
                  CHAPTER I.—IN WHICH IT IS MADE MANIFEST THERE IS A SECRET.
                  IT was near the "witching hour of night," when Messieurs Ghosts and Co., the tiny fairies and their fellow-citizens come out to have a good time, take a breath of air, even if it is midnight air, and look about to see and hear what their mortal friends of Earth are saying and doing.
                  Those mystical, ethereal, spiritual forms, it is said, used to come and thus visit the haunts of men, make circles, have dances, appear unto and frighten timorous folk, and do other extra ordinary things. Nowadays, or nowanights, they I suppose, invisibly appear.
                  However it may be, about the said witching hour, that is 11.45 P.M., mine host of the White Swan was awakened from a semi-sleep by the coach rattling up to the door and the entrance of travellers into the hotel of the village of Buzzardville.
                  The guests were two ladies in mourning, and a gentleman, not in mourning, either in his dress or manners, judging him outwardly.
                  Mine host was an energetic, lively little man; round-faced, round, rosy cheeks, round body and round limbs, round everyway, even to his hair, which formed in two round masses brushed up from the back, and gathered over a large bald surface above his forehead in one round knot. I said "little man," but he was not; short and stout he was, and his ball-like appearance made him seem smaller than the reality; aged sixty-two; weight, one hundred and seventy-six; name, Michael Trotter, known in all that region round about as Mike of the Swan.
                  But while we have been discussing him he has been hospitably looking after the new arrivals, making them comfortable and welcome.
                  The gentleman traveller entered in the hotel register the ladies' names, then his own with a flourish, such a flourish as to cause it to be necessary to mend the pen (a quill) before it could be serviceable again.
                  The signatures were: Mrs. Anna Winchester, Miss Mary Winchester and Clement Flint, Esq., and the flourish, all from Boston!
                  They were very weary, travel-dusty and sleep-inclined, after a lengthy journey in railcar and stagecoach. Therefore, after partaking of a hastily prepared refreshment they retired, the ladies to an apartment on the second floor, Clement Flint, Esq., solicitor, to one a story higher.
                  The stagecoach is put up for the night, the horses, refreshed with something in their line, are stabled. The shutters are closed. All is very quiet.
                  "No—bod—y—more—will—come," said Mr. Trotter, mine host, to Mr. Samuel Ogle, the stage-driver, who had, as he frequently remarked, "been a driver, man and boy, thirty years."
                  This gentleman was one of the solid, white-bloused in summer, greatcoated in winter, good-natured, hearty drivers, master of the whip, reins and horses, almost always pleasant and talkative with outside passengers, who were inclined for conversation and a smoke with him.
                  "No—bod—y—more—will—come, Sam—u—el. And so—we may—as well have—a—talk, while we—smoke, and—drink this—the best brewed—I—have had these—many a year."
                  Mr. Trotter was slow in speech, on account of the internal fat in his throat stopping his breath, and causing him to pause or gasp between each word.
                  "I'm agreeable, Mike," said Mr. Ogle. "It is just so; it doesn't do to go right off to bed after driving a coach five-and-twenty miles."
                  Mr. Ogle took some beer, remarking:
                  "That's good! That is a drink as is a drink! I'll take another!"
                  Then he handed over the empty pewter-mug to be replenished.
                  "I've—a queer—custom—er—here. Came today—Sam—u—el. A—ver—y—queer man—in—deed."
                  "Ah, Mike! What's his name? Who is he? What does he do?"
                  "See, here—it—is. Your eyes—are—bet—ter—than—mine. Getting—old—Sam—u—el—does—not improve—one's—sight."
                  "Well, sir, I'm a young man yet, and can see as far as any other body can. Let me have the book."
                  Mr. Ogle could talk fast enough and see clearly enough; but as to spelling, writing or reading he was rather slow. Therefore, when reading, he always had to spell, letter by letter, syllable by syllable, aloud, and on this occasion he did so in a rough tone, somewhat in this manner:
                  "A—b, Ab—i, Abi—j—a—h, Abijah! Whew! C—r—a—n—e, Crane; Abijah Crane. That's a Scripter name, isn't it?"
                  "Yes—the Christian—part is—but—the—bird—or—crooked—pipe—part's doubt—ful—to my—mind. Where—he comes from—he—didn't—put—down."
                  "No, only his name, I see. But, sir, what's so queer about him?"
                  "Oh—ever—y—thing—ever—y—thing—Sam—u—el. He's queer-look—ing—dress—es—queer; talks—queer; acts—queer. He's—a—strange—stranger—al—to—gether. I—and—the maid—can't make—him—out at all."
                  "What do you call queer?" inquired Mr. Ogle, this description not being clear enough to his understanding or satisfying his curiosity, for he was a native Down-Easter, and he always "wanted to know."
                  "Well—one thing—was—he hadn't—any—appetite; would—only—take toast—and tea—when he—came; only—tea—and—toast—or—his dinner; and—toast—and—tea—for tea. Ask him—a question:—he—would ask you—'Did—you—say—anything—sir?' Then—he would—go—out—and walk—yonder—in the field—up and down—down and up—nigh—all—morning. Then—in—pas—sing—his room—this night—I—found—he—was—out; and—I—don't know—if—he—will—re—turn—to-night—or not. And—the maid—says, all—she—could—hear—him say; for—he—talked—to—himself—when—he—paced—back—and forth in—his room; 'I've—the—se—cret! I'll—keep it se—cret! No—one—shall—know the se—cret!'"
                  "A secret, Mike!" exclaimed Mr. Ogle. "We must know it, too, eh? Mike, dear old fellow, we must get it from him, eh?"
                  Mr. Ogle followed or impressed these remarks by a friendly slap on the broad, round shoulder of mine host of the Swan.
                  "Yes—Sam—u—el; we—must contrive—to know—this—man's—se—cret. He is—not good. No man—can be—a—good—man—with a—se—cret. 'Em's my—o—pinions."
                  "Then let us share it with him, and so do a benevolent action. For when he divides it out to others he is relieved of the badness of it, you know, and a secret it will be no more."
                  "Nev—er—more—it will be, if you—get it—my—sharp—Sam—u—el. But—let's go—to bed. He can—come in—him—self—if—he—returns—to-night. "
                  "Yes, Abijah can. Now you look sharp after him to-morrow, Mike. Good-night."
                  "Good—night—Sam—u—el—O—gal."
                  Then the tall, lean, bony, solid, when in blouse or overcoat stout-looking driver, with a nightlamp in hand, made his exit for a remote room, roofward. Michael Trotter took a tour around to see all was right, leaving, as was customary, the outer-door unfastened, and then, lowering the bar-room flame to a dim speck, he, also with a nightlamp in hand, disappeared within a chamber on the same floor, so as to be handy if any one came in the night.
                  All is quiet within the White Swan, and the witching hour is past and the wee sma' hours towards the dawn are following. One there is who is not at rest, who does not sleep as yet.
                  About a mile southward from the hotel the beautiful lake Cayuga was sleeping tranquilly in the silver moonlight, and the waters, as a light air breathed over them, musically rippled in their way. On either bank were shrubbery and trees, and along one side wound a footpath and fine carriage drive.
                  The fields of grain and so forth of the farms on the rising grounds adjoining each side of the lake, with here and there a woodland; here and there a meadow, green; and interspersed here and there the white, green-shuttered, pretty cottages and brown barns and outhouses; and here and there stacks of hay, formed a beautiful scene indeed, bathed in moonbeams, there, on that fair, warm summer night, and on towards the morn.
                  A figure sat on the fallen trunk of a once mighty tree, seemingly intently looking upon the lake. Now and then this figure or man, for man it was, would rise up and walk slowly up and down, his arms behind him, his hands closely locked within each other.
                  On one of these trips he took some papers from the breast-pocket of his coat, looked over them, placed them back again all safely, as he thought. One paper fell, however, and was hidden in a hollow formed by some stones piled there.
                  The man was Abijah Crane. The paper, enveloped, contained—A Secret.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.—IN WHICH TWO LOVERS, MARY AND ARTHUR, HAVE A TALK, JUST AS IF THERE WAS NO SECRET.
                  THE next morning was clear, warm and bright, giving a fair promise of raising the mercury towards the nineties by noon.
                  Most of the guests of the White Swan were up and out early. Of the ladies, the Winchesters, and of the gentlemen, Mr. Abijah Crane, remained invisible until summoned to breakfast. The latter was making up for his late hours walking by the lake. Clement Flint, Esq., was basking in the sun, a short distance up the road, in company and conversing with three other of the White Swan's patrons.
                  At the morning meal, as around the board they were seated, more than one noticed that Mr. Crane seemed to desire to be unknown, to remain silent, and acting somewhat as if he was hiding or did not at least wish to be observed. He would lean forward over the table, avert his face from the others, stroke his black whiskers, and thus keep his hand mostly over half his face. He had heavy full black whiskers and moustache, the latter each way ending sharply to a hair. Whether these hair ornaments grew there or not is not for me to say at present.
                  Mrs. and Miss Winchester thought they recognised him. But at the conclusion of the repast they left the table, quite uncertain who he was, or if they knew or had known him or not, and very speedily forgot him.
                  Mr. Mike Trotter, however, watched him closely, and came to the conclusion the same as yesterday.
                  "He's—a—queer—cus—tomer—sure—eno ugh."
                  Mr. Ogle also noticed Mr. Crane closely, and wanted to know, but did not get to know, before his time was up to start with his coach to the village of M—and the railroad station, twenty and odd miles eastward.
                  Meantime Abijah Crane was well aware who two of the lady guests were, where from, their names, and their intentions partly of coming thither. These were the Winchesters. He did not wish them to recognise him. They had had a pretty farm purchased for them about two miles from the village, and half a mile from the outlet of Cayuga lake, and a very beautiful cottage home thereon, with furniture and all needful appliances for ease, comfort and even luxury prepared by the agents for them. They this very day intended visiting and duly taking possession of. And Mrs. Dobson, the housekeeper there in charge, neatly arrayed for the occasion, was anxiously waiting to welcome them and marvelling at their delay; for she understood they had expected to be there the day before, but for some reason unknown the train had been detained so that they had arrived late at night. Whereupon Mr. Flint offering his advice to do so, they concluded to stop at the White Swan hotel until morning.
                  Mr. Abijah Crane, after breakfast, returned to his room, to pace to and fro, and whisper unto himself.
                  "I have the secret all safe—hidden to a certainty. Now they are here, I should let them have it. I should not be burdened with the horror any longer. Several years this thing has worried me. No one shall know it. I'll tell no one. I should—I must tell her—and then! No, I will not tell even her. Oh! I have a secret! A serpent! It stings me!"
                  He walked across the room; locked and bolted the door; sat down by the table; took out his bundle of papers; began to examine them carefully. Suddenly he started up; overturned the chair table in his haste, and exclaimed.
                  "My goodness! 'Tis gone! It's lost! I'm lost!'
                  Sure enough it was gone—down by the lake, amid the pile of stones.
                  Abijah Crane hearing steps approaching, brought thither by the noise of the tumbled furniture, hastily gathered up his papers, placed them in his pocket—sure of them this time; put hat on head front side back in his hurry, and in his flight down stairs frightened Sally, the maid; also a lady boarder on the opposide side of the passage, who had appeared to learn the cause of the racket. And from the lower steps Abijah nearly overset mine host and much astonished that person as he passed him, in his rapid exit from the room and the house.
                  His searches near the lake, and everywhere he could remember having been on the previous day and night, were unavailing.
                  
                  The missing envelope containing his papers was missing still.
                  His trouble amounted to agony.
                  We will leave him at his search, and follow the Winchesters to their new home.
                  Mrs Dobson pleasantly welcomed them home. Then they made a journey throughout the house, gardens and grounds, and felt very glad, and very thankful for all these pretty, cozy, comfort-suggestive possessions.
                  Then the ladies had repaired to their rooms, to toiletize. Mr. Flint, of the flourishing propensity, had been in the cornfields; among the potatoes, cabbages, etc; viewed the orchard, and made acquaintance with all the farm hands, all in a brief space of time.
                  The ladies had just descended to the nicely furnished parlor. Clement Flint, Esq, had just returned, and had commenced an account of his half hour or so's view of the farm, when visitors—"morning callers," were duly announced, being the first of the townspeople come to welcome our friends to Buzzardville, to their heart's affections, and so forth.
                  Of these, we will select one for particular mention and introduction. The others were of the usual variety of females—married and single—of certain and uncertain ages; also a few gentlemen, mostly elderly, all meeting for the laudable expressed desire of well-wishes to the Winchesters, beginning and continuing of friendship. And with the perhaps not so laudable unexpressed desire to add somewhat to their fund of gossip. And some were there to ease their aching curiosity with which they were subject to attack upon the arrival of all newcomers.
                  Passing these we will follow Miss Mary Winchester, who left her mother and the solicitor to entertain the company, and in company with a fine-looking gentleman entered the garden.
                  They walked side by side, and in low tones conversed upon a very pleasant theme, evidently, judging by their smiles and the bright sparkle of their eyes. The words each spoke, each heard. A third party could not hear them; so I, being said third, cannot more report their conversation.
                  The gentleman was named Arthur Harrington, age twenty-three, who for sometime had been a thriving merchant in the village of Buzzardville. He was a Bostonian by birth, and had resided in that city through infancy, boy days, school-life, and, until his education—college and mercantile—was completed. Then when about commencing business for himself, he had, upon the advice of friends, backed by his own inclination to do so, resolved to thus commence in some comparatively new place, and had, as has been seen, finally decided to settle in Buzzardville.
                  He was a good man, a gentleman, a thorough business man, and so far has been very successful, and has been well patronised by the Buzzardvilleites. He was tall, finely formed in fair proportions; of a clear, beautiful complexion; plenty of dark, almost black hair, inclined to curl; neatly trimmed side-whiskers; brilliant, deep, dark, changeable color eyes; a happy expression always—he was, to use a modern phrase, "a love of a man." And certainly Arthur Harrington was one any gentlewoman might be proud and glad to call her son, any gentlewoman might be proud and glad to have for lover—to have all her own—her husband.
                  Miss Mary Winchester was a loving and an entirely loveable young lady, and at this period aged nineteen. Lively, pretty, blue-eyed, fair-light curling hair, very neat and tasty in dress, a bell-toned voice, and just the merriest laugh. She may be described in two line of Mrs. Osgood's poem": 
                        
                           "For she was very beautiful,
                           Bewildering and bright."
                        
                     
                  
                  She was fond of home and home occupations and amusements. She detested gossip and gossipers, and Buszardville had more than its share of the latter, and from these Mary ran away as soon as with propriety she could do so, upon every occasion, when in such company.
                  Reading, water-color sketching, crocheting, knitting, and all varieties of sewing, were her favorite employments and amusements indoors; and gardening, attending her bees and birds, out of doors. She liked study; delighted in wise, sensible, instructive conversation; preferred to listen when such was taking place. She was not a blue nor a literary young lady for all that, nor did she care to always be sedate, or talk wisely, or listen to wise words from lips of sages, but could, as hinted above, laugh gaily, also dance bewitchingly, gracefully and lightly; could thrillingly perform on the piano, and in a sentence or two, I may say, that she being a good, kind, dutiful daughter, was of course a loving, faithful, true lady-love to Arthur Harrington—her lover.
                  Their little heart affair had begun at her home in Boston. Had been continued during a temporary sojourn in New York city, revived and kept in a glow at Newport one season, at Saratoga and Lake George another season; and during the two years just passed in which they had not met, been kept alive by the magic galvanism of epistolary lover-correspondence.
                  Two years apart! A long time, my friend, for lovers to remain asunder. So to your knowledge of such matters, or to your imagination, I leave their conversation and conduct towards or with each other, as side by side they walked or sat in that very suitable for the purpose, beautiful vine-covered arbor in the shady side of the garden. Alone! All in all to each other. Their past a bright picture scarcely glanced at. Their future radiant with happiness, love and hope. Little, very little indeed cared they just then for other people, or whether the rumor they had heard that morning was true or the reverse, that the strange traveller stopping at the White Swan hotel had been a secret which was lost, in which secret she, Mary Winchester, was deeply though heretofore unconsciously interested.
                  They, too, had a secret also, better far than his, they thought.
                  They loved each other very dearly.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.—IN WHICH A MATTER TRANSPIRES AKING THE SECRET MORE SECRET THAN BEFORE.
                  EVERY city, town, village or small collection of houses and their inhabitants, have among them at least one wild or foolish, half or whole crazed person.
                  To this Buzzardville was no exception; there they had a crazy man, a foolish, half-witted woman, and a running wild little girl.
                  With the latter this history will have somewhat to do. She was small, aged about nine years; was supposed to be an orphan, and in a hut, with an old man and a very old woman, she resided.
                  In a clearing in the midst of an extensive woodland this hut was situated, and here these three, in a certain degree of happiness, lived together. He was "grandpa," she was "granny," to little Bessie. The feeble, more than fourscore old man had befriended the wild girl some years before, and she grew up in the belief that he was her grandfather. When he first came to this place he had found the old lady inhabiting the hut, and had bargained for a corner therein for himself, so he boarded and lodged with granny, the ancient, "who would never liver to see her eighty-seventh year." Why? Because she was already ninety-one. These people lived on charity—very kind the villagers were to them; affording them many comforts in food, clothing, and so on—and the old dilapidated, falling-away hut—a hut in the consumption, I may say—rent free.
                  Some of the kind ladies had made efforts in behalf of Bessie, but so far she proved quite untameable. There was intelligence; there was a warm, cozy, loving nook in her heart; there was a felt want, an unformed desire, often arising. And really little wild Bessie was a diamond in the rough. Who will seek it Who will polish it? Who find her goodness and make her ready to develope into a beautiful, glorious and lovely woman?
                  Bessie had beautiful dark brown hair and eyes, the hair falling in full, long, tangled mostly curls. The eyes large, round, full, deep, warm, brilliant, even alive with glee. Full rosy cheeks and ripe red lips—a beautiful face altogether—but a face really in those wild days never seen, for a medium of dirt intervened. Bessie's face, arms, hands, feet, sadly wanted washing.
                  She did not know that—did not feel inconvenienced—did not care. She was full of life and frolie—full of mirth and mischief. A small amount of good appeared, mingling with a great amount of evil. She was not to blame for that; but so her destiny, seemingly ill for her, was marked out. The company she had had so far to keep—for six years or so—was very much the reverse of good. Therefore, at nine years old, or thereabouts, she was wild, ignorant, apparently untameable, and was known as Little Wild Bessie of the Wood.
                  The part of the morning that Abijah Crane had missed his papers and the Winchesters were on their way from the White Swan to their new home, Bessie was out with her basket swinging on her prettily formed but exceedingly soiled arm. Her dress, given to her a week before, hanging half on, half off her form; the hooks and eyes having become, scattered days ago, and the skirt here and there was already "tattered and torn." For this little body did not go very daintily stepping along, and missing branches, briars and thorns, but on she went impetuously, mostly on the run, sometimes seeming to fly. If anything caught in anything, a pause, a jerk, and away like the wind, and singing gaily.
                  Thus that morning from dawn she had been here and there through the woods, along by the lake and along the main street of the village, and back again to the banks of Cayuga lake. Growing weary, which even Bessie did sometimes, she stopped near to and soon sat upon a large stone near by the pile of stones amid which a secret had fallen and hidden.
                  Looking about her, Bessie, after a while, saw something white over there, different in appearance from the chips, pebbles and acorns, etcetera, she usually gathered. So my little maiden stepped over, reached down to the inner side of the stone pile, and drew forth the envelope. Long and steadfastly she gazed at it wonderingly.
                  "Somebody's lost that," was her wise conclusion. "I'll keep it in my box, I guess. Won't it be fun. Somebody 'll be looking for it. Won't she?" A little astray as to the sex of the owner was Bessie "I'll find out if it's money, if it's worth anything. Any how, I'll keep it ever and ever so long. Well, I don't know about it, though. I mustn't tell granny or grandpa, or anybody, about it. No, I won't. I'll hide it safe away in my box in the corner of the closet."
                  Arriving at this conclusion, Bessie picked up her tattered sunbonnet and basket, placed the envelope, unopened, in the bosom of her dress, and hastened to her hut-home, and there secreted the secret of Abijah Crane.
                  A few minutes after Bessie vacated her seat on the stone Mr. Crane hurriedly arrived thereat, and paced up and down, rubbing his hands together nervously, locking and unlocking them, now and then running his fingers through his hair, panting, perspiring and swearing, as Dominie Sampson would say, "prodigiously."
                  "It's gone—gone! It is gone! gone! gone! and all's over with you, sir! Certainly, that paper—that very important paper is lost, vanished—where? So I must go back to Boston and do all that work over again. I'm afraid, oh, I know I'll not have sufficient courage to go all over it again; but I must, I must. I'll be firm—but stay—let me look again. 'Try, try again,' says the song. I'll search once more."
                  Abijah Crane did seek, and, of course, in vain. So he, in a gloomy mood, indeed, returned to the hotel.
                  Mine host, the round, good-hearted, jolly Mike Trotter, was somewhat surprised with the request for "my bill, sir, please," made by Mr. Crane, whom he expected to have had as guest a fortnight, at least, which surprise was heightened by his additional request to be supplied with a private conveyance and driver immediately to take him to the railroad station, as he desired to reach Boston as soon as possible.
                  But that which puzzled Mr. Trotter mostly was the absence from the face of his late guest of part of its hairy adornment. After Mr. Crane had settled his bill, and made his final exit from the White Swan, Mr. Trotter, to a customer, whom he called Ben, said:
                  "Ben, what's—be—come—of that—ver—y— queer—cus—tomer's—whisker—as—was—on —his right cheek?"
                  "Why, is it off?"
                  "Clean—shaved—Ben—clean—gone—and the—oth—er—still—there—black—fierce—and—bushy—as ever."
                  "Indeed! Is the moustache there yet, Mike?"
                  "Yes—but—but the twists—are—out of—the ends. His shirt—collar—was all—a—wry—too; and ver—y—queer—he was—and—is—and right—glad I—am—he's gone; for—I—think—there's—some—thing—wrong—here—some—thing—wrong—here!"
                  And Mr. Mike Trotter significantly touched his forehead, with his forefinger at each expression of the word "here."
                  "I didn't see much of the chap; but what I did see warn't much in his favor—a hard-looking sort of man—and I thought him curious enough; an abstracted sort of being; like a fish out of water—restless—not at home—can't stay sort—eh?"
                  —"Yes—Ben—or—a convict—out—of—jail," slowly remarked mine host.
                  "Or, a fellow going to be convicted, and to be sent to that pleasant habitation for him and his fellow citizens of his quality."
                  "Yes—well—Ben—no—matter—he's gone—peace—to his—what, Ben?"
                  "Hashes—perhaps."
                  Then their conversation on that occasion eddied into other themes, not the least relative to our story.
                  In the third car of the train, on the rail going swiftly towards the city of Boston, the queer customer, Abijah Crane, as he leaned back in his seat and stretched his long limbs beneath the seat adjoining, had whiskers on neither cheek, and no moustache at all; but his eyes were hidden behind a pair of steel-rimmed blue glass spectacles.
                  Quite a change this made in Mr. Abijah Crane! Ten years younger and five degrees handsomer he looked then and there than he did when at the celebrated and flourishing village of Buzzardville.
                  On the maps, atlases, globes, and such like fancy articles, prepared by geographers, the above village, near by Cayuga lake, is set down with a different name. The name they give it does not in the least resemble the title I've given to that worthy town in these pages, in which said pages appears the true record of a secret—being brought unto, lost at, found, hidden, and found again—at that place.
                  Abijah Crane, whiskerless, moustacheless, safely reached his home and place of business.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.—IN WHICH MR. FLINT MAKES A GOOD INVESTMENT.
                  The next morning Clement Flint, Esq., arose early, took a bath and a shave, and shortly after breakfast sat down beside the table in his room to indulge in two pleasant things: a smoke and a reverie.
                  Upon the entrance of Miss Sally, the maid of the Swan, with dustbrush and dustrag in her hands, into the room, Mr. Flint thought it time for him to step out and promenade.
                  "Sally, my fine girl," said he, "do you know that stranger's name who left here yesterday, or anything about him?"
                  "No, sir, I don't, and more'n that I don't want to know anything about him. His name, sir, you can find in the book downstairs. He's a crazy man I'm sure."
                  "Yes, I will look in the book when I go down. Did he do anything violent or very strange, Sally?"
                  "La, sir, I should just think he did, trotting about his room, upsetting this chair and that table, nearly setting the bed afire with the lamp—for he'd sit in bed reading and 'riting and holding the lamp by one finger, Joe says—and if you spoke to him, he'd only stare at you, and say never a word."
                  "Something rests on his mind, Sally; some trouble or his sins."
                  "Yes, sir, perhaps so. I'm cheery that he's away."
                  "Thank you, Sally, for your information."
                  "Welcome, sir, but is that all, sir, you wish to ask? I must be about my dusting."
                  "No, not quite all; I wished to know where a certain lady resides. I think somewhere in or near Buzzardville."
                  "A lady! ah! what name, sir?"
                  "Miss Cynthy Smith. Do you know her abode?"
                  "Want to know, sir, if you're after her now?"
                  "Well as to that, Sally, I think not—I am acquainted with and would like to see her."
                  "She resides over there," said Sally, pointing out the window at a cottage with her forefinger. "It's about a mile and a quarter from here; do you see it, sir? A white house, green shutters, trees each side and beyond, and that paling this side, that's around the garden; a sweet, beautiful garden it is too."
                  "Thanks again, Sally, you are a real nice, sociable young woman; I hope you will get a good husband some day. Here, Sally, is a trifle to remember me by."
                  "Oh, sir you make me blush—thank you, sir—thank you kindly."
                  "I'll walk over and make a morning call on Miss Smith. Sally, good-bye."
                  "Good-bye, sir; a nice lady is Miss Cynthy."
                  Sally, on unfolding a piece of paper that Clement Flint, Esq, had placed in her hand, found the trifle to remember him by in a gold quarter-eagle U. S. currency, which addition to her funds came pleasantly acceptable.
                  Clement Flint, Esq., was an ordinary, every day to be met with similar man. He was, so to say, a medium—medium in length and breadth, medium features; neither handsome nor homely, nor ugly in appearance; his conversation medium; his expenditures medium; his habits, characteristics medium, and, in fine, he was a spiritual medium—being more than medium in his belief in that latter day fancy. The only things not medium were his savings, his legal documents, his charges, and his flourish following his signature.
                  Clement Flint, Esq., had fallen in love several times. He had been rejected by three fair ladies—two of them single women, one a dashing, brighteyed, sprightly widow, with property valued at a quarter million. He survived those disappointments, and in the bliss of bachelorhood he continued up to this date of our story. And now C. Flint, Esq., was nearly forty years old.
                  He was now pretty well off, and thought that on an average his annual income was two thousand dollars.
                  He had had business of the lady upon whom he was about to call several times to transact for her. He had been also at one period desperately in love with the then aged twenty and very pretty and engaging Miss Cynthy; had gone so far as to nearly propose one day, but an elderly aunt of her's entered the room about that moment and stopped the proposition at about the second word; also the day following that the said elderly relative and Miss Cynthy left the city, and no other opportunity had offered for renewal of his proposal.
                  "I'll offer again to-day," thought he, as he walked towards her home, which she had named Rose Bower Cottage. His thoughts ran: "also I'll ask her about Abijah Crane; I see that fellow has entered that name as his in the book at the hotel, and I guess it is himself; I rather think it is the same Abijah I know, and that I'm after. I'll get her to invest in that new security. So I'm in for making at least one—perhaps three investments."
                  Miss Cynthy Smith was still a very pleasant woman to look upon. Her age—I hope she will excuse the revelation—was somewhere near thirty-one; but she did not acknowledge to being that figure. The other day she replied to the question, "how old are you?" with a smile, "just past twenty-three, my dear." A full, finely proportioned form was Miss Cynthy's. She was one—may-be two inches taller than Clement Flint, Esq. She was still good-looking. She dressed with good taste—rather elegantly, yet always becomingly She had fine, dark, flashing eyes, dark hair in profusion, inclined to curl—a hasty temper, and a kind, good heart—a voice pleasant to hear—and manners social and polite she possessed; also, and lastly, an income of nearly three thousand annually.
                  Mr. Flint also thought that if he was successful to-day in his offer, if he would make the investment he most, desired to make, that their united incomes would make a pretty sum in round numbers to begin, say five thousand dollars per year, with a fair prospect of regular increase by subsequent investments, adding to their united capital.
                  Clement Flint, Esq., duly arrived at the cottage. Sent up his card, upon which the flourish beneath his name appeared conspicuously, and received the reply, "Miss Smith, sir, is at home, will be with you presently."
                  Thereupon he took a seat, and took a leisurely survey of the neat, pretty, very nicely furnished parlor, all very comfortable-looking and happiness-suggesting.
                  The moment designated "presently" being up, Miss Smith entered, and C. Flint arose to his full medium height, offered his hand, which was met by her fair hand in a gentle clasp, as the silvery tones fell on his ear in these words:
                  "My dear sir, how very glad I am to see you. "What a pleasing surprise. Are you very well?"
                  "Thank you, my dear Miss Smith, quite so; and you? But I surely need not ask, you seem as young-looking, fresh and fair as ever."
                  "Oh, my sir! Mr. Flint, how can you?"
                  "It is true, very true indeed. And here you live so nicely. In this pretty place, quiet and pleasant, not like our noisy, dusty, and at this time, hot city."
                  "Yes, so it is; very cosy here; but sir, of all places, I'd like best to reside in a large city. It certainly is very agreeable—country life; but give me the city. It must be charming there, particularly in winter."
                  All of which Miss Cynthy said very animatedly, her fan going to and fro briskly. She had offered the gentleman a fan, but he used it very seldom, and then so gently that a feather would scarcely have been stirred by the air from its movements.
                  The last remark of Miss Cynthy encouraged the hopes of our solicitor as to the success of his investment. Conversation, including weather, village gossip, and so on, followed, then he remarked:
                  "I saw a former admirer of yours at the hotel. At least I imagine he was so at one time."
                  "Who could it have been? About his being an admirer, sir, you must be mistaken."
                  "No—guess not. Don't you remember the Crane that worried you so much during that season of your visit to Boston?"
                  "Yes, Abijah Crane. Surely I do recollect him, and with great cause. Was he here?"
                  As Miss Smith put the last question she raised her eyebrows somewhat, leaned forward towards Mr. Flint, and looked quite innocently.
                  "Yes, he has been about several days, I believe. I fancied he had called upon you."
                  "Oh! my dear sir, no, he would not do so, for surely you must know there was nothing in that affair," and Miss Cynthy seemed more innocent than before.
                  "Well, my dear Miss Smith, I am sorry if he has not, for I wish to learn somewhat about him, and thought I could do so from you."
                  "I should have been happy to enlighten you, I am sure, if it had been in my power."
                  Miss Cynthy Smith grew icy. Very well she knew why Mr. Flint asked, and pretty, near the mark she guessed the reason of his coming after the said Mr. Crane. That gentleman really had been to see her. In that very parlor he had spoken to her of matters he much desired to keep dark, and he had confided somewhat incoherently certain secrets to her; also he had renewed his proposals to her matrimonially, and been declined; therefore about Abijah Crane she was not very willing to speak, and so she tried to change the subject of discourse. Meanwhile, although she had declined Abijah more than, twice, she felt inclined to throw out a bait and catch an eligible companion, and thought she: "Here is a candidate of suitable age, appearance and condition, worth while my setting my cap for." Therefore the fair Cynthy sighed gently as a summer breeze, modulated her voice into bell-like, silver-like, sweet low tones, her iciness melted away, she grew warmer in looks and manners, and waging gracefully her fan, she beamed lovingly upon Mr. Flint, to the great elation and considerable tremor of that gentleman's heart.
                  She really did, to him, just then look very lovely.
                  But it was Mr. Flint's object to attend to business first, and pleasure or love afterwards; so he entered upon, the money theme, and concluded it
                     
                        WILD BESSIE FINDS A SECRET.
                      by pocketing a check for $5,000, to be by him invested for her in the new first-class stock of that day.
                  This little affair being thus very satisfactorily settled, Mr. Flint entered in earnest upon the theme—Abijah Crane. He said:
                  "He, Abijah Crane, was at this house, here in this parlor, out there in the garden, and conversed with you. Is this not so?"
                  "Well, yes, my dear sir: if I must speak—yes, he was; but how you could know it is a mystery"
                  Mr. Flint did not know positively, but suspected it to have occurred as he queried.
                  "And, my dear Miss Smith, he proposed something to you, did he not?"
                  "Oh, Mr. Flint, my dear sir! how can you? how dare you?"
                  Miss Cynthy was of a quick temper: she was not iey now: she was hot—burning, angry.
                  "There—now do keep cool—be calm, dear Miss Cynthy; I ask for their good—the Winchesters, and for your good, for all your happiness; not in idle curiosity. Be calm, keep cool. So, dear Cynthy, tell me of this man's interview with you—in confidence, do."
                  Among many things she mentioned to C. Flint in reply were the following items. Perhaps the narration of our story may unfold the others.
                  "He called here but once lately. He said he had made some discoveries that might be made to be greatly to their advantage and his, and if I accepted his heart and hand would much add to my own happiness. He said if I'd have him he would try to be upright, he would lead an honest life, and honestly he would make us the wealthiest couple in Boston. I fear him. I mistrust him. I of course declined his tempting offer. I could not marry a man I did not, one I could not love, and be I almost hate. I fancy he knows more about some missing papers of the Winchesters than he chooses to tell, or than he is supposed to know about."
                  "The very thing I've long suspected. I'll have an eye on him," said Mr. Flint.
                  A few more confidences on the theme Abijah, and then said C. Flint, Esq.:
                  "Thank you, dear Miss Cynthy, and pray forgive my pressing these questions upon you. Of course you can see the necessity for my doing so. My clients the Winchesters are deeply interested, if it is as we imagine—"
                  "Very true, my dear Mr. Flint; positively I've nothing to forgive."
                  Then said the lady:
                  "Will we walk in the garden, sir?"
                  "With pleasure—very great pleasure."
                  Then offering her his arm they walked out, and after a promenade back and forth, and a little botanical talk, gathering a bouquet, they finally arrived at a pretty, shady, vine-covered bower and sat down.
                  Miss Cynthy Smith had for a time talked quite sensibly and steadily, but in the garden all her gaiety and coquettish manner returned. Said Clement Flint, Esq, by-and-bye to her:
                  "I came, dear Cynthy, to make three investments, I may say: first for you, with some of your funds, and successfully; second, to invest some questions to gain a clue about the friend of whom we've been speaking, also successfully; and now for the most important—the investment of myself, my heart and hand and worldly goods."
                  "Indeed! Why, Mr. Flint, my dear sir!"
                  "Yes, Cynthy; I, as you knew, as you know, loved you, do love you still. Do you love me? Will you invest your heart and love?"
                  "Dear me, sir—give me a moment."
                  "We are, dear Cynthy, a little past the time of life for foolish lovemaking, and knowing each other so well, what say you, dear Cynthy, do you love me? Will you accept the investment? What reply, dear Cynthy?"
                  "Yes—yours."
                  Only these two words; what followed you—may—please imagine.
                  Clement Flint, Esq., thus made his investment. We let the curtain fall.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.—IN WHICH CERTAIN FORMER SUSPICIONS ARE REVIVED, AND OUR LOVERS, ARTHUR AND MARY, ARE PARTED AWHILE.
                  On his way from Rose Bower Cottage to the hotel whither he intended going but did not, the feelings of Clement Flint, Esq., were blissful exceedingly; in fact, so very much so that, as hinted, he did not return to the White Swan; but thinking over the happy termination of his visit, he suddenly found himself in front of the house of the Winchesters, having in his abstraction taken the road leading thither.
                  "Well, to be sure, who'd have thought you would wander so," said C. Flint, Esq., addressing himself. "It is all right, though; I intended coming here, but later in the day. I wish to speak to Mrs. W. about that rascal Abijah. I wonder where he is now."
                  He then entered, and soon was announced duly;
                        THE STAGEDRIVER AND MINE HOST OF THE WHITE SWAN.
                      and in company with Mrs. and Miss Winchester being invited to partake with the ladies of a slight lunch, which he accepted, we leave them, and make a retrograde movement, which is, you know, an author's privilege; and so six years before this date the following transactions took place:
                  Reuben Winchester, the husband of Mrs. Ann Winchester, was a successful Boston merchant; a man of integrity and worth; a noble man; a kind, loving husband; a good, affectionate father; a man who had been beloved by all who knew him, with perhaps but two or three exceptions, and these were envious of him, while they admired. One of these, not an open enemy, yet rather that way secretly, was Abijah Crane, his confidential clerk, having all the confidences of the business in his hands.
                  The Winchesters accepted an invitation to visit their friends in New York city, and thither Mr. Reuben Winchester accompanied his wife and two daughters, intending after a day or so to leave them there, and return home to business. One day, however, riding out on horseback, he had proceeded but a short distance when the horse, being of a frisky, nervous, easily frightened temperament, became alarmed at some white object by the sidewalk, became unmanageable, and suddenly Mr. Winchester was thrown violently against the curbstone, and in less than half an hour he expired.
                  The widow and children returned with the body of their loved one home. Great sorrow was in their hearts, in their house, in the community. But they mourned not without hope—they hoped to meet in the better land, the "land of the hereafter:" they knowing that he had been a Christian man had hope in his death.
                  After the funeral they assembled at home to have the will read of the late Reuben Winchester; but will to read there was none.
                  It was supposed he had certainly made one: where it was, was the mystery. There appeared no record of it even anywhere. Suspicion fell on Abijah Crane, but only in whispers. He had been so fully trusted, and heretofore had been so trustworthy, that they could scarcely say why they thought he knew of a will, had had it or had lost it—why or wherefore they knew not. And upon closely questioning that gentleman, he appeared to be so innocent of even the existence, then or at any time, of said will, that the suspicions subsided, and he was fully trusted as before, and held nearly the same position in the firm of Brown, Boyd & Co., the successors of the late Reuben Winchester.
                  Upon legal settlement of his estate without a will, Mrs. Winchester and daughters still had a moderate income, quite ample for their wants.
                  Six years she resided in the city. Then selling out house, furniture and so forth, she had caused this pretty cottage home in the country to be purchased for her; and, as we have seen, she and her daughter Mary have duly taken possession, and commenced a country life—very pleasantly, only for one thing—one was missing besides Mr. Winchester.
                  Clement Flint, Esq., had been employed by the late Mr. Reuben Winchester as his solicitor and general, outside of his store affairs, business agent; and being a man perfectly reliable, one who knew most of the incomings and outgoings of the family, Mrs. Winchester had still retained, and as a friend also he was ever welcome.
                  It was, therefore, to the keen, wide-awake, smart but rather in most matters medium Clement Flint, Esq., a matter of surprise what had become of the will, and where was some one else? His opinion of Mrs. Abijah Crane was not exalted; he did not put so much confidence in that gentleman, either as to his abilities or honor. He had suspected, he, Abijah, knew where that missing document could be found; but Mr. Flint had no foundation, no clue to rest upon or trace the matter, so with others he had ceased to suspect Mr. Crane.
                  The missing will, dear reader (if you are very curious to know) was not one of the papers in the envelope lost in the pile of stones by Cayuga lake, by Abijah Crane.
                  But after his visit unto, talk with, and investment with Miss Cynthy Smith, the suspicions of Mr. Flint were revived; and upon his statement to and imparting his new knowledge of the affair to Mrs. Winchester and Mary, the lying dormant, sleeping suspicions of those ladies were also aroused; and, upon being convinced that the Abijah Crane of the counting-house in Boston, who wore spectacles and kept his face smoothly shaven, was the same Abijah Crane of no spectacles, but sporting in black moustaches and whiskers, and who they partly recognized at breakfast, was the same person, the identical Abijah, their suspicions amounted almost to certainty.
                  Mr. Crane, you had better haste away from Boston, for a black cloud arises—low thunder is heard—the storm will break!
                  Mr. Flint's account of the current gossip in the town, and at the White Swan, and of the maid Sally's statements of his whisperings of having a secret, overturning furniture, and of his wild doings generally; then the clue Mr. Flint gleaned from Miss Smith, as to why Abijah should do so and so—altogether were calculated to convict Mr. Crane, and to add weight to the suspicions and almost certainty of the Winchesters and Mr. Flint. The clue mentioned as to why he should take, why keep such a document, Mr. Flint thought he saw in the following scraps of Miss Smith's and Miss Mary Winchester's history:
                  After the decease of Titus Crane, her husband, years ago, Mrs. Crane kept a first-class young ladies' school in Boston. Her son being educated at a private school, and he afterwards being placed with Mr. Winchester, from a low position, as has been told, he arose to be that gentleman's clerk. Among the pupils of Mrs. Crane were Miss Mary Winchester and Miss Cynthy Smith, and between these two young ladies quite an intimacy and a warm lasting friendship existed. No secrets had one but what she revealed to the other. Abijah Crane, in his boy days and youth, greatly admired Mary and Cynthy—loved them both, and boy fashion, wanted to marry Mary as soon as they both would be at a proper age, and proposed it to Mary, which very kindly that young lady firmly declined. Then he proposed the same "wait-till-we're-old-enough-then-get-married" to Cynthy, which that young lady laughingly declined, but quite as firmly as Mary had done. Mr. Abijah, the boy and youth, made two or three similar efforts to win these ladies' hearts and hands—one, then the other, at different periods, and always unsuccessfully. Mrs. Winchester also declined his various advances and proposals to her daughter; and so anger, hate, wishes for "revenge on the whole pack," as he said, took possession of him. Mr. Flint knew of these love or matrimonial efforts on the part of the boy, and of the youth, and later of the man Abijah, and surmised that he, Abijah, must have obtained the supposed-to-have-once-existed will, and still held it, or had destroyed it, so as to satisfy his revengeful feelings for more than twice being rejected by Miss Mary Winchester, because its absence would keep her out of a vast fortune, and prevent her holding up her head proudly as the heiress.
                  Miss Cynthy Smith, in those youthful days, had been a merry, light-hearted, inclined to mischief, very much disposed to fun, of the light practical sort, and for this reason sole'y had sometimes encouraged Abijah in his lovemaking to her; so had gained many confidences from him, and led him on to the declaration point—then laughing gaily said "nay." She thus, to a degree, had Abijah, as far as his secrets confided to her went, in her power. She never gave him any of her secrets, or any clue to them.
                  Some time after the decease of Reuben Winchester, Barton Brown, Esq., an East India merchant and uncle of Mrs. Titus Crane, died, leaving a large property to her. Mrs. Crane, thereupon, had broken up school and house and gone abroad to secure her fortune, leaving her son Abijah at home.
                  Mrs. Crane had been very fond of Mary and Cynthy, and on the news of her fortune, she had promised to leave each of those young ladies a handsome legacy.
                  Not long after the arrival of Mrs. Crane in Italy news was received in Boston of her sudden death; also that she had left a will.
                  Mary Winchester and Cynthy Smith, however, had up to the date of this story received no legacies, nor any intimation that the late Mrs. Crane had remembered her promise. Clement Flint thought Abijah Crane knew more of these matters than he chose to tell, and fancied perhaps Mary was remembered, also Cynthy, in the deceased lady's will. However, all this in reference to Abijah were mere surmises or suspicions, and had no facts for foundation of accusation against Abijah Crane.
                  Mrs. Winchester informed Clement Flint, Esq.—Mary having left the room—that Mary had a lover, a worthy gentleman—good as he was handsome, well-doing and very loving towards Mary; and that these young people were duly engaged to be married, to each other at an early day; also, that this Mr. Arthur Harrington, Mary's lover, had an intention to visit Eastern cities, to purchase goods for fall and winter sales—he being a prosperous merchant, and, therefore, in consideration of Arthur Harrington's relation to them at present, and prospective dearer relation very soon, said Mrs. Winchester: "Would it not, sir, be well to take Arthur into our confidence; tell him all necessary details of our history, of my husband and children, of the Cranes, and of our suspicions, of missing documents, and our dear one lost, and let him, on his visit to Boston, try to ferret out the matter; if he finds a will, have it properly attended to; and you to accompany him and aid in the investigations; would it not be well, sir, to do so?"
                  "Quite correct—eminently proper, my dear madam."
                  "To-night, then, he will be here, and we can have a mutual understanding and agreement."
                  "Certainly."
                  Accordingly it was done so at the family circle that evening, and Clement Flint, Esq., remarked: "Now the new firm of Flint & Harrington, or Harrington & Flint, as you will, is duly formed, with the object of searching for lost will or wills, or persons—loss caused by a person named Abijah Crane, who, according to Buzzardville report, is 'insane'—is 'a queer customer'—is the man who said in whispers and aloud. 'I've a secret—I'll keep it secret?'"
                  "Exactly, and we will work hard to prove he is not insane, but a sane rascal, or I'm mistaken in the powers of the new firm of Flint & Harrington," laughingly replied Arthur.
                  Then business was dropped, and music, singing, and light pleasant conversation dissipated genially another period of evening time.
                  C. Flint, Esq., then, shortly after, said "Good-night, friends," and repaired to his hotel.
                  Mrs. Winchester retired early with a severe headache and mind disturbed by these recent worryings and revealings.
                  Mary and Arthur were lovers, my friend. They were left alone. Reader, we had better leave them alone, too. Three is not company, you know—so how could four be? as you, I, Mary and Arthur would be four—so come away.
                  Two days after Mary Winchester and Arthur Harrington said good-bye, etc., etc., and parted.
                  In due time thereafter the new firm of Flint & Harrington, or Harrington & Flint, arrived in Boston, stopped at the American House, and proceeded with their proposed business. Clement Flint, Esq., had encountered Wild Bessie of the Wood occasionally in his walks, and looking at her and thinking about her, he concluded he had found a clue to another mysterious unravelment.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.—IN WHICH MRS. DOBSON CONCLUDES THAT THERE IS SOMETHING GOING WRONG IN THE HOUSE.
                  MYRTLE GROVE was the name given to her new home by Miss Mary Winchester.
                  About three weeks there passed pleasantly since the new firm had left for the eastward, and nearly every day the postman brought a letter from Mr. Flint to Mrs. Winchester or from Mr. Harrington to Mary. These letters caused quite a number of conversations alone between mother and daughter. Their contents they did not wish known in the household; therefore, if any one came into the room while they talked of these things, the speaker would suddenly cease or her voice would subside into a whisper, or they perhaps would change the subject of conversation.
                  Mrs. Dobson, the housekeeper, had always known what was going on, and the reason why of most of the Winchesters doings. And if anything like a secret was about she had a share in it, and was expected to keep it securely. But these days there had been interviews and talks, letters coming and going, and not a word of reference to the matter had been confided to Mrs. Dobson. So at Myrtle Grove she remained in blissful ignorance.
                  Now Mrs. Dobson was a worthy woman—a woman in a thousand—an excellent housekeeper, and perfectly reliable. She was of an inquiring mind, and this state of things was extremely irritating to her. She thought she should know about these things—of course she should—and therefore to her brother Benjamin, the gardener at the Grove, she remarked one day:
                  "This secresy on their parts is aggravating, so it is, Ben!"
                  "Never mind, Alice, keep dark—keep cool. Nothing like being cool; take life easy. It's the best way, my dear."
                  "Oh. yes, of course! That's your song always, What's to warm you, I wonder? Tending flowers, cutting grass, planting seed, trimming and smelling the beautiful flowers, you can keep cool. You've no curiosity neither. Pshaw!"
                  "Well, Alice, what's wrong? What makes you think there is anything amiss."
                  "I don't know. I can't see the good of all the goings on, I'm sure. There's Miss Mary taken up that little brat that's been wandering all over the land, Wild Bessie, wild enough, too."
                  "That's benevolence, Alice."
                  "Yes; they fancy she looks like Ella Winchester would do if she was alive. Poor child! I guess she's been dead enough long ago. Then Miss Mary pets, and teaches, and dresses this Bessie, and is as loving as can be with her—but I'm not consulted."
                  "Ah! Are you mistress, Alice?"
                  "No, I'm not, impudence; but—"
                  "Well, then, what's it your business, I wonder?"
                  "No, it isn't. But I see some likeness, too, and I like the child, too, for she is pretty and will be good, too, under Miss Mary's hands. And I want to be consulted like I used to be. Mrs. Winchester formerly asked me for my opinion; but—oh, dear!—those days are gone by, I suppose. And it's strange goings on all the time. I'm sure there's something going wrong in the house. And I not consulted—I not to know it beforehand! I, who have been her housekeeper all these years, ever since she married that handsome, good, sensible man, Mr. Winchester. I not to know! It's too bad—it's aggravating—it's making me nervous. Not consult me, indeed!"
                  Here Mrs. Dobson stamped her right foot with considerable energy, her eyes flashing fire, so to say, and then melting into tears, the latter coming opportunely to put the other out.
                  "Oh, never you mind, Alice; why fret about anything. Keep cool and comfortable. There, don't cry; take it easy. I do, you know."
                  "Yes, you are too cool, Ben—too easy by half. Yours is good advice, very likely; but I can't be cool—can't be easy. There, I will know!"
                  Another stamp or two, her arms folded, her lips closed.
                  "Well, sis, I advise you to be careful. Too much learning, you know—"
                  Before he could finish the sentence Mrs. Alice Dobson placed her broad, red, smooth hand over his mouth, and stage-whispered:
                  "Hush!"
                  They were in the garden, and she seeing the ladies approaching within hearing distance, Mrs. Dobson thus terminated the dialogue, only adding, also, in a whisper:
                  "Hush, Ben; there's something going wrong, I know."
                  Mary Winchester came along with Wild Bessie beside her, the latter not so wild, not so untidy as she was less than three weeks before. Mary had found her in the woods, spoken kindly to her, and had had her interest awakened in her by her loneliness and the real or fancied likeness between her and her little sister, long lost. Therefore she had Bessie come to Myrtle Grove part of every day, to be attended to kindly and instructed; and even in these three weeks Bessie had perceptibly improved. She watched herself to keep person and dress neat and clean, whole and tidy, because, as she said, "Dear Mary wished her to do so." Mary imagined that Bessie would prove apt and quick at learning, so she had arranged to prepare Bessie for entering the Buzzardville Academy for Girls and Boys, kept by Mr. and Mrs. Slasher.
                  That day above mentioned, as they came through the garden, Mary and Bessie gathered flowers and talked cheerily, while Mrs. Winchester entered the house. Mrs. Dobson had withdrawn to her sphere of usefulness indoors, and her brother Ben to his out of doors.
                  Mrs. Dobson and Sophie, the housemaid, met on the second landing of the stairs.
                  "Hard at it, Sophie; always busy, you are."
                  "Yes, ma'am, I try to be; I hopes I does my duty. But as Mrs. Planck says, people don't always get credit for doing their duty, says she. But, Mrs. Dobson. what's up now?"
                  "How up? What do you mean?"
                  And as spoke Mrs. Dobson fixed her gaze on Sophie with those brilliant black eyes, and crossing her very white and really pretty-shaped arms on the bannister, she leaned there and awaited Sophie's reply.
                  "Why, just this, ma'am. Cook and I are bothered about what mistress can mean. Cook says Mrs. Winchester says, 'Cook, so and so for dinner,' says she; then before that can be done orders comes for something else. So with my work; orders come for me to do this and then to don't; and it's now so and so, and then it's orders for other so and so, and after all, we have or do some other so and so quite different. So, as I says to cook, says I. 'What's up?' and cook says to me, says she, 'Sophie, what's up?' Just what I ask you, ma'am—what's up?"
                  Sophie was a hearty, fresh, rosy, fair, good-looking girl, and excellent worker, aged about twenty, and as she spoke, rolling the dustrag around her hands and arms, and looking really very anxious, Mrs. Dobson whispered, "Come closer, Sophie." Then that lady, placing her forefinger on her lips, knowingly, in a deep whisper said:
                  "Sophie, my dear, I suspicion there is something going wrong in the house."
                  "Indeed, ma'am—just so, I think; and I do—"
                  But at this point the conversation was interrupted by their hearing the voice of Mrs. Winchester calling, from the parlor door:
                  "Sophie, please come here a moment."
                  That young woman obeyed the summons, and Mrs. Dobson, passing to her chamber, entered, closed the door, and disappeared.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.—IN WHICH IT IS REPORTED THAT ONE OF OUR CHARACTERS HAS "SAILED AWAY, SAILED AWAY"—ALSO IN WHICH THE REV. SIMEON SIMONS IS REQUESTED TO PERFORM A CEREMONY.
                  MR. SAMUEL OGLE and his stage arrived every other day at the door of the White Swan Hotel.
                  The hours of his arrival, as Mrs. Partington would remark, "were very various," they being regulated by the comings and goings of the railroad trains and by other circumstances.
                  On the fifth day after the exit of Abijah Crane from the hotel, Mr. Ogle drove his four handsome bays, with the coach rattling behind them, about the hour of six P.M., up before that house of good cheer.
                  "Here we are! Hello, Mr. Trotter!"
                  Mine host appeared in the doorway with his clean white apron on, his face clean shaved, and beaming with happiness and hearty welcome to the four guests Mr. Ogle had brought to him.
                  "Ear—ly—to-day—Sam—u—el! Ver—y—ear—ly!"
                  "Well, yes, sir, rather so. You see the train came along quicker'n usual; it had somebody of great importance and authority in the land, I don't know who, and was taking him quick to somewhere, I don't know where, and left him on the road to take somebody's stage to go to some other place. I don't know who's. I don't care; so don't ask me, that's all."
                  "They—couldn't—have—stopped—long at—a time—at the—stations—Sam—u—el—could—they?"
                  "No, sir, they didn't stop at all. Great man aboard—great sensation—great hurry. But, come, Mike, my good fellow, let's have a good, strong, wholesome drink—a stiffener—that will warm all the way down."
                  "That—you—shall have—right quickly—right quickly—Sam—u—el—some—of my—very—best."
                  "Well, what news have you, Mike?"
                  "Noth—ing—to speak of—noth—ing—at all—in fact. We are ab—out—the same to-day—as—yes—ter—day—and then—as—the day—be—fore. Ab—out—the same."
                  "I bought a New York paper, Mike, so I guess I've some news."
                  "And—Sam—u—el—who should—have news—but you? You—the—greatest—sta—ger—in the—land!"
                  Mr. Mike Trotter was fond of flattering his friends, and was always polite and genial, perhaps to gain patronage thereby. He took a cheerful view of all earthly and temporal matters. Hale and hearty, why should he worry or care? A merry bachelor was mine host, and immensely popular among the citizens of and visitors to Buzzardville.
                  After supper Mr. Ogle returned to the little room adjoining the bar, received a fresh instalment drink, and sitting in an easy chair, he tilted it back against the wall, and stretching his limbs—"walkers," not arms—out ward before him, rested his heels on the edge of the table, and in this very elegant and gentlemanly posture he produced his paper, and spellingly read, letter by letter, to the great edification of his sole auditor, mine host. After thus getting over some local news of the city of Gotham, a murder or so, a theft or two, one to several fires, the stock column, and the lists of wants, some political and otherwise editorials, he, turning to another part of the paper, found the list of passengers sailing that day per steamer for Europe, and among the names spelled out:
                  "Ab—Ab—i jah—Abijah Flint."
                  "Why—that's—that—queer—cus—to—me r—of mine again. Won—der—why—he—be—going—to—th at—country—for," said Mr. Trotter.
                  "Well, I reckon, Mike, he's business there. Maybe he's getting worse in his mind; want's to get another secret, maybe; want's a change anyhow. By-the-bye, did you find out that secret of his?"
                  "No, Sam—u—el. No! It's—hid'n—in—his—own—bosom—still. It—must—worry—him awful—Sam—u—el."
                  "Yes, I 'spose so it does. But why on earth don't he tell it to folks, and so get rid of his worry? He could have told us; we wouldn't repeat it, you know, would we? Of course not. If I had a secret—which I haven't, nor never had; nobody would trust me with one—but if I had one, and it plagued my life, I'd tell it—I would. I'd like to know that funny chap's, though!"
                  "So—should—I—Sam—u—el—so—should—but—it—isn't—to—be; and what—isn't—to be won't—be—so—there. Then—what's—the—use Sam—u—el—of us mind—ing—any—thing ab—ou it—eh? Never—mix—up—into—other—folks'—trou bles. It's—only—get—ting—your—self—into—the fire—my—boy."
                  "And get one's fingers burnt at least, Mike—ge singed, anyways. Still, I'd like to fathom yon chap's mystery."
                  "Yes, just—so—but—nev—er—mind—him nev—er—mind. Let—'em—alone—for them—as has—deep—se—crets—is no good. No—good—you—may—de—pend—on't.
                  "Why, Mike, it isn't wrong to have a secret?"
                  "Well—no—not—always. Now—there—are—some—cases—some cases—mind—where—a—confidence—may—be—made. Wherein—and where—be—it would—be—wrong—or do—some—body—a wrong—to re—veal."
                  "I suppose you refer to them as lovers and married people have between 'em. They have secrets—deep as the sea, too—sometimes. Don't they?"
                  "It—is—quite—likely—that—that's so—such may—have—per—haps—they do. Per—haps—them's—the—ones—I allude—to—as can—have and—best—keep—them—con—fi—dences—and—se—crets—se—cret—Sam—u—el."
                  "Old bachelors like you, Mike, and I, should not have any secrets, eh?"
                  "No, sir! Single—folks—be—they—bachelors—or—maid—ens—have—nothing—should—have—nothing—to—do —with—secrets. Nev—er—Sam—u—el. Any—more—news—there?"
                  "Yes," said Mr. Ogle, referring to the paper, and in his style of reading. "Here's another item, headed capital A capital W—little i n d—A Wind—f a—double l—fall—A Windfall."
                  "Ah, Sam—u—el—that's—good—let's hear—who—got—it."
                  Reading further, spellingly, from first to last Mr. Ogle announced this item:
                  "It gives us great pleasure to record the good fortune which may from time to time come upon any of our fellow-citizens. The last case of this kind is that of a large estate in the East Indies of great value, to which our much esteemed and influential fellow-citizen, Abijah Crane, Esq., has lately fallen heir. His mother inherited the property from her uncle, the late Barton Brown, Esq., and was but just entered upon its enjoyment when she too died. Some months we believe have elapsed since her decease, and but recently her will has been found, proved, and so forth; and A. Crane, Esq., is now the happy possessor thereof. We congratulate him on the occasion. We wish him a pleasant voyage across the ocean, and a long life to enjoy his good fortune. He leaves us this morning in the steamer outward bound."
                  "Here, Mike, that takes my breath away; replenish the pewter, do."
                  Which being replenished accordingly, Mr. Ogle said further:
                  "There! I'll bet something handsome that that fortune was his secret; and for fear he wouldn't get it, he worried himself almost sick."
                  "I—don't—know—I'm not—so—sure of—that—I rather—in—cline—Sam—u—el—to think—he'd—done—some—wrong—sometimes—he's—sorry for do—ing—and—that's—what—plagued him—so—much—and more'—n—half crazed—him. A queer cus—tomer—he was—a ver—y—queer—custom—er."
                  "Yes, so he was; and that may be so, as you say, yet I'll bet I'm near right. Guess he wants to keep the whole of the fortune. How to do it would worry anybody."
                  
                  A call "for drinks all around," coming from the bar, Mr. Trotter left to prepare them, and wait upon and talk with half-a-dozen rough-and-ready customers.
                  Mr. Ogle—for sometime being left alone—quietly dropped his newspaper, closed one eye, then the other; was a little uneasy awhile; breathed heavily; lapsed into a dreamy state; snored; and as Mr. Micawber would say, "In short, was asleep." Sleeping—and sleeping, dreaming; dreaming of secrets dark and dire. Secrets, gay and happy; and of up hill and down dale on his coach, and of silver and gold so bright.
                  Clement Flint, Esq, duly returned to the village of Buzzardville, and reported to Miss Winchester the results of the investigations by the firm of Flint & Harrington.
                  He imparted to her the news about Mr. Crane, his fortune and departure; also, further, that Mrs. Crane had died in Italy—her executors were there, at Rome, he thought, waiting for the coming of Abijah. No will, nor trace of any, of the late Mr. Winchester could be found, nor any clue to other things he and Arthur had been in search of. This was what they had anticipated. A disappointment, certainly; yet time tempers sorrow, and it seemed long since those dark days to Mrs. Winchester and Mary, that they did not feel it so much, and had, in a measure, given up their expectations of a fortune, as a thing not attainable. So they were pretty well resigned to this last disappointment.
                  Arthur Harrington remained at New York for some days longer, on his own business.
                  Clement Flint, Esq., after duly consulting a person deeply interested in the matter, one day called upon the Rev. Simeon Simons, the New School Presbyterian minister of Buzzardville. In the course of a very pleasant and satisfactory interview, he requested that gentleman to—in a line—unite Miss Cynthy Smith and himself, C. Flint, Esq., matrimonially, on the morning of that day fortnight. Which request being unanimously agreed unto, Clement Flint, Esq., thanked the pastor, shook hands, and bade him good-day. Then that happy "solicitor," a few moments after, sat lovingly beside his investment, on the sofa, in the parlor of Rose Bower Cottage.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.—IN WHICH IT APPEARS. "LITTLE WILD BESSIE OF THE WOOD" IS NOT SO WILD AS LORMERLY, BUT TAKES A LESSON FROM MISS MARY—HAS A TEA-PARTY, AND FINDS A NEW HOME.
                  MRS. WINCHESTER and her beautiful daughter Mary, quietly, without any display, performed good work from the day they first came to Buzzardville, and onward during their residence there. Evidences of this were everywhere. The poor were better off, were happier, met these ladies with smiling faces, their hearts gladdened. The old people at the hut—grandpa and granny—received many tokens of their kindness and benevolence, and their last days were their best, through those ladies' good works in their behalf.
                  A great amount of good can be effected by a very small outlay of time, love, talents, money. More real benefits can be thus conferred in a quiet way than even by the spreading abroad of, much wealth with great clat—or by noise, bustle and display accompaniments.
                  Little Bessie was early a recipient of the Winchesters' kindness.
                  One day—as had become a usual custom there—Bessie was at Myrtle Grove, in the cosy apartments of Miss Mary Winchester, seated in a low rocker chair beside her patroness and now loved friend, dear Miss Mary.
                  That lady had two conveniently and nicely furnished rooms. One, a boudoir, or sitting-room; the other, a chamber, or sleeping apartment; these separated by blue silk curtains and curtains of lace instead of folding doors, being Mary's taste, and she having caused the removal of the doors. The silk curtains were within the chamber; the lace fell in heavy folds within the other room.
                  Her blue-walled chamber, white-curtained windows and bed, and comfort-suggesting carpets, furniture and appliances, made that a very cosy, pleasant, sleep-invoking, rest-and-peace-producing apartment. Cooling, refreshing, soothing, very. Then that boudoir of Mary's was an exquisite, joyous-loving, suggestive nook, with its dark, prettily-carpeted floor; its books, paintings; the one in a handsome case and some strewed on the table, handy for reading; the others hung upon the walls for inspection. The sofa and easy chairs, ottomans. The writingdesk and workstand—each with every needful article supplied. The wirestand, in steps form, with pots of rare flowers and plants; and in the cages, by the window, the sweetly-singing canaries, formed a picture which only required the beautiful face and form of Mary Winchester, and the pretty, innocent, curly-haired, still half-wild girl, Bessie, to make irresistibly attractive.
                  Very few people indeed, however, had access to those pleasant rooms. Mrs. Winchester had carte blanche to visit both, occasionally, and now so had little Bessie. Mrs. Dobson was very seldom admitted, and only on household business. Sophie, the pretty housemaid, had her "call" to go there every morning, "to tidy, and so forth, up a bit."
                  The windows of both these apartments looked out upon the garden, upon the fields adjoining, and beyond upon the waters of the beautiful lake Cayuga.
                  Both Mrs. Winchester and Mary took great interest in the welfare and progress of little Bessie. They looked after her. Had her frequently to visit them. Presented her with needful and useful articles. They tried to polish, tame, make her better, and so being better—happier.
                  They saw, or thought they did, good in her—slumbering talents; seed, that if properly cared for and cultivated, would grow and produce good fruits. They hoped that in good time this now little wild maiden would become the gentle, refined, lady-like girl, and then the respected, educated and honored beautiful gentlewoman.
                  It was a great and good work, and mostly it devolved on Mary to polish the casket, to seek for and bring the diamond to view.
                  Very quietly, gently and lovingly performed; and with great success.
                  One morning, as mentioned, Mary and Bessie were seated side by side; the former busily sewing, the latter as busily studying a lesson in the first stage of her education.
                  Mrs. Winchester had gone out on a round of visits to the poor of Buzzardville, and thinking of removing Bessie's old friends from the hut to more comfortable quarters, and of doing something in the same way for the little girl.
                  Blessings followed her footsteps; blessing others, she was blessed.
                  "Miss Mary, I think I know this now" said Bessie.
                  "Let me hear you."
                  And Bessie recited her little lesson satisfactorily.
                  "Now, dear Bessie, one more, a short one it is, too; you try to learn it, and recite both of the lessons when I return. I have a little work to do downstairs—that's a good girl."
                  Yes, I will, dear Miss Mary," and Bessie put up her pretty rosebud of a mouth for a kiss.
                  Then Mary left her alone for nearly an hour.
                  Meanwhile Bessie was diligent at her book; but pause she would, for a moment, once and a while, at the pleasant thought—"How good Miss Mary is to me. Isn't she nice? I'll try to be good like her. I will please her—dear, beautiful, kind Miss Mary," and so on.
                  Miss Mary Winchester returned, and asked,
                  "How do you get on?"
                  "Right nicely. I'll know this soon, and say them to you."
                  "Recite, dear, you should say."
                  "Well, yes, recite both, dear Miss Mary."
                  "Do so, but don't hurry; it is better to study and learn all you can of a lesson, before reciting it."
                  "I'll try."
                  "And, Bessie, if you know your lesson well, as you have been so good and attentive, I'll tell you something pleasant."
                  "Yes, ma'am. I'll be good, dear Miss Mary, I love you so much," and the rosebuds were gathered into kissable shape for a kiss, or more, which Mary gladly gave.
                  Then the little head bent over the book; and the hair, now nicely combed and arranged, fell in rich, dark curls upon her shoulders—fair, clean, white shoulders now.
                  Pleasant thoughts Mary seemed to have, as she plied her needle and thread, and now and again looked up at Bessie; and now and then spoke to her pretty singing canary birds. A pretty picture. A happy hour.
                  Bessie, after awhile, was ready; recited well, and was relieved from study for the rest of the day. Mary did not task her, but made it a pleasant affair to study. She said:
                  "Dear Bessie, you are to remain with us all day, and to-night; and you shall have a tea-party, my love. Shall you like it?"
                  "Oh, yes, dear Miss Mary, how pleasant that will be," and she danced around the room, gaily; and she and the canaries vieing with each other which could sing most cheerily.
                  In the afternoon the young company assembled in the parlor. Little Bessie was in ecstacies of delight.
                  In the parlor, on this unusual occasion, a table was spread, laden with all that could charm the palate or gladden the hearts of the some twenty boys and girls there, who had come to Little Bessie's tea-party.
                  Fair, good manners and healthful appetites they all seemed to have; and their happy, gay laughter and merry voices were pleasant to hear. At tea, and afterwards, Little Bessie was in a bewildering dream of delight.
                  After tea, and the table had been removed and things made tidy again, the young people played Copenhagen, pawns, blind-man's-buff, pussy wants a corner, enigmas and other games of merry childhood. Mary Winchester once and awhile played and sang for them; and they were a gay company of little folk indeed.
                  Shortly after nine o'clock P. M. "parents and guardians" arrived, remained awhile, then accompanied the little friends of Bessie to their homes. So they dispersed; the lights were extinguished. Bessie slept soundly beside dear Miss Mary, in the pretty bed in the blue chamber.
                  And little Bessie's tea-party was over.
                  One day, a month subsequently to this pleasant event, a sad one occurred, followed by another a week afterwards. These were first the decease and burial of grandpa of the hut, and the decease and burial of granny.
                  These two were not related, but starting to live in the same hut for mutual benefit, a mutual affection sprung up between them.
                  Poverty and sorrow had been their lot, and in old age the death summons came. One real mourner only followed them to the green graveyard, their place of rest—Little Bessie.
                  Bessie wept for them loving tears.
                  Mrs. Winchester took Bessie home with her after the second burial; and so little Bessie found a new home—a happy home at Myrtle Grove, and as the days went on she improved rapidly.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.—IN WHICH SMITH BECOMES FLINT—ALSO ARTHUR RETURNS, AND A DAY FOR A SIMILAR CEREMONY IS APPOINTED.
                  "IT is not good for man to be alone" has been wisely said—and, of course, it is not good for woman either; and I rather think that if several single people with whom I am acquainted, and lots of others with whom I am not familiar, had, in their youthful days, at proper ages, looked about for companions—matrimonial—and not have been discouraged by one or two disappointments, like the lady or the gentleman they had set their hearts upon marrying some other, instead of them, but tried and tried again, like the song, it would have been good for them—better for them; and in their married capacity they would have been more useful, happier, than as single folks. If all courtship's ending in marriage began, continued and ended happily, as about two-thirds of those entered into, contracted and consummated, are said to do, that would still be true—it is not good to be alone. So all single people of proper age had better hasten into the bonds immediately; certainly when marriages are happy—each party satisfied as much so as is possible for poor humanity to be satisfied—each loving the other truly, faithfully, it would seem much better than the solitariness, the want of love
                     
                        THE DESERTED HUT IN THE WOODS.
                      and comfort of single life. On the whole, it is better to be married than single.
                  It is the parties' own fault if their union is not pleasant and happy. They should mutually be well acquainted before entering into the "solemn league and covenant." They should look before they leap; tread the pathways of the garden of love lightly, gently. They should feel the golden chain, and see if it be not iron, before therewith they bind hearts or hands.
                  Miss Cynthy Smith, at her home, was busy here and there, back and forth, in household affairs, and thinking of her ever being married. "It's really ridiculous, at my time of life—but no, it is not good for man to be alone—now, how true that is;" and some thought's as are here before set down flitted through her mind. That same day Clement Flint's thoughts were much the same, or on the same subject, which is strange, yet a coincidence often observable in the thoughts, words, acts or feelings between lovers, wives or husbands.
                  He was on his way from the White Swan to Rose Bower, to see "my dear," as he contemplated the leap he was about to take from the precipice of bachelerhood into the uncertain sea of matrimony. "But I love Cynthy—she loves me," was his consoling reflection as he was admitted to the cottage, where, finding Miss Cynthy Smith was "at home" to him, he entered the parlor, sat down, and, as he usually did wherever he was, made himself at home also.
                  Clement Flint's business in the city being pressing, he could spare but a day or so at a time to Buzzardville. So he much desired to hasten his marriage with Miss Cynthy take her to his home, and so not have to leave his business so frequently.
                  He had found spare time for several tender, pathetic and loving interviews with the lady of his heart in the garden, the bower, the pretty parlor, and at the last of these pleasant occasions he had persuaded Miss Cynthy Smith to name the day; and so the nuptials in which they two should be made one (which, by-the-bye, is the only time—wedding ceremonies—when the addition of one and one can be said to make one; don't it sometimes make, as "Bones" says, ten—she one, he nought?) were to take place the next Thursday morning (that being Tuesday), quietly, in church, by the Reverend Simeon Simons.
                  The two bridesmaids, two groomsmen, Mrs. Winchester and daughter, Arthur Harrington, Mr. Mike Trotter, mine host, by particular request, and some half dozen relatives and very intimate friends of Miss Cynthy, were all that were invited and that were expected to be present at the ceremony of Smith becoming Flint.
                  But Mr. Flint has been quietly seated all this while in the parlor. Presently a door opens, a dress rustles, and the bride that is to be next Thursday approaches—both hands outstretched, eyes beaming gladness and love, face glowing, lips wreathed in smiles, voice gentle and kindly.
                  "I have kept you waiting a long time, my dear Clement; pray excuse me. How are you, my dear?"
                  "I'm well, love; I've been thinking—waiting and thinking."
                  "Thinking, indeed? of what, may I ask?"
                  "That marriage is not a lottery."
                  "Ah, indeed! I think so, too; it is not."
                  "And Cynthy, my love, that there are more chances in one than the other sort of life."
                  "In which?"
                  "I concluded which just as you came in the parlor."
                  "That there were more chances, dear Clement, of happiness in married than in single life?"
                  "Yes, my love. "Why, single-blessedness, pshaw! that's all humbug."
                  "I trust we will find it is so in our union, Clement, my own love."
                  "So do I hope so; sincerely I trust so."
                  "Everybody should get married who can; that is our creed—is it not, dear?"
                  "Cynthy, my love, it is."
                  After some more pathetic, tender, or, perhaps, I had better say loving conversation, with kisses occasionally included, they adjourned to the arbor in the garden, to discuss the more serious, drier details of arrangement for the approaching "happy day," next Thursday.
                  There we will leave them a while, if you please, and walk over to Myrtle Grove, and pay our friends there a visit.
                  Mrs. Winchester, seated on the sofa by the window, is arrayed in a closely and neatly-fitting black silk dress, a pretty lace collar around her throat, attached by a small gold ebony pin. She has been reading, and the volume rests on her lap. At a little space from her sits Mary, looking charmingly in her white dress, a white rose in her hair, a red rose and violets in her bosom, a light pink scarf thrown around her neck, and pretty finely shaped, dazzlingly white shoulders. Very lovely she looked, indeed. Mary was interested in crocheting and pleasant dreams—dreaming, thinking of Arthur, of his return, of a pretty home somewhere, flowers and sunlight around it, love and joy within it. Little Bessie was there too. She was growing prettier and lovelier every day—quickly improving. That day she had been very studious; had had her run, and play, and now, weary with all, was sleeping gently—and she, too, probably dreaming of very pleasant things.
                  A quiet, happy home scene—is it not?
                  Arthur Harrington thought it was such; and no lovelier he had ever looked upon as he came in upon them an hour after his return from New York to Buzzardville.
                  They all arose at his entrance and received him with great gladness. Bessie awaked with a start, and with a run and jump was beside Arthur, and upon his knee so soon as he sat down, and with her arms (not soiled now) around his neck, had given and received kisses of welcome. She also learned to love Arthur Harrington. Every one almost esteemed, respected, loved him; and truly he deserved it all, if ever man did—he, a good, true noble man.
                  He received his invitation, by special desire of Miss Cynthy Smith, to be present at the wedding, from Mary, who had had it in charge for him since yesterday.
                  The Thursday came. Little Bessie accompanied Mrs. Winchester. Arthur, of course, went thither with Mary; and they all duly arrived at the church amid the trees and the graves.
                  "How people may reckon without their host," as the saying is—make arrangements that so-and-so shall be so-and-so, when, as the real result, it proves to be quite a different so-and-so.
                  This was the case in this instance.
                  One happy pair, who had really anticipated seeing but about fifteen or so present—a select few—found, on the arrival of the bridal party at the church, that edifice full to overflowing. It seemed as if all Buzzardville filled the pews, galleries and aisles.
                  The way was cleared for them, however, and no rents occurred, we believe.
                  The bride in white, the groom in black, except waistcoat, which was white; the attendants, ladies, in white, plenty of flowers (natural ones); the gentlemen in black (exception white waistcoats); all looked finely—the bride, of course, blushing, and appeared charmingly.
                  The ceremony was performed happily. They received the pastor's blessing. Kind friends thronged around them. Congratulations and wishes for eternities of happiness, &c., &c., followed them to the carriage, and, as they drove away towards the railway station, three hearty cheers went forth, startling the air, in their behalf. They held no reception, but went away to Clement Flint's home in Boston immediately. Duly they arrived and began what promised to be a happy, prosperous, married life. Arthur Harrington undertook the charge of Cynthy's home, furniture, &c., and their proper disposal, also of the correspondence in reference to Mrs. Winchester's affairs with C. Flint, Esq.
                  Whether such things as lovemakings, courtships, weddings, and the like pleasantries, are similar in their effects to some fevers, diseases, and so on—that is, catching, contagious or not, I cannot positively state. However, it is certainly the fact that on their return to Myrtle Grove, and after tea that evening, Mary and Arthur being alone, they did speak of their own wedding as a possible fact, and did then and there appoint a day and hour in which they would go and do likewise. This matter being imparted gently to their mother, I may say, was approved of highly by that lady. So, if anything could have made these people happier, that naming of the day did. A very pleasant evening they passed together—mostly Mary and Arthur, you know, for, in her wisdom, mother and Bessie thought lovers had best be alone by themselves. So they two retired to bed early.
                  It was late, however, when Arthur retired to his. Strange, very!
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.—IN WHICH ONE YEAR HAVING PASSED, THE DOINGS THEREOF ARE REVIEWED.
                  SECONDS into minutes, these into hours, days, weeks, months blended, and one year, with its sorrows and joys, lights and shadows, death and life, glided peacefully away, so far as Buzzardville and its populace were concerned, inclusive of our friends, there, in whom, I trust, you are interested.
                  Clement Flint, Esq., and lady spent a very joyous honeymoon. First they took a bridal trip, and thereafter returned to Boston and settled quietly and pleasantly in the new, handsomely furnished home made ready by C. Flint, Esq., for them, before their marriage.
                  Mr. Flint had been on business visits three times, and Mrs. Flint on social visits twice to Buzzardville.
                  No news all the year further from A. Crane, however, except one letter to Boston, and no clue to the Secret's solution.
                  These twelve months past Mary Winchester and Bessie's love for each other grew and strengthened, and little Bessie's wildness had all fled, and she, in every point of view, had greatly improved. Now she was learning quickly, and was a little beauty, a lovable and loving little girl. During the year a stranger had come to Buzzardville, and taken up his abode there. He was the Reverend Archibald Webb, aged about nineteen—quite a youthful minister, indeed, in appearance as well as in years. Handsome he was, tall and well-proportioned, owned a sweet, clear, organ-toned voice, which he could handle at his will; and over the Episcopal church, soon after he came there, he was placed as shepherd or rector, and he fulfilled the expectations of the people, and was the most acceptable and popular as he was the youngest minister they had ever had.
                  Meanwhile, Arthur Harrington, in the parlor and in the garden, had been a constant visitor at Myrtle Grove, and his flame of love for the beautiful lady of his heart, Mary, burned constantly and brightly. During the year, also nothing further mysterious happening, Mrs. Dobson had come to the conclusion that it was all right, and that there was not anything going wrong in the house.
                  This lady had had an offer from a neighbor, a well-to-do farmer, a widower, to become his second wife's successor; but Mrs. Dobson, being well satisfied with her position and home at Myrtle Grove, graciously but firmly declined the honor.
                  
                  One side of the old hut in the wood had fallen in, and in corners and chinks and every available place the rats, the spiders, the worms and birds have prepared their holes, their webs and nests; and the weeds and damp and dust and decay have seized upon the poor old hut, and its days are numbered. It is fast crumbling to ruins. and Bessie's old workbox lies away in the corner of the closet, forgotten.
                  Miss Mary Winchester had given Bessie a pretty, all complete workbox, and in her hasty removal from the hut a year and more ago she forgot the old one, and left it to the moths and dust. It being a dry inner closet, and the box in the driest corner of it, and the envelope inside the box, we many suppose a secret therein would come out of its hiding-place in the darkness uninjured, if any one ever should find it there.
                  Also during the year a letter form Abijah Crane was received by Brown, Boyd & Co., at Boston. You may remember this firm were successors of the late Reuben Winchester, and Abijah Crane had been continued with them as clerk until his good fortune befel him.
                  The consequence of this letter was a search in the great fireproof for an eighteen inch each way iron box, labelled "Private Papers of A. Crane." They found the box, but found no key. So a difficulty arose—how to open it. To blow it open would be apt to ruin the whole box. So B., B. & Co. resolved to write to and hear further from Abijah Crane in regard thereto. This resolution to write to him was strengthened by the opinion of a locksmith whom they summoned, and who thought powder would blow the whole concern, that is box and contents, up; and his picklock efforts were unsuccessful.
                  During this year under review, Miss Sophie, housemaid at Myrtle Grove, had been successfully courted, or wooed, by a red-faced, large-nosed, sandy-haired and whiskered, deep blue-eyed, common sized, hard-working, true as steel, loving, kind hearted boy, two years over age. He paid her a tantive attentions devotedly eight months of the year, and one morning of the said eighth month—having won her heart and hand, and savings in the bank—Sophie blushingly became Mrs. Bob White, and Kitty Trump reigned in her stead as housemaid at Myrtle Grove.
                  Four months, then, this pair have happily dwelt in harmony together in a small, neat cottage home—Bob White, owner.
                  Mrs. Winchester, Mary, Bessie, and some of the ladies of first and some of second degree in the Buzzardville circles, visit Mr. and Mrs. Bob White and make them happy, and always are welcome.
                  So changes have been rung on the chords of Time, and Buzzardville has had a pleasant share.
                  I have been told not a single death occurred there a I this period we have written about. This year fled away to join the more than six thousand years gone before.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.—IN WHICH THE SECRCY OF THE SECRET SEEMS LESS SECURE BY CIRCUMSTANCES TRANSPIRING.
                  ANOTHER month comfortably slipped past.
                  One day Mrs. Winchester, weary with household cares, had just sat down to have, as she was accustomed to say, "a chat into myself all alone," when the postman came to the door, and soon after Mrs. Dobson entered with several letters. So Mrs. Winchester postponed her reveries, and began to read those of the letters addressed to herself.
                  Of all these, but one, I think, is of moment in this history.
                  It was from Abijah Crane, dated at Rome, and was as follows, verbatim et literatim:
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MRS. ANNA WINCHESTER—MADAM: Doubtless rumor had inferred you of my unexpectedly inheriting a large fortune, in estates, stocks and cash down, from my mother, which all was left to her by her uncle, Barton Brown, Esq. There were two exceptions in her will to my inheriting the whole; one was a legacy of $5,000 to your daughter, Miss Mary Winchester; one of $3,000 to Miss Cynthy Smith. I have forwarded the instructions, papers, etc., to Clement Flint, Esq., who will put those ladies duly in possession of those amounts.
                              "I have in times past deeply wronged you and your daughters. I am sorry. I hope for your forgiveness. I made a statement of the whole transacion—a confession you might name it, perhaps—which I lost when last at Buzzardville.
                              "I cannot summon courage to repeat it all. If I find you have not discovered my lost papers—and so found your lost daughter and an important paper—I will write it all once more.
                              "The revelations are calculated to cause your hearts (yours, dear madam, and Miss Mary's, perhaps another's) to thrill with joy.
                              
                                 "Very respectfully, etc., etc.,
                                 "ABIJAH CRANE."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  In the afternoon of that day C. Flint, Esq., arrived with his letter from Abijah Crane—his "papers, instructions and cash down"—for Miss Mary.
                  The little matter for Mrs. Clement Flint, ne Cynthy Smith, Mr. Clement had very easily and pleasantly handed over to that lady, and, as he knew she would, had received it back again from her, to invest in "a good thing" for her, "for her own use." etc., etc.
                  Mrs. Winchester handed Abijah Crane's letter to Mr. Flint, with:
                  "Please read it aloud, sir."
                  He did so.
                  Little Bessie had been for over an hour trying diligently to learn a very dry lesson, and at this point of time was very sleepy indeed.
                  She whispered to herself, nodding between each word or so:
                  "Dear Miss Mary"—nod, nod—"oh, I'm so glad—so much money"—several nods—"Mr. Crane, that's the funny man"—nod, nod—"I heard talk—talk about him"—more nods. "A paper"—nod—"lost when I was at Buzzardville." Bessie doubled a finger into each pretty blue eye, shook herself, nodded again, and wondering whatever had become of her old workbox, trying to remember, and listening to their low voices speaking, she thought: "I'll hunt it up"—nod—"if that paper"—and then fast and sound little Bessie fell asleep, and dreamed of being ragged and footsore, unwashed, wild and wandering down by Cayuga lake.
                  Clement Flint, Esq., was upstairs, some little time after, in his room to dress and make himself presentable.
                  He became quite animated, lively and excited. He solioquised:
                  "Just so; just as I, Clement Flint, expected. In that letter to Brown, Boyd & Co., he, Abijah, says 'a package is in his box marked W. W.' Now that stands for what? Why, Winchester's will, of course. I'll bet a goodly sum—a sum, sir, in round figures, sir—that that's what W. W. is intended to represent in that position. He has deeply wronged these ladies here—he, Abijah—of course he has. He confessed! Did he? I'd like to see that confession. Lost it, eh? Ah, I see. He had a secret when he was up here behind those whiskers; he said: 'I've lost it,' he said. Now, this confession's his secret. This W. W. is part of it. What's the rest about? 'Important paper,' eh? 'Thrill the hearts of Mrs. W., Mary, perhaps another's with his revelations,' eh? I see. Well, things are working. All right. A little more end to that side of cravat. Ah, a hair out of place. There, sir! you're all right; so you can present yourself to the ladies. His secret, eh? Lost it, eh? All right."
                  Subsequently in the parlor, C. Flint, Esq., conversed alone with Mrs. Winchester.
                  "We must get into that box, ma'am, at Brown, Boyd & Co.'s; and we must seek that confession."
                  "Yes, sir. I doubt if the latter was every in existence."
                  "So do I, ma'am; but seek we must; perhaps we will find."
                  "When must you return?"
                  "To-morrow in the first train. I'll be here with you, madam, once more by the latter part of the week, or first of next week, ma'am."
                  "I'll be glad to have you with us to help in the search, sir."
                  After farther conversation, merging into other topics, tea was announced. C. Flint accepted an invitation to remain at that repast, and soon after partaking thereof he returned to the White Swan Hotel.
                  He had a pleasant talk there with mine host, the slow of speech; also about bedtime partook of a soothing, genial beverage, and retired to bed and dreamland.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.—IN WHICH THE SECRET IS A SECRET NO MORE.
                  THE next day was clear, bright and cold. Miss Mary Winchester and Bessie sat side by side before the fire.
                  Bessie had recited and performed her usual lessons and tasks, and so they had been pleasantly talking awhile; although Bessie, for being at hard thinking, replied somewhat vacantly to Mary's remarks.
                  Bessie's thoughts were about her old workbox again; of the paper she had found a year or so ago; of the queer person that had been there at Buzzardville; and wondering about it before speaking aloud to Miss Mary of the matter. Presently said Bessie:
                  "Dear Miss Mary, I found something one day when I used to wander about so wildly by the lake gathering chips and idly playing."
                  "What did you find, Bessie—a paper?"
                  "Yes, I think it must have been the paper you and Mr. Flint have been speaking about. It was what I know now to be an envelope. It was thick, as if something was inside."
                  "Darling, I should not be surprised if that was the paper Mr. Crane says he lost."
                  "I think so too, dear Miss Mary."
                  "Have you got it now, Bessie?"
                  "No, ma'am. Oh, I'm so sorry, so sorry; I lost it also, I'm afraid. Oh, oh!" and little Bessie wasted a flood of tears.
                  "Never mind, Bessie darling; there, don't cry; but try and remember. Where did you put it when you found it?"
                  "I placed it in my little old workbox, and I've been puzzled to know where it is. Oh, dear, dear!" and Bessie wept copiously, for her grief was great and sincere, and she now knew the value of the article supposed lost.
                  "There, darling; do try and be calm; we won't, we cannot blame you. Where did you put the box?"
                  "Oh, I fear I must have left it in the closet in the hut."
                  "Well, then, I'll get the key of the hut, and we will walk over there; it will warm us and do us good; and doubtless your box is there still."
                  Presently those two were bonneted, cloaked, furred, and on their way to the hut.
                  "There's the pile of stones I found it under," said Bessie, pointing thereat as they passed along.
                  "Do you remember ever seeing the Mr. Crane—e spoke about?"
                  "Yes, dear Miss Mary, I did. I saw him about this part of the lake. I thought he was a crazy man, he acted so wildly, pulling his hair, running up and down, rubbing his hands together and talking out loud; but what he said I do not know. I was naughty then, dear Miss Mary, and I thought it smart to hide the paper away. Oh, I'm so sorry, so very sorry now I ever did so, because it was so important to you, and has given you all so much trouble."
                  "Never mind, dear Bessie; you were a wee wild one then, full of fun. We will find it, and soon all with be well."
                  "Oh, I hope so; I do hope so."
                  Mary had had two brothers, Thomas and William, younger than she, and both deceased; also a sister, ten years younger than herself, who had been lost, never found, and was supposed also dead. These items of personal history, with other recollections of langsyne, Mary imparted to Bessie as they progressed along the banks of the lake, through the woods, and to the old, forsaken, tumbling-down hut.
                  Arriving there, they found the lock very rusty from disuse, and their efforts to obtain an entrance detained them twenty minutes and tried their patience to the utmost.
                  They entered by-and-bye; found the closet cobwebby and dusty; better still, found the box; and still better, or best, found the envelope there safe, comparatively uninjured.
                  Mary and Bessie were very glad.
                  Mary took the box, closed it up, paper inside, came away with Bessie, and left the old hut to the moths, the spiders and decay.
                  They returned home. They entered the parlor and found Mary's mother and Mary's lover seated before the fire.
                  Mary explained—cleared up the cause of their absence.
                  "We have the lost papers, dear ones, I think."
                  "It is the lost paper, doubtless," said Arthur.
                  "Mary, read it aloud, please, there should be no secrets among us," said Mrs. Winchester.
                  "There should be none, mother."
                  Then Mary emptied the contents of Bessie's box on the table, took out the envelope, broke the seal and withdrew the papers.
                  So a secret in a few minutes was a secret no more for ever.
                  Oh, Abijah! do you not wish you had been there present, to look upon the sadness and the great joy the reading of those documents produced?
                  
                     THE SECRET OF ABIJAH CRANE.
                     Shall I give it to you, word for word, as read by Mary Winchester to her mother, lover and Bessie, or shall I give you the meat of it—the substance—the—the—in short, sum total. Which? "The latter." Well, well, the latter be it.
                     Two papers were in the envelope. One was a true copy of the last will and testament of Reuben Winchester, deceased, bequeathing his entire wealth, real estates, stocks, money, etc., to his wife and daughters Mary and Ella. This when placed into cash capital would make Mrs. Winchester's income near $5,000 per annum, Mary's about $3,000, and Ella's about $2,000 per annum. The whole to belong to the survivors or survivor of Mrs. W——. This, of course, was all very pleasant and very acceptable, and in the absence of Ella, Mrs. Winchester resolved to place her share securely, so as to accumulate until said Ella was found or her decease made certain.
                     The other paper was a confession why he had Mr. Reuben Winchester's will; why he hid it, and what he knew of Ella. First, he had been confidential clerk of the gentleman deceased. Therefore he had witnessed his signature to his will in company with Mr. Julius Thomas, another of his clerks. Mr. W. Placed the will in his, Abijah's possession, to keep safely for him. Some months afterwards Julius Thomas died. Shortly thereafter Mr. Winchester, during his visit to New York, was killed. Meanwhile Abijah had proposed to Mary that he and she should marry when they would grow up, be old enough, etc. This proposal he had repeated several times in those youthful days, and each time he was kindly and firmly rejected. Mr. Abijah felt revengeful. So when the funeral party returned to the house after the burial of Mr. Winchester, there was no will produced. Abijah thought he would have his little spite, a bit of revenge, keep them out of the total property. He being the only one knowing of a will being in existence, this was easy to do, and revenge is sweet you know.
                     The item next in order thrilled our friends at Myrtle Grove with gladness. Mrs. Winchester went tears of joy, Mary was in ecstacies of delight, Arthur clapped his hands and fairly danced; little Bessie was nearly suffocated by the kisses and embraces she received from all. They were so glad! so very, very glad! Why? Because little Bessie, the wild girl of the wood, and the long lost Ella were the same. Bessie was Ella, Ella was Bessie. This they learned from the confession of Abijah, this was the great secret. We give this part in his own words addressed to Mrs. Winchester:
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "Three months, madam, after your husband's death, you, Mary and Ella again visited New York. While there Ella was lost, as too well you know. Three months thereafter I was on a business trip westward for Brown, Boyd & Co. I found a little girl in the woods near Buzzardville. I recognized her as the lost Ella. I ascertained that a farmer, a very old man and feeble, travelling in his wagon homeward from New York city, found Ella by the roadside tired, footsore and crying. He took her into his wagon and continued on his way home.
                                 "He tried to find out about her, so as to return her to her home, but was unsuccessful. Soon after he removed to near Buzzardville. Then he fell sick. He lodged in a hut in the woods, and had an old woman with him as housekeeper; she must have been at least ninety. Ella had been named Bessie by these old people. They had left her to grow up wildly; thus I found her. The last rejection of me by Miss Mary, three years ago, caused me to continue revengeful; therefore I never spoke of my knowledge of Ella; never helped her either. I have a disease of the heart which may cause my instant death any moment. The knowledge of this and the weight of this secret are too much for me. So with the promptings of conscience thereto, I've been impelled to confess to you, to state the truth in the matter, and beg your forgiveness—all of you forgive me I humbly pray.
                                 "The will itself is in the box of mine in the fire-proof at the store of Brown, Boyd & Co. I have given Clement Flint, Esq., instructions to obtain it and settle it up correctly.
                                 "Wild Bessie is Ella.
                                 "I shall go abroad; I beg you to pity, and once more, all of you forgive one who so long, so causelessly has wronged you.
                                 
                                    ABIJAH CRANE."
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     Fortune restored! the lost one found! happiness, joy! Imagine the scene caused by these revealings; the beautiful tableau as the curtain falls.
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.—IN WHICH AUTHOR AND READER VISIT THE WHITE SWAN FOR THE LAST TIME—IN WHICH AUTHOR AND READER PART FROM EACH OTHER FOR A TIME.
                  A FEW days after the reading thereof privately in the parlor at Myrtle Grove the secret had become spread, and lost nothing in its march from mouth to mouth.
                  The tenth day of its travels Abijah would have been appalled at its dimensions. His infant secret had matured into a giant. Visitors curious, and visitors friendly and congratulatory called in at Myrtle Grove. Clement Flint and lady visited Buzzardville for a fortnight, and were much pleased, highly delighted, etc., at this piece of good fortune. He made all right legally as to will, settlements, etc., pocketing his fee as he should. So they all were very happy, very loving, very rich.
                  Shall our story end here? No. Well then, one day about this happy time Mr. Samuel Ogle drove his coach and four up to the White Swan Hotel with not a single inside or outside passenger. All the same, however, he was welcome by Mr. Mike Trotter, mine host.
                  "Come—come in—Sam—uel. Glad to—see—you
                  Mr. Ogle went in; so did the horses, not into the inn, but the Swan's stables. Mr. Ogle partook of his usual, and lighting a cigar was ready for anything startling or otherwise. Then Mr. Ogle sat down by the stove, and with his long arms seemed to embrace that warm friend, for it was very cold without, the days were short, the air keen, the ride long, and Christmas was coming.
                  So Mr. Mike Trotter told Mr. S. Ogle all he knew of Mr. Abijah Crane's revelations. Then said mine host:
                  "I knew—it—Sam—u—el. I said—so—to you. I—said so—to other—folks—that that—man—was a—queer—cus—tom—er. He—warn't—a—good one—couldn't—be good. Be—cause—his—se—cret—was—a wrong—some—'at—on—his—mind. And—now—behold—I was right—you—see it—was—it was so—Sam—u—el."
                  "Well it is a good windfall for'em all, especially the little girl. I always considered her out of her spear, wandering so."
                  "Yes—yes—very—good—for'em all as—you say—Sam—u—el. I sup—pose—now Miss Mary—and—Mr.—Ar—thur—'ll—be get—ting mar—ried soon."
                  "Next Christmas Eve, Mike, I believe, and a quiet and very select affair it's to be, I hear."
                  "Ver—y—well—now—Sam—u—el—y ou—sly—old—sta—ger!" Here Mr. Trotter facetiously put his fingers among Mr. Ogle's ribs tickingly, and continued: "Sally—our—maid—says—to—me the oth—er—day—'please—sir—I come—to give you—warn—in'—mis—ter—Trot—ter—for—me—and—Sam—u—el—O—gal—is—a'going—to be—mar—ried—sir—please—sir. Now—Sam—u—el—O—gal—is that—so? Oh! you." Another poke ribward.
                  "It is, old friend—it is true—give me joy."
                  And joy was given Mr. Ogle by Mr. Trotter, and they drank each other's health and the ladies' healths, and Mr. Trotter declared his intention never to marry, but to stand by the White Swan until death he and it should part. And Mr. Ogle told him that Sally and he would reside with him at the White Swan.
                  "Sam—u—el—I'm—wil—ling—so bring—your—traps—al—ong."
                  As the telegraph columns of the daily papers the latest news announce to the dear public, so I will conclude by presenting the news of Buzzardville a few months after.
                  
                     LATE FROM BUZZARDVILLE, N. Y.
                     Mr. Ogle and Sally were married and happily dwelt with Mr. Trotter at the White Swan.
                  
                  
                     LATER.
                     On Christmas Eve Miss Mary Winchester became Mrs. Arthur Harrington. The course of their true love had ran smoothly, and now they were, "Oh, so very happy!"
                  
                  
                     STILL LATER.
                     Mrs. Winchester taken sick, after a brief illness, died. Mary. Arthur and Ella Bessie in gloom for many weeks. Then all resume a pleasant life at Myrtle Grove.
                  
                  
                     FIVE YEARS AFTER.
                     News from Abijah Crane. He has been doing well. His heart disease (?) cured. He has reformed in every particular—so to say. He is a church member, a very benevolent man. He is a happy husband—ditto father—dear me.
                  
                  
                     TEN YEARS STILL LATER.
                     The Rev. Archibald Webb, having at first taken an interest in Ella Bessie, as she grew up and expanded into a lovely, highly cultivated woman, a Christian gentlewoman, his respect had become deep regard, friendship, etc., ripening into true love. He was handsome, intelligent, good, only a few years Bessie's senior. In short she said "Yes," and as mentioned as to time, ten years after the divulging of the secret they were married.
                     So Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Harrington, Mr. and Mrs. Sam—u—el Ogle, Mr. and Mrs. Bob White, and Rev. and Mrs. Archy Webb were all as happy, oving and prosperous couples as you could find anywhere.
                  
                  
                     PERILS OF PRECOCITY.
                     —Baillet mentions 163 children endowed with extraordinary talents, among whom few arrived at an advanced age. The two sons of Quintilian, so vaunted by their father, did not reach their 10th year. Hermogenes, who, at the age of 15, taught rhetoric to Marcus Aurelius, who triumphed over the most celebrated rhetoricians of Greece, did not die, but at 24 lost his faculties, and forgot all he had previously acquired. Pica di Mirandola died at 32; Johannes Secundus at 25, having, at the age of 15, composed admirable Greek and Latin verses, and become profoundly versed in jurisprudence and letters. Pascal, whose genius developed itself at 10 years old, did not attain the third of a century. In 1791 a child was born at Lubeck, named Henri Henneken, whose precocity was miraculous. At 10 months of age he spoke distinctly; at 12 learned the Pentateuch by rote; and at 14 months was perfectly acquainted with the Old Testament. At two years he was as familiar with ancient history as the most erudite authors of antiquity. Sauson and Danville only could compete with him in geographical knowledge. In the ancient and modern languages he was a proficient. This wonderful child was unfortunately carried off in his fourth year.
                     A CHAPTER in Appleton's Cyclopdia has this to say about the old-fashioned treatment of old bachelors: "In antiquity it was considered unpatriotic in a citizen to remain a bachelor all his days. By the Spartan laws, those citizens who remained bachelors after middle age were excluded from all offices civil and military. At certain feasts they were exposed to public derision, and led round the market-place. Although, generally speaking, age was usually deeply respected at Sparta, yet this feeling was not manifested to old bachelors. 'Why should I make way for you?' said a Spartan youth to a gray-headed old bachelor, 'who will never have a son to do me the same honor when I am old.' The Roman law pursued the same policy towards bachelors. They had to pay extra and special taxes, and under Augustus a law was enacted by which bachelors were made incapable of acquiring legacies and devises of real estate by will, except from their near relatives. In canon law bachelors are enjoined to marry, or to profess chastity in earnest by becoming monks."
                     A WORD OF EXPLANATION.—If a young lady "throws herself away," understand she has married for love.
                  
               
            
            
               
               CLARA;
               A Story of Life in Africa.
               By John B. Williams, M. D.
               
                  
                     CLARA'S ONLY AT CHARLES'S REFUSING ASSISTANCE.
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER I.—HO FOR AFRICA!
                  CHARLES NORTON was the son of a wealthy New York merchant. Mr. Norton, sen., worked much, spent little and saved money. His son worked little, spent much and contracted debts. This system of balancing his books did not please the old man. One fine day he put an end to it, and Charles found himself his own master at twenty-two years of age, with a small fortune.
                  He was a handsome young fellow, five feet six inches high, fresh-colored, with a thick beard and solid muscles. He could drink a good deal without getting intoxicated, and strike very hard. In less than three years, what with the expenses of supper parties, cards, &c., he found his fortune singularly reduced. An intimate friend of two weeks' standing advised him to speculate in the stocks with what remained. This friend naturally took upon himself the management of the funds. He managed them so well that young Norton was compelled to look out for some situation by which he could live. Like many other persons, he desired a large salary and little work. The contrary is generally offered. He was difficult to please, and refused many eligible opportunities.
                  Having nothing to do, and no money to spend, Charles passed the greater portion of his days reading. Histories of travels and the chase charmed him more than anything else. The expeditions of Gordon Gumming and other adventurous hunters excited him to the utmost degree. He soon had only one idea, and that was to go to Africa, bury himself in the desert, and live by the products of the chase—to kill elephants, deal in ivory and amass a fortune.
                  On the 18th of June, 1845, he sailed for the Cape of Good Hops, with a perfect arsenal of arms and a large quantity of ammunition. Three months afterwards a Boor (a Dutch colonist who was returning to his own dwelling, situated at the limits of the colony) left the young American in the midst of an immense forest, accompanied by a Hottentot servant. After having paid the Dutchman the cost of the journey, Norton found that he only had five dollars left. But he possessed two guns, a pair of pistols and plenty of ammunition. Christopher the Hottentot, who had carried all these things, thought they were decidedly more than necessary.
                  In two weeks our hero had killed eight serpents, a porcupine and several antelopes. Finding that the serpents were more numerous than the antelopes, and that his master's kitchen was very badly furnished, Christopher quietly stole away while Norton was asleep. He naturally took one of the guns, in all probability as a souvenir of his master, but he had the delicacy to leave almost all the ammunition behind.
                  Charles found himself alone in an unknown country. In default of other qualities he possessed courage. He continued his course in a direct line, and hunted as he went.
                  Overcome with fatigue, half-nourished, and with no shelter but the leaves of the trees, Norton grew thin and careworn. To put a climax to his grief, he did not meet a single elephant. A black rhinoceros that he had wounded knocked him down and his fall was so severe that he fainted. Both remained extended on the ground, the rhinoceros dead, and the huntsman unconscious. When he opened his eyes Norton perceived around him fifty hideous little beings, almost naked, with hair resembling sheep's wool. These frightful creatures were armed with bows and arrows of small size. Five or six of them carried javelins. They were Bushmen, savage vagabonds who lived by pillage. They commenced by stripping the unfortunate American, whom they left almost naked. Knowing that the tips of their arrows were poisoned, Norton took care to make no resistance. They then began to cut up the rhinoceros. Their intention in the first place had been to kill the huntsman, but they thought afterwards they would first of all employ him to assist in transporting the rhinoceros to their retreat. At that moment a detachment of Boors from the neighborhood came in search of the Bushmen, who had stolen their cattle. They arrived unawares, surprised the savages, and shot them without pity. Seven or eight Bushmen only escaped by flight.
                  They released Norton; he could find neither his weapons, clothes, nor money. For the want of anything better he was compelled to use the clothes a gigantic Hollander, killed in the battle.
                  The chief of the Dutch colonists was named Adam Roschoff. He was a rich proprietor in the neighborhood. He questioned Norton, first in Dutch, then in French. Fortunately the young man comprehended a little of this last language. He told the Hollander a portion of his history, and confessed that he did not know what would become of him. Roschoff listened to him very quietly, refilled his pipe, and offered to take Charles as his servant. Norton blushed with indignation and refused. The Dutchman silently lighted his pipe and retired.
                  "What will become of me?" asked Norton, when he was left by himself.
                  At the moment of separating from the Dutchman he again put this terrible question to himself. Not being able to reply to it in a satisfactory manner, he summoned up his courage, and running to Adam Roschoff, he told him that he accepted his proposition.
                  They arrived at Weizberg, where Roschoff lived. A tall girl with light hair and blue eyes came to meet the Hollanders. It was Clara, Roschoff's only daughter. She embraced her father, and cast a look of astonishment on Norton, who was still dressed in the clothes belonging to the gigantic Boor. Clara was a spoiled child, badly brought up, as are nine-tenths of the daughters of the Dutch colonists. When she saw Norton's grotesque appearance she laughed heartily. The Boors responded in the same manner; even the Hottentots joined in the peal. He believed they were insulting him on account of his sad condition. In this he was wrong—the Boors laughed from want of politeness—but they had no idea of wounding his feelings.
                  A tall and handsome young man, named Seroas Bergiter, distinguished himself above all the rest by his loud peals of laughter. He conversed with Clara, and pointed with his finger to the poor American. If the latter had not been so weak and exhausted he would have attacked them with his fists. He hung down his head and tears came into his eyes. The Boors, astonished at this excess of sensibility, were silent, the reason for which they could not understand.
                  Dinner was soon afterwards served. Norton was placed between two Boors, who poured him out glass after glass of wine, as if to make up for their mirth.
                  The same evening the stranger Boors left Weizberg. Seroas Bergiter alone remained, for five or six days. The young Hollander was evidently paying his addresses to Clara Roschoff. Norton had taken a great dislike to him. His loud laugh made a disagreeable impression on him. Nor did the Hollander regard the American with any pleasing glance. He never lost an opportunity to remark to Roschoff and his daughter the young man's awkwardness.
                  It must be confessed that Charles made a poor servant; more accustomed to command than obey, he could not get reconciled to his new position. Thus instead of profiting by instruction, that would have been useful to him, Norton, exasperated by his reception at Weizberg, wrapped himself up in his dignity, and contented, himself by performing mechanically the duties ascribed to him. It would have been very easy to have acquired Clara's good graces, instead of that he remembered her peals of laughter, and never addressed a word to her.
                  Chance came to his aid. One day Charles wrote a letter to his friends in America, and Roschoff noticed that his servant wrote a beautiful hand. He was then charged to keep the accounts of the house. They were very simple.
                  By degrees Norton became a sort of overseer or superintendent, but still Roschoff did not allow him to forgot that he was only a servant Accustomed as Clara was to have every desire gratified. She was very much dissatisfied with the want of respect shown her by her father's new servant.
                  One day Seroas Bergiter arrived at Weizberg. Clara received him with charming grace. It was especially the case when Norton was present that Clara showed herself amiable to the Hollander. The latter received Clara's attentions with the greatest calmness, as if it were quite a natural affair. As for Norton, he did not even appear to perceive it.
                  Whilst Bergiter was still at Weizberg, and English colonist was lived in the neighborhood, that is to say about sixty miles more or less distant, came to invite Roschoff to the wedding of one of his daughters. The guests at Weizberg were naturally included in the invitation, as also was Norton, for he had once or twice done some little services in the way of writing for his neighbors, and he began to be noticed by them all.
                  On the follwoing Monday, Roschoff, his daughter, Bergiser, Norton and some others lets for New Garden, where the bride and bridegroom lived. The trave lers left in couples, is inimmense carriages, each drawn by four horses. They had to travel over frightful roads, but owing to the extraordinary skill of the Hottentot drivers they reached New Garden without any accident.
                  On leaving the Cape of Good Hope, Norton had left behind him a trunk containing clothes which were useless to him in the expeditions in the forests. A Hollander living in the neighborhood had been kind enough to bring this trunk to the young American. Delighted to possess this souvenir of happy times, Norton brought the trunk with him to New Garden. He dressed himself like a gentleman. Clara had never seen him excepting in his coarse working clothes. She scarcely recognised him was he entered the room where the guests were assembled.
                  Norton's entrance made a great sensation. The young girl's regarded with curiosity the servant better dressed than his master. The young men sneered and began to criticise the new comer. Norton's elegance drew from Clara a thousand complements, ironical or sincere. Charles, however, did not pay the slightest attention to her. This put her in a very bad humor, and like a spoiled child she complained to her father. The old man only laughed at her.
                  After dinner they had dancing. Their only orchestra consisted of a miserable Hottentot, who played the violin. He had drank so much at dinner that he was soon too intoxicated to play. While they were endeavering to sober him, Norton, who saw the young girls' despair, took the violin and played some quadrilles. It is true he was not a Paganini, and that he sometimes played false notes, but African colonists are not so exacting as opera-goers.
                  Norton's talent put the climax to his success with the girls, and increased the ill-will of the men. Excited by Clara, Bergiter did everything he could to insult the young American. He knocked against him every moment. Naturally endowed with but little patience, Charles soon paid him back, and at the first opportunity he pushed Bergiter down by a vigorous blow from his elbow. The Hollander replied by another blow, and then, when Norton raised his hand to strike, Bergiter seized him by his cravat and the waistband of his pantaloons, and raised him from the ground as if he had been a child. The guests began to laugh. Norton, who was fearfully furious, profited by his position to inflict two powerful blows on his adversary's face. The Dutchman released him and struck at him with his fist. Bergiter was a great deal stronger than his rival, and although the latter was more agile, the result of the combat did not seen to be doubtful. But the violin was not the only talent that Norton possessed. During his youth he had studied boxing, and he inflicted a deluge of blows on the face and head of the unfortunate Dutchman, without the latter being able to return a single blow.
                  Crazy with rage and his face covered with blood, the Boor threw himself on the American, for the purpose of getting him in his grasp, but a well directed blow felled him to the earth. Six or seven of the Dutch man's friends surrounded Norton; others interposed. A reaction in favor of the American took place. The old men at last separated the combatants. No sooner had Bergiter got on his feet than he seized a musket and pointed it at his adversary. Roschoff turned away the barrel. They led away Bergiter bleeding profusely, and the dancing commenced. In that half savage country a quarrel is such a common thing that it is very quickly forgotten.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II—JEALOUSY
                  THE honor of the victory remained, however, with Norton. As physical strength and skill are the quanities which the colonists most esteem, the young American's conquest brought him much consideration.
                  Norton's favorite partner was the sister of the bride, a young and pretty English girl of seventeen or eighteen years of age. At the moment that Charles was about to dance with her for the fifth or sixth time, Clara approached him and said, in a deliberate tone:
                  "Charles, I was to dance with Bergiter. As you are the cause of his not coming, you must place him and dance with me."
                  "I am engaged," said Norton.
                  "That is not true," murmured the young girl. "You were about to ask Susan for the seventh time I really believe. But you shall ask her by-and-bye—but come—come!"
                  Norton followed her, grumbling. The three first quadrillers were danced without his opening his lips. It is true that most of the other dancers acted the same, but Clara, who had seen Charles conversing gaily with the bride and her sister, was very much dissatisfied with his silence.
                  "Really," said she, "I should like to known why you have asked everybody to dance except me. It seems to me that you ought to have commenced with your master's daughter."
                  
                     
                        THE COLONIST'S GENEROUS OFFER.
                     
                  
                  "Miss Roschoff," replied Charles, "your father pays me to keep his accounts—my duties extend no further, I believe."
                  Clara beat her foot on the floor with the impatience of a spoiled child.
                  "So it was your intention not to have asked me," said she.
                  "I did not dare," said Charles, with a shade of raillery in his tone. "A servant ask his mistress to dance with him!"
                  "You know that is the custom here," she returned. "That is not your reason. You did not want to dance with me. And the proof is that you do not speak a word to me, although you converse with all the others you danced with. Why do you hate me so much?"
                  "I—hate you!—what can you mean?" returned Norton.
                  "Yes, you do. At Weizberg everybody tries to be agreeable to me—you, on the contrary, are civil to every one else excepting me. Whenever I approach you always move away."
                  "That is but natural," replied Norton. "You do nothing but scold or make your father scold me."
                  "Because you always treat me so haughtily.
                  "I am melancholy—that is all."
                  "Why did you not make me the confidant of your griefs the first day you arrived?"
                  "Your welcome was not of a nature to encourage me to do it."
                  "How would one of the your own countrywomen have received you?"
                  "On the arrival of an unfortunate stranger, exhausted by fatigue, misery and hunger, an American girl would have spoken a few words of consolation to him, instead of laughing in his face, as you and Bergiter did."
                  Clara bent down her eyes and blushed. In spite of her want of education in politeness, a secret instinct told her that perhaps Norton was right She became pensive. Absorbed by these new reflections, the young girl allowed the dance to conclude without uttering a word. When just about to leave Norton, she pressed his hand, and, with tears in her eyes, said:
                  "Charles, I think I was wrong. I am very sorry to have given you pain, but I assure you I had no intention of wounding your feelings."
                  "Touched by the emotion the young girl showed while uttering these words, Norton remained too much embarrassed to reply. A species of self pride prevented him from showing how much he was affected.
                  "Can I say anything more?" said Clara, who misunderstood the cause of his silence.
                  "Certainly not," he replied.
                  "Really?"
                  "On my honor."
                  "And now you will dance and converse with me?"
                  "With all my heart, Clara. Will you be disengaged for the quadrille after the next?"
                  "With whom do you dance the next? With Susan, I suppose?"
                  "Yes."
                  "She pleases you very much, does she not?"
                  "I think her charming."
                  Clara was silent for a moment or two.
                  "I hope we shall leave to-morrow," said she, at last.
                  "So soon?" said Norton.
                  "Yes. I am tired of being here. And—" She paused abruptly, noticing that Charles had turned away his head.
                  "Go to your partner," said she, making an impatient movement. "Do you not see that Susan is looking for you everywhere? How I hate these English!" she murmured, when Norton had left her side.
                  Clara wished to leave the next day. Her father opposed her. He signified to her that he expected to remain three days to New Garden. The poor girl, whose heart has suddenly awakened, followed Norton like his shadow. The evening of the day fixed for their departure she perceived that the young American and Susan had disappeared. She found them sitting under a large tree a short distance off. Norton, who had great mechanical genius, was making a little box for Susan.
                  "What is the matter, Clara?" said Susan, as the former rushed to the place where they were sitting.
                  "Nothing—nothing!" murmured Clara. "I came here—I want—Charles, the carriages must be got ready."
                  "Presently," replied Norton, "I must first finish this."
                  "No, directly," she returned; "father is waiting for you."
                  "I shall be done in two minutes," replied Norton, going on with his occupation.
                  Clara stamped her foot. Susan began to laugh. The daughter of Adam Roschoff thought they were mocking her. In her jealous anger she seized the little box from Norton's hands, and throwing it violently on the ground, broke it into a hundred pieces.
                  "How wicked you are, Clara," cried Susan.
                  "When I get back to Weizberg I will make you a handsomer one, Miss Susan," said Norton. "I will send it to you or bring it myself, if I can."
                  "They will prevent your doing so," replied the young English girl, regarding her rival with a mocking glance. "Is it not so, Calara?"
                  Cereainly," replied Miss Roschoff, exasperated by Susan's provoking tone. "If my father pays Charles his wages, it is not to work for others, but us."
                  Norton blushed with anger and confusion.
                  "My engagement with Adam Roschoff expires in four months," said he, making an effort to restrain himself. "Even though I should die with hunger, I will not renew it. I can promise you at least that at that time, Miss Susan, you shall have your box.
                  "Do not fear you will not find a situation," returned Susan. "My father, as well as my uncle Henry, would, I am sure, like to take you into their employment."
                  "Come Charles!" said Clara, impatiently.
                  "Norton went away with her. They reached the carriage without the young American having uttered a single word. Already resenting of her anger, Clara was seeking a means to appease Charles's resentment. Norton silently assisted in getting the carriages ready, and only replied by monosyllables to the indirect questions by which Clara sought to engage him in conversation.
                  The next day, during the whole journey, he remained sombre and mute. Roschoff slept or conversed with another colonist, who was going the same road as they, were.
                  Several days elapsed. The little excursion Norton had made had a bad effect on him, for it awakened in his mind recollections and desires which made his situation more bitter to him than it had been hitherto. At New Garden, free from all occupation, he had lived like a gentleman. When he returned to Weizberg he again became a servant. Roschoff was certainly not a wicked man, but he was violent and exacting.
                  Norton's greatest happiness was to retire to some shady spot, to dream of his native land, that he had quieted with so much joy and which he now thought of without ceasing. He was very much annoyed with Clara, who came every moment to disturb him.
                  Not during to confess the true motive which attracted her to Charles's presence, she invented the most absurd pretexts to converse with the young American. She had, however, more intelligence than most of the colonists, but she was lazy and trifling. She wanted, especially, that particular tact which can only be developed by mixing in society. She was, moreover, as we have before said, a spoiled child, and her jealousy every now and then betrayed itself by impatience and anger. Norton completely misunderstood her. He felt perfectly convinced that she did everything she could to annoy him. The young girls awkward timidity served to strengthen him in his error.
                  One day Roschoff left on horseback early in the morning, for the purpose of inspecting his cattle. Norton hastened to finish the task, which the Dutchman had set him when he left. Then taking some American newspapers, which a trader had sold him the evening before, he took refuge in a wood near, situated not very far from the dwelling. Ten minutes afterwards he was seated near a spring, and began eagerly to peruse the papers, which spoke to him of his country. The weather was of that hot, suffocating character which announces a coming storm, and which influences the least impressionable organizations. Charles had scarcely commenced to read when a human form rose up before him. He raised his eyes and recognised Clara. She held in her hand a brass knob, which she has wrenched from the closet door after much laborious effort.
                  "What do you want with me?" asked Norton, who could not restrain a gesture of impatience.
                  This brusque reception disconcerted the poor girl.
                  "A little while ago," said she, concealing her embarrassment by assuming an abrupt tone, "when I was opening my closet door, the knob came off."
                  "Well?"
                  "I have come to ask you to mend it for me."
                  This was the fiftieth time in eight days that she had exacted some similar service of him. This time, pushed to extremity by this persecution which was incomprehensible to him, he could not restrain his impatience.
                  "Really, Clara," said he, "you are determined then to torment me and give me no peace."
                  "But, Charles," murmured Clara, very much confused, "I assure you that this knob—look at it—you can see—"
                  "The deuce take your closet and the knob," cried the poor boy, completely exasperated. "Clara, if I were not sustained by the recollection that my engagement with your father ceases in three months, and that then I shall be at liberty to leave your infernal country, I think that I should blow out my brains, for your render my life so wretched by your conduct."
                  He turned his back on the young girl, and clasped his forehead with his two hands, according to the habitual pantomime of exasperated people.
                  Disconcerted by this rude reception, and struck to the heart by Charles's replies, and perhaps more so by the announcement of his departure, Clara was overwhelmed and could not find a word to reply. When she opened her lips to speak, her tears prevented her uttering a sound, and she precipitately retired. She had scarcely gone fifty yards than she burst into a violent fit of sobbing.
                  This little scene had an invisible witness in Jacob Oubana, one of the Hottentot servants at Weizberg. Without hearing Norton's words, he had easily comprehended the meaning of his gestures, and the violence with which Charles has cast the knob on the ground. Jacob followed Clara at a distance.
                  At the moment the young girl, bathed in tears, entered the path leading to the house, she found herself face to face with her father.
                  "What is the matter, my poor child?" cried he, astonished at the young girl's grief.
                  Instead of replying, Clara re-entered the wood. Roschoff being on horseback could not follow her. He looked around him, and saw Jacob a short distance off.
                  "Oubana, do you know what is that matter with my daughter!" he asked of the servant.
                  A prattler like all Hottentots, and jealous of the superior servant, Jacob related, with much exaggeration, the particulars of the scene he had witnessed. Adam, farious, threw his bridle to the Hottentot and ran to find Norton. It was a wonder in the first impulse of his rage that he did not strike the young American. A sort of respect with which Charles inspired the Dutchman alone stayed his hand; he did not spare reproaches and insults, however, which he heaped on his unfortunate servant's head.
                  Tears of anger and humiliation came into Norton's eyes, but he did not reply a single word. Exasperated by this silence. Roschoff determined to inflect a punishment on his domestic.
                  "Charles," said he, after he had exhausted all the invectives and curses, which we cannot detail to the reader, "I told the laborers at the kraal (a kind of encampment for cattle) at Om Steny, that I would send them implements. Take from the shop the implements you will find ready laid out on the bench, and convey them immediately to Om-Steny. You will make the journey on foot. I shall expect you will be back by seven o'clock to supper."
                  A distance of at least fourteen miles separated Weizberg from the place mentioned by Roschoff. It was now noon. Norton has then to make a journey of twenty-eight miles in the fearful heat and under an enormous burden. It was enough to kill anybody. Yet Norton made no complaint He went to the shop, took the implements, and started off for Om-Steny.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.—EXPLANATIONS.
                  THE hot sun darted his rays on the young man's head, and made him suffer much. He had scarcely proceeded three miles before he was bathed in perspiration and could scarcely breathe, and was compelled to stay a moment to rest under the shade of a clump of trees. He threw himself on the ground, and pressing his two hands to his burning forehead, prayed to God that he might die. Suddenly he heard the gallop of two horses, he hurriedly arose, but had scarcely got on his feet when he saw Clara Roschoff appear in sight. She rode one horse and held another by the bridle.
                  "At last I have found you, Charles!" she cried, leaping, to the ground. "Heavens! how hot you are and how you must suffer! I have brought you a horse. Father knows nothing about it."
                  Norton thought she was merely insulting him, for he ascribed his present punishment to her. He picked up his heavy package of implements and without uttering a word resumed his journey.
                  The young girl, very much confused, followed him with a sad step. She could no longer resist her feelings, but burst into sobs.
                  "Charles, she cried, "what have I done that you should treat me thus?"
                  He looked at her with an air of stupefaction as she stood in the middle of the road, with her hands joined together and with the tears streaming down her cheeks. In spite of his anger, he was moved.
                  "I really cannot understand your grief, Clara," said he. "It seems to me that is should be in my place to ask you what I have done that you always try to render my melancholy position more odious to me"
                  "I!" cried Clara, in a tone of astonishment.
                  "Oh, Charles, how can you say that? I, who would give all the would to save you a single annoyance."
                  "Really," he replied, in a tone of bitterness, "I do not know what you mean. Was it not you who excited your father's anger against me, on account of what passed between us a little while ago?"
                  "Oh, heavens!" cried the poor girl, joining her hand, together, "can you believe me so wicked? I assure you that I did not say a single word to my father. It was Jacob, who no doubt overheard us. I beseech you to believe me, Charles. It was really not I——"
                  Her tears interrupted her. She fell on the grass and sobbed bitterly. This time, in spite of appearances. Norton felt that she told the truth. He regretted his unjust reproaches. He threw the package of implements on the ground, and kneeling by Clara's said, who still continued to weep, he did his best to console her. A few words which escaped her lips at last revealed the whole truth to the young American.
                  "Come, Clara," said he, "calm yourself. I see that I was wrong to regard you as my enemy."
                  "I, your enemy!" she cried. "I, who think only of you. And yet how you treat me! Every time that I come near you or address a word to you, you receive me so harshly. I know that I am not so handsome as the girls of your country, that I have neither their mind nor education; but it is not my fault, and you will never find any one that loves you more than I do."
                  Ashamed of the confession that had escaped her lips, poor Clara did her face between her hands and wept.
                  Charles sat beside her and gently removed the young girl's hands, and by a motion full of gratitude and tenderness carried them to his lips. Clara blushed and then turned pale. She timidly glanced at the young man, and then let her head fall on his shoulder.
                  "Dear Clara, how unjust I have been towards you!" said the young American, in an affectionate tone.
                  "Then you do not hate me as I thought?" she murmured.
                  "Hate you! Certainly not; on the contrary, I love you with all my heart."
                  "As much as Susan?" said she, with anxiety, which she vainly endeavored to conceal under a smile
                  "Much more than Susan."
                  "Really?"
                  "On my honor."
                  "Oh, how happy I am!" she cried.
                  There was something, however, wanting to render her happiness complete. Although unaccustomed to penetrate the secrets of the heart, she of it confusedly, and by a sort of instinct, the difference between the affection that Charles showed and the love that she experienced for him. At that moment ment, it is true, the young American's heart, so long isolated and chilled, overflowed with gratitude and affection, but his feeling for Clara was no stronger than this. If ideas of love and marriage came into his mind it was only as a dream, the realization of which he never thought about. His hesitation could not be attributed to interest or ambition. The fortune of Clara's father was very considerable compared to that of Charles, who possessed nothing in the world. His misfortunes, however, had given Norton the habit of reflecting, and he seriously reviewed his situation. At that moment he asked himself if he were capable of renouncing America for ever, and of loving Clara so much that he should never repent of his marriage with her.
                  Clara fancied that the young man's silence proceeded from indifference, and she began to weep again. Perceiving that she misunderstood his feelings with respect to herself, Charles opened his whole heart to her. The poor girl thanked him for his frankness with so much tenderness that Norton's eyes filled with tears. At the moment that he was about to reply to her the sound of horses' feet galloping in the distance was heard. Clara concealed herself behind a bush, but she had not time to remove the two horses that she had brought with her. In a few moments three Hottentots arrived at the spot on horseback. One of them was Jacob Oubana. He approached the young American.
                  "What do you want?" said Norton.
                  "The master discovered that two horses were missing," said the Hottentet, in an insolent tone. "He thought that you might have taken them with you, in spite of his having forbidden it. He sent me and my comrades to take them back to Weizberg."
                  "There they are," replied Charles, pointing to them. "I did not mount either of them."
                  "What did you take them for, then?" said Jacob, proud of his mission.
                  Norton turned abruptly round; the Hottentot made a bound backward.
                  "Scoundrel!" cried the young American, his eyes sparkling with rage. "Who gave you the right to question me? Take them and begone."
                  The Hottentots took the two horses and started off As soon as they had disappeared, Clara came from her hiding-place.
                  "What shall we do now?" said she, in an anxious tone.
                  "My dear Clara, there is only one course for us to follow," replied Charles; "you to return leisurely to Weizberg, and for me to continue my journey on to Om-Steny."
                  "Under this burning sun and burdened as you are? It will kill you," she replied.
                  "I am stronger than you think," he returned, affecting a gaiety he did not feel. Adieu, dear Clara; I am happy that we have had an explanation, and I love you with all my heart."
                  "I will accompany you to Om-Steny," said Clara, rising up. "It was I who caused you this cruel punishment, and I will partake of it."
                  It was in vain that Charles scolded ar supplicated, the young girl persisted in her resolution. Norton was at last compelled to allow her to walk by his side. By-and-bye she wanted to take a portion of the implements. This, however, he would not allow.
                  Although Roschoff's dwelling was situated in the middle of a wood, there was but little shade between Weizberg and Om-Steny. In spite of the suffering occasioned by the burning sun, the two young people walked along with a sort of gaiety. Charles did his best to amuse poor Clara, whose devotion touched him deeply. As for Clara, she laughed and cried by turns. Love, and perhaps suffering, had completely changed her. The poor girl betrayed the secret thoughts of her heart by her words and touching attentions, and Norton was moved to his very soul. He frequently seized the young girl's hand, pressed it in his, and conveyed it to his lips. This mute token of affection and gratitude filled her heart with happiness.
                  In spite of the diligence they used, they did not reach Weizberg until half-past seven. Roschoff, whose anger had time to be appeased, already regretted the punishment he had inflicted on the young American. Pride prevented him from confessing his remorse, but he vented his bad temper on Jacob. The absence of his daughter at supper rendered the Hollander very uneasy.
                  A servant at last announced the fact that Norton was approaching. Roschoff was very much surprised to find his daughter Clara in company with the young American, and to perceive that her limbs trembled and that her face gave evidence of great fatigue.
                  "Do not scold Charles," said she to her father, who met her in the hall. "It was I who delayed him. I will tell you all."
                  She fell into a seat and fainted.
                  In spite of his apathetic character and violent temper, Roschoff loved his daughter. Clara's condition made him forget all about Norton. Perhaps he was not sorry to find a pretext which prevented him from taking any notice of Charles's delay. When Miss Roschoff was restored to consciousness she was conveyed to her chamber and put to bed. She awoke the next morning in a violent fever, brought about in all probability more by her excited feelings than by the heat and fatigue. In spite of the delirium that seized her, the poor girl was able to tell her father all that had occurred. But before doing so she made him swear on the Bible that he would not scold Charles. In her delirium, which happily lasted only two days, she repeated every moment—
                  "Father, do not scold Charles, it was I who was the cause of all."
                  Thanks to the girl's robust constitution, her illness did not last long. Norton was less fortunate. He had been imprudent enough to drink several glasses of cold water when he returned to Weizberg. He fell seriously ill.
                  Tormented by his daughter and yielding also to secret remorse, Roschoff called in the nearest physician. It was necessary to send ninety miles for him. After having dined and examined the invalid, the disciple of Esculapius mounted his horse and shook his head in a significant manner. Time, however, proved that the doctor's sinister forbodings were not to be realised. Norton suddenly got better at the moment that everybody believed him dying. The first person he recognised when he recovered his consciousness was Clara, seated by his bedside. In his delirium the invalid had spoken of America. He had also repeated continually the name of a favorite sister of his who had died quiet young, and whose name was Sarah.
                  Clara fancied this Sarah was the young girl he loved. This thought was almost a deathblow to to the poor girl. When Norton, touched by her devotion, gratefully thanked her, she smiled sadly, and turned away her head to hide her tears.
                  Charles was soon able to get up and take short walks. One day he was seated under the shade of a tree in the garden, when Roschoff came and sat down by his side. The colonist seemed to be very much embarrassed. Ten times he opened his lips to commence a conversation, and ten times he closed them again without uttering a word.
                  "Charles," said he at last, "I think the climate of our colony is not good for you. And then you are not fitted for a servant. This life will kill you sooner or later. You must return to your own country."
                  "America is a long distance off," replied Charles, "and the voyage is very expensive."
                  "That is true," replied Roschoff, "but I will furnish you the means to reach your country. When you leave Weizberg I will make you a present of a hundred head of cattle. At Graham town or Beaufort you can sell them for three thousand six-dollars. With this sum you can pay your passage and live in America until you can find some employment."
                  Charles cast his eyes to the ground; he guessed the real motive which made Roschoff urge his departure.
                  "I thank you for your generous proposition, but it is my duty to inform you that I have no resources in America. It will probably be impossible for me ever to repay you the money you offer me."
                  "Never mind," replied Roschoff; "you can take as much as you like. After all, I shall only lose three thousand six-dollars. It is agreed, then?"
                  "When shall I leave?" asked Norton, his mind so agitated by contradictory feelings that he did not know whether to rejoice or be sorry at Roschoff's wish.
                  "In a few days. As soon as you are well enough—next week for instance."
                  While the young man was reflecting silently a Hottentot approached.
                  "Mynheer Bergiter has just arrived, and asks to see you," said the Hottentot to Roschoff.
                  Happy at having made the proposition, which had cost him so much, Roschoff hastened to follow the servant. Norton was left alone.
                  Until then he had longed for the time to come when he could return to America. Now, when he had the means to realise his desire, he felt oppressed by vague melancholy. Whilst he sat there with his forehead leaning against the trunk of the tree, Clara's voice made him start. The young girl approached slowly and sat down by his side.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.—THE DUEL—CONCLUSION.
                  WHEN Charles saw Clara's gentle and affectionate glance, he experienced a feeling of relief. He took the young girl's hand and pressed it to his lips in a manner which showed his gratitude and tenderness. She blushed and sighed.
                  "Do you know what your father has proposed to me, Clara?" said he.
                  "Yes," she replied, "he mentioned it to me yesterday evening. So you are about to return to America?"
                  "Probably!" he returned, stifling a sigh.
                  "You must be very happy?"
                  He made no reply.
                  "You will see your parents again?"
                  "I have none."
                  "Your friends."
                  "A ruined man possesses none."
                  "You will make a fortune; father told you he would give you two hundred head of cattle, did he not!"
                  "Yes—that is to say—one hundred," replied Charles mechanically, at the same time earnestly regarding Clara, and thinking of something else besides the cattle offered him by Roschoff.
                  "He promised me it should be two hundred," murmured the young girl. "But I can lend you some money, Charles. I have eight thousand six-dollars which I received from my mother. I will give them to you."
                  He made a gesture of refusal.
                  "Of what use is this to me?" she replied. "You will return it to me when you have made a fortune. This will compel you to think of me sometimes, even when you have married her whom you love."
                  "Who is that?" said the young man very much surprised.
                  "Miss Sarah."
                  "Sarah!"
                  "She whom you mentioned in your delirium."
                  Norton fixed his eyes on the young girl. He perceived that her eyes were filled with tears. He seized her hand.
                  "Why do you weep?" he asked.
                  "I do not weep," she returned, turning away her head.
                  Large tears rolled down the poor girl's cheeks, which she furtively dried.
                  "So," said Charles, "you consent to give me your fortune that I may return to America, and marry her whom I love?"
                  "Yes, Charles, most willingly."
                  "But your father will not consent to it."
                  "When he finds it out you will be far away."
                  "Then he will scold you."
                  "What matters that?"
                  "Suppose if you were to marry?" said Norton.
                  "I shall not marry."
                  "Never?"
                  "Never!" she repeated in a tone of the strongest conviction.
                  The poor girl had reached the limit of her strength. She bit her lips to prevent her from crying out. Tears coursed each other down her cheeks. Charles fell on his knees before her.
                  "Clara," said he in a gentle tone, "I love no one in America; no one is waiting for me there; Sarah is the name of a dearly loved sister who died years ago. I should like to remain here. I love a young girl in this country, and whom I wish to marry."
                  "Susan?" asked Clara, her bosom heaving, for her heart felt the tenderness vibrating in Norton's voice.
                  "No, Clara, I have never been Susan's lover. She whom I love, and whom I shall love for ever, is you, Clara. You appeared a short time ago to desire that I should be happy. That now depends on you alone. Will you be my beloved wife?"
                  The poor girl threw her arms around the young American's neck. She still doubted. She removed Charles's head away to look into his eyes. It was evident that the expression of Norton's face completely reassured her, for her anxious look entirely disappeared.
                  "How happy I am!" she murmured. "Oh. if my poor mother were only here! You really love me, Charles?"
                  "Yes; I love you with all my heart and sou.. And you——"
                  "You know I love you. If you had gone away, Charles, I must have died of grief. Oh! Charles, I love you so much, and I will make you so happy that you shall never long for your country again."
                  A scornful laugh was heard close by them. They turned their heads and perceived Seroas Bergiter. Although he still continued it, it could easily be perceived that he was furious.
                  "Well, dancing-master," said he, in an insolent tone, "is it customary in your country for men to make love on their knees? Do you know you look awfully soft in that position."
                  "Bergiter!" replied Charles, his eyes sparkling with anger, "it is a custom in my country to chastise insolence."
                  "Do you mean that for an insult?"
                  "As you like to take it."
                  Clara had disappeared; Bergiter, stifling with anger and rage, only sought for a pretext to quarrel. He first of all gave utterance to a torrent of insults too gross for us to repeat. From insults he passed to threats, and from threats he was nearly arriving to blows, when his hand was stayed by Roschoff, who had made his appearance, followed by his daughter and five or six servants. While Clara spoke to Norton, Roschoff endeavored to calm his neighbor, and reproached him for his violence to an invalid. Carried away by anger and jealousy, Bergiter received the remarks of the master of Weizberg with a very bad grace.
                  "This is all your fault," said he to the old man. "Why do you harbor such vagabonds? Although your hair is white, you are nothing better than an old fool!"
                  "That's what you say, is it?" replied Roschoff; "you want to be master here. Well, then, I begin by telling you that I consent to the marriage of my daughter to Charles. Now, if you are not satisfied, remember that, old as I am able to fire a musket as well if not better than you."
                  Clara threw her arms around her father's neck, and Charles seized the old man's hand and pressed it affectionately. But Adam, carried away by his anger, pushed them on one side for the purpose of continuing his quarrel with Bergiter. They both carried their muskets to their shoulders when Norton interposed.
                  "If there is shooting to be done it is I who am, concerned," said he, "and as I have been insulted I have the choice of weapons."
                  "Stuff and nonsense," interrupted Bergiter. "We want none of your American practices here. We are at the Cape, and you must fight with the musket as we do."
                  "Very well," said Norton; "lend me your musket, Mynheer Roschoff."
                  After a long debate between the young American and the old colonist, the latter was obliged to yield.
                  "Kill that rascal," said he to Norton, "and Clara shall be yours as sure as my name is Adam Roschoff."
                  "We will take our places two hundred yards distant," said Bergiter; "we will then advance and each shall fire when he pleases."
                  "No," cried Roschoff. "I know Bergiter—if you only give him time to take aim he is the best shot in the country. We must equalise the chances."
                  "Let us take our places fifty yards distant, with our guns at our feet. We will fire at a given signal. He will be most fortunate who fires the quickest and takes the surest aim."
                  It was Bergiter's turn to object.
                  "And supposing that we should both be killed?"
                  "So much the worse for us."
                  "I won't agree to those conditions," said the Hollander.
                  "Well, then, let us say a hundred yards."
                  After another debate Bergiter finished by agreeing to this last arrangement. Whilst he was loading his gun, and Roschoff was doing the same thing for Norton, the young American approached Clara.
                  "My beloved Clara," said he, "I do not know what Providence has in reserve for me. If I die my last thoughts will be for you. Pray to God to save me, for I have never desired to live so much as at this moment. God bless you, darling!"
                  She threw herself weeping in his arms. Her father separated them.
                  "You will make his arm tremble," cried the old man. "If you love him, remain perfectly quiet. He needs all his coolness."
                  While leading Charles to his place the old man gave him a few words of advice. The hundred yards were measured off. Bergiter whistled. Charles had forgotten his illness and walked with a firm step.
                  At last Roschoff gave the signal by throwing his hat in the air. Norton fired first and struck the young Hollander in the shoulder. The involuntary movement the latter made when he received the ball deranged his aim. Instead of hitting Charles full in the chest, which he would undoubtedly have done had it not been for this accident, Bergiter's bullet only grazed Norton's forehead.
                  "Since there has been no result we must try again," said Norton.
                  "The deuce take me if I do," replied the Hollander. "I am not such a fool as to risk my life a second time for a girl who cares nothing about me. You may marry her if you like for aught I care."
                  While he spoke he removed his coat. It was then perceived that he was wounded. Clara ran to him. He repulsed her in a brutal manner at first, but she returned to the charge. He finished by allowing her to staunch the wound, which was not at all dangerous.
                  Dissatisfied, and humiliated, the young colonist wished immediately to return home, and it was with the greatest difficulty that they could persuade him to remain at Weizberg. Bergiter was not really at heart a bad man, and he soon became reconciled. He even witnessed the marriage ceremony between Charles and Clara, which took place a few weeks afterwards. Every now and then, he visited them at Weizberg; still he did not like Roschoff to jest with him as to his matrimonial prospects. They were, however, good friends, and often hunted together.
                  Adam Roschoff, still robust and vigorous, has now four grandchildren. He tells everybody who will listen to him that his son in law, Norton, is the smartest man in the colony, and if the English Government had their senses about them they would immediately appoint him. Governor of the Cape of Good Hope. Clara is of the same opinion. They also try to persuade Norton, but he is conted to live happily and tranquilly with his wife and children.
                  
                     WOULD YOU BE YOUNG AGAIN?
                     
                        WOULD you be young again?
                        So would not I—
                        One tear to memory given,
                        Onward I'd hie, 
                        Life's dark cloud forded o'er,
                        All but at rest on shore—
                        Say, would you plunge once more,
                        With home so night?
                     
                     
                        If you might, would you now
                        Retrace your way?
                        Wander through stormy wilds,
                        Faint and astray?
                        Night's gloomy watches fled,
                        Morning all beaming red,
                        Hope's smiles around us shed,
                        Heavenward—away.
                     
                     
                        Where, then, are those dear ones,
                        Our joy and delight?
                        Dear and most dear, though now
                        Hidden from sight?
                        Where they rejoice to be,
                        There is the land for me!
                        Fly, time—fly speedily!
                        Come life and light!
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               SHOT ON SIGHT.
               By Frank Wood.
               
                  
                     THE ROWDY IN THE NEW ORLEANS BAR-ROOM.
                  
               
               I AM an "old man." But not in years. Neither am I prematurely aged by grief or care. I am an "old man" by profession. I do it for a living. When I add that I am first "old man," I beg you will not set me down as the original Adam. I belong to a much more modern date. You have often seen me, reader; my white hair crisping with rage In the first act at the mere thought that penniless young Alfred Highflyer aspires to the hand of my daughter, my bald head beaming with benevolence in the fifth act as I join the hands of the twain and pronounce over their bended heads the historic benediction: "Bless you, my children, may you be happy" You have seen me as the choleric East India uncle, returned from Calcutta with lacs of rupees and a diseased liver, explode with mirth at one of my own jokes, slap myself on the thigh, forgetting the gout, and then, as a twinge seized me, stop short at the height of my joviality, contort my face as if in horrible pain, and exclaim: "D—n that leg!" You have seen me in this self-same character, dressed in a dark blue coat and nankeen trowsers, and armed with a bamboo cane, going about like a dear bilious old angel, distributing purses of gold with perfect recklessness to every one that came within my reach. You have seen me as testy Sir Anthony Absolute, stamping about the room, vowing each moment, with a great many superfluous dam'mes and sirrahs, that I will disinherit that young scapegrace, Capt. Jack, that I will cut him off with a shilling, sir, but taking him to my arms at the end, and, though still cursing his impudence, forgiving him all. You have heard me as the patriarchal robber of the melodrama relate how it is now some five-and-forty years that I, a young Castilian, from his nurse's arms did steal the fair Alonzo; he was the Duke's che-ild and the idol of his doting parents; wild search was made for him in every nook and corner of this lovely land, but I, old Pedro, knew well how to baffle the bloodhounds that were set upon my track; I bore him with me to a distant isle, and when he grew to manhood he became a member of our trusty band; some there were among them who would have given him up to secure the large ransom, but a flash of this knife soon settled the barking curs; it was revenge I sought, not gold, and by Hevings I have had it! Aye! Sweet revenge! ha! ha! fast locked within this breast for five-and-forty years I've kept this secret, but now I do enlarge it, for I am dying, and cannot carry it beyond the grave; Alonzo, you are the rightful Duke of Arragon and heir to all your father's vast estates; go, it is told; I am faint, a cup of water! there, lay me down upon you mossy bank; so, leave me, be——ah! mother! mother! etc., etc. In fact, reader, you have seen me perform a variety of the most extraordinary things imaginable; living on a salary of forty dollars a week and supporting my wife and child, I have been known to give away millions on a single night; though naturally of a mild disposition, I have been the most obdurate and hard-hearted of mortals; on the other hand, I have distributed blessings enough in my brief career to last the priest of an Irish parish a lifetime; though only twenty-eight years of age and in the almost constant possession of perfect health, my form has been bowed with years, and I have been afflicted successively with gout, rheumatism, ague and the liver complaint; and, to crown it all, I have stolen so many highborn infants from their cradles that no one can regard me but as the most atrocious kidnapper of modern times. All this I have done in my professional capacity as "the first old man."
               In the fall of 185- a profitable engagement summoned me to New Orleans. There I soon became a great favorite with the audiences at the—theatre, and the prospect of increasing good fortune, in the shape of a still larger salary in the following season, was positively held out to me by the manager. At last, after the years of trials and wanderings that compose every young actor's career, I had sailed into the sunny harbor of prosperity, and great was my satisfaction thereat—a satisfaction which you may be sure was warmly shared in by my little wife. Even the baby seemed to appreciate our more comfortable quarters, and gave an extra crow of delight as I tossed him up in my arms.
               Thus pleasantly two months rolled on, the happiest, I may safely say, of my whole life.
               One night after the performance my especial friend "the first walking gentleman" and I dropped in at a noted saloon near the theatre to take, as was our wont, a glass of ale before going home.
               My friend—I must tell you in a sort of parenthesis—was an actor in high standing, much sought after by the managers, and being a very handsome fellow in the bargain, was widely celebrated for his successes with the fair sex. All that infatuated tribe of females who are weak enough to be dazzled by the glare of the footlights, and who are ready at any time to commit a folly for a face on the stage which, off it, they would let pass by unnoticed, selected George Davenant—that was the name of our first "walking-gentleman"—for the especial object of their affections. I have seen him in a single morning burn up enough billets doux to bring him in a very respectable sum if he had but preserved them until paper reached its present price.
               To return to the saloon: We were standing at the bar quietly sipping our ale and talking over the performance—handsome George, as he was known in the theatre, had played Claude Melnotte tha night, and his sympathetic admirers had turned out in large force, for "lovely woman" never seems to tire of the experiences of that bogus gentleman whom Mr. Bulwer Lytton Bulwer, in a cloud of fine phrases, attempts to pass off as the real thing—when suddenly, and with no forewarning at all, my friend was hit in the neck by a set of brass knuckles encasing the hand of a person who had approached us unobserved. He staggered and fell upon the tesselated marble pavement of the gorgeous saloon. As he fell his head struck heavily the flinty floor. Fearing that he was killed outright, I took no notice of his assailant, but sprang to him and lifted his head into my lap. A large gash was cut in his head, and his hair was already thick with blood. A black mark on his throat showed how severe had been the first blow. I called for a glass of brandy and poured it down his throat. In a few minutes he had sufficiently recovered to be able to stand with assistance. I now turned around to look for the man who had struck him. He was standing at the other end of the large room doggedly surveying us. Of a thick, squat build, and with an enormous breadth of shoulders, the fellow looked as if he could have polished off two like me with the greatest facility. A thick, stubby red moustache concealed as much as it could of a brutal mouth, while a broken nose lent an additional feature of repulsiveness to his countenance. It was evident at a glance that my man belonged to the fighting breed.
               I started to go towards him.
               "You had better not," said a gentleman standing near, laying his hand on my shoulder; "he is a dangerous character."
               I broke away and passed on unheeding. As I neared the bully he slipped his hand quickly behind him. I knew what that meant well enough, and I determined to be prepared for him.
               "You infernal scoundrel," cried, I, "what did you mean by striking that gentleman?"
               Hardly were the words out of my mouth when his hand reappeared from behind his back and a deadly-looking Derringer was levelled straight at me.
               "None o' yer jaw," said the bully in that husky, jarring voice, peculiar to low-lived debauchees. "If he had let my woman alone, I'd a' let him alone. Go 'way from me now, or you'll suffer."
               "You coward, you daren't shoot," said I, quite cool now and looking him straight in the eye, well aware that nothing but a steady nerve would bring me out of the scrape alive.
               "Daren't I!" he answered. "I'll tell you what, stranger, I'll give you just ten chances to leave this yere. You're a dead man if you don't move when I count ten. One—two——"
               "Pooh! you miserable assassin, I defy you!"
               "Three—four—five——"
               "Striking a man in the back! Aren't you ashamed of yourself?"
               "Six—seven——"
               
               He watched me like a lynx as he named these last figures. A movement of my hands in any direction would have been the signal of my instant death. Nearly everybody carried weapons at that time in New Orleans—you must remember that it was before the days of Butler and Banks. I had a revolver in the left breast pocket of my coat; I had my right hand on its stock, but before I could draw it he could have killed me easily. In less than half a minute I should be obliged to flee ignominiously or be shot down on the spot.
               "Eight—nine——"
               Here, as the voice of the speaker made an almost imperceptible pause, a door opened suddenly behind him. He heard it, but did not move his eyes from me. His lips opened to pronounce the word "ten," when I shouted, as if to the person who had entered the open door:
               "Shoot him, Dick! Shoot him!"
               Involuntarily the bully turned his head. In a flash my pistol was out and covering him. When he turned around again he saw that he had missed his game.
               A bully is always a coward. This is an aphorism which I cherish. In the present instance I put it to the test.
               "Now, sir," said I, "the thing is a little more even. You have got to do what I say, now."
               He shook himself, as if dissenting from this. His pistol was still levelled at my breast.
               "You may think not," I continued, "but I will show you that you are mistaken. You can't shoot me, without being shot yourself in the same second. You know this, and, consequently, you won't shoot. I don't care a straw for you, and am perfectly willing to die if I can rid the world of such a scoundrel as you are. I will shoot you first, if you don't do exactly as I tell you. In the first place, I want you to put that pistol down on the bar. If you don't do it by the time I count three I will put a bullet through your head. You see I am not so liberal as you are. I only give three chances."
               The bully looked at me as black as night, and and muttered something between his set teeth.
               "Now, then; one, two—"
               There was no need to say "three." The pistol had already been dropped upon the bar.
               "Next, my young hero, you will oblige the present company by taking your ugly face out of this saloon, and never showing it here again. You move slowly; permit me to assist you."
               I had the deep satisfaction of giving him two or three hearty kicks before he reached the door. There he turned, shook his fist in my face, vowed a bloody vengeance and slunk away.
               When I went back to my friend, George, who was standing in the centre of a group of gentlemen, all of whom had been delighted spectators of the scene which I have just described, I learned that my bully was a noted desperado of New Orleans, a man who for years had set all laws at defiance, and who was universally hated and feared. From all sides congratulations were showered upon me for my success in putting him down, but I was warned at the same time, and with a considerable degree of earnestness, that Red Bill—that was the fellow's name—was a very dangerous character indeed, and that I would do well to be on my guard against him.
               Getting rid of my eulogists as soon as common, courtesy would permit, I called a carriage, took poor, wounded George home, saw him safely in bed, and then drove to my own lodgings.
               With the anxiety peculiar to all wives when their husbands stay out after a given hour, Ellen did her best to discover by questioning the cause of my detention. With the mendacity peculiar to all husbands thus situated, I gave her, every reason but the right one. I knew that my story would only occasion her a needless alarm, and I thought it best to conceal it from her altogether.
               The next morning, while quietly seated at breakfast, the landlady's colored servant, Sam, brought me a note which had just been put into his, hand at the door by a specimen of the "poor buckra," as our aristocratic servitor expressed it.
               I tore open the flimsy brown envelope. It contained a small section of foolscap, on which was written the following missive:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "You dam hound, i give you warning, ile shoot you on site.
                           
                              "W. HAGAN."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I stuffed this dirty scrap of paper into my waistcoat pocket, with as unconcerned an air as if nothing had happened to disturb the tranquillity of my existence, and went on with my newspaper and coffee.
               At rehearsal, I went immediately to Handsome George, who had a very swollen look about the head, the consequence of the previous night's affray, showed him the note, and asked him what it meant.
               "It must mean that Red Bill is after you, 'he answered, with philosophical brevity
               "'W. Hagan' is Red Bill, then?"
               "Yes."
               "But what does he mean by shooting me on sight?"
               "That he will put a bullet through you the moment he lays eyes on you."
               "Without giving me any warning?"
               "Without giving the slightest warning in the world."
               "It is a regular vendetta then?"
               "Exactly."
               "You are acquainted with the manners and customs of this cheerful city, George; tell me what I am to do?"
               "Shoot him first."
               "But suppose I have no especial desire to commit murder in the first degree?"
               "Don't let that trouble you. The authorities would vote you a silver punchbowl for having rid the city of such a scoundrel. He has been the pest of New Orleans for years. Besides which, shooting people is a mere matter of form here."
               "Mark, my dear fellow," added the first walking gentleman, in a more earnest tone, "I am very sorry that you have got yourself into this scrape, because it does not concern you in the least. This fellow, you tell me, spoke about his woman. I dare say she had written me some notes, and, perhaps, proposed an assignation. As I am ignorant of her name, I don't know whether she has or not. I am certain, however, that I have never laid eyes on her. This great brute seeks your life, and he will have it, too, unless you take precious good care of yourself. You have taken this burden upon yourself for my sake, and—there's my hand, old fellow—I'm determined to see you through. I shall stay by you henceforth until the affair comes to an end. The note he has sent you would be a sufficient excuse for your killing him at any time. I have no such excuse, but I pledge you my word that if you should fail I will not. He cannot kill us both at once, and if you should fall his life shall be the forfeit."
               You can imagine the feelings with which I went home to my wife that day. When I issued forth from the stage door I looked nervously up and down the street for my deadly foe. I do not think I am more cowardly than other men, but I must confess that I was very nervous on that occasion. It is one thing to meet an enemy who advances boldly towards you in the broad daylight; it is quite another to anticipate an attack from one who you are certain will shoot you in the back at the first opportunity. I thanked Heaven when I at last reached home in safety.
               With a woman's intuitive cleverness, my wife discovered that something had gone wrong with me; but I smothered her suspicions with caresses, and maintained a fictitious gaiety by playing with the baby during all the time that intervened between our dinner and the evening performance.
               When I went out into the street again my misery recommenced. Every tree-box concealed an imaginary foe; every alley-way was the special ambush of Red Bill and his loaded Derringer. My hand was on my pistol all the time, the pistol itself was cocked, but the darkness gave my enemy an advantage which no amount of precaution could overcome. I reached the theatre, however, in safety.
               After the performance, Handsome George insisted upon accompanying me home. We walked through the dimly lighted streets, each keeping a sharp lookout, and often drawing our pistols upon an innocent pedestrian. Red Bill did not stop the way though, and our watchfulness went for nothing.
               My walk to the theatre next morning was marked by the same precautions that had characterised that of the day before. Although I looked before me with the greatest carefulness, and frequently whirled round on my heel in the hope of discovering my foe in the rear, I never felt in the least degree secure until I was seated in my dressing-room, in the——theatre.
               The supers told me that a red-moustached, short-built fellow had been seen lounging about the stage-door the night before, but neither Davenant nor I fell in with him on our way home when the play was over.
               Thus three days passed by. I was momentarily expecting to be shot down in my own tracks, and yet I slept peacefully each night in my bed. My precautions could not be relaxed, however, notwithstanding this comparative security. There was no telling at what moment the deadly bullet might plunge into me; there was no telling what tree could be passed without a preliminary reconnoissance. This state of dreadful suspense wore upon me. My wife observed my distraction, but fore-bore questioning me as to the cause of it, as she saw the subject gave me pain. A gloom fell upon the little household that had been so bright but a week before. I, who had been so gay under the influence of our good fortune, became moody and taciturn, and the same subdued feeling naturally stole over Ellen. To add to my misery, the baby fell sick. My home that was a paradise seemed transformed into a graveyard.
               Such an existence was insupportable to me. Rather than have had it endure a week longer I should in perfect insanity have invited Red Bill to come and shoot me over my own doorstep. When my mind had reached this stage I told Davenant that I was determined to end the affair, one way or the other. The conscientious scruples which had detained me from following my enemy to his lair and shooting him in cold blood gave way before the agonies which I had suffered for nearly a week on his account. George hailed with delight what he characterised as my return to reason, and that same evening, the play being over, we went forth on our mission of death. I had made up my mind to track Red Bill to his lair that night and shoot him down like a dog, always provided that he did not espy me first and so get the first chance.
               With this design Davenant and I visited all the low casinos and drinking-shops which the bully was in the habit of visiting. At one or two he had been seen in the early part of the evening, but no one was able to tell us whither he had gone. One barkeeper vouchsafed us the information that Red Bill had been looking about for a d——d actor named Mark Sterling, who had insulted him and whom he intended to shoot on sight.
               This intelligence only served, of course, to redouble our vigilance, and we kept a sharp lookout on all sides for our cowardly foe. Our researches, 
                     THE SEARCH FOR RED BILL.
                  
                   however, were in vain. It was nearly three o'clock in the morning and we had visited nearly every den in the city in which the finding of Mr. W. Hagan was a matter even of probability.
               Exhausted by anxiety and fatigue, I proposed that we should give up the man-hunt for the night and go home. Davenant consented on condition that we should visit just one place more, a low gambling den in a narrow side street, to which we were then quite near. Thither we both walked hastily, anxious to be done with the dreadful business of the night. As we approached the house Davenant got out his pistol ready for use, but our successive disappointments had made me callous to danger, and I neglected to follow his example.
               We were within a few steps of the door which Davenant was approaching on tiptoe, when a hoarse laugh from within stopped us both. I lost no time in cocking my pistol now, for I had recognized the voice of Red Bill. There was no mistaking those brutish tones.
               "We've got him now!" whispered Davenant in high glee. "Go in and finish him off at once!"
               Though I had been pursuing this man for five hours, with the fixed resolve of shooting him as soon as I met him, though he had threatened to take my life at the first opportunity, I must own that my determination wavered at this moment. My hands had never been stained with the blood of any fellow-creature, and I had trusted in God that they never would be. To shoot this man now, notwithstanding my provocation, seemed to me little short of deliberate murder.
               "Come, Mark," said George at this juncture, "hurry up or he'll come out here and shoot you."
               Moved by some unaccountable impulse I started forward at these words.
               "If anything happens, George," said I, "you will take care of Elien and the little one."
               "Of course I will; but there is no danger of that, so along with you."
               My left hand touched the door, my right clutched my revolver. With a beating heart I swung the door open.
               The sharp ring of a pistol shot stopped me on the threshold.
               There was a rush of many feet, and a wild commotion.
               While I stood spellbound at the door, Davenant pushed by me and passed in.
               Mechanically I followed him.
               A group of villainous-looking men surrounded some dark object on the floor. One of them told me that the man had been killed in a quarrel at cards. I drew near it and recognized a red moustache, a short, stout figure, a low forehead surmounted by short, cropped hair.
               There was a little blue hole in the forehead, from which the blood was oozing, drop by drop.
               "We can go to bed peaceably now, Mark," said Davenant, putting his pistol in his pocket. "Red Bill will never trouble either of us any more."
            
            
               Wreck of the Sylph.
               BY AN EX-MEMBER OF CONGRESS.
               
                  
                     AWFUL SITUATION OF THE STEAMER AT THE FALLS.
                  
               
               LONG will be remembered the 14th day of June, 1850, by the inhabitants of Buffalo and Niagara Falls and their respective neighborhoods, as well as by the numerous visitors congregated at the latter place on that occasion.
               The ill-fated steamer Sylph, which was then plying between Buffalo and Chippewa, left the former port on the morning of that eventful day, with some one hundred passengers, besides the officers and crew of the boat, on her regular trip to Chippewa, situated at the head of the rapids above the Falls of Niagara.
               As the majority of the passengers were persons who were travelling for pleasure, and, as the scenery on the Niagara river is very beautiful and in some places quite romantic, in addition to the interest with which several spots are invested from the historical associations with which they are connected, the time passed very pleasantly.
               All was gaiety and hilarity on board, when, just opposite Chippewa, as the boat was rounding to, preparatory to landing, and, when about the centre of the stream, something gave way about the machinery and her engine stopped working. As the wind was blowing pretty strongly down stream at the time, it seemed almost impossible that they should be able to steer her into shore before she struck the rapids, which, having reached, no human power could save them from going over the Falls.
               Every effort, however, was made that men in such circumstances could make to avert such a catastrophe. Nearer and nearer they approach the point, where the waters, dashing precipitately down the shelving bed of the stream, roaring and surging and chafing among the huge rocks, with which it is covered, fret themselves into a foam, long before taking their final leap over the precipice.
               What a change a few moments had wrought in the feelings and actions of those on board that ill-starred vessel. From joy and innocent gaiety, accompanied by frequent bursts of laughter at some sally of wit, jest or lively repartee, all was now consternation and dismay.
               While the captain and crew, together with those of the passengers whose presence of mind prompted them to volunteer their assistance, did everything that men could do or their ingenuity devise, the balance, terror-stricken, watched their every motion in breathless suspense. They had already succeeded, by extraordinary exertions, in reducing the distance to the shore nearly one-half, when the wind suddenly ceased blowing. They now gained the shore rapidly, and their hopes began to revive, as the boat approached almost near enough for a person to have jumped on share, when the wind as suddenly broke upon them with redoubled fury, and, in spite of all their exertions, the boat was driving from the shore more rapidly than a moment before she had been approaching it.
               And now hope died in the bosoms of all on board; and when, a moment after, the boat struck the rapids, yielding themselves up to despair, they involuntarily, as it were, and with one accord, sunk to their knees, as the most befitting attitude in which to meet their Maker, towards whose presence they were hurrying with such terrific velocity.
               What an awfully sublime spectacle! More than one hundred human beings in the attitude of prayer, with eyes uplifted; some frantically beseeching their Maker to save them from the impending destruction, while others were supplicating the throne of heavenly grace for mercy, and praying to their Saviour to intercede for them; borne away, as they were, with resistless energy and fearful rapidity towards the verge of that mighty cataract, by whose side the most stupendous works of man dwindle into insignificance, and man himself, proud man, feels that he is but an atom, an evanescent scintillation, as it were, and, from the abyss of whose vexed and boiling waters no living thing has ever returned to life, that has dared or endured the fearful leap.
               Nearer and nearer they approach; the vessel gliding along with the swiftness of the winged arrow and tossed about on the bosom of the raging stream, like an atom of foam, created from its own fretting, but with infinitely more ease, apparently, than the giant rends the gossamer web that obstructs his pathway.
               They are now on the very brink. The roaring waters beneath are yawning to receive them. A piercing shrick goes up that rises above the roar of the mighty cataract itself. A crash is heard; a shock is felt; and all is silent, save the roar of the mighty torrent that is surging and breaking around them.
               Surprised at the momentary respite, some of the bolder spring to their feet to ascertain the cause, when a cry of joy bursts from their lips, which rouses the rest from the state of almost suspended animation into which they had fallen, and restored them once more to consciousness. A more careful examination of their situation, however, was not calculated to inspire them with a high degree of hope. They seemed to have been, spared from instant destruction to be subjected to the tortures of a lingering death, with the prospect, every moment, of being dashed to atoms and swallowed up within the remorseless jaws of that yawning vortex that seemed to be raging and roaring beneath their feet for its prey.
               The boat had lodged on a projecting rock, on the very brink of the precipice, and so far from the shore that any attempt at communication for the purpose of rescuing them from their perilous position seemed utterly hopeless. And besides, from the tremendous force with which the raging waters beat against the boat, which now obstructed their free passage, it seemed impossible that she could hold together longer than a very few hours at furthest.
               And now the scene on shore beggars description. The news that a vessel had gone over the rapids and lodged on the edge of the Falls, with a large number of persons on board, spread like wildfire, and men, women and children were seen hurrying towards the Falls on both sides of the river and from every direction.
               The news having been telegraphed to Buffalo, the friends of many of those on board the vessel were soon added to the number of the hundreds, if not thousands, who had already assembled to witness the tragic scene; and, on the arrival of the cars from Buffalo, the largest train by far that had ever passed over the road since it had been built, and all crammed to suffocation, several hundred more were added to the throng.
               All was consternation and dismay.
               The agonizing shrieks of those on board the boat, which rose above the roar of the maddened waters, and their frantic gesticulations, which could plainly be seen through the surrounding spray, which vainly strove to conceal them from view, and by which they were constantly drenched to the skin, imploring those on shore to come to their rescue, almost paralyzed them with despair instead of invigorating them with hope and stimulating their exertions.
               A thousand plans for their rescue were suggested, discussed and abandoned, either as impracticable, as requiring too great a length of time, or as involving an additional risk of life, without any adequate prospect of success. Large sums were offered to any one who would either save them himself or suggest a practicable plan by which they might be saved by others, but all in vain.
               Several hours had now elapsed and both sides had almost entirely despaired, the one of saving and the other of being saved, when a small steamer was seen coming down the river with the speed of the wind. Landing just above the head of the rapids, in an incredibly short space of time, a small boat was launched from her bows, which boat a number of men from the steamer took in tow, and started with it down the rapids towards the Falls. These movements attracting the attention of the crowd about the Falls, who, knowing it to be some plan of rescue, and having abandoned all their own, the vast throng on the Canada shore now made a simultaneous movement to meet them.
               And now, while the people are all wondering at the late arrival and hastening to meet the men with the boat, we will proceed to Buffalo, from whence the vessel came, for the purpose of giving a brief history of the causes that led to this new movement.
               Charles Walker, a young lawyer from Detroit, formerly a midshipman in the navy, was sitting in the front of the Phelps House quietly smoking a cigar, and as quietly looking under the bonnets of all the pretty women that passed, when a very small boy, with a tremendous pair of lungs, came tearing down street, bawling at the top of his voice:
               "Extra Commercial—got the particulars of the Sylph going over the Falls—all the names of the passengers on board. Cent apiece—buy one, sir?"
               As curiosity was sensitively alive on the subject, Charley, of course, invested a copper, and, as he had heard before all the particulars about her going down the rapids, lodging at the edge of the Falls, position, & c., he immediately directed his attention to the names. In going over the list he met with the names of several persons of his acquaintance, but as he looked, upon death as the common lot of all, and as he was constantly in the habit of meeting with the names of his acquaintances in the newspapers, who had paid the debt of nature, and as he regarded the names before him as he would a list of killed and wounded in a battle, or as victims to some malignant epidemic, the only feeling he experienced was one of regret at the sudden manner in which they had been called from time to eternity. For although he had no assurance that any of them were actually dead or even dying, still believing their death to be inevitable, sooner or later, and classing the idea of their being rescued among the impossibilities, he experienced the same emotions in reading over the names that he would have done if they were actually dead. He had proceeded about two-thirds of the way through the list when his eye rested upon a name, at the sight of which all his unconcern and philosophical indifference vanished in a moment.
               "What!" he exclaimed, letting the paper drop from his hands, as a slight tremor convulsed his manly frame, "Kate Drummond on board!" and then for a moment brightening up, he continued: "Oh, no! that can't be, for it's only two days since I left her in New York, where it is her intention to remain during the summer, visiting Saratoga, Newport and the other fashionable watering-places in reach, and returning home by way of the Falls sometime in August or September. I suppose there are more Kate Drummonds in the world than one, and this Kate Drummond is one of the other ones. Well, I feel some interest in her on account of her name, anyhow, and if it was in my power I'd save her just for that. But as it is, I'm afraid she's a gone Kate, and if there's any poor devil as nigh crazy about her as a certain chap I could name is about a certain other Kate Drummond, I think, from the sensations I experienced just now, I can appreciate his feelings when he hears of the sad catastrophe.
               "I'm glad it wasn't my Kate at all events.
               "My Kate! That sounds mighty pretty, and it's all well enough to talk about my Kate, but old Drummond, that flinty-hearted old father of hers, seems determined that it shall be long enough before the consummation of the ceremony that shall render the two words my and Kate entirely applicable, when issuing from the two lips of Charles Walker, Esq., Attorney-at-Law, & c. He seems bent on forcing a match, if it can't be brought about by gentler means, between Kate and that old blinker-eyed Hodge, and all because he's rich. Yes, there lies the secret; he's rich, but then he's old and as ugly as sin, while I'm as poor as Job's turkey, young and decidedly good-looking.
               "And there's the names, too. Hodge. Now that's a pretty name to tie to, ain't it? Just to think of hearing Kate called Mrs. Hodge. It would be like putting a satin flounce to a bit of calico or binding a rag carpet with gold lace. Preposterous! Walker, now that sounds something like. There's something melodious and poetical about that, and how delightful Mrs. Walker would sound! almost equal to the music of the spheres.
               "And there's our fathers too!
               "I'm willing to compare pedigrees with him, as to age, fortune, beauty and name. His father lived like a hog to leave him, wallowing in wealth, to lead a life of luxurious profligacy and to drag out a wretched existence of gout and ennui, and now, at a time of life when he should be thinking about his grave, to hunt up the handsomest, most accomplished and amiable girl in the whole country; and then, after managing to get her father under his thumb by lending him money at a low rate of interest to speculate on, and taking deeds of trust on his property, and then cheating him out of the very money he had loaned him, through his agents, pretending at the same time to be his best friend, to insist that she should be sacrificed on the altar of his lustful passions. Talk about love existing between them! I'll venture to say he hasn't experienced the sensation, these twenty years. And, as to Kate, although she's as full of love as Venus herself, she'd as soon think of loving old Nick as that, bloated, hoary-headed old sinner. Old Drummond's a fool, if he is Kate's father; and if he wasn't her father, I'd say he was a brute for entertaining the idea even of such a match, much more for threatening to use coercive measures, as he has done, knowing as he does that Kate regards him with utter loathing and detestation. Yet he insists on the sacrifice, trying to persuade her that she can't help liking Hodge, he's so much of a gentleman, so kind, so amiable, and all that, and, what is better than all, so rich!
               "On the contrary, my father lived like a prince, and left me perfectly willing to follow his glorious example, but, unfortunately, destitute of the means of doing so. However, the want of means doesn't trouble my mind much, as I've the wits and the will to scuffle my way through life with the best of them; and, if old Drummond don't keep his eye skinned mighty sharp I'll outwit him
                  
                     THE LIFEBOAT.
                   and old Hodge yet, as sly as the secret is kept, and marry Kate in spite of them.
               "I love Kate, and she knows it, and Kate loves me, and she knows that I know it—and, more than that, she doesn't care who does know it—for she's proud of me, as I'm sure any woman might well be. Ahem!
               "Yes, and I'm proud of her, too, and it needn't surprise old Drummond a bit if he should happen to wake up some fine morning and find his daughter among the missing, the willing, loving, lovely and adored spouse of Charley Walker, the poor lawyer; for although she positively refuses to marry contrary to her father's wishes, I have too much confidence in her spirit and strength of character to believe she can ever be forced to marry contrary to her own. And in the event of her father attempting coercive measures, as I have reasons for believing he designs on her return home, I think I shall persude her to consent to an elopement; and, then, won't I be the happiest man out of jail! Well, the wedding-day is over, at least the wind work of it, and I hope old Drummond will soon become reconciled to the match, and not disposed to a protracted lamentation over his spilled milk. So now let's see who are the balance of those unfortunate people on board that boat. God help the poor creatures! I wish I could, but as I know I can't, it's no use trying or crying either. What awful sensations they must experience! I wouldn't be where they are a minute for all old Hodge is worth and his chance of marrying Kate in the bargain, if he has got her father on his side.
               "Let's see, how far down had I got? Ah, yes! Kate Drummond, of Detroit. Of Detroit? Why, that's where Kate—my Kate lives, and I never heard of any other Drummonds living there. Oh, horrible! If it should be Kate! Let's see who are the rest: George Smith, of Milwaukee; Wm. Johnson, of Philadelphia; William Miller, of Illinois; Col. George Drummond, of Detroit.
               "Col. George Drummond, of Detroit!" he repeated. "That's Kate's father. It is she! It is she! And now she's lost—lost—lost! Oh, my God! what shall I do?" he exclaimed.
               And now the apparently thoughtless and light-hearted young man rested his head upon his hands and gave vent to his feelings in a flood of tears.
               After remaining in this position for perhaps two minutes, he suddenly rose from his seat, his countenance brightened, and dashing the tears from his eyes, he exclaimed:
               "I'll save her, or perish in the attempt!"
               Then, jumping on a cab that stood near, he jerked the lines and whip from the driver's hands, very much to that individual's consternation, who thought him a maniac, and, laying whip to the horse, drove, Jehu-like, down to the wharf. There he soon succeeded in procuring a small lifeboat and several hundred feet of strong cable, and then chartering a swift-running steamer, he put them on board of her, and left for the Falls.
               This was the reinforcement that had attracted the attention of the crowd at the Falls, as before noticed. Having towed the small boat to a point some two or three hundred yards above the Falls, he fastened the cable to her bow, and the crowd having met him some distance above, he explained to them his plan of operations, which was as follows:
               Floats being fastened to the cable every few feet, to keep it on the surface, a sufficient number of those on shore were to take hold of the cable, while he got into the boat to steer it, and then they were to let out the rope gradually until he reached the stranded vessel. So confident did he seem of success that he inspired the others with a like confidence, and they joined in with alacrity, rendering him every assistance in their power. Having got everything in readiness and explained the signals he should make, when to pay out rope, when to stop, and when to haul in, he embarked on his perilous but noble enterprise.
               In the meantime those on board the Sylph were not indifferent spectators to what was done on shore. From the time the vessel struck and they found themselves alive, but their lives suspended as it were by a single hair, they had been watching, with breathless anxiety, for some effort in their behalf, not, however, with any very high hopes of his success, if undertaken. But, until now, they had seen nothing that looked like an attempt to rescue them.
               Col. Drummond, from the time the boat struck the rapids, had been in a state bordering on insanity, at one moment praying most vehemently, and the next upbraiding Kate for being the cause of all his troubles and of their being where they were, at the same time charging her with ingratitude for the pains he had taken with her, and telling her that if she had married Hodge, as he wanted her, they would all have been at home happy, instead of being on the brink of eternity, and it might be of perdition, and then he would commence praying furiously.
               Kate, who was by far the calmest one on the boat, did all in her power to pacify her father, but at the name of Hodge she could not forbear expressing her detestation for the man, and declaring that she had rather go over the Falls that very moment, and be dashed into a thousand fragments, than marry him. It was this constant idea of Hodge that was kept presented to her mind by the incoherent ravings of her father, with a knowledge of the fact that, from some cause or other, her father had hurried on after her some two months earlier than she had expected, and was taking her home for the avowed purpose of hurrying on a marriage with that odious creature, together with an abiding faith in her Maker, that made her look on death with so much indifference. Indeed, so revolting was the idea, that she felt if, in the event of their being saved, it was to be her fate to be united to a being upon whom she looked with loathing and disgust, that it would be infinitely better, the Almighty being willing, that her existence should terminate then and there.
               But when the frenzy of her father would subside and grant her a short respite, her thoughts would instantly centre on a certain other individual, and then she would desire to live. It was in one of these lucid intervals that her attention was arrested by an exclamation and directed to the little craft that had just been launched upon the troubled waters, and oh, how she hoped it might succeed in reaching and saving them.
               She had been watching the tiny thing dancing upon the water for some moments with breathless interest, and admiring the skill of the daring pilot who, perilling his life in their behalf, was directing its course towards them, slowly but surely, when all at once she thought she recognized in him the one who, of all the world, she had rather see.
               "What!" she exclaimed, "can it be he? Can it be Charles?"
               Just at that moment the spray driving somewhat so as to give her a better view.
               "It is he! It is he!" she continued, and then, rushing to her father, "Father," she cried, "it's Charles! Oh, father, it's Charles Walker that's coming to save us!"
               "Charles—the devil!" says that old man. "It seems that you can think of nothing but Charles Walker. You'd better be thinking about dying. Here I've been praying for the last thousand years and—"
               "Oh, no, father—not a thousand years; we haven't been on here a whole day yet."
               "Don't interrupt me; you don't know what you're talking about. It seems like it's been a million, and I've been praying the whole time and you've been doing nothing but chatter about Charles Walker. Oh, that infernal scamp! It's you and he that have been the cause of all my sorrows, and now, after bringing a fond and doting father to an untimely end, you can have the heartlessness to exult over his wretchedness and embitter his dying moments by talking to him about your partner in iniquity, who has the audacity to be following you about all over the country, and you the ingratitude to permit it, contrary to my orders."
               "Indeed, father, as to his following me, I can't possibly conceive how I am to prevent it, this being a free country, and civil people allowed to go pretty much where they please. As to my doing nothing but talk about him, it is the first time I've mentioned his name since we left New York. But," she continued, "indeed, father, Charles is coming in a little boat and he'll soon be here; and if he should succeed in saving us, you may consider yourself indebted to me for your rescue quite as much as for your fright, as it is I that's bringing him, I'm confident of that."
               "Oh, yes, it's you that's bringing him—I know that to my sorrow! I would like to know where he wouldn't follow you to? It was to keep you away from each other that I took you away from school at Philadelphia and sent you to Buffalo. The next news I got from Buffalo this seemingly ubiquitous Mr. Charles Walker was there, promenading around with you swung to his arm, contrary to my positive orders. You couldn't help that, neither, I suppose. Well, I sent and had you brought home, and two days after I was in town, and, going down Main street, what should I see but a piece of iron tacked up by the side of a door, with 'Charles Walker, Attorney-at-Law,' on it in large gilt letters! Well, I put up with his impudent familiarity and your stolen interviews as long as I could stand it, and at last determined to send you to New York, never dreaming that he, a poor lawyer, with but little practice, would presume to follow you there, indeed doubting his ability to do so. I say I determined to send you to New York and let you spend the summer, and when you came home in the fall to insist on your marrying Hodge immediately, and settling down a happy wife. So, as Stringer was going after goods, I got him to take charge of you, and take you to New York to your aunt's. When Stringer came back, I was inquiring of him when he saw you last and how you seemed to be enjoying yourself, when he answered that he saw you the night before he left the city, at the opera, in company with Charles Walker! that you seemed to be enjoying yourself very much indeed; that he had never seen you looking better in his life; and, indeed, he said you were the best-looking couple he saw there, and seemed to be enjoying yourselves full as well as any, and, if anything, a little better.
               "What, says I, as soon as I could get in a word, is Charles Walker in New York?"
               "Oh yes, says he, he's been there a week."
               As it happened, Charles having business in New York, he left Detroit a week before Kate, perfectly ignorant of the old man's intentions of sending her there, and was taken with a very agreeable surprise on receiving a note the evening of her arrival informing him of her whereabouts. But of this the old gentleman was profoundly ignorant, supposing until informed to the contrary by strangers that he was still in Detroit, though Kate was rather more enlightened on the subject and at the time her father was sending her off under Stringer's care to keep her out of Charles's way, she was laughing in her sleeve at the pains he was so unwittingly taking to throw them together.
               "I asked him then," continued the old man, "if he left him in New York."
               "Oh yes, was the reply; he intends staying there all summer.
               "I then made up my mind that I'd go after you and bring you home, when you should marry Hodge right away, and thus put a stop to all these wild-goose chases. I went and had got as far as Buffalo, when nothing would do but you must take a trip down the river to the Falls, and here we are. I guess you've got your satisfaction of the Falls for one while. I know I have, and if I should be lucky enough to get away from here, I pledge myself never to come voluntarily within a hundred miles of them again. But as I was saying, here we are where I didn't suppose any man in the world was bold enough or rather crazy enough to venture, when here comes that everlasting Charles Walker, following right after you as usual. He seems to be ubiquitous. I'd like to know where he wouldn't follow you."
               "Such being the case, father, you had better give your consent for us to marry, provided he succeeds in saving our lives, which I am sure he will do; and then well cease to annoy you with our wild-goose chases, as you call them; he'll no longer follow me, but I him, as my rightful leader, and then what a happy family we will be. Come now, father, what do you say? Here, standing upon the very brink of eternity as it were, not knowing what moment we may be swept off, do you renounce your objections to Charles Walker, or do you still insist, in the event of our being saved, on my marrying that detestable Hodge?"
               "Do as you please, child, I've done my duty in trying in every way I knew to keep you from marrying that young upstart of a lawyer; but as you seem determined on throwing yourself away by marrying him, do so, I shall make no further objections."
               "Oh, thanks, dear father, a thousand thanks," exclamed Kate, clasping her father in her arms, and covering his face with kisses. "I know when you become better acquainted with Charles you'll love him—you can't help it. But while we've been talking, Charles has reached us in safety, thank heaven!" And sure enough there was his boat by the side of theirs, which, having secured, he sprang lightly to the deck of the steamer, and the next moment he and Kate were in each other's arms, and he was smothering her with kisses. As soon as she could get to speak, she told him that her father had yielded up his objections to their marriage.
               "Yes," says the old man, taking hold of his daughter's hand and placing it in Charles's, "here take her, and make much of her. I've done all I could to prevent it; so you needn't step to thank me; but as you're captain of that craft that lays alongside of us, and as I feel very uncomfortable here, suppose we make a trade. I give you Kate, and you give me a passage to the shore."
               "Agreed!" and clasping his arms around the old man, he swung him over the edge of the steamer and deposited him in his own little craft. Then serving Kate in the same manner, he placed her by the side of her father. In the same moment he filled it to its utmost capacity with women from off the Sylph, and had leapt in himself and cast loose before the balance on board were aware of what he was about, so rapid were his movements.
               And now a wail went up from those left on the steamer, begging in most piteous terms not to be abandoned to their fatal But on being assured that it was impossible to take any more on board at that time, and that the boat should immediately return, they ceased their lamentations and resigned themselves calmly to whatever fate Providence might have in store for hem.
               The signal having been given, the boat began to move slowly up the stream and towards the shore, which they soon reached in safety; and other persons volunteering to take charge of the lifeboat and see that the balance of the passengers were brought ashore, Charles and Kate, accompanied by Kate's father, jumped on board the steamtug which had brought Charles to the scene of action, and returned rejoicing to Buffalo.
               In the course of a couple of hours from the time they left the last person on board the Sylph had left her to her fate, and reached the shore amid the congratulations of their friends, and in a half hour more she was floating in a million fragments below the Falls.
               That evening a small party, consisting of a few of the most intimate friends of the parties, were assembled together in the parlor of the Phelps House for the purpose of witnessing the consummation of the bargain, entered into on board the steamer Sylph, between Colonel Drummond on the one part, and Charles Walker on the other, when and where Kate Drummond became the happy bride of her dear Charles, and Charles himself, as he had anticipated, the happiest man out of jail.
               The old colonel also, his wits having once more resumed their legitimate functions, was so happy at realising the fact that he was actually once more on terra-firma, that he not only forgave Charles and Kate for the trouble they had given him, but was unable to find words to express his gratitude to the former for so nobly perilling his own life to save theirs.
               "You've won her, my boy," said he, "and nobly won her too. Fortune favors the bold. You're worthy of each other, and I'm proud of you both. I see now, and confess it with shame, that I was a fool in wanting to sacrifice such a jewel as Kate on the altar of Mammon, though in fact I was so infatuated that I never looked upon it before in the light of a sacrifice, and I thank God that my steps were arrested before the unhallowed deed was consummated; though from what I've seen of you, Charley, I have my doubts whether the sacrifice would ever have been made even if this accident had not have happened, as I'm pretty well convinced that you and Kate would have out generaled us in the end. However, that's all over with now, thank fortune, and may all your anticipations of happiness be more than realised. So good-night, and God bless you both."
               The next morning they left for home on one of the magnificent take steamers, where they arrived without further accident. On reaching home they learned that Hodge had died very suddenly a few days before, leaving all his property to Kate, to dispose of as she might think proper, which she immediately did by delivering the papers into the hands of her husband.
               Through courtesy, and by way of showing their respect for the memory of the lamented defunct, they went into mourning, but then the parties and merrymakings, of which they were the life and soul for some weeks thereafter, were suggestive of anything rather than sorrow, they seeming to bear the melancholy infliction with a most astonishing degree of resignation.
            
         
      
      
         
            
            THE FIRESIDE SERIES.
            NOW READY.
            
               No. 1.—THE LIGHT DRAGOON;
               A Tale of Mexico.
               The Scene of this story is laid in the United States and Mexico, and many incidents of the late war between the two countries are truthfully depicted. The thrilling adventures of the two Union Officers, Capt. Clifton and Major Ringgold—the heroism and devotion of Elvira, the Mexican maiden, cannot fail to interest every reader.
            
            
               No. 2.—IDA LEE;
               OR, THE CHILD OF THE WRECK.
               NOW READY.
               This is a most interesting story, by FAIRFAN BALFOUR, the celebrated novelist. Those who read the first chapter of this work will not rest content until they read all; and then they will read it again. The illustrations are numerous and beautiful, and the wonder of all who have seen it is, that a book of the size and quality can be produced for so small a sum as 25 cents.
            
            
               No. 3.—STELLA;
               OR, THE GRAVE ON THE SANDS.
               NOW READY.
               All that we have said in regard to the merit of "Ida Lee," applies with equal force to this most excellent story. It is the same size—contains the same number of handsome illustrations, and possesses in every respect equal interest and beauty.
            
            
               No. 4.—HARRY CASTLETON;
               OR, THE ABDUCTION.
               BY FRANCIS S. SMITH, whose many works of fiction, familiar to the public, form a sufficient guaranty of the excellence of this one. The persecution of "Carrie," by her enemies, is sure to gain our sympathy for the noble girl, while her ultimate triumph over them will please the reader. It is a story of City Life of the most intensely interesting character, and is well worthy to be one of the "Fireside Series."
               Either of the above sent, postage free, on receipt of 25 Cents, by THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY. 121 Nassau Street, New York.
            
         
      
   
