
    ----CITATION----
        Hunt, Sara Keables.. The Brook, and The Tide Turning, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6845
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The brook, and The tide turning, vol. 2
             
                 THE TIDE TURNING.      THE TIDE TURNING. I. THE shades of evening were deepen- ing along the river; slant rays of light shot through the purple hol- lows and ran up the distant bluffs; the noisy waves were hushed to a gentle murmur, and a dreamy silence told that the day was drawing to a close. On the porch of a brown house, shel- tered by the western bluff, and almost buried in a tangle of trees interlaced with vines and creepers, sat a middle-aged man with pipe in hand; still, he was not smok- ing. Apparently he was ill at ease, now 3     4     The Tide Turning. and then running his left hand through his gray hair, then resting his elbows on his knees, and bending forward, as if in profound thought. Within, a woman was seen busily passing from kitchen to pantry and parlor, setting her house in order, while a rift of song floated out to where the man was sitting: "I have no argumnent beside, I urge no other plea; And 'tis enough-the Saviour died, 'The Saviour died for me." Tramp, tramp along the pavement, men with tin pails in their hands and coats swung loosely over their shoulders. Seth Rogers was first. As he caught sight of the man on the porch, he shouted in a loud, rollicking voice: How's this? Any of em sick, Mordant?  "All well, thank ye," returned the man, starting up and shaling the ashes fromt his pipe.   The Tide TZur'ning.    5 [   "Been to the meetings?" continued Seth, coming nearer. "I was up last night," was the answer. "Pretty fair, they say. Jane asked me last night; bIt I'd promised Stoddard. If I'd known  ou'd gone, mebbe I would, though." Others camet up-brown, brawny\v)-armed men, tossingo their jests, and each with some allusion to the mnelti nis. "'A regoultar stunner," salidl oinel, with re- ference to the speaker. "Stoddard says he's going- some night just for the fut of the tlhing. 1 hope he'll tell us when he does; it will be a. good as a show. He's a match for anybody, and I goo in for a fair game," said a broad- shouldered manll in a gray coat and slouched hat. "There's no fair game about it; it's all one way," answered Seth Rogers. "They all huddle A to t the altar, and solmebody     6     Tih Title Tu rnzinqz. prays, and everybody pitches in. I'm go- ing when Stoddard does." There was a loud laugh and a shuf- fling, half dance, and the men started down the street, leaving Mordant still in his chair. While here, we may as well say that there had been, and was still, in the small village of Glencoe, more than usual reli- gious feeling. The white church oil the hill was open every day, and all the day. There was nothing of excitement; still, there was a growing interest, and this in- terest was working outward. Men at the forge questioned; boatmen and mill hands wondered if what they heard could be true. Saloons were not as fascinating, and a travelling theatre, to which the working-men were accustomed to take their wives and children, was obliged to change quarters for want of patronage. The authorities went so far as to appoint   The Tide Tile / .4 ; .   7 a meeting to devise measures for self-de- fence; but there was nothing on which to base a complaint. People had a right to go to church every day and every night, if they saw fit so to do; they could pray and talk; so long as there was no dis- turbance, the law was useless. For years Ben Mordant had not been to church; his wife went, he frequently said to his comrades, and that, of course, would save him.  As he understood it, it was all by proxy-'" nothing in ourselves, the preachers say." Of his children, three had been taken in their infancy. Jessie was the last, a sprightly child of three years, whose death proved a heavy blow to her father. "It seems hard. If God is such a God as they. say, I can't see why he took Jessie," he would say to his wife. The small grave was often visited; flowers were planted, and a white mar-     8     11w c Ti7' dc Trnwing. ble tablet, that cost many months' wages, glittered through the green leaves. The two remaining  children, Horace and Alice, had each many redeeming qua- lities, with an aptitude for study, so far gratified. Mrs. Mordant insisted upon this. "It is all we can give them, Ben," in return for anything that her husband would say.  Mrs. Mordant was a quiet woman, with  a firm religious principle flowering in her heart. She believed in the efficacy of prayer; and while it seemed long, and at times she faltered and was almost despairing, there was still the as- surance that God would not forget. She had asked; it was for her to wait His time. At the commencement of the meet- ings Mrs. Mordant went, accompanied by her children. Alice was among the first to give her heart to Christ; and now the one cry was for her father. Horace was an affectionate son to his mother; but his   The Tide Turnintg.    9 father was the one to copy.  Overcome as he frequently was by drink, Horace did not lose respect for his father's opin- ion. This sorrow for sin that Alice felt he knew nothing of.  True, he recalled times and seasons when he had departed from the right. Once he put forth his hand, and took what his father had for- bidden him to touch; but this could not be very wrong - not worse than others, not half as bad as many of the boys. Jerry Ringgold and Tom Johnson were all right; they did such things every day, and nothing was said of it. Horace went to church with his mother and Alice, in- different, but still led by some invisible influence, studying after he came home, and never behind in his recitation. Mrs. Mordant was not in sight; still, she heard all that passed between her Ihusband, as he sat in his chair on the porch, and Seth Rogers altd hs asso-     IO     The Tide Turning. ciates. A wise woman, she  did not attempt to lay any restraint upon her husband's movement.  She  invited him with an easy politeness, just as she did others. "If he desires to go to The Eagle, he will go; but we can pray for him," she said to Alice. "Yes, mother, we can pray. You re- member that He says, Whatsoever things ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them." Going into an inner room, mother and daughter knelt, asking the one especial gift: that the husband and father might be inclined, through the agency of the Holy Spirit, to accompany them to church, and that his heart might be touched that very night. As they rose from  their knees the church-bell rang. Mr. Mordant buttoned his coat, and walked briskly up and down the hard path th-e the house.    "That was the first bell, father. Wait a bit; we are all going." Alice spoke, as taking it for granted her father was to go; the child-faith in her heart was strong.  She had asked for him. "I don't think I can go to-night, Alice. I half promised Stoddard to go out a few miles for a horse he has in pasture. I went last night, you know." "I don't like to go without you, fa- ther," laying her dimpled hand on his arm, and nestling her brown head to his shoulder. "You said it was better than you'thought it would be." "Yes, it was different; not much cant. I really believe they are honest; but to- night it's too soon. Horace will go with you," struggling to free' himself from her embrace. Alice went to her mother with  a troubled heart. She had asked, she felt     1 2    Th/e Tide Tiurz'ia . sure; now her father has gone to meet Stoddard. Of course they would go to' "The Eagle," they always did-and her father would drink and spend all he had, and be brought home. It was an old story. "Are )ou sure that he has gone?" aslked Mrs. Mordant. ' He took his hat and walked away in that direction," was the answer. Alice knew that her mother was gone longer than usual for her bonnet; but the prayer that went up from the closet was heard by God only. "We must not worry father. I can but think he will come," Mrs. Mordant said, as with Horace and Alice she left the house. When they reached the church, what was their surprise to find iMr. Mor- dant already seated. No notice was taken of it, save that Alice nestled closely to his side. -As the meeting advanced, one small hand stole into his, and a soft glance full   The 7Tide Tit rurig'   13 of love crept up to the bearded face. At the close an invitation was given to those who desired the prayers of Christiahs to come to the altar, or, if they preferred, simply to rise. Mr. Mordant sprang to his feet. Alice stood beside him. Mrs. Mordant, although a professed Christian for years, was on her feet; so was Horace. "Let us pray," was said in a reverent voice. Then followed a prayer for strength to be given to those who saw their danger to flee to the Helper. "Christ is able, he is willing. Come, thou blessed Spirit, now; unbar these hearts, and let the Saviour in." An interrupting voice cried: No, no, he cannot-such a sinner.  There is no hope." The voice was from Mr. Mordant. The prayer was turned into words of encouragement; passages of divine truth were repeated. "Though your sins be as     "    The /Tide TZurnin'o. scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool." "It is possible for another to be for- given, but not me. You do not know who I am, neither what I am.  I have outraged all offers of mercy. I deserve nothing from his hands. All these years I knew that I was wrong; now I see that I am lost." "Father! father! Jesus came to save the lost. Listen to himi: 'Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, and he will abundantly pardon,"' exclaimed Mrs. Mordant, draw- ing near and throwing her arms around her husband's neck. "No other being, Mary, knows as well as you do what a wretch I have been. I now see how I have treated you. I am   The Tide Tturning.    15 sorry; if I could undo it, I would. But you must forgive me.  You will forgive me.  It is too much to ask of God. I cannot do it." The poor man covered his face with his hands. Sobs came from every part of the room. "The blood of Jesus can wash it all away." It was a woman's voice, and it fell with singular power upon the heart of the stricken man. He looked up, while the tears trickled down his swarthy cheeks. "If your child had wandered from you, and now came to your door and asked forgiveness, would you refuse him?" was asked in the same musical voice. "What! Horace, my boy, .gone for years! Of course it would be the very thing I should most want. You better be- lieve at the first sound of his voice I should run to open the door and take him in," returned 'Mr. \lordant with earnestness.     16    The Titde T Jrnilg, "God deals with us as children. We have all wandered from him. You have wandered. You now come back. At the first sound of your voice he will hear. Not so fast could you run to unbar the door for your child as he will to bid his child welcome. "'Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.' "'Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your soul shall live; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David.'" "But this thirst for drink-you cannot know what it is," cried Mr. Mordant. "He will take it all away." "How can he?" It grieves his loving- heart to see his children walk uTnworthily. You are con-   TLe /Tide 'ri/,gi .   I 7 scious of your sin. You hate this chain. Ask him to unloose your fetters and lead you in the paths of holiness." "If he only will!" "Do not doubt him.  ' Have faith in God.' '\What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.'" "For thirty years I have not eaten a breakfast without drink. I cannot do it." "Ask him to enable you to do this." "If he only will!" "At what  hour do  you require a drink?" "At about six in the morning, and, if breakfast is late, another before I can taste a morsel." "It is late; we must go home.  But remember, at six o'clock tomorrow morn- ing we shall pray for you, that God will I  be pleased for Christ's sake to take from .     I8   /Thce Tide Turn-intg; you the desire for strong drink.  Will you likewise ask for yourself?" I will." All niglt Mr. Mordant tossed, moan- ing and crying out in broken snatches that God would free him from the power and dominion of strong drink. The better to keep her husband from saloons, Mrs. Mordant was in the habit of bringing the morning glass. As the dawn appeared she rose and dressed; then, turn- ing to her husband, "It is six o'clock; remember they are praying for you." "It has been a wretched night; now I feel like sleep. Leave me a few moments, and I will see," was the answer. The voice was natural and the face wore a strange look of peace. Mrs. Mordant went out, hardly knowing if it would be possible for her husband to rise without the usual stimulant. In an hour she returned; he had risen, and was dressed.   The7 7'ide Tuzrning.   19 "Shall I bring you anything?" she ven- turec to ask. "I can do without it; her prayer has been answered. I am a saved man," was said exultingly. Still fearful that he would break down under the force of excitement and a sleep- less night, Mrs. Mordant brought a cup of ginger-tea, such as she sometimes made to appease the terrible craving for drink. "I will take it for your sake; but I do not need it. I am a saved man." After breakfast Mr. Mordant went out. So long there had been a watch over him it was impossible not to feel uneasy. More than  once Alice came to  her mother. "If Stoddard finds father, he will be sure to fall. Suppose I go and bring him home, mother." "We will ask God to keep him, Alice." "You have often said to me it was not     20    'The Tide Turninz-. enoughA to ask; we must do, as well as ask." "There are times and places when to wait is all God desires us to do," was the mother's reply.   !I :1B t A.... f II. HE (Self-Protecting- Society" was in a state of consternation. They prepared for the crusade; but this was an unlooked-for evil.  Miss Archer came  single-handed, a modest, unobtru- sive woman with  gentle speech and a persuasive voice. She made  no war against intemperance.  She passed  the saloons daily. It was policy, no doubt; getting the people to church was an effectual way of breaking up the liquor business. Everybody went. Mordant pro- fessed a change of heart. "There's- some hocus-pocus  about it. Mesmerized-who knows?" laughed Spar- good. "I)Dpend upon it, there's something," o         21      Johnson responded.  I Wife and children have been; they are full of it. I don't like to denyl my little (irl. Relioion, as they call it, is well enough lor women and children. As a usual thinc, they need some supernatural ilitluence to keep 'eem straight. But I lon't believe in a personal God; I never dlidl and if I o, it will look as if I'd been drawn in." "You tare  afraid they, will melsmerize you," latugled Rogers. "I'm not such a spooney a1s Mordant. The falct is, lie is pretty well broken up. A man can't stand what ihe's carried this last year. I don't nmuch wonder that he's pulled ttlp. tBut for mIe--hun1 ph! I'm not easily scared by such bugaboo stories." \Vith this there was a loud laugh;l then each took a drink; cigars were lit; then cards, and for a time the annoyance of the meetings wasI lost in the nlmre p( leasing fascination t( 1 tlhi  m'the.    Hurry up, -man alive! \hat is wanted, that you stand gaping there?" exclaimed the proprietor of "The Eagle " to one of his men. "Plase, sir, I am after lave to go to the meeting with my ould woman. I'm . tould the likes of 'em are niver seen here." "Never a bit! H-ow lare you ask for leave to go to the meetings? They are to be broken up; the) shall be broken up. I give you faitr warning. If you go, I will tell Father O'DI)onehan." "The praist has no rights over the loikes of us. Ve are of the same reli- gion as yourselves. We can go where we loike," spoke up Thomas. "The same relioion as ourselves. Then yout needn't trouble about going to the ,meetinos.' Mr. Sparo-ood laughled, and tirew down a card. The deuce! \\lat led?" seeing that he had made a mistalke     24     The Tide Turniing. 'Never mind, we have it," exclaimed Rogers, sweeping the cards aside. "Never knew that you and your man were of the same faith, ell?" The game went on. More bottles were brought. The click of glasses was more frequent. The meetings were again the topic of discourse. "Stoddard promised to go; if he does, there'll be fine work. Should like to see the woman to answer him when he tries." Stoddard was a lawyer, and proverbial for brow-beating a witness; to go to meeting for the purpose of refuting the speaker promised a rare treat. All was still outside; doubtless everybody was there. Spargood was not a   man to  drink deeply. It was his aim to lead others to drink; for this purpose he called the "Self- Protecting Club" together. He wanted to devise some means to put an end to   The Tide Turlnzitg.    25 the increase of religious feeling. He de- pended upon Stoddard. The lawyer had done nothing; it was possible there was nothing to do.  It angered him that Thomas had asked him. He was a good man, but it should not be. Not one of his family should go. A sudden thought seized him: perhaps Thomas had already gone. "If so, he shall smart for it," was his mental ejaculation. "It isn't late; I'm half a mind to go,' gathering up the cards. "That'A so, Spargood; there's nothing like free speech. Let's have it out." Johnson made an attempt to rise, and fell back in his chair. Ringgold was hardly better. Rogers tipped his hat on one side of his head, pulled down his wristhands, and pulled up his collar. It is possible that he had not drunk as deeply as the others; at least, the effect was not to stul- tify him. His fun-loving face was full of     26    TThe Tide T7'uning. dimples, and his  usually bright eyes sparkled. Rogers was just in the condi- tion to show a bold front. In sarcasm and repartee this man was unequalled. Oblivious as Stoddard might be, he was always well dressed and his manner that of one from whom one would expect better things. In the habit of drinking spirits as a fish drinks water, he could take a quantity, without showing it, that would thoroughly upset other men. "Only when Stoddard is cross-eyed can one tell how much he has taken," was the usual remark. There was a slight obliquity of vision now. Spargood went out, and returned pre- sently. "Evil take the whole posse of them! I'll just go to see if they are there. I'll make it hot for 'em, that I will." Mr. Spargood was in a foam.  It was   T/,c Tide iiTuni-nZ'?l. 27 t)o bad; for years he had been at the head of "The Eagle;" and "The Eagle" was unmistakably the best house in Glen- coe. "Such paltry delusion! They'll smart for it," was jerked out, as he went in and out of the office. Rogers looked amused. Johnson and Ringgold shook hands and babbled of old times, boasting not a little of what they had done and what they intended to do. "If we go, we must go," said Rogers with a laugh. ' The game will be under cover if we dawdle here." "It's not manly to disturb a meeting. I won't go," exclaimed Stoddard. "But you promised; it is not like you to back down," returned Spargood. "My mother was a good woman.    I remember she used to lead me into her room and pray with me. Sometimes now I feel the weight of her hands upon my head, almost hear her voice. Had she      2 8    T'hc T7ate 7T rni,'7 lived, I should have been a different man. "Fudge! Come on.   Loolk! Johnson and Ringgold are asleep; they will never know where we are gone." Spargood was nervous to i degree that kept him going. He could only think of the torture he would be sure to inflict upon any member of his family who might be at the meetings. He did not scruple to threaten. Rogers laughed and Stod- dard was serious. The sermon was over; some of the people were coming away. A white-haired man was standing on the church-steps. The lamp shed a soft light on his furrowed face. Years were written upon his brow, but his eye was undimmed; there was no undue, care. As a child he felt that he had a Father to care for him; and this sense of rest, this free- dom from anxietty, left his heart alid I hi    hands free. The soul that rests on Jesus is the only free soul. Such an one can say to his fellow, "Come, we will do thee good." The three men paused at the threshold. Through the half-open door came the voice of one at prayer. The white-haired man extended his hand. "I have waited for you ; I thought you would come." "You thought we would come! What led you to think that we were com- ing?" asked Spargood in a contemptuous tone. "I asked God to influence you by his Spirit to come, and I have never asked him for anything that I did not receive." "Well, we are here without the influence of a being unknown to us.  We came because^ we willed to come, and, if no ob- jection, we will enter," was said in the same contemptuolus tone.     30     The 'ide Turniing. The white-haired man led the way. The three scoffers were seated directly before the altar. The voice was familiar. Spar- good looked up; it was Ben Mordant..   "I. ;TOT more earnestly did the people of ,  amascus loolk upon Saul, breath- ing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, now as earnestly declaring how he had seen the Lord in the way, and  that he had spoken to him, than the little assembly in Glencoe looked and waited for the first word from Ben Mordant. For a moment he stood, as if collecting his thoughts. Then  resting his tearfiul eyes upon the faces of his former associates, he said: "When called upon to speak, I felt that I could not. It is all so new and strange, emotion well-nigh masters me.  Still, I feel that God requires it of me, more especially now that I see mv associates, I A     32     7'he Tide Turning. men who are as I was, striving to make themselves believe there is no God and death is one eternal sleep. Such an op- portunity to testify for Jesus I cannot let- pass. Bear with my feeble utterance and stammering tongue.  I am like a child opening his eyes for the first time. All is strange, and beautiful, and bright. My heart is light; the burden of sin is rolled away ; the fetters tlat bound me to strong drink are broken. You all know what a wretched man I was. -My habit was known to you all. There were times when it is possille you despised me; at other times you pitied me. For months I have hardly drawn a sober breath. I had a business turn of mind; this was gone. Judgment was weakened and affection dulled. ' He is killing himself with drink, and yet he cannot stop,' was frequently in the mouths of my acquaintances. My wife felt that to stop suddenly would be suicide. Painful   The Tide Turning.     33 as it was, she brought me drink. All she ask'ed was that I should stay at home. She would give it to me as many times a day as I felt that I must lave it. In the wide world there was not another so miserable. I saw the ruin I had made. I felt that I was a wreck, drifting on to eternity, I drank to forget; oblivion was what I asked for. Day after day I went to 'The Eagle.' Night after night I was there. I drank, and played, and cracked my jokes; and made bold to say there was no God. I said this, but not once did I believe it. In my heart I knew there was a God. It was this that made me miserable. I knew how infinitely great and glorious he is. To think of God made me more misera- ble; then I derided him, scoffed, and at length upbraided him. I was a creature that he had made. Why did he give me such appetites? \Why did he fill my soul     34     The 1Tidc iu lrning zr with unworthy thoughts and desires? . I hated myself for my wickedness, and I threw the blame upon God; just as well could he have given me a clean heart, just as easily could I have been a good man, had he willed it. "Your pardon that I dwell upon this. I knew that it was wronTg; but I did not then see it as I do now. My old comrades will bear me out in this, that I tried to blot out God. But lie found me, wretch that I was-found me, not to condemn me, which was my just due, but to have mercy upon me.  O  divine grace! O wondrous love! that could forgive a sinner like me. But he has forgiven me-he has. Shall I tell you? Is it too late? Shall I stop where I am?" "Go on, go on. XWe must hear how it was with you," calne from  different larts of the house. "( God works th rough the instrtcn-   Thei Tide Tu;rn/ingr.   35 tality of Christians. I can never be thank- ful enough that these meetings were or- ganized. I can never be thankful enough that I was led to come to these meetings. There are times and places when the blessed Spirit is poured out more abund- antly than at others. As I have said, I knew what I was; but I did not realize, neither did I begin to understand, what God's mercy could do for me, his loving- kindness. I came here. I was told that he could forgive sin. I had read this in my Bible, and I felt that he could; but my sin was of a darker shade, a deeper dye. In my heart I did not believe that he could forgive my sin. And if he could, I knew my appetite for strong drink. I could not 1 ave off drinking. Did I become a Chris- tian, I saw ,that I must hold up. It would never do for a professing Christian to drinl as I did. "T[his tlhought put an end to myx coming,     36     The Tide Turz inng. to church for several days. I was misera- ble on account of sin. I longed to be forgiven; but what was the good of beingo forgiven when I had this terrible thirst for drink? I must drink. When not under its influence, I was prostrated. I had not strength to come to the meetings without one and two glasses as I started. "I cannot remember just how it was. Alice, my Alice, asked me to come. I re- fused her; but I could not bear the torture. I knew it was, because she loved her father and could not bear to see him perish. I did not think it would profit me. I came to please Alice and her mother.  Miss Archer met  me  kindly. Strange, I thought, that she should know my name. She did know it, and she knew just what a hard case I was. She did not shrink from me. God bless her! She took me by the hand, just as a sister would have done, and she told ine of Jesus, of his   The T'ide 7'uruinZ    , 37 love; that he pitied me, even me, and, if I would ask him, he would 'forgive my sin and reinstate me in the good opinion of his Father. I felt that I would give all I had in the world, if he would do this. But of course he could not. He could for- give me-I did not doubt this: but the appetite for strong drinlk would still be with me. Try as I would, I should walk unworthily. Then profanity \was mine. No, no; I could not see that forgiveness and cleansing from all filthiness was the very thing that Jesus longed to do for   me. "Days passed. Manly turned from death unto life. I took pleasure in thinking that God's grace had  come to Glencoe.  I longed to see the young people come to Christ. Alice was one of the converts. I cannot tell how I felt over Horace. I felt - that I was responsible for his belief. If he grew to be a bad man. I should be the     38    The Tide TurninAg. guilty one. I had not restrained him. I had set an unworthyT example for him to follow. If I could only undo it! All this time I was trying to drink moderately. I stayed as much at home as I possibly' could. I did not speak often, for fear that I should swear. "One evening Miss Archer talked with me especially of drinking. She asked me if I had never thought that Jesus could take away my appetite for strong drink. I answered that I knew he could forgive sin; but my physical being would remain the same. "' How so? He says he will give you a new heart, with new desires, new pur- poses, new strength. Listen to his com- forting words: "'Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.' Again, 'If two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything that thev shall   The Tide Turning.    39 ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven.' "I had read this before, but I did not see the force of it until now. It seemed the simplest and the easiest thing in the world for two to be agreed as touching something they would ask of God. "'If I can only do without drinking!' I stammered. "'If you are powerless 0o do this, God will take from you the appetite. He is not a hard master; he does not ask you to do anything that you are not physi. cally able to do.' "I caught at this, God would see that I could not fight against this appetite for strong drink, and he would remove the desire. I had before told Miss Archer the hour when I was accustomed to take my first drink. For years I had not done without it. For years I had not eaten a morsel without stimulant.     40     7/le Tide Trii7ngi. "'I will pray for you at that hour,' was said at parting. "I went home feeling that I would pray for myself. It should not be my fault. I would put God's promise to the test. We were agreed. I hated the chain I most earnestly desired to lose this appetite. Miss Archer had promised. I knew that she would not forget me. "The night passed without sleep. Tor- tured as I was, I tried to pray. My words were broken and my requests nairowed down to two: drink and profanity. Would God be pleased  for Christ's sake to remove these from my heart? Six o'clock came. I was easier. My wife rose. Now was the struggle; it was the hour for me to drink. She was in the habit of bringing me something at this hour. ' Shall I bring you anything?' she ventured, and, before I could answer, added, 'You remember Miss Archer is praying for you at this hour.'   The Tide Tu rnzing.   41 I was easier than I had been for seve- ral days. I felt like sleep. "' Leave me a little while. I will see,' was my answer. "She went out. I was quiet. I'do not think I moved.  Such rest I had never known; it was not sleep, but it refreshed me. I knew the hour had gone. I must rise. Never as a boy did I spring from my bed more lightly.  My wife entered, surprised to find me ready for breakfast. Again she asked the question: ' Shall I bring you anything?' "'No, no! Thank God, it has all gone! I am a saved man.'" The voice was lost; every head was bowed, and every heart was throbbing with gratitude and love. Where the three scoffers sat one only was left. It was Stoddard. He rose up slowly, and came out in front of the altar where Mordant was still stanclintq.     42     The Tide Turning. "They told me it was all a make-be lieve, Ben. But I did not believe them I do not now.  Like you, I have tried to blot out God. All the while I knew he was a living presence.  I wouldn't have believed it, Ben; but it's so-I see it. God has interposed to save you; he must do as much for me. Will he?  Pray for me, Christian friends." "Pray for us both," said Mordant. The two men were standing before the altar with their hands clasped and the tears trickling down their swarthy faces- the saved and the scoffer side by side. "Let us pray," was said reverently. Instantly every knee was bent. "In thine owVn appointed iway Now we seek thee, here we stay; Lord, we know not how to go, Till a blessing thou bestow."   IV. 1^?ITHEN  Stoddard left the church, he. ^,1 was not again seen for several days. Some said that, ashamed of the step he had taken, he purposely secluded himself; others said that he had gone on a spree; but few considered it possible that he could be interested, and these were praying, ones, praying espe- cially for him. "He is the son of a godly mother," it was said. As a child he was the object of prayer. God will not leave him to himself." With new hope in his heart :Ben Mor- dant went daily to "The Eagle." "I have been here for years; I must come now," he said to Mr. Spargood. "Of course you will come.  We have 43      ,   1I "    The Ti'z e i'tur;lzi -.   ' missed you," returned the pliant man. "A man of your intelligence cannot be hoodwinked by a few  praying women. What will you have? I know you must be as dry as a fish," making- a display of his bottles, "You mistake, Spargood.  I am  not here to drink, as I used to do. God for- give me! my influence was all wrong. No, 110, Spargood. Put up your bottles. Let us talk of these tlings. You will admit that I am changed; but I am not hoodwinked; neither was the change ef- fected by anything mortal man could do. God has for Christ's sake forgiven my sins. His blood has cleansed my heart. There is now no desire for drink; he has given . me new thoughts, new purposes. You can but see that I am changed. It is days since I tasted liquor; still, I am not weak and trembling, as I used to be, without it. Be persuaded, Spargood. He   The Tide Tiiriiiizg.   45 has done this for me; he will do the same for you. "Of course, as long as excitement keeps up you will go on; but let that stop- we'll see." "I am  not excited. I never felt as calm and restful in the world. Nothing distresses me only my influence. It was all wrong, all wrong." Rogers was there, so was Johnson, so were Clark and Blaisdell. "It's a muddle. I can't make it out. The young folks are all down in the mouth-so much about God.   I'tn tired of it. I couldn't get away till I half- promiised Cynthia l'd go to-night," Blais- dell said with an oath. "As soon expect iron to swim as to see you at the meetings," laughed Spar- good. "I hear you've been once," returned Blaisdell with another oath.      Mordant looked hurt. He had never before felt the outrage of profanity-how utterly unworthy; an offence in the sight of God and man, "Do not swear," he said pleadingly. "Yes, just as soon expect iron to swim as to see you there," reiterated Spargood. "God, who has forgiven me, can make even iron swim," said Mordant reverently. "Likely that," laughed Johnson. , He has done it." "When?" A happy thought seized Mordant. Here was a thread.  Perhaps he could say something. At least he could read the narrative. These men were not interested. They were scoffers. Still, he would try. "If you care to know when, I'll read the story," was said pleasantly. "Well, if you'll make out that iron will swim, I'll go in for 't," answered Johnson, with a covert look at his friends.   The Tide Tzirzngi.    47 Mordant drew his Bible from his pocket. "Hang me, if I didn't think it was a revolver!", whispered Blaisdell. "Mebbe it would swim; there's not much of the real stuff nowadays." Opening to Second Kings, sixth chap- ter, Mordant read in a clear voice the story of the borrowed axe, its loss, and the manner of its recovery. By the time the chapter was finished an unusual seri- ousness brooded over the room.  Mor- dant was the first to speak. "The case of the borrowed axe leads me to think of days when, I have been here, wasting my time and opportunity for bettering myself physically, intellec- tually, morally - gone, everything was swallowed up. The Bible tells us we are not our own.  We are bought with a price. The man lost the  axe.  God raised it through the instrumentality of !; servant. His servant cut a branch and     48    72 /c Tide Tt rin i ig. threw it into the water. It is not in the nature of iron to swim; but the Being who gave to iron its properties has cer. tainly the power to change its nature. He did not give it into the man's hands. He told him to put forth his hand and take it, and he did so. Just like you and me, my friends-lost opportunities; the five or ten talents lent to us wherewith to make other five or ten. We lost them on the start; again God lent us others. As before, lost, lost, was written over against us. He has given  us another opportunity to retrieve our fortunes. He bids us stretch forth our hands. He is ready, willing, and fully able. Will you not make friends with him while you can make friends with him? Many times he has called you ; this may be the last time." Spargood looked sullen and silent. Rorgers was the first to speak. He had buried a childll 1it a fiw weeks previous.   The Tide Tzulr li ' g.  49 She had never sinned. If sin was such a terrible thing, if there was a God, the sinless and the sinning could not dwell to- gether. He did not believe in oblivion; it was by no means pleasant to think that man was no more than the beasts. "If we only knew," Rogers was con- strained to say. Unconsciously he was walking up and down the long porch. Thomas was at work before the door. It was more the manner than the words that led him to turn his head. 'The Bible, mon, the Bible; begin to read it, and e'll have it. I mind nabody reads that blessed book and is at a loss for the meaning. Try it, mon." Perhaps Spargood had no inkling of what was going on between Rogers and Thomas; but the sharp ring of a bell and a sudden  order sent the man to the stable. The proprietor of "The Eagle" was evidently uneasy; there was no     50     T/he Tide TurnigZo; time to be lost. Mordant had broken away, Stoddard was gone, and Rogers was wavering. "We will see, we will see," he said to Johnson. "If things go on in this way, we shall have to break up; there's nothing doing-nothing.  Not a drink round even. It's too bad." i   ,         I   V. /  EHE last rays of sunlight fell on the moss-covered roof of an old brown farm-house. A blue-eyed girl of twelve was leading a small child up and down the narrow, hard path to the gate. "Robin is coming.  Hark! We shall see him and Brownie presently," the elder one was saving. "What keeps Robin so long?   It is nearly time for father, and we have no milk." It was a woman's voice, soft, low, and vibratory-such a voice as rests one to hear when the care of the day is laid aside. All at once the song of a bird came floating down from its home in the- grand 5'     -52    f7/fc Ti'c/ 7Turn ino. old Ilm that sheltered tie door. The cliild' caught the strain, and clapped hrI. hands and laughed, showing  a row of pearly teeth. "Yes, mother, it's Brownie. I will take the pitcher, if you will look after Mabel," said the young girl eagerly. "Mabel will come to mother," reaching out her hands to steady the little trembler. "I don't see Robin anywhere; it's not like him to loiter," continued Mrs. Ashbey, her eyes following Elsie, as she tripped through the gate.  A man's step was heard on the hard road, and the next moment Mabel was swung to the broad shoulders of a bearded man. "Father is glad to see his little girl. What has she been doitn all day? Help- ing mamma, eh?" "Heping mamma," the child made an effort to repeat. Supper was ready.  A table standing   4 I I I I     i L t-    h  e   -  s-,v   iI? 4' ELSIE AND ROBIN'-Palge 53.,   The Tide Tzirnzig.    53 in the centre of the floor was spread with a linen cloth, white as April could bletach it, to say nothing of plentiful ablutions bestowed by housewifely care. Generous slices of wheat bread, golden butter, and creamy cheese were already on the table. "Father is tired, pet, and supper is almost ready," said the mother, trying to win the baby from her perch. "Where is Robin, and Elsie? I thought I heard her voice as I came up," said Mr. Ashbey, swinging Mabel to the floor. "Brownie was coming, and Robin was not in sight." was the answer. A wreath of steam curled upward from the spout of the tea-kettle. Mrs. Ashbey lifted it off, then. poured a boiling flood over the measure of tea in the bright tea- pot, closed the cover, and left it to simmer, while she once more led Mabel to the door. "To be sure they are coming"  but     54     The Tide Tu rninzfg. who and what have they got with them? Some poor man   who is sick.  Come, father, and help him." Mr. Ashbey was washed  and dressed and ready for supper. Hearing his wife's words, he came forward. "Looking for Brownie on the bluff, I found this man, father. He was asleep. I thought it a hard place with a rock for a pillow, and I persuaded him to come here. He thought perhaps you wouldn't want to see him; but you do, don't you, father?" "You did right, my son," looking into the boy's bright face. "If anybody is sick, your mother is just the best hand to take care of them. I should say coming lere was just the thing." Mr. Ashbey had not long been in the vicinity of Glencoe, or he would have known at- once the name and character of his guthest. As it was, lie uriessed it   The Tidte Tziriing.    55 to be some one beside himself with drink or despair, and determined at once to do what was in his power to make him com- fortable. At supper the guest occupied a chair by the side of Mr. Ashbey, thus putting it out of his power to catch but a passing glimpse of a face on which deep melan- choly was plainly written. Not so Mrs. Ashbey; pouring her tea and passing the different dishes; she had a chance to scan closely. With her woman's. insight she came to the truth at once. Going to her husband as he left the table, she said: "Who knows but this man is trying to leave off drink? He converses well, and like a man who has read extensively. I feel sure this is the case. You will not let him go away to-night.  With some- thing to eat and a few days of rest he may get bravely over it.  To see him makes me think of Hermon."     56     The Tide Turninzg. "I have thought of Hermon; but we cannot keep him, Fanny, if he chooses to go." "But he will not choose to go. Look, he is talking with Mabel. Go interest him, while I put away the dishes and set the rooms to right." Mrs. Ashbey was a kind-hearted woman- a woman who could not look upon a sad face without thinking that there was a sad heart behind it. Her nature was more demonstrative than her husband's; but whatever her heart prompted  he was quick to second. Before she had, with Elsie's help, put everything in order, Robert came to whis- per that he knew who it was andwh y he was there. "It is Stoddard. I heard them say he had not been seen for several days. He has been to the meetings in Glencoe; and he came away, so that he might not go into the saloons and get drink."   The Tide Tu lrning.   57 "I am glad my tea was strong and he had two cups. Now, if we can keep him a few days," waS the reply. "I don't believe we can, mother.  I heard him  say something about going back," continued Robert. When Mrs. Ashbey joined her husband and the strange gentleman, as Elsie called him, she had  so many enquiries with regard to Glencoe and the surrounding country, that before he was aware it was late-too late to find the path over the bluffs, "Besides, I have been going into the village for several days, and to-morrow we will all go. I cannot bear to think that we are to miss all the meetings," Mrs. Ashbey  said, as she pressed him to remain. Never since they kept house had family prayer been omitted. To-night there was a fuller explanation of the chapter read;     58     7he Tide Turzing. while Mrs. Ashbey, with Mabel asleep in her lap, joined in singing: "Oh! could I speak the matchless worth, Oh! could I sound the glories forth, Which in my Saviour shine, I'd soar and touch the heavenly strings, And vie with Gabriel, while he sings, In notes almost divine." "My mother used to sing that hymn. When  I think of her, and  of all she taught me, and all that she desired me to be, I am  plunged in despair. Go where I will, there is no hope.  It is death, eternal death. I feel the consuming fires even here. I am tortured by them." There  was a struggle in the man's heart, striving to keep silent; he was forced to cry out, "'There is no use, good friends! I am  lost, lost-" the words dying away in a low wail. Mr. Ashbey knelt in   prayer. It was not a formal array of words addressed to   Th Ti (te T7t rni/;g',/. 59 a Being afar off, but as friend to friend; rather the freedom of a favored child to an indulgent parent, asking, craving, great gifts. But when he came to the stranger, his freedom changed into persuasive elo- quence, pleading-the promises, and asking for his Name's sake, for the honor of his church upon the earth, that a clean hleart might be given to this man, who was vainly trying himself to flee from sin. Mrs. Ashbey put Miabel in bed, then came and sat down by her husband. The soft moonlight crept through the low win- dow, and gleamed like silver on the un- carpeted floor. M4v friend, you express yourself as sorry for sin ; you hate the chain that binds you; but you are trying in your- own' strength. Why not come to Jesus, tell him all, just as you have told us? Ask him to hide you in his strong arms. Ask him to forgive you and to blot out your     60     The Tide Tir uui g,. transgressions." Mr. Ashbey spoke ten- derly; his heart was greatly moved. "I have asked him; but my sins are so dark. I am worse than other men. I have sinned against greater light" "His blood can cleanse it all away. When a physician is sent for to see a sick man, and raises him to health, he receives honor; the more deadly the dis- ease, the greater the knowledge and skill attributed to the physician. Christ is a great physician ; he can heal you, let your guilt be what it may." ' This appetite, this constant desire for drink-you cannot know  what it is. It is possible for a man to do without food for a day, perhaps .two or even three days; but he lmust have it.  So with drink." "When you go into the village, do you feel that you will have to drink?" Mr. Ashbey asked.   T7'e 7Ti'e T7rn1iig   61 "I cannot see that there is any hope for me.  I have asked to be kept from temptation, and I have stayed days and r    nights upon the bluffs, for the sole pur- pose that I might not see it, might not meet with any one likely to draw  me away. It does no good.  I may as well give up." The wave of moonlight made a broad path through the room; the stranger was *1  sitting with his head bowed, the silvery light touching his dark locks, and bringing out lines of care on his furrowed cheeks. There was an evident conflict. Mrs. Ash- bey's heart was filled with sorrow. This man had been sent to her door; he must not go empty away. "What would you think of that man who  earnestly desires to do a certain thing or to receive a certain gift? It is offered him; it- is held up before him; it is the very thing - he wants. Still, he al     62     7/The Tide 1 Trlnil'; draws back and begins to make excuses; not so much as reaching forth a finger to secure what he seems so earnestly to desire." Mrs. Ashbey's voice was low and penetrating. The bowed head was lifted. "I understand your meaning; there is something to do on my part. Tell me what it is." "Accept of a fill, free pardon for Christ's sake. You have sinned, but lie has borne the penalty. His blood was spilled that sin like yours could be blotted out. He says that he will pardon-take him  at lis word; that he will blot out-believe that he will do it; that he will no more remember your sin and your shortcom- ing. Only believe that he is able to meet his promiises. You are troubled. You need rest. Listen to his words: "Fear not: for I have redeemed thee. I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine.'   The Ti7'e Turning.    63 "'I, even I, am he that blotteth out -thy transgressions for mine own sake, and will not remember thy sins.'" Like the faint gleam of dawn on the distant hills, so the twilight of a new hope was seen in the man's face. He spoke slowly: "It is possible that I have depended too much upon my own resolution to reform. I will go to Him. I will no longer ask him to keep this appetite under. He must take it from me. He must see that it is an unequal conflict. I cannot do it." "This point gained, and you are safe, dear friend. Only when you feel that you cannot do for yourself will Jesus in- terpose," said Mr. Ashbey. At breakfast next morning Mrs. Ashbey sent Robin to enquire how the stranger had slept. He was not there, neither was the bed tumbled. Surprised, the lad was going to his mother when a strip of     "     TIe Ti'de Tart7-nin'Zt paper fluttered in the breeze and fell almost at his feet.   On  it these  words were written: I'll go to Jesus, though my sin Hath like a mountain rose; I know his courts, I'll enter in Whatever may oppose." "I can but perish if I go: I am resolved to try; For if I stay away, I know I must for ever die."   VI. HE   "Self-Protecting Society" in Glencoe was in despair. Two 'of their prominent members had for- saken them; and not only forsaken them, but were now doing all they could do to 4   lead others in the same direction. The meetings increased ih ,interest. A new atmosphere enveloped. the, place. Men questioned, "What will it profit a man to gain the whole worlWl and lose his own soul?"Open unbelievers were forced to admit a change in Mordant and Stoddard that they could not comprehend. "Was it mesmerism, it would not last after this fashion," was said. "There is no excitement; neither has health suffered tor lack of stilmulant. To lwhat shall we 65     "    The7 Tide Tulrniztg. attribute it?"Still were they strong to repel the idea of God. Of course it was all a myth. t Mr. and Mrs. Ashbey, with Robert and Elsie, found their. way into the village. On his first meeting with Stoddard Ro- bert said to his mother: "Wasn't it lucky I found  him that night? If he had been left on the bluff, no knowing what would have become of him." Robert was taking a little of the glory to himself. He was the one to find the poor man, and he led him home; and care was given him, and words of encourage- ment and comfort dropped into his sin- sick heart. "Lucky is not a good word," said Mrs. Ashbey, laying her hand upon her boy's lead. "Whatever comes to us is one in a chain of providences. Not a sparrow falls to the grouid unseen by the eve of the great God.   /It 1 i ut C 1 tCff Ctf . U1  "Did God see him on the bluff? Did he know that I should find him?" "God saw and knew; it was the way in which he was to find Christ. God leads us. You do not doubt this, Robin?" "In great things, I know, mother," a bright flush suffusing the brown cheek. "God does not count things great and small, as we do. Life is made up of what you call little things. It is the same little things that shape character and polish manner-the attrition of little things round- ing out and perfecting. It is all God's plan ; the daily lessons it is ours to learn." Miss Archer's manner of setting forth the truth interested the young people. Fascinating as the diversions planned might be, they did not prevail. Listening to the story of the cross, they were en- abled to discern the glare of false lights, and thus not led astray. Now  came  the question of baptism.     68     The Tide Tu'nintg. There had been so much opposition many feared violent outhreak. Mr. Mordant was the first. Not until the announcement was made that he was to be publicly bap- tized did his former associates give up the idea of his return. It was a beauti- ful Sabbath morning when to nine of the young people, most of them children of parents who opposed religion, this solemn ordinance was administered. In spite of the feeling of intense ha- tred, Rogers and Ringgold and Blaisdell were all there. When asked if he had anything to say, Mordant answered, "Yes." Then, standing beside the white-haired pastor, he said in a clear voice: "You all know the manner of my life to this day. Given to the love of drink, there was not a day when I did not out- rage God and astonish, man with my vile ways. You know  that without drink I was inert, trelllbling liklc a man Durdenled   The Tide Tu7'r/zi,'ng.  69 with age. It was openllj said that I could not do without it. I thought it was a necessity. My wife was so impressed with this idea that she was willing I should have it at certain hours during the day, provided I would keep out of the saloons. I must do myself the justice to say that I did try to do this. But the appetite, constantly fed, was always on the increase. I could not be satisfied. When the meet- ings began, 1 was constrained to come. Beside myself with drink, I was at all times conscious of the wrong. The fetters ate into my heart. I longed to break them, longed to free myself; but I could not. I looked to my wife to help me; to my child. I called out in my agony, 'Will nobody free me from these bonds?' With all of this, I did not see that there was One standing with outstretched hand, saying, 'Come, come unto  me.' 'But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great     70     T/ic 7ide Turz'/ii'. love wherewith he ]loved us,' brought ine to see before it was too late. ' In whom we have redemption throug'h his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace.' For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the rift of God.' "Seeing that this change is wroutght in me by God, I desire to make a public de- mnolistration of the love I bear him, fol- lowing the steps of the blessed Master in baptism, 'buried with him by baptism into death : that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of lifet. It was an occasion not to be forgotten. Glenlcoe had never witnessed such a spec- tacle; bearded men turned aside to hide the tears; while  women  and children soblbed heavil . As the assembly dlispersed, Rogcrs s.,.l   T/e Tide Turz ig'.    '71 to his wife that he could not hold out longer. It was not in human power to do sa Mordant had done. "He is not tfle same man; his very nature seems changed. I have never believed in God; never be- lieved that there was a future world in which we live after death.  It seemed& irrational, the wild dream of enthusiasm. As to the future, I do not know what to think. But I am convinced there is a God; and I tremble when I think of all I have said and done to blot him from existence. Mrs. Rogers was a praying woman. Now the fulness of time was come. Her prayers were answered.  Blind as her husband had been, he now saw and trem- bled. With tears running down her pale cheeks she pointed him to Calvary. Un- belief made the way dark and cold and cheerless. So often had he derided Christ; so often he had hi to ridicule and con-     72     7'/e Tide Tztrlizzg. tempt. Besotted with drink, defiled with sin, how was he to go to the spotless One; and, if he did go, would Jesus not turn his face from him? During the night-watches did the pa- tient woman try to lead him aright, repeat- ing passages of Scripture and snatches of prayer calculated to give comfort. The most effectual temperance reform is to bring men to Christ. Interest them in the great work of their souls' salvation, and the fetters of strong drink are broken. The promise of a new heart includes new desires, new thoughts, new  appetites. When the fountain is cleansed, the waters trickling from it will be pure; then will bloosoms brighten the wayside, and fresh- ness and beauty show the way of the water-course, lead where it may. Miss Archer had  not been into the saloons; but she had broken in their in- trenchments and scatterd their leaders.   The Tide Tt uringo-.   73 Once more Mr. Spargood tried to rally. Collecting his forces, he put on a bold front, opening his doors and offering free drinks. Not satisfied with this, he resorted to amusements that would necessitate seve- ral days in their performance, Sabbath included. Still, the work went on. Stod- dard and Rogers were baptized, and Ring- gold and Johnson were led to ask, "What shall I do to be saved?"     VII. HO   can measure influence? A seed, however small, dropped into the ground, enrminates and brings forth a plentifill crop of weeds or grain, according to its kind; rills form larg-e streams; a thread of song vibrates through- out the world. So a word spoken thrills and vibrates wherever human hearts are found. "If I could only undo it!" Johnson said the first time he attempted to speak. "If I could counteract the influence of these years! Striving to make myself believe that religion was a myth and God a fabu- lous being, I poisoned other minds. Oh! it is the hardest pang of all to think that I filled my boy's mind with false principles 74   lThe Y ide TT ri-I. i.  75 and warped ideas of right If I could give him to see as I now see!  Must he live an unworthy life because I failed to do my duty? O God! what. if he should be lost through my evil teaching and my pernicious practice!" "Our hope is in God," said the pastor reverently. "'Whatsoever ye shall ask.' Peter's question: ' How oft shall 'n1 brother sin against me, and I forgive him? till seven times?' 'I sa)y not unto thee, Until seven times: but, Until seventy times seven!' shows us that God is long- suffering, not willi-ng that any should perish." Johnson remained stacnding whle the pastor spoke. At the close he added: "I am too old for a preacher, but I must do what I can.  The influence, the influence was all wrong; my life must be a daily refutation." Mr. Mordant could not be satisfied, save     76     The lude iTlUrni/,. in going from' house to house. "They will believe me," he said; "they know what a notoriously wicked man I was. They will see a change. I do not drink.  I am not tenmpted. The desire for stimulant is gone ; God has taken it away from me. They will see this. They will give him the eglory." Not alone Glencoe, but the surrounding country, was electrified by the rumor that Mordant and Stoddard had become new men.  For years Spargood's house had been a place of resort. These two men were the leading spirits. Far and wide the seeds of their infidelity were scattered. Generous in their nature, they met each man with a social glass; well read and keenly alive to the questions of the day, they were ready upon every subject. Could they find a flaw  in a professor of religion, they enlarged upon it, until it became a blemish to soil and mar   ThIC 7idc Tur'nio:    " the whole structure of religious principle. Now God met themn; not in his judg- ments, but in his mercy. The Being they had reviled they were forced to reverence; the God they had denied they now wor- shipped; the Christ upon whom they had heaped every opprobrium was now their only hope, their Saviour, their Redeemer. "Such a chance could only be wrought by God," was said. "We must go and see," was the uni- versal cry. Spargood alone held out. But he was no longer noisy or demonstrative. Apathy settled over him; a dull despair benumlbed his faculties, and caused him to sit stern and silent, listening apparently, but making, no comment.  Even Thomas could speak of the meetin( s without censure. I'm sure he will be comint," Thomas was in the habit of sayintg when any reference was made to the proprietor of     78     T he T/jc, T'ni ^/,. "The LEagle." "God can't belie his pro- mise.  Whosoever  comes  may  coIme. True, Spargood has been  a bold one; but we may not limit God's mercy. Who knows but it is to try our faith?" Miss Archer was a woman of strongr faith. As a child she took God at his word. What she asked for herself she knew and felt she would receive. When she pleaded for another, it was with the firm conviction that God would for Christ's sake grant her plea. In her teaching she impressed upon her hearers the necessity of faith in God. "A child does not come to his mother and ask her wavering.  As a child he has certain rights. He does not hang his head, and hesitate and stammer; neither does he fashion a pretty speech. He  loves his mother, and  he knows that his mlother loves hinm.  An(d le comies bolil', jtlt as he is, and  il   7/'e h ie/t'!7'uIt - '. 79 strailghtforward language asks for the very thing he wants. "God calls us children. We are to love him. We are to be assured of his love for us. Not a mother is half as tender of her children' as God is of his children. What mother ever gave her child to die a cruel, ignominious death, to. save one or a thousand from ruin?  With a love beyond anything the human heart can fathom God gave his Son, that whoso- ever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And this is the promise he hath given us: "'llWhatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.' "'If!e shall ask anything in my nalne, I will do it.' "' Let not your heart be  troubled, neither let it be afraid.' "'\Vhat more could he do, my f-ieirds,     80     7i 7id( TrI';lNo-. than he  has done? Shut up in the Prison-house of sin, fettered and in dark- ness, he had pity upon us. By his agony and death he bought us from the tyrant sin. With a tender hand he unloosed our fetters and poured oil into our gaping wounds. With sympathy for our abject state, he cleansed us from all filthiness and instead of rags clothed us in shining raiment. Withal he has given us most sweet and precious promises: "'I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.' "' If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you.' "' Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit.' "'A s the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you.' ' Be careful for nothing; but in every- thing by prayer and supplication with   Te Tide Turning.    81 thanksgiving let )our requests be made 1known unto God.' "Seeing that he hath loved  us antl done so much for us, can you stand aloof, my friends?  Draw near, look upon his face, marred nmore than the sons of men. 'Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgres- sions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.' "If you will, come, Come now. It is the accepted time. Come, whosoever will. Close in with the offers of mercy, pardon for your sin, cleansing from all unworthi- ness. Children of God; and, if children, heirs of an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled in the kingdom  prepared for those who love him."     VIII. M  R. HENDERSON was a bank direc. tor, a coLurteous (Yentleman. He did not friequent "The Eagle," neitler was he given to social drinkill, anlld en- tlemanly gambling. He was  a moral man-a man whose outer crarments were cut after the same pattern as the Chris- tian. To see him on the other side of the road, one could not say that they were a bad fit. They looked all right; the color was perfect. 13ut inspect theml, and it was quicklly seen they were of the same pat- tern, but of different material. They fitted well, but they would not wear. It was morality glossed 'over and made to look like the real article; lbut it was an iimita- S;2   T7/e lc Tie Tiu ng.   83 lion meant to deceive. Possibly it migh t Ie worn by an honest person. Possibly Mr. Henderson was honest.  To do as well as others did was his creed.  He considered that he lived up to it. He did not profess to be better, but he was sure his life was quite as correct as many pro- fessing Christians he knew. The Bible was not his standard.  A good book; rather dry and prosy;, he owned one, a large, illustrated copy, to lie by itself on a quartette table in the parlor, but never opened. Mrs. Henderson was a thinking woman. There were moments in her life when she longed to be a Christian. Like her hus- band, she looked not so much to the Bible as to Christians. Did one stumble and make false steps, she was quick to see it. Did one walk worthily, she was ready to acknowledge it, and to wish in her lheart that she might follow in the same path.     824    i/Tc Title urYzni zo Shle did not seek to find the way; she expected to drift in. God sent and took a babe from her arms. She started and looked up. But her husband was behind; she could not go without him. One by one friends died. She grew thoughtful, questioned, and went to the meetings. "You ought to be a Christian," Mr. Henderson said to his wife, as they walked home after an unusually tender discourse. "Why ought I to be a Christian more than you or any other?" returned Mrs. Ienderson. You believe in these things. If I be- lieved in a change of heart, it would be a different thing. I don't." "You believe that Ben Mordant is a changed man. So are Stoddard and Rogers and Johnson; they are all changed men." 'lThat is true; they might have changed ')efore had they tried/."   The Tide Tuie rning.  85 "Do you mean to say that you con- sider this change to be the effect of their own resolve to do better?" laying her hand upon her husband's arm, and speak- ing earnestly. , Not quite; still, it is probable they tried harder than they ever did before," Mr.  Henderson replied. "True, the change is marked. They have stopped drink, and not suffered in health by it; this is wonderful, and not to be accounted for in the ordinary way. This is not a day of miracles, yet there are many things we cannot by any philosophy account for. For instance, when Harding was ill, you remember, Dr. Patton came, and with a few rubbings and gentle manipulations the man walked. 'Wonderful,' everybody said; and so it was. But I do not believe there was anything superhuman about it." The evening was chilly. A fire was lit on the hearth, but had burned nearly out.     86     T7 he/ /'d 7tui G/,,; Mr. Henderson opened the embers, while the glare from the red coals sent a ruby glow over the room.  Mrs. Hendersoni untied her hat and threw back her fulr cloak. What pictures she saw  in the bright embers she did not say; but her tone was light and the expression of her face restful, as she said: "So you consider tlat I should be a Christian? I confess I would be one, but not alone. I could not live a consistent Christian life without you." Mrs Henderson was deeply moved. For days she had debated the question of giving herself to Christ. She was honest; she did not feel that she could live a life such as she felt a Christian should live without the coluntenance of her husband. Withal, she flattered herself that her hus- band did not know. So long as he was willing to go to church and to the evening meetings, she could ask for nothing else.   The Tide TI' 7 ziu g'i;  87 Now he was free to say that he thought she should be a Christian. It was a good deal for him to admit. "If I go forward, will you go with me?" she ventured. "If you find there is reality in religion, I will believe you," was the answer. 'The next night Mrs. Henderson was rejoicing in a full, free pardon for Christ's sake. Before her words the filmy cover- ing of morality was seen in a new light; the divine work of Jesus had a new inter- pretation. Like Paul, Mrs. Henderson could say: "But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for Christ, not having mine own righteous- ness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the right- eousness which is of God b) faith." Once more the silvery waters opened to the tread of the man of God; the care- less moralist Iiadl tawak\ecned in a new world.     I88    7 he Tidte Turining. "Repent and be baptized," was the com- mand. It was not a question of delay. Work was before him. Souls were perish- ing all around him. He must have on the whole armor. The eunuch did not tarry; no sooner did Philip make clear to him that it was Jesus of whom he was reading than the question was asked, "See, here is water; what doth hinder me to be bap- tized?" Philip said, "If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest." "I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God," was the ready answer. "And they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him." Mr. Henderson put the same question to his minister, and received the same answer. It was the second step in the new life.   I IX. HE loss of Mordant, and Stoddard, and Rogers, and Johnson, while it amazed and almost petrified the op- ponents of religion, left them strength to rebound. Quiet as Spargood was for a season, it was only a sullen silence, cast- ing about in his own mind for measures to overthrow and undermine, so that the- seeds of truth, by whomever sown, should not germinate, but die for want of nourishment. "Of course they will fall away," was said with a shrug. "A little patience. It will come to be an old story; it's always so in excitements. 'Tisn't in human na- ture to bear the pressure," etc. With men like Henderson it was a dif- 89     90    7Tc 'he 7 Turninr. ferent thing. What he could see in him. self evil they could not tell. The former ha& done enougk to condemn them. No wonder they trembled.  But Henderson was an honorable man, a bank director, a gentleman. Not a fault could be found with his manner; not a blemish upon his chaacter. It was strange. Most likely he was persuaded; his wife was a sympa- thetic woman. She attended all the meet- ings. He could not refuse her. Thus with craft they put their heads together to retard and hinder the spread of the truth in Glencoe.  But as wind fans a spark into a raging flame, so the Spirit of God ran among the people. "What if these men should fall," was said, on the other hand; "it will not weaken  our faith. The babe in his mother's arms is not a man. He is only a babe, lisping in broken sentences. He has the heart of a babe. The steadfastness   7/h i 7'I i7  i '. 7 7/ 11 . 91 of manhood is not his. Hie is to grow into this, day by day and hour by hour, hardly perceptible, and still upward., Manv a fall and tumble he is sure to get; but this does not stay his course. Obstacles give him strength. His combat with daily life develops power and brings out the spirit of a man. Thus in the Christian life-a babe in Christ, a child sitting at the feet of Jesus." It was the pastor who spoke. Turning his mild eyes upon  the -contemptuous throng, he added: "That they will fall is possible. That they will stumble and make false steps is evident. Which of you, beginning a new course, never halted by the way? Look into your own hearts and examine your own creed. Is there life-giving power in your unbelief? Cast down, do you feel a hand outstretched to save you?  Does despair creep in? Have  you the sym.     92    7Th7e ride T2u rnZ in, . pathy of a tender friend, a compassion- ate All-giver? The child walks heed- lessly. Perhaps he falls; but the loving hand of a tender parent is outstretched to save him. He is a child, although he has fallen. lie will be more watchful in future. The outcast falls and is lost. There is no outstretched hand to save him." "If you are thinking that God has a care for some and not for others," said the foremost of the  disaffected ones, "then I disagree with you.  I don't be- believe there is a God. I don't believe in certain elect ones and certain others that are not good, can't be good anyhow, because they were not chosen and set aside from the creation of the world." Mr. Forsyth had not intended to speak then and there.  But it was out, and he looked around to his friends to sustain him. "Norw you are at it, let's hear who are   Th/1 ide i Tlurziog.  939 elected to be saved and who are elected to be lost. Of course, if there is a future and two worlds-as you say-each must be peopled. I'd just like to know, preacher, to which place I'm bound." The speaker was a tall, spare man, with well-moulded head and a face that denoted energy and unmistakable courage. His hair was slightly gray and inclined to curl. His eyes were-large and bright, and, but for a certain wildness, would have been pronounced handsome. A long, full beard hid the lower part of his face, and left one to form an opinion more from the gen- eral air and bearing than from combined feature and face. Evidently, he was a stranger, a fragment of human drift, a man of thought, if not principle. He questioned, and was not satisfied. He wanted to know. Forsyth set the ball rolling. He was ready. There was a sudden hush   Forsyth     "    7he 'i /c Ti/;'tin'. looked as though he repented  having spoken. Not so the pastor. With a voice strangely tender he answered: "( Friend, the elect of God are rwhosoever will. God so loved the world, his Son was sent to the poor and wretched. .While upon earth he associated with the lowly, doing good to one and all, as he had opportunity. Too poor himself to have a home, weary, and hungry, and thirsty, he walked from village to village, healing the sick, raising the dead to life. A man of quiet habits, he worked with his own hands. A respecter of law, a fish brought him tribute-money. This Jesus we believe to be very God. He has told us that there are two worlds or two states of existence after death. To one of these worlds we are each hastening. You would know to which you are bound. Let me say to you, my friend, Whichever you will. Clhrist offers; you accept, ' Seek )'e!!   The 7 l; Tuirning.   95 Lord whle he may be found, call upon him while he is near," is the command. "'Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.'" But if I am not one of the elect, preacher?" The wild eyes softened; there was a thread of tenderness in the voice. "You are one of the elect, if you will. The waters of salvation are free; money cannot buy. It is yours, all yours, if you will only accept it," said the pastor. "This puts it in a new light. All mine, did you say, preacher? Is there not some- thing for me to do? Haven't I got to repent first?" his face growing more and earnest. "This is the work-that ye believe on I Him whom he hath sent. ' Him that     96     The Ti7d' Turning. cometh unto me I will in no wise cast out." "Does it'-make no difference how wick- ed one has been?" breaking down, and  covering his face with his hands, "'Come now, and let us reason to- gether, saith the Lord: though  your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crim- soil, they shall be as wool." The man sat with bowed head. The pastor continued: "Were you ever sick?  And did you send for a physician? He came; he look- ed at you, examined your case, and wrote his prescription. His work was done; it was for you to take the remedy," looking into the now uplifted face. The arrow had struck. The stranger jumped from his seat. "I was just there, preacher. It was years ago down in California. I wasn't   The Tide Tu1rning.    97 much more than a boy then. I got tired of work and dissatisfied with home, and I and Calvin Strong gathered a few traps and started. It was pretty rough down there then. Calvin was a pretty fair scho- lar, and he wasn't very handy; so I took the heaviest end of the load, and rested him whenever I could. We didn't have a very good claim; so we dug up stakes and went further on, and, as luck would have it, we struck a paying vein. If ever I was glad for anything, I was glad for Calvin's sake. He was always a dreadful home-boy. He couldn't bear to leave his mother; and sometimes I thought there was somebody else he thought of a little nmore, mebbe, than he did of his mother. He didn't say much, but I saw it; and I said to myself, if there was gold in that vein, he should have it, and he should go home. I knew he would never D happily anywhere else.     98    The Tide Turli;'.. "Well, we hadn't been  there long when there was a rumor of yellow fever. Somebody had been to the coast and brought it back. I wasn't very scary, and I hated to lose a day. We panned out cleverly, and at that rate I could pretty near count the days when Calvin could go. I knew I would be dreadfully lone- some without him; but I meant he should go, and I chuckled as I looked at him and thought he didn't know a bit what I was thinking of and planning for him. "One day he complained of his head. I told him to go home, and lie down; I would finish. I felt kind of shaky when I watched him down the hill, and thought how hard it would be when he was gone for good. Towards night the doctor came along. "'An't 'fraid of the fever or any- thing?' was the first I knew of his being there.   Thi7e idze 7rzi'L ".   09 "'We've  been pretty close,' I said, 'since we heard it was 'near the dig- gings; don't think there is much danger.' "'Where's Stron?' "The docthr was a wide-awake man. He was ready for anything, and he al- ways took to Calvin. "He's not very well to-day, and I sent him home,' I answered. 'It's nigh upon time for me to go. Come along, doctor,' I said as cheerfully as I could. To tell the truth, I kept thinking that Calvin was sick and alone, and I couldn't work. "'Haven't time now. Brownlow is down, and so are Holt and Ludlow. Better be careful, old fellow, or you'll be sick, and I shall have to trot up here to see you. I'm getting too many patients; some of 'cm will suiffer, if it keeps on.' "The doctor was nigh down the hill. What proimpted lie I can't say, but I hollered after him:     O0oo    he Tide Turzning. "'When you come back, call in, doc- tor. I hope Calvin isn't sick. I don't think he is. But it will do him good to see you. "'I'll come. Tell him I'll come in the course of an hour.' "I hurried home; but it seemed to me I was a long time getting there, and then I stopped as I got to the door. There was a little, low, groaning sound inside. I was 'most afraid to go in. "'It's you, Fred?  I'm glad you've come.' "It was Calvin's voice, but changed. I would never have known it for his'n; he always spoke soft and low as a wo- man.  He was lying  on the bed.  I sprang forward, and  threw my arms around him. "'You  are not sick, Calvin?  You don't think you've got the fever?' "'It's a pretty sure case, Fred. I felt   T/ce Tide- Tur-z? ing. 1TI it yesterday. Pjerhaps I'd done better not to have gone to work this morning; but I couldn't bear to give up. We've been doing so well lately, and I was thinking we'd soon make our pile and go home.' "'You shall go, Calvin. ..Only get well. I'll give you all there is, and I'll stay and get more. "I don't want to leave you, Fred. When I go, you must go. "His cheeks were so red, and   his eyes so dull and heavy, I had hard work to say that Dr. Timely was coming, and, if taken at the start, a fever could be readily broken up. "I drew off his clothes, and bathed him with tepid water; then I put an ice-cold cloth over his temples, and soothed him to, sleep. Before the doctor came he woke up, talking of his mother and Edna. It was just as I expected--he loved Ed- na. WTe had been to school together.     102    The 7ide Tzu'ni;z I knew her for the prettiest 4irl in all that region; but I could not bear to hear him talk of her now. I knew it was the fever, or he would not tell me of what he had never talked to me be- fore. "When the doctor came, he shook his head.  "'Pretty bad he'll have it; and if he pulls through, it will be because you are a good nurse,' he said to me. "'Don't tell me he has got the yellow fever, and obliged to have it hard! You must break it up.  You can; say you can!' "I thought I was quite calm; . but the doctor told me afterwards that he had to shake me severely before I seemed to know where I was. Then he did not trust me wholly with his patient. 'Handy  Bill,' as he was called, came, and for five days what could be done was done.  {   The Tide Tutrnitig.;  103 All the time the patient was talking of home: he knew his mother missed him, and Edna was wondering why he did not come. Then he would jump up, and say that he was going.  Not till the deadly black vomit came did I give up. He would never see his mother--never see Edna. I couldn't bear it! "Before he died he talked to me of Jesus; said he wasn't afraid-Jesus died for him. I knew that he was one of the elect; but I didn't think I was. I was always a little wild. Calvin wasn't. Be- ing with him saved me many a time from wrong-doing. Since then I've been pretty bad, but never have been so bad as to forget Calvin; and always when I thought of him did I wish that I too was one of the elect." Miss Archer suggested that an hour be given to concerted prayer for this man. "We have his promise 'that if two of     104   Tic 7Tih/ 7'r /in Z; you shall agree on earth as touching any- thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in hea- ven."   X. IfHE next meeting, as soon as the in- jly vitation was given for the awakened to come to the altar, or otherwise to give expression to their feelings, the stranger-rather Mr. Kennedy, as we now call him-rose and said: "I've been thinking it all over, preacher, and I've come back to say to you that it's plainer sailing to-day. I told you about Calvin Strong last night. But I couldn't tell you how I had the fever worse than lie did, if anything; but I was hardy, and pulled through. I don't remember much about it. This I know: I didn't want to die. Calvin had given me a messaget to his mother and to to;     o6    The Tide Trnzing. Edna, and I felt that I couldn't die till I saw them. Dr. Timely had his hands fulli but he come every day, and 'Handy Bill' did the rest. "I couldn't talk about it; but I w  thinking just how I felt then. Mother had brought me up to think that God knew everything. I knew I was pretty bad; but how I was to help it I didn't see. If I was to  be a Christian, I should be saved; and if I wasn't, I shouldn't. This was where I stuck, and Dr. Timely said it was just his fix. If a thing was to be, it would be.  All I could do wouldn't change the matter. X Then I got so bad I couldn't think; and when I got well, there was so much to do. I couldn't be easy until I found Calvin's mother, and told her just what Calvin told me to say.  That woman was a good one.   I knew  tilen what made helr loty  so  o,5.1. 1 I c Ilouldn't   The 7Tide 7Tflrning. i- I07 help it. She talked to me, and cried over me; and Edna just wilted right down. I took 'er all the gold we had. Then I went back to get more, and the first thing I heard when I got there Ed- na was dead. I could hardly believe it, she was so bright and pretty when I left. It seemed cruel that everything had to be, and I couldn't make out the differ- ence. Calvin was a Christian; so was his mother, so was Edna.  Why not spare them, and take such an unlucky dog as I was? "In this way the old question came back, Was I one of God's children?  I didn't s'pose I was. But I wanted to be; and yesterday, when I came in here, I couldn't help asking. You said if I wanted to be I could be. I knew I did want to be; but I never s'posed my wanting to be would have any weight with God. Then you asked if I'd ever been sick and sent     io8    7iec Tz'ie Tzurtinr. for a doctor; and what good would the doctor have don e   e if I hadn't taken his medicine. Of course he wouldn't done any. Dr. Timely is a first-rate man; but if I hadn't cown with the stuff, what good? 'Handy Bill' knew about nursing, but he wasn't worth a row of pins in medicine. "I. went home, and I said it all over: "How can a doctor do you any good when you refuse to take his prescription, and will not look at him nor listen to him? Of course he's not to blame. If you should die, he wouldn't be to blame. Then I thought of what you said of Je- sus. He was the great Physician.  But w\iiat rood could he do me, if I refused to follow his directions? I got out my Bi- ble, and read. I didn't know it promised so vell. 'XVhosoever will'- I read it over and over--'whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.'   The Tide T7itrnig.   109 'Whosoever will.' Everything in the room was dark. Only these words stood out clear and distinct, as if written in liquid silver. I dropped on my knees. I cannot say how long I was there. I didn't seem to care about my doubts. ' Whoso- ever will' covered every member of the human family. It was for me. I was to come.  It would be nobody's fault but my own if I did not.  I determined to try. I would look God in the face, and say to him that I was one to take him at his word. 'Whosoever will!' I would carry this, his note of hand, and lay it down before him.  He would know his own, And he would welcome me.   He did, preacher, he did; and now it is clearer sailing. Do you believe it, I haven't tasted a drop to-day); and, what is strange, I don't feel the worse for it. God help- ing me, I never will taste a drop of it. Ah! that ' whosoever will!' I un-     "O    TI/C T7Lidz Tzt1uriing. derstand it now - anybody, everybody! Flow it changes it! Nothing narrow and picayunish, as I used to think, but free, generous, noble. 'Whosoever will' and 'whatsoever ye shall ask.'  How  could God do more for us?-blinder than bats and moles not to see his goodness, his willingness to help! And still I did not see. Not till the man sat down did he give way.  Then the tears trickled over his bearded face, and his broad chest heaved with emotion. "Let us pray," was said in a low, vit'rating voice. "Let us give thanks to God for his goodness. This man was a slave; he is now free. He was lost, and is found." It was a woman's voice. It was Miss Archer.   XI. $HE sun was setting behind a long bank of light, fleecy cloud. Soft shadows gathered over the valleys with shafts of light, shot through with gold and amethyst. In the distance the waters of the Mississippi flowed on in silent grandeur, blue as the sky above them. To the right stood a field of wheat nearly ready to harvest; on the left an extensive orchard, with every promise of abundance of delicious fruit. Along the hill-path a line of red cows were slowly wending their way to the farm-yard. Mr. Ashbey  was a  model farmer. Everything about him, from the rustic bridge that spanned the meadow-brook     I 112   The Tie T'urniig. to the comfortable home in which   he lived, bore evidence of thrift and taste. The hand of the sluggard was not his, neither could he abide unfaithfulness. "If anything is worth doing at all, it is worth doing well," was his motto. "Be- sides, if we examine the least and most obscure of God's works, we find an ex- quisite finish, a perfectness that baffles effort to find a flaw." Mr. Ashbey was a mature Christian. Like Joshua, it was for him and his house to worship  God.  Morning  and evening the farm-laborers met in the kitchen and in the parlor to join in fam- ily devotions. It was to this family Stod- dard was directed that night when he wandered from the village in order that lie might not be tempted to drink ; and to this family he now  came, depressed and doubtful if, after all, he was free from the net of the evil one.   jihe T/cide Trnin' .   I I 3 "Not one of us but has a cross to carry," Mr. Ashbey said, as Stoddard told the story of his struggle to overcome; then sat silent. "Were there no struggle, there would be no strength; storm and tempest bend the oak, and cause each limb to writhe and tremble. It is in this way that the roots are driven into the ground, and take firm hold of the solid earth, and are thus able to stand, - let the elements rage as they will." By some invisible influence the white, foamy clouds parted, and a ray of sun- shine rolled over the orchard, gilding the meadow, and -flashing across the blue wa- ters of the distant river. "It was only a cloud hiding the beauty from us," Mr. Ashbey said, pointing with his hand to the setting sun. "Has God hidden his face from you? It is but a passing cloud. Perhaps it is that you ipay draw nearer, just as a father hides     I 4     The Tide Tiurnin'. himself for a  little, that his child may leave everything to find him." Mrs. Ashbey and Elsie sat in an inner room, unconscious of the near proximity of their guest.  Mrs. Ashbey was sing- ing: "Men die in darkness at your side, Without a hope to cheer the tomb. 'I'ake up the torch, and wave it wide- 'The torch that lights time's thickest gloom. "Toil on! Faint not! Keep watch and pray! Be wise the erring soul to win; Go forth into the world's highway; Compel the wanderer to come in." A quick light flashed over Stoddard's face; his eyes brightened. "How  can one be sure it is his duty to go?" he said to Mr. Ashbey. "I see God is calling you into his harvest-field. Is it not so?"' asked Mr. Ashbey, catching the meaning of the eager, anxious look.   Thc 7 'id Turn-hiLg   II 5 "I cannot deny that, as often as I think who and what I was, and from what, as the natural consequence of my sin, God saved me, the feeling comes over me that I would like to give the remnant of my days solely to his service, persuading men, if possible, to come to Christ. Then I blush, and grow ashamed of the thought. Is it for one like me to preach Christ?" "Suppose you were in a burning house, chained to the floor, and utterly helpless. You watch the hissing and writhing of the fiery demon. Now the sides of the room are ablaze; the rafters above you are not so high but the leaping flame will reach them. Girdled with fire, you are lost. Friends cannot reach you; neighbors and acquaintances stand back. It would be the price of a man's life to enter and strike off your chains. It is death. You see it, but you see it too late. Alas!     1 16   7 l- e TIi, Tiirin-. you are forced to cry, ' Had I known in time!'  The burning  rafters are al- most ready to fall; the floor begins to sink. You look up, and as you look your hand is grasped firmly. You are raised and carried to a place of safety. After such deliverance would you stop to question your unworthiness? Your deliv- erer considered you worthy to be saved. He plucked you as a brand from   the burning. Would you fail to sound his praises because years ago you were a notorious sinner? Rather would you not feel to tell every one with whom you had to do how and by whom you were de- livered, beseeching them, if in like cir- cumstances, to lay hold of the same out- stretched hand?" Mrs. Ashbey finished her song, and came out to her husband.   Elsie was walking with Robert in the garden. ' The priimroses are just opening. Shall   The Tide Turnivg.    117 we go and see them?"   Mrs. Ashbey said. The three walked side by side. The blended shadows wore strange beauty; to Stoddard it was a glimpse of paradise. The torturing doubts and fears had gone. Could he but live in such an atmos- phere! Mrs. Ashbey seemed to divine his thoughts. She spoke cheerfully, hap- pily : "The cool, dark night is quite as need- ful to the garden as the warmth and sunlight of the day. They grow in the shade," directing attention to the flowers, "as well as in the sunshine. I like to walk in the garden and note the variety of growth: one more beautiful in color or in the exquisite moulding of its cup; another equally finished, but differing in nature; each perfect in its mechanism and adaptation, and each alike honorable." The primroses were now  fully open.     "8    The Tide Turnir. Elsie called her mother's attention to their beauty. The atnosphere was full of sweet perfume. Mr. Stoddard was pleased and happy. He had considered it merely a farm. He now saw  that fruit and flowers were cultivated as well as grain. The  church is God's garden," Mrs. Ashbey continued,  "with a variety of talent, diverse as the flowers. Taste va- ries, as color in the tissues of the leaf. and habit has its law. But as the flowers grow and stand perfect, so the Christian preserves his identity; not wishing to be other than he is, but standing in his lot, an oak or a heartsease, as the gardener please." "Have you heard that Robin has de- cided to be a minister?"Elsie asked, as she handed Mr. Stoddard a small bouquet of sweet-smlelling flowers. "Were I the same age of Robert, I   The Tide Turnzing.   II 9 would make the same decision," he said firmly. "Robert will have to study for years in order , to fit himself for the work. You  have the advantage of education and experience, if at any time you would make such decision. Why not now?" Elsie did not count upon the effect of her words. They fell from her lips with- out forethought. She knew that Stoddard spoke well. She knew that he was a rare scholar. "If he would, why not do it?" came to her pure mind as a natural se- quence. There was a struggle in the heart of the strong man. Suppose it was the eleventh hour, what right had he to re- fuse? What answer could he make for the ten talents given him? A tiny brook ran through the foot of the garden, hedged in wxith a bank of soft, green turf. Further on the channel     120    Tte Tide Tzurning. widened into a lake, in which the mottled sides of trout were seen, as they flashed through the crystal water. Two large elms with branches interlaced formed a shelter from the sun during the day, and at night the same branches offered pro- tection from the dew, with loop-holes for the stars to reflect themselves in the lake- mirror beneath. Sitting down on the green turf, it pass- ed before him--the years that he had wasted, the opportunities for improvement, the influence. Educated above his fel- lows, it was his aim to lead astray and entangle. For years he had not spared himself, bending all his powers to the subtle purpose of poisoning men's minds with the fatal error, "There is no God." How deeply he repented it none but God knew. "Could he only undo it!" haunt- ed him during the night-watches, and would not let him sleep. Now  he felt   The Titde Tilrnino' .  121 called upon to work as valiantly for God; but a sense of unworthiness oppressed him. Men would point their fingers at him and taunt him with what he was. No, he could not. Not that he intended to give up his new-found hope, and go back to the old life - not for worlds would he do this; but he would prose- cute his ordinary business, leaving others to make the work of saving souls their life business. A cloud passed over the moon, and an owl hooted down by the river. The poor man started up. What would the family think of him? No doubt it was late-la- ter than he thought. Should he go back to the village'? Once more the dreary feeling came over him.  Why must he flush and tremble with thoughts of him- , self? He was resolved to be a Chris- tian; but he would be a quiet Christian. Then the finger of scorn would not be     22    The Tide 7Tu itg. raised against him; then his old associ- ates would not taunt him with trying to persuade himself that he "-was a better man. It was no doubt the wise course not to stir and provoke the evil in men's hearts. The bright glow of a lamp was seen through the parlor-window.  Mr. Stod- dard would not have had courage to en- ter; but Robert was there waiting by the gate. "We expected you," was said quietly. The farm-hands collected in the kitchen and in the hall. Mr. Ashbey sat at the table with an open  Bible before him. Mrs. Ashbey was on his right hand; on the left was an empty chair. Elsie sat at the instrument. Robert entered with Mr. Stoddard. Mr. Ashbey paused, and laid his hand on the empty chair. Robert took his place by the side of his mother. The reading went on:   The Tide IT i ni/i - ,. I 213 "And he said unto tlhem, Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their way. "Again he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise. "And about the eleventh hour he went out, and found othirs standing idle, and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle? "They say unto him, Because no man hath hired us. He saith unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatso- ever is right that shall ye receive." Resting his hand on the page, Mr. Ashbey looked up. "The hour does not so much matter, my friends, as obedience to the summons 'Go.'  Suppose these men  had com- menced to make excuses.  One of them had no time, or he was waiting for some- thing better, or it was too late to ac- complisli anything-might as well stay out     :124   7The Tide Tiu7w'na. altogether now. 'Go into, the vineyard' was said to each man; and at night to as many as went the same reward was given--'to every man a penny.' "This lesson is for us, my friends. Some Christians beg off from their share in this consecrated toil on the ground that they have no talent that way; or they have been so wicked it will only bring reproach upon religion for them to take a conspicuous part. 'Not worthy,' they say, hanging their heads like a bulrush. Of course there is neither worth nor worthi- ness in man to look his Maker in the face. He is worthy inasmuch as Christ died for him, the spilled blood wasling all his guilt away. "If your soul has ever really known the joy of Christ's love, wherein are you not worthy to go and invite some other soul to love him? The preparation which a Christian needs to qualify him to be a   The Tlde T rning.    1 25 fisher of men, like the disciples of Gali- lee, is a warm heart full of Christ. Dur- ing-a revival in Ireland some years ago an ignorant man was converted who could do nothing more than tell what Jesus had done for his soul. He went over into Scotland, to a place where thirteen hun- dred hands were employed in the mills; and so great was the impression made upon them by his simple story that no less than six hundred of them were hope. fully led to the Saviour. To the least of us was more given than to this poor Irish peasant." Mr. Stoddard did not sleep until his decision was revoked.  What mattered unworthiness? Jesus said, "Go work in my vineyard." What mattered if it was the eleventh hour? "Go ye also into the vineyard." Obedience without questioning is the only way for ransomed sinners.     XII. HERE remains little more to be told. The tide for so many years sweep- ing over Glencoe, bearing whatever was good and beautiful into impenetrable darkness, was effectually turned. In los- ing Mordant, and Rogers, and Johnson, and Stoddard, "The Eagle" was no long- er in the ascendant. The soul-destroying creed, "There is no God," was banished beyond the pale of social favor. Glencoe could never again be as it was.  The branch had been flung into the waters, and what was before  bitter was now sw\eet and healthful. Reader, you may possibly be one of those who like neither the faith nor the I26   The 'ite i Turningt7;  1 27 practice which the Gospel of Christ re- quires. You wonder why we are troubled, and toss your head when we urge it upon you to seek Christ. But a day is com- ing when everything will be changed-a day when thousands will care nothing for the things for which they once lived, and will desire nothing so much as the things which they once despised. That day is the day of Christ's coming to judge the world. Mocked, despised, scorn- ed, neglected as his testimony may be now, it will be different then. "They will seek to enter in, and shall not be able." Reader, if you are one of those who love the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity, you will rejoice; and still more rejoice that he is able to deliver whosoever will come to him. The reproach of the cross has not ceased. You are beset with foes within and without: but Jesus is yours.     I 28    The Tide Tiurning. Leaning upon his strong   arm, you walk fearlessly. Fear not the reproach. of men.    Con- fess Christ boldly before the world. Be not ashamed  of your Master.   Time  is short. Eternity hastens on.  The cross is only for a season; the crown is for ever. Make sure work. Leave nothing uncertain. "Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand." "Almost persuaded" now to believe; "Almost persuaded "Christ to receive. Seems now some soul to say, "Go, Spirit, go thy way; Some more convenient day On thee I'll call." "Almost persuaded!"Come, come to-day "Almost persuaded," turn not away. Jesus invites you here, Angels are lingering near, Prayers rise from hearts so dear- O wanderer! come.   The Tide Turnig.       I29 "'Almost pe rsuaded"--harvest is past; "Almost persuaded "-doom  comes at last "Almost " cannot avail; "Almost" is but to fail. Sad, sad, that bitter wail- "Almost," but lost! trr       PUBLICATIONS OF THE National Tsmperance Socity BAND   PUBLICATION      JOUSE. THE NATIONAL TEMPERANCE SOCIETY, organized in I866 for the purpose of supplying a sound and able Temperance literature, have already stereotyped and published three hundred and -ifly publications of all sorts and sizes, from the one-page tract up to the bound volume of 500 pages. This list comprises books, tracts, and pamphlets, containing essays, stories, sermons, arguments, statistics, history, etc., upon every phase of the question. Special attention has been given to the department For Sunday-School Libraries. Over fifty volumes have already been issued, written by sonme of the best authors in the land. These have been carefully examined and unani- mously approved by the Publication Committee of the Society, represent- ing the various religious denominations and Temperance organizations of the country, which consists of the following members: PETER  CARTER,       REV. J. B. DUNN, REV. W. W1. TAYOR,      REV. A. G. LAWSON, A. A. ROBBINS,         REV. ALFRED TAYOR, REV. M. C. SUTPHEN,      R. R. SINCLAIR, T. A. BROUWER,         REV. C. D. FOSS, J. N. STEARNS,        JAMES BLACK, REV. WILLIAM   HOWELL TAYOR. These volumes have been cordially commended by leading clergymen of all denominations, and by various national and State bodies, all over the land. The following is the list, which can be procured through the regular Sunday-School trade, or by sending direct to the rooms of the Society: Rev. Dr. Willoughby and his Wine. I2mo, 458 pages. By Mrs. MARY SPRING WALKER, author of "The Family Doctor," etc, . . . $1 50 This thrillingly interestir' - 'ook depicts in a vivid .ann er the terrible influence exerted by those who stand as the servants of God, andt who sanction thepcial custom of wine-drinking It is fair and faithful to the truth. It is not a hitter tirade .,aii't the church or the ministry On the contrary, it plainly and earnestly acknowledges that theIZ',nistry is the friend of Ilorali a, nid the great bulwark of practical virtue. At Lion's Mouth. 2amo, 410 pp. By Miss MARY DWINELL CHELLIS author of "Temperance Doctor," ' Out of the Fire," "Aunt Dinah's Pledge," etc., .  ...   ....    ........ *$1 25 This is one of the best books ever issued, written in a simple vet thrillinl, and intereso Ing style. It speaks boldly for the entire suppression of the liquor traffic, depicting vividly tn misery and wrongs resulting from it. The Christitnitone is most excellent showing the neoes- sity of God's grace in the heart to overcome tenptation and the power of appetite, and the 'flnenee which one zealous Christian can exert upon his companions and the communnity.     Aunt Dinah's Pledge. ismo, 318 pages. By Miss MARY DWINELL HtLLIS author of "Temperance Doctor,"  "Out of the    Fire" etc ........ . . $1 ,5 Aunt Dinah was an eminent Christian wo- man. Her pledge included swearing and smok ing, as well as drinking. It saved her boys, whc ived useful lives, and died happy; and by qoiot, yet loving anti persistent work, namnes of many others were added who seemed almost beyond hope of salvation. , The Temperance Doctor. izmo, 370 pages. By Miss MARY DWINELL CHELLIS ......$1 25 This is a true story, replete with interest, and adapted to Sunday-school and fiamily read- ing In it we have graphically depicted the sad ravages that are caused by the use ol intox- icating beverages; also, the blessings of Tem- perance, and what may be accomplished by one earnest soul for that reform. It ought to find esadrs in every household. Out of the Fire.   12mo, 420 pages. By Miss MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, author of "Deacon Sim's Pray- ers," etc.,  .......$1       56 It is one of the meest effective and impressive Temperance books over published. The evils of the drinking customs of society, and the blesigs af sobriety and total abstinence, are. strikingly developed in the history of various families in the community. History of a Threepenny Bit. i8moq 216 pages,....     .  7. This is a thrilling story, beautifully illus- trated with five choice wood engravings. The story of little Peggy, the drunkard's daughter, is told in such a sliple yet interesting manner that no one can read it without realizing more than ever before the nature and extent of in- temperance, and sympathizing more than ever with the patient, suffering victim. It should be in every Sunday-school library. Adopted.   i8mo, 236 pages.    By Mrs. E. J. RICHMOND, author of "The McAllisters," . . . $0 60 This book is written in an easy, pleasant yle, seems to be true to nature, true to itself, and withal is full of the Gospel and Temper- ance. The Red Bridge.   i8mo, 321 pa es By THRACE TALMAN,     . . $P  90 We have met with few Temperance stories rontain in so many evidences of decided ability and high literary excellence as this.   The  Old  Brown   Pitcher.   i2mo 222 pages.   By the  Author of "Susie's Six Birthdays," "The Flower of the Family,' etc., $1 00 Beautifully illustrated. This admirable vol- ume for boys and girls, containing original stories by some of the most gifted writerd tor the young, will be eagerly welcomed by the chihldren. It is adapted alike for the family circle and tfhe Sabbath-school library. Our Parish. i8mo, 252 pages. By Mrs. EMLY PEARSON, .     . $0 7 The manifold evils resulting from the" still" to the owner's family, as well as to the families of his customers, are truthfully presented. The characters introduced, such as are found in almost every good-sized village, are well por- trayed. We can unhesitatingly ciomend it, and bespeak for it a wide circulatiorn. The Hard Master. i8mo, 278 pages By Mrs. J. E. MCCONAUGHY      au- thorof "One Hundred Gold bol- lars," and other popular Sunday- School books, .   . . . .   $0 85 This interesting narrative of the temptations, trials, hardships, and fortunes of poor orphan boy illustrates in a most striking nanner the value of " right principles," especially of honesty truthfulness, and TeMPEANCE. Echo Bank.   i8mo, 269 pages.    By ERVIE, ......        .. $0 85 This is a well-written and deeply interesting narrative, in which is clearly shown the suffer- ing and o orrow that too often follow and the dangers that attend boys and young men at school and at college, who suppose they can easily take a glass or two occasionally, with- out fear of ever being aught more than a mode- rate drinker. Rachel Noble's Experience.    i8mo, 325 pages. By BRUCE EDWARDS. $0 9o This is a story of thrilling interest, ably andl eloquently tolI, id is ia excellent book for Sunday-school libraries. It isjust the book for the home circle, and cannot be read without benefiting the reader and advancing the cause of Tempecrance. Gertie's Sacrifice; or Glimpses at Two Lives. i8mo, 189 pages. By Mrs. F. D. GAGE, .      . $0 50 A story of great interest and power, giving  "glimpse at two lives," and showing lhoN Gertie sacrificed herself at a viotin of fashion custom, and law.   Time will Tell.   2amo, 307 paes. By Mrs. WILSON, . .    . . $  00 A Turiperance tale of thrilling interest and unexceptionable moral and religious toine. It is lull ot incidents and characters of everyday life, while its lessons are plainly and forcibly set before th lie reader. The pernicious results of the drinlkig usages in the lanilly and social circle arc plainly set forth. Philip  Eckert's   Struggles   and Triumphs.   i8mo, 2r6 pages.   By the author of "Margaret Clair, $0 60 This interesting narrative of a noble, manly boy. in an intemperate honie, fighting with tile worng rtnd battling for the right, should be read by every chl in thie land. Jug-Or-Not.   izmo, 346 pages.   By Mrs. J. MCNAIR WRIGHT, author of "John and the Demijohn," "Almost a Nun,"    "Priest and Nun,"etc.      ...... $1 25 It is one of her best books, and treats of the physical and hereditary effects of drinking in a clear, plain, and faimiliar style, adapted to ,olpular eaoding, aii which should be rear1 by allclasses in the communuity, and find a place in every Sundaty-school library. ) The Broken Rock. i8mo, 139 pages. By  KRUNA, author of "Litt a Little," etc .,...... $0 50 It beautifully illustrates the silent and holy (nitience of a meek and lowly spirit upon the heartless rumrseller until the rocky heart was broken. Andrew Douglass. 18mo, 232 pages, A new Teinperamnre story for Sundlay-schools, written in a lively, energetic, and popular style, adapted to the Sabbath-school an tilhe fatmily circle. Vow at the Bars.   i8mo, ao8 pages. $0 40 It coatains:four short tales, illustratingrfour important principles connected wtli the Tem- pr:tnce movement, and is well alapted for the sarnily circle antd Slibhath-schiool libraries. Job  Tufton's   Rest.   x2mo, 332 pages .  ....     ...   $1 . 2 A story of life's struggles %written by tilth gifted anitheor, CLARAi LUCAS hAlrFOUR, eDiLct- mig most skilfully aind truthfully many :  Ilie- s-truggle with the demon of intemplers rII e oc- currng all along life's pastlw,ry. It is a finely written story, nd lhill of interest Iroit the be- ginning to tRie end.   Frank 05ldfleld; or, Lost and Foun,. tamo, 408 pages .   . . .  $1 5* This excellent story received the prize of 100 in England, out cf eighty-three manu- scripts submitted; and by an arrangement with the publishers we publish it in this coun- try with all the original illustrations. It is admirably adapted to Sunday-school libraries. Tom  Blinn's  Temperance Society, and  other  Stories.  121110  36 pages, ........         $1 26 Tis is the title of a new book written by T. S. ARTHUR, the well-known author of"Tee Nights in a Bar-room," and whose fame as an author should bespeak for it a wide circulation. It is written in Mr. ArTHuR's best style, cea posed of a series o tales adapted to every famil anid library in the land. The   Harker FamAily.  2amo, 336 pages.   By EMLY THOMPSON, $1 25 A simple, spirited, and interesting narrative, written in a style especially attractive, depice- ing the evils that arise from intemperance, and the blessings that followed the oarnest offerts of those who sought to win others to the paths oftotlalabstinence. Illustrated with thre-s on- gravings. The book will please all. Come  Home, Mother.    i8mo  'j43 pages.  By NELSIE   BROOK.  Il- ustrated with six choice engrav- ings .  .......        $0 50 A most effective and interesting book, de- scribing the downward course of the mother, irsdI gisvitng all account of the sad scenes, but ef- fetulnl eildeavors, of the lttleone in bringing her inIother back to Irienis, anind leading liher 'to God. It should be read by oevrytldy. Tim's Troubles.    2mno, 350 pages. By Miss M. A. PAUL, . . $       650 This is the second Prize Book of the United Kingdom Band of Hope Union, reprinted In this country with all the original illustrations. It Is the companion of'"Frank Oldfield.," written in a high tone, and will be found a valuable addition to our Temperance literature. The Drinking Fountain Stories. xzmo, a92 pages, ....      $1 00 Tlhis book of Illustrated stories for children eontains articles from some of the best writen for children in America, and is beautifully Hl- lustrated with forty choice wood engravings. The White Rose. By Mary J. HRed es. x6mo, 320 pages, . . $1 .t Thie -ift of a slimple white rose was the msaa of leading those who cared for it te the Saviotr. Ilow it was done is very pleasantly told, qnd also the wrongs resultilug its the use of Istr" dr;nk fortl}.% shown.     Iojedale  Tavern,   sand What   it Wrought. 121110, 252 pages. By J. WILLIAM VAN NAIEE,- .$1 00 It shows the sai results which followed tice Introduction of ia Tavernanti Bar n iin a beaUti- ful and quiet country town, whose inhabitants had hitherto lived mi pence and enjoyment The contrast is too plainly preented to fail to produce an imnpreo-slon on the reader, making all more desirous to abolish the oale of all in- toxicants Boy's Search; or, Lost in the Cars. iamo, 364 pages.   By HELRN C. PEARSON, .   . . . .   $1 25 This new Temperance book i. one of the most intereoting ever Ipaublilshd--writtel in a fresh, lparkincg style, especially adapted to pletse the boys, ll I conttius so. much tlhat will boneti t as well its ancuse and interest tlhat we wish th the boys ti the land cmight read it. How  Could lie Esoape    12mo, 324 pages.   Bly  MRS.  J. NcNAIR W RIGT, author    of  "Jug-Or- Not."  Illustrated  with  ten en-  gravings, designed by 'the au- thor,   ......        $1 25 This is a t uie tale. an;i one of the writer's lest productison. It sIiows the terrible effects of ec en one laIc of intoxicating liquor upon the syvstem of one unable toresist its influenccs, and the ncec i:tv Iot .race ill thie Heart to resist tep tItiotii niiilove-coiii thie ftppetite for strong The Best Fellow in the World. 12mo, 352   pages.   Sy Mrs. J. McNAIR WRIGHT, autnor of"Jug- Or-Not," l"How Could He Es- cape?" "? Priest and Nun," $1 ". "T'l'ie Ilst Felilow," wlioLe course s hIere rtn ione of a verV large chltis who are ri  ' tray nid ruineil siitl'pl I esosoe tihey are sueIll' good follows." T" o al s o tlitce welie speaks ic ttridliic, tones of waricn;, lshows tlhe inevitchle conssequeces of indclging ill strong denck, and the cnece'sity of divince gice ici the hsnarl to interpose and save frotic rccin. Frank  Spencer's Mule   of  l5ihi. i8mo, 18o  pages.  ily Jisi:: W KIRTON, author of "Buy     Your Own Cherries," "Four Pillars of Temperance," etc., etc., . $0 50 This is written in the author's best style, making an iiiteoresticg and attractivo story tor children. Work 1and Rleward.    i8nio, 183 pp. By Mrs. M. A. HOLT,     . $0 50 ltshowsthatnot the scmallest effort to do good is lost sight of by the ill-knowing Father, and that faith and prayer must nccompany all tempvr: nir" effor*i.   The Pitcher of Cool Water. iSmo, 180o pages.  By  T. S. ARTHU-R, author of"Tom   Blinn's Temper- ance Society," "' Ten Nights in a Bar-room," etc., . . . . $0 50 Thi, little book oonsists ol "series of Tent lcrince stories, handsomely illustrated, written Il Mr. ARTIcUR'S best style, and is altogether ,in of tice best books which can be placed in tihe lchands of children Every Sunday-school library should posesecs it. Little Girl in   Black.   12mo, 212 pages.  By MARGARET E. WIL- MiER ...... ...         $0 9 Iler strong uthh icn God,whoshe believes will reclaiccn ccl erring father, is a lesson to the reader, oldt s well s ysoutng. Temperance Anecdotes.     I2mo, 288 pages ........ $1 00 T'rii new book of Tempelrances Anecdotes, ,.tited by GEoRcGs NV IBuNGA, contains near- Iy fIcimr chunds I Anecdceots, WitticSsiL, Johke ('oNucndrunics, etc , original and vrlec ted, nnd will ccme-t w,mit Ions felt anti often expressed b; a very lcrgc nclcher 1 lice cnullcecols friecnd o. the taise In the land. The book is hand- somely illustratesd with twelve choice wood engracvings. The Temperance Speaker.      By  J. N. STEARNS, .....       . ${ 75 The book contains 288 pages of Declamations ani Dialogues suitable lor Sunday and Day- echiools, Bands of Hope, cnd Temperance Or- gauicmtious. It consists of choice selections of prose and poetry, both new and old, irom the Temperance orators and writers of the country, many of which have been written ex- 1ireshy for tics work. Tile MeAllisters.   i8mo, 20 page s. By Mrs. E. J. RICHMOND, . $0 50 It shows the ruin broughlt on a Ianmily by the fsither's intemperate Ihabits, and the strong laith and trust of the wilfe In that Friend above who alone gives strength to bear our earthly trials. The Seyomours.    02Mno, 231 pages. By Miss L   BATES, .   . . $1 00 A simple story, showing how a refined and cultivated fmnily are brought low through the drinking habits ot the fcather, their joy and sor- row as Ice reforms only to tall again, and His final happy rele:.e Ic ..i distant city. Zoa  liodman.   12MO. 6.   pages By Mrs. E. J. RICHMOND     $1 00, AAd:ipted imore especially to youn{. girls' iadling, showing tie innuence they wield in society, and their responsibility for much of its drinking usages. ,1   Eva's Fhigagement Rihis.. 1a2.se, I89 pages. By MARGARET E. WIL- IIER, author of "The Little Girl in Black,"     ..      $0 90 Ilc this interest;ng voluneir is traced the career of the moderate drinker, wio takes a glass in the naume offriendahip or courtesy. Packington Parish, and The Diver's Daughter.    21110mo, 327 pages  By Miss M. A. PAULL,    ... $1 2 In this volume we see the ravages which the liquor trafftlic caused when introduced in a hitherto quiet village, snd how a min ister's e3 es were at length opened to it evils, thloiih Isi had always declared wine to be a " gsool creature of God," ame nt to be used ill moler ties.  e Old Times.   12mo.  By Miss M   D. CHELLIS, author of " The Tem- - perance Doctor," "Out of the Fire,"  "Aunt Dinah's Pledge," "At Lion's Mouth," etc., . $t 25 It discussccs thie whle tsibtlect ,f inoderlne irinkingr i the history of a New England vil- 'Ife. The inchilec nts, vsc'iocs ancid assusccfssg, ace sli factS, and the characters nearly all drawn from real life. The five deaconis which figcsre r conspicuoualy actually lived and acted as re- Vresenttd.     . John  Bentley's  Mistake.   T8mo, 177 pages.  By Mrs. Mi.   A. II(, rl , $0 be It takes asn inprtlnat p1lce asnong s-sr 1-i,- perance books, taking asn earnest, bold stanld against the use of cider as a beverage, proving that it is often tha first step toward stronser drinks, forming an appetite for the more fiery liquids lwhich cannot easily be quenched. Nothing   to  Drink.    21mo, 400 pages.   By  Mrs.  J.  MCNAIR WRIGHT. author of "The       Best Fellow in the World." "Juy-or- Not," "How Could He Escape?" etc., ........$1 50 The story is of  lighlt-house keeper ntnd thrilling adventures at sea, being nautitcil, scientific, and partly ctatistical, written in a charcminr, thrilling, and cosvinci,g rnnter It goes ost of the ordinary line esntirely, mo-t of the characters being portraits, its scenery all from absolute facts, every scientific andl wctcsral-h istocy statement a verity, the sea in- idents from actual experience Iroin inmrine lisasters for the last ten years. Nettie Loring.    :imo, 352 pages. \ly MrS. GEO. S. DOWNS,     $1 25 it trr eIphi Illy describes the doings of sev- d:"Nioshcs lidces wl;o resolesd to uc  theliir htsils.-sec on tice sidle of tc,-cperance anis 1,sanlsh wine frm tlheir ntertainmonts, t lihe scorn thsey 'xi Itrl c, and tim gocl reinLs s -hicsh f .-iwred.   The Fire Fighters. 021mo, 294 pages. By Mrs. J  E. MCCONAUGtHY, 'lu thor of"The Hard Master," An adm'ir:ale story, sliowins hoic- a suscher of young I ius lbandedl themselves i Into a 5oc iett to fight against Alcohol, and the good they did Iln the coommunity. The Jewelled Serpent.    i2mo, 271 pages. By Mrs E. J. RICHMOND, author of "Adopted," "The Mc- Allisters," etc.,   . .   . $1 00 Tihe story i t written earnestly. ThIe chiarac- ters are swh delineated, and tIakien i',lm the wealthy als- fcashionable ,orltiss ots: 1 Irge city. Tile evils whichi flow I rom :ilhioiinble drink ing atre well portrased, anl also thie d acnger arising from the use of intox canuts when used as siedicine, forming a a appetite whiich aIsst a itself wilh adea dly ciold upon its victimn. The  Hole in  the Bag, and Other Stories.  By Mrs. J. P. BALLARD. author of "'The   Broken Rock. "Lift a Little," etc. od mo, $1 0d A shection of well-written stories by this moct piopular :tithlor ons tihe ssbiect of temper- nace, inculcatingi acnay valuable les sns Ili the I Icds of its readers. The Glass Cable.    2mo0,288 pagtp-. Bly MAKAR   ET E. WILMER, ati- i1ior of  "The  Lit-le  Gi I  i:. 1h1ack."  " "EWva's Engagemre" Ring," etc.,   .        $1 25 The st. le of this book is gooi, the ciharacter: well selected, and its temperance and relig oes- truths most excellent. The moral ol the stc' : shows those wtlio sneer at a child's plede '. coimparing its strenglh to a glass cable, that is is in m'cny cases strong enough toI brnve tsI-- storms and temptations ot a whole lifetime. Fred's  Hard  Fight.   i2mo, 33* pages   By Miss  MARION How- ARD,                25 While It shows the trials wl-icsl a young lad endured through the tensptations acnd entice- ments offered Iiiin by tiose opposesd to his firm temperance and r-ligious principles, and warns the reader againist the use of every hind of alcoholic stsmslanst, it poistcs also to Jesu, the only true source of streconuth, urging all to accept the promises of streneth and salvation offered to every one who will seek it. The Dumb Traitor.    02m11, 336 pp. By MARGARET t WILMiR, $I Z     5 rInten-elv iter-.'w:nl, o sh-,'Nn,: r E lo taile icrnels -in a wf ell to-dou New Eiweland fanmil w-cr - hghtel threugh the introductsion of a bIox sf wii', giveel i f ielshcip, isesd as Inme- d cinc, 1l-tl r tvclsn dulllb t rlt,r in ticecurt.     Miscellaneous Publications.   Wealth and Wine. 2amO, 337 pp. By M issM. D. CHELLIS, author of "Temperance Doctor,"     . $1 25 This book Is written in her best style, show- ing the deception of the wine-cup and thile pow- er of woman's influence, together with the evil influence of social and moderate drinking. The immense power for good of a iruman soul when inspired to work for the good of others is graphically portrayed. The Fatal Dower. xi8mo, 220 pp. By Mrs. E. J. RICHMOND,    $0 60 It is truthful and convincing as well as in- teresting, showing the fatal efifects of adminis- tering alcoholic poison As snedicines, and polntsg out the snares and pitfalls which are o thickly strewn along the pathIs of the young, Text-Book   of  Temperance.    By Dr. F. R. LES,    ....$1 50 Weeasctilsfo furnxtis t aD-vh book, which is dlvided into the following parts: 1. Temper- anco as s Virtue. 2. The Chemical littory of Aleoliol. 3 The Dietetics of Temperance. 4. The Pathelogy of INt,-inpor ucte. 5. The MAeli- cal Question. 6 Temperance in Itelation to thile Bible. 7. lihtoncal. 8. Thi NAth:oil Qeotios and the Remedy. 9 'lTe hilh s ph  of Tmperance. Bugle  Notes for the Temperance Arnmy.  Price, pIaper covers, 80 cents; boards ...     ..$0 :1I A new colleclion of Songs, Qnrrtlcs. :to1 Glees, adapted to the ts' of all Tctoo'uo', gatherings, Glee Clubs, etc., togethetr i th tihe Odes of tie bonsi of Tuciperance aonl I'- d Temiplars. Templerance, 'Chimes.     Price, in paper covers, 30 cents, single copies; $25 per hundred.    Price, in board covers, 35 cents; per hundred ......$30 00 A Temperance Ilymn and Tine-Buook i I l2 p5g00, ....mprising a gre t \..r ely ... S lIe., SogB, and Ilyisns desligjsiindfor the use ofTern rance Meeftingi and Organizations, 1ssdas of Iope, Glee Clubs, and the lieome Circle. Matlny of thie Hymns liee been written exprisslv for this book by some of the best writers ie tha country Bound Volumes of Sermons, $1 50 Seventeen sermons dsivered upon the ccvi- tatioll of The National s Temperance Society, ansid published in the National Series. ive all been boiund in one volumes, 1isakhing ioo paIge. of thq best temper ic iatti, r of the Linil ever pblished. The sermons are 1)by Revs. hIenry Ward Beomhcr, T I.. Ciuvier, T. Te Witt Tal- wage, 3 i. B)usn, Jehol'Hall, .1. . Nesiwman, J. V Mears, C. 1). Foss, .1, Rtoei cev ierry lierrick Jolhnson, Peter Stryker, C. II. Fowlcr, II. C. Fihi, II. Wi* Warresn, S. II. Tysl, :ild W. M. Tn. bor.   llumpy Dumpy.    n2mo, 316 pp.   By Rev. J. J. DANA    .     . .$1 25 In this book a corner grocery, where liquor is freely sold, becoming the resort of all the longers and drinkers, is the source of much evil and a mission school, by its Christian teaiichings, tlihe means of rescuing many from the downward road. The Model Landlord.     x8mo.   By Mrs. M. A. HOLT, author of "John Bentley's Mistake," $0 50 It shows how a "e model landlord," who keeps a gilded saloon ior tashionable wine- drinkers, though hie may attend church, give money to the poor, and circulate in the ' first society," may be the greatest instrument in leading the young down to destruction. The Bases of the Temperance Re- form. n2mo, 224 pages. By Rev. DAWSON BURNS, . . . .$1 00 This is also ntin Eniglish prize (sa0y, which took the sec- roi pize under tie liberal oll'r of J/1 e'm Taire for the belt eslay son the entire tenlri('oe (Itiestlioni A very alese and tiohio- r ighll eoloi Ilionc Of the fousdationiCas soc whichelc "iHe  "I "I's. coo "els'e is ioceioie and ephbuilt. 'll re .ci-tali;ihu icc a cliea aesd salistec- c,  i Vr i hi, lri lslth i lo tiimt ile drinking '--t5l {iis th, ;,relb t soooial evil icc the lasid; that iscionixi alliti!l10,l 1 are iset'i-s ason isjilsi- (i it0i0rt I e 4f diet; tslet inteimlierance is a trt licleuti whiiiich cln ocilv lii be icctlscly sup- pr,-c-. 1, v iih,- sx f ionsotintoxic:ating drittssis; tit vil; elie ic s dole t tillt will of God and lhe w'lhuc (,'c mnds ilv alcr,olriating the uit. (, the eithl tis thicprooiscttis of isitoxi- ,athig drinkss  that tl e sacred Scriptures doe o,t afliordl sacction to thei use of intoxicatinl Bacchius   i)ethroneed.   12mo, 248 pages.  ily FiitDERICK POWELL, $1 00 i'hiis is an Enllsih prize essayv, vritten in re- sponse to a pirize offer edisy James Teare, of onglind, for tlih best temperalnce ssay. It is olie of the ablest iind s0ost coivinleishg works ever issued. The question is presented in all its iphaes, pIhysiological, social, political, ooral, and religious It I very comprehen- siv', 1clttl1oiying focts, aiounoling in arg- inents, aitwerinsg objections, and enlIorcing pIower'ful and ,'otlictic apploals. The iauthor consilers 1. The gre0t ialivioili curse. 2. Tice supposed dietetic value of alcoholic beverages 3. The pliy;iological relations o/ intoxioatisl liquors 4 Thie social sand poll ticci argument. 5. Tbhe manufacture of ia toxicatinug lisluor n immsTorality. 4. Teetotal- ism a scivntific truth. 7 Teetotilsm is relation to the Bible. S. Goid's great remed3 for tilo world's gi eat cursec. 9. Legislahios atid the lilquor traffic.   Forty Years' Fight with the Drink Delmon. 12mo, 400 pages. By CHARLES JEwETr, M D.,      $1 50 This volume comprises tihe history of Dr. Jewett's public and private labors from 18S26 to tie present time, with sketches of the most popular and distinguished advocates of the cause it its earlier stages. It aiso recordi the rOolits of fi ty year' observation , studcy, nd rolelctioss upon the use sol intoxicatinsodrinks x-c druigs, axnd sugnuestios -As to Jl'e iccos loecilk ol : n ix tlit- ciasi.,l-, o tc, The booki is han, taut vlyll bolmin , andt t'-nrain)  fil1sIlaed portiait- of early chiampiionls ofthe CaliS(,' Drops of Waster.   isno, 33 pa    . By Miss IELL A   III.;i., $0   . A nt'w book .f fifty, i ix TtVnll..1tlCoI ih'M1"A by tohe  iyoiolaiof taletdsa'i'd aut'-, i Io "tsc iotobh, irc re 1 10 iooo .' 1 i 1caloccco  Acohi wev, esotoch ocr recciltoc ls 'tc'eciovcaocco 5:,t',!eg toi i loioi-i,-, etc. 'Ice shi' c ic i iy  lit. I hel 'sii ty of eno- io, ills-s of thuui ght,  i  scol d ihlle- of itel'thollnll! 5i111111iisg through all f tihei cccl e, this iook a lceal guit, worthy is!c'u'e Ihy the aide of :Ill of the poetr) oits she tsoutry. Bound   Volume  of  Tracts.   50) pages, .. .     .... $1 00 This volhmo contains all th1c four, eighct, :d twelve loafge tracts ubchhed by the National Temperance Socioty, including all the prize tracts;sosesned the last two years The book comprises Arguments, Statistics, Sketches, and Essays, which make it an inviduable collection for every fi iend of the Topiperance Reforci. Scripture  Testimony   Against In- toxicating Wine.    By Rev. Wm. RITrrcIE, of Scotland, .   . $0 60 Ai tcnatisweoable refutation of the theory that tlihe Scriptuires fivor the file of the use of intoxicating wine as a beverage. It talikc the different kiids of wines mentioned in the Scriptures, inveotigahtee their specific coa- ture, anil shows whereoin they differ. Alcohol: Its Place aid Power, by JAMMS MLLER ; and The Use and Abuse of Tobacco, by JOHN     LI- ZARS,  .   ........$1 00 Zoological Temperance Convention. By  Rev. EilWARD    IlrrciccocK, D D., of Amherst College, $0 75 This faiole gives a- introcLing' and enlitertain- ingC aCccunt of a Convention of Acnitaels hell Inl Central A)riica, sid relports thel'-.-T'oi'ohes Instic Ocil tico o sillns.   Delavan's Consideration of the Ttim- perance Argument and History, $1 50 Thic condensed and comprehensive work coni- tains Essays and Selectlons fromi different aiu- thors, collected and edited by EDWAaD C. ID- "AVAN, Esq., and is one of the smost valuible text-books oil the subject of Temperance ever issued. Bible  Rule  of Temperance;   or, Total Abstinence from   all Intox- icating Drinks. By Rev. GoK(;GE DUFFIELD, D D., . . . . $0 60 This. ie the ablest and most reliable s ork which hiac1 been issued o i the subject, ice ics- lnor'ilty of the Is , snoe, aiid lanosfactore oh intox icating liquors as a beverage is considelred ic the light of Olc Scripitures, and the will 'cacl law of Gott clearly presented Alcohol: Its Nature and Effects. By CHARLES A. STOREY, M D., $0 90 This is a thoroughly scientific worki, y-et written in a fresh, vigorous, and popular sl-tyle, in language thiat thleo misuses clm snclerstaind. It counsists of tens lectures carefrilly prep'i'ed, and ih sin cinlirely newy work by oce amply c0in- It)tunot to presient thie subject. Four Pillars of Temperance.     By JOHN W. KIRTpN,     . .  . $0 75 The Four Phllars are; Reason, Science, Scrip- ture,and Experience. The book is argumenta- tive, historical, and statistical, iand the lact, appeals, and arguments are presented ild a most convincing and masterly ]annuer Communmion Wine; or     Bible Tem- perance       . By Rev. ILLIAM M. THAYER. Paper, 20 cents ; cloth, $0 50 An unanswerable argument agaisat tlihe use of intoxicating wine at Communion, and pre- senting lthie Bible argument ill favor of total abstinence. Biicsleinces;;-e Bliable Whies- orl Theli Laws ofFer- mentastionm 'isA  Wines  of  the Anielents.  I2rno, 39 pages. By Rcv. WM. IPATI-roN, D   .D  Paper, 80 cts.: cloth,   . . . . $0 60 It presents lthi whole matter of Bible Tem- prt neice and the wines of ancient times in a new, clear, and satisoactory noanner, develop- ing the l-ss eof fermentation, and giving alarge nmcher of reft rencesand statistics never before Collecte, sh,)wlnoc@ Olsidicls the existence of unfermentcdl wine im the olde time. 7     Pamphlets.   John Swig. A Poem. By EDWARD CARSWELL. i2mO, 24 pages Il- lustrated with eight characteristic engravings, printed on tinted paper, ... ..     $ 15 The Rum Fiend, and Other Poems. By WILLIAM H. BURLEIGH. I2So. "pages. Illustrated with three wood engravings, des gned by EDWARD (,ARSWELL.   $0 20 Suppression or the Liquor Traffic. A Prize Essay, by Rev. H. D. KITCHELL, President of Middle- bury College. I21mo, 43 pp., $0 10   Bound and Ilow; or, Alcohol as a Narcotic. By CHARLES JEWETT, I D. Izmo, 24pp., . .  $0 10 Scriptural Claims of Total Abstin- ence. By Rev. NEWMAN HALL. I2mo, 62 pp., . ...   $0 15 Buy Your Own Cherries. By JOHN V . KIRTON. i--alo, 32 pp., $0 20 National Temperance Almanac and Teetotaler's Year Book for 1874 $o 16 Illustrated Templerance Allpha et so 2.5   The Youth's Temperance Banner The National Teilper ice S,ciety and Publication Hollens publish a beautifully illustrated Monthly P'aper especially adapted to children and youth, Sunda-stchool and Juvenile Tem- perance Orginizations. achl number contains several choice encrosvilgs, a piece of music, and a great varietv ot articles from the pens of the best writers for chiilren in America. It should be placted in the hands of every child in the land. TERMS-IN ADnANcE.   Single coples, onle year, .   .   $0 25 Eight copies, to one address,-    - 1 0( Ten        "  " "     . 1 25 Fifteen  "  "          .  I 88 Twenty        (   .  -  - 2 r O   Thirty co,pies,'to one address, -  $3 75 Forty  "  "'          - 5 00 Fiftv  '   "   '       - 6 25 One tundred   "   "     -  12 00   The National Temperance Orator.       2amu, 288 paes,    .   .  . $1 00 This is issue I in response to the many urgent calls for a book similar to the "New Tetnpe rance Speaker," used widely tlroughout the country. It contains articles by the best temperanc writers of the day, poemis, recitations, readings, dialogues, and choice extrncts from speeches o some of the ablest temperance speakers in the country, for the use of all temperance workers Lodges, Divisions, Bands of Hope, etc., etc Twenty-four Page Pamphlets. (With Covers.) Five Cents each; 60 Cents per Doz.   Is Alcohol Food I Physiological Action of Alcohol. Adulteration of Liquors. Will the Coming Man Drink Winel History and Mystery of a Glass of Ale, Bible Teetotalism.   Medicinal Drinking. Drinking Usages of Society. Fruits of the Liquor Traffic. Is Alcohol a Necessary of Life I A High Fence of Filtoen Ban The Son of My Friend.   Band of Hope Supplies.   Band of Hope Manual. Per dozen,   $0 60 Temperance Catechism. Per dozen,    60 Band of Hope Melodies. Paper,      10 Band of Hope Badge. Enmnelled, $1 25 per dozen; 12 cents singly. Plain, 1 per dozen; 10 cents singly. Silver and Enamelled, 50 cents each.   Juvenile Temperance Speaker,     $0 2i Illuminated Tempelance Cards. Set of ten. -         -  - -   35 Juvenile TemperancePledges. Per100, 3 00 Certificates of Membership Per 100, - 0 The Temperastce Speaker  -  -  -  75 Catechism on Alcohol. By Miss Julia Colmnn. Per dozen,   -  -  -  00   Sert by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price. Addi e's J. N STEABRNS, Publishing Agent, 68 READE STREET, NEW YORI     
         
      
   
