
    ----CITATION----
        Cleveland, Cecilia Pauline, (1850-). The Story of a Summer, or, Journal Leaves from Chappaqua .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6083 wright2-0555
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               
                  THE SIDE-HILL HOUSE. (See Page 14.)
               
            
         
         
            
               THE STORY OF A SUMMER;
               OR, JOURNAL LEAVES FROM CHAPPAQUA.
            
            BY CECILIA CLEVELAND.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               G. W. Carleton & Co., Publishers.
               LONDON:
               S. LOW, SON & CO.
            
            M.DCCC.LXXIV.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by G. W. CARLETON
                  & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
               Stereotyped at the WOMEN'S PRINTING HOUSE, 56, 58 and 60 Park Street, New
                  York.
            
         
         
            To MY DEAR COUSINS, IDA AND GABRIELLE, THIS STORY OF A
               SUMMER IS AFFECTIONATELY Dedicated.
         
         
         
            
            
               
                  STONE BARN. (See Page 255.)
               
            
         
         
            THIS little volume is in no sense a work of the imagination, but a simple record of a
               pleasant summer's residence at Chappaqua, embracing many facts and incidents
               heretofore unpublished, relating to one who once occupied a large portion of the
               public mind. Believing that it may interest many who care to know more of that
               portion of his busy life which was not seen by the public, but which pertained to his
               home circle, the author has been persuaded to print what was written merely for the
               amusement of herself and friends.
         
         
         
            
            
               
                  THE HOUSE IN THE WOODS. (See Page 60.)
               
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. Return to Chappaqua—A Walk over the Grounds—The Side-hill House—Our
                  First Sunday at Chappaqua—Drive to Mount Kisco—A Country Church—A Dame
                  Châtelaine—Our Domestic Surroundings. 13
               
               CHAPTER II. Arrival of the Piano—Routine of a Day—Morning Toilettes—The
                  Dining-room—Pictures—Ida and Gabrielle—How occupied—The Evening Mail—Musical
                  Evening. 21
               
               CHAPTER III. An Unexpected Visit—Morning Drives—Gabrielle's Ponies—A Repulsive
                  Object—A Visitor—The King of Sweden's Soup—Advantages of a Royal Kitchen—Startling
                  Experience—Ida's Letters—Strange Contents—A Lucky Stone—Request for a
                  Melodeon—Offers of Marriage—Arrival of a Suitor—Reasons why he should marry Ida
                  Greeley—He proves a Lunatic—He is taken before a Magistrate—He is lodged in the
                  County Jail. 28
               
               CHAPTER IV. A Visit from Papa—A Musical Squirrel—Letters—Croquet—Extracts from
                  Letters—Visitors—The Loss of the Missouri—The True Story of Ida's
                  Engagement. 46
               
               CHAPTER V. Sunday in the Country—Proximity of a Meeting-house—How we pass our
                  Sundays—The House in the Woods—Ida's Glen—Mrs. Greeley's Favorite Spring—The
                  Children's Play-house—Gabrielle's Pets—Travelling in 1836—New York Society—Mr.
                  Greeley's Friday Evenings—Mrs. Greeley as a Bride—Her Accomplishments—A Letter
                  concerning Mr. Greeley's Wedding. 58
               
               CHAPTER VI. Visitors—Our Neighbors—The Chappaqua Croquet Club —Gabrielle's
                  Letter—A Riding Party—Summer Heat—The Music-room—Friends from the City. 74
               
               CHAPTER VII. Midsummer Day—An Artist's Visit—Ida's Letter—Moonlight on Croton
                  Lake—Morning Readings—Plato and Kohlrausch. 81
               
               CHAPTER VIII. Story-telling—Mr. Greeley's Father—His Personal Appearance—His
                  Education—A Fine Voice—Mr. Greeley's Mother—A Handsome Woman—How she is remembered
                  in Vermont—Field Labor—Bankruptcy—A Journey to Vermont—School Days—The Boy
                  Horace—How he entertained his Playmates—His First Ball—Separation from his Family.
                     87
               
               CHAPTER IX. A Picnic at Croton Dam—The Waterworks—A Game of Twenty
                  Questions—Gabrielle as a Logician—Evangeline's Betrothal—Marguerite's
                  Letter—Description of Chappaqua—Visitors—Edmonia Lewis. 100
               
               CHAPTER X. Cataloguing the Library—A Thousand Volumes—Contrasting Books—Some
                  Rare Volumes—Mr. Greeley's Collection of Paintings—Authenticity of the Cenci
                  Questioned—A Portrait of Galileo—Portrait of Martin Luther—Portrait of Mr. Greeley
                  at Thirty—Powers' Proserpine—Hart's Bust of Mr. Greeley—Mosaics and Medallions.
                     111
               
               CHAPTER XI. The Fourth of July—A Quaker Celebration—The House in the Woods—Mrs.
                  Greeley's Life there—Pickie—Mary Inez—Raffie—Childhood of Ida and
                  Gabrielle—Heroism of Mrs. Greeley—The Riots of 1863—Mrs. Greeley defends her House
                  against the Mob. 125
               
               CHAPTER XII. Pen Portraits—Lela—Majoli—Guerrabella and Celina—Their
                  Characteristics. 135
               
               CHAPTER XIII. Biography of Mr. Greeley—Gabrielle's Questions— Mrs. Cleveland's
                  Corrections—The Boy Horace not Gawky, Clownish, or a Tow-head—His Parents not in
                  Abject Want—Mr. Greeley's Letter about his Former Playmates—Young Horace and his
                  Girl Friends—He Corrects their Grammar and Lectures them upon Hygiene—He
                  disapproves of Corsets. 142
               
               CHAPTER XIV. The Morning Mail—A Letter to Mrs. Cleveland—Strange Contents—Ida's
                  Letter Bag—Appeals for Money, for Clothing, and for her Hand—An Original Letter
                  from a Trapper. 153
               
               CHAPTER XV. Life in the Woods of Pennsylvania—Journey from Vermont to
                  Pennsylvania in 1826—Travelling on Canal-boats—Incidents by the Way—Home in the
                  Wilderness—Aggressions of Bears and Wolves. 167
               
               CHAPTER XVI. A Birthday—A Surprise—The Day celebrated by a Dinner—An Awkward
                  Mistake—A Queen of Fashion—A Drive to Tarrytown—A Poem to Ida. 181
               
               CHAPTER XVII. Gabrielle and her Embroidery—Life in Pennsylvania
                  continued—Sugar-making—Horrible Incident—A Woman devoured by Wolves—A Domestic
                  Picture—Evening Readings—The Library of Mr. Greeley's Father—Mr. Greeley's Mother
                  intellectually considered—Her Education—Mr. Greeley's Eldest Sister—She teaches
                  School at the Age of Twelve. 189
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. Visitors—A Sunday Drive—Croton Lake by Daylight—A Sail—A Sudden
                  Squall—Anxiety about our Fate—Miraculous Escape from Drowning—Arrival of a Pretty
                  Cousin—A Child Poetess. 204
               
               CHAPTER XIX. Mr. Greeley visits his Family in Pennsylvania—He expounds
                  Mathematics and Philosophy to his Brother and Sisters—Fishing and Bee
                     Hunting—Forest
                  Fires—A Subsequent Visit—He returns as Editor of the New Yorker—He
                  writes the 'Faded Stars'—Characteristics of Mr. Greeley's Brother—His Children—Mr.
                  Greeley's Younger Sisters—Their Education. 213
               
               CHAPTER XX. A Quiet Household—Absence of Marguerite and Gabrielle—Amusing
                  Letters from them—A Gypsy Fortune-teller—Marguerite returns with a Visitor—The
                  Harvest Moon—Preparing for Company—Arranging the Blue Room—Intense
                  Anticipation—"'He Cometh Not,' She Said." 226
               
               CHAPTER XXI. The Story of Mr. Greeley's Parents continued—He accompanies his
                  Mother to New Hampshire—Her Sisters—Three Thanksgivings in One Year—Pickie as a
                  Baby—His Childhood—Mrs. Greeley's Careful Training—His Playthings—His Death—A
                  Letter from Margaret Fuller. 236
               
               CHAPTER XXII. The Friends' Seminary—The Principal Chappaqua
                  Residences—Reminiscences of Paris during the War—An Accomplished Lady—Her
                  Voice—Festivities—A Drive to Rye Lake—Making Tea on the Beach—A Sail at
                  Sunset—Fortune-telling by Firelight—The Drive Home—Sunday Morning—A Row on the
                  Pond—Dramatic Representations in the Barn—A Drive to Lake Wampus—Starlight Row.
                     247
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. Marriage of a Cousin—A Pretty Bride—Letters—Home Circle
                  Complete—A Letter of Adventures—Wedding Cards—A Musical Marriage—Housekeeping
                  under Difficulties—Telegraphic Blunders—A Bust of Mr. Greeley—More Visitors. 258
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. "All that's Bright must Fade"—Departures—Preparing the House for
                  the Winter—Page's Portrait of Pickie—Packing up—Studious Habits of the
                  Domestics—The Cook and her Admirers—Adieu to Chappaqua. 266
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The story of a summer, or, Journal leaves from Chappaqua
            THE STORY OF A SUMMER;
            OR, JOURNAL LEAVES FROM CHAPPAQUA.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  Return to Chappaqua—A Walk over the Grounds—The Side-hill House—Our First
                     Sunday at Chappaqua—Drive to Mount Kisco—A Country Church—A Dame Châtelaine—Our
                     Domestic Surroundings.
               
               
                  CHAPPAQUA, WESTCHESTER CO., New York, May 28, 1873.
               
               AGAIN at dear Chappaqua, after an absence of seven months. I have not the heart to
                  journalize to-night, everything seems so sad and strange. What a year this has
                  been—what bright anticipations, what overwhelming sorrow!
               
                  
                  
                     May 30.
                  
                  I have just returned from a long ramble over the dear old place; first up to
                     the new house so picturesquely placed upon a hill, and down through the woods
                     to the cool pine grove and the flower-garden. Here I found a wilderness of
                     purple and white lilacs, longing, I thought, for a friendly hand to gather them
                     before they faded; dear little bright-eyed pansies, and scarlet and crimson
                     flowering shrubs, a souvenir of travel in England, with sweet-scented violets
                     striped blue and white, transplanted from Pickie's little garden at Turtle Bay
                     long years ago.
                  Returning, I again climbed the hill, and unlocked the doors of the new house;
                     that house built expressly for Aunt Mary's comfort, but which has never yet
                     been occupied. Every convenience of the architect's art is to be found in this
                     house, from the immense, airy bedroom, with its seven windows, intended for
                     Aunt Mary, to a porte cochère to protect her
                     against the inclemency of the weather upon returning from a drive. But this
                     house, in the building of which she took so keen an interest, she was not
                     destined to inhabit, although with that buoyancy of mind and tenacity to life
                     that characterized her during her long years of weary illness, she contemplated
                     being carried into it during the early days of last October, and even ordered
                     fires to be lighted to carry off the dampness before she tried her new room. By
                     much persuasion, however, she was induced to postpone her removal from day to
                     day; and finally, as she grew weaker and weaker, she decided to abandon that
                     plan, and journey to New York while she could. In two weeks more she had left
                     us forever.
               
               
                  
                     June 1.
                  
                  Our first Sunday at Chappaqua. We have a little church for a next-door
                     neighbor, in which services of different sects are held on alternate Sundays,
                     the pulpit being hospitably open to all denominations excepting Papists. Three
                     members of our little household, however—mamma, Marguerite, and I—belong to the
                     grand old Church of Rome; so the carriage was ordered, and with our brother in
                     religion, Bernard, the coachman, for a pioneer, we started to find a church or
                     chapel of the Latin faith. At Mount Kisco, a little town four miles distant,
                     Bernard thought we might hear Mass, "but then it's not the sort of church you
                     ladies are used to," he added, apologetically; "it's a small chapel, and only
                     rough working people go there."
                  I was quite amused at the idea that the presence of poor people was any
                     objection, for is it not a source of pride to Catholics that their
                     church is open alike to the humblest and richest; so with a suggestive word
                     from Bernard, Gabrielle's spirited ponies flew 
                        "Over the hills, and far away."
                     
                  
                  
                  A perpetual ascent and descent it seemed—a dusty road, for we are sadly in want
                     of rain, and few shade-trees border the road; but once in Mount Kisco, the
                     novelty of the little chapel quite compensated for the disagreeable features of
                     our journey there. A tiny chapel indeed—a plain frame building, with no
                     pretence to architectural beauty. It was intended originally, I thought, for a
                     Protestant meeting-house, as the cruciform shape, so conspicuous in all
                     Catholic-built churches was wanting here. The whitewashed walls were hung with
                     small, rude pictures, representing the Via
                        Crucis or Stations of the Cross, and the altar-piece—not, I fancy,
                     a remarkable work of art in its prime—had become so darkened by smoke, that I
                     only conjectured its subject to be St. Francis in prayer.
                  Although it was Whit-Sunday the altar was quite innocent of ornament, having
                     only six candles, and a floral display of two bouquets. The seats and
                     kneeling-benches were uncushioned, and the congregation was composed, as
                     Bernard said, entirely of the working class; but the people were very clean and
                     respectable in their appearance, and fervent in their devotions as only the
                     Irish peasantry can be.
                  The pastor, an intelligent young Irishman, apparently under thirty, had already
                     said Mass at Pleasantville, six miles distant, and upon arriving at Mount Kisco
                     he found that about twenty of his small congregation gregation wished to
                     receive Communion, as it was a festival; consequently, he spent the next hour
                     not literally in the confessional, for there was none, but in the
                     tiny closet dignified by the name of a vestry. From thence, the door being
                     open, we could with ease, had we had nothing better to do, have heard all of
                     the priest's advice to his penitents.
                  This ceremony over, the young Father came out in his black cassock, and taking
                     up his vestments which lay upon the altar-steps, he proceeded with the utmost
                     nonchalance to put them on, not hesitating to display a long rent in his
                     surplice, and a decidedly ragged sleeve.
                  The Mass was a Low one, and the congregation were too poor to have an organ or
                     organist. Quite a contrast to a Sunday at St. Stephen's or St. Francis
                     Xavier's, but the Mass is always the same, however humble the
                     surroundings.
               
               
                  
                     June 3.
                  
                  We are unusually fortunate, I think, in our domestic surroundings. Servants are
                     proverbially the bête noire of American
                     ladies, and the prospect of having to train some unskilled specimens of foreign
                     peasantry weighed heavily, I fancy, upon our beautiful Ida in her new
                     responsibility of a young Dame Châtelaine.
                     However, we have been, as I said, singularly successful in obtaining
                     servants.
                  To my great delight, there is not one ugly name in our little household, although composed of eight
                     members, commencing with Queen Esther, as mamma has been named;
                     then we four girls—la Dame Châtelaine, with
                     her fair face, dark, pensive eyes, and modest dignity; Gabrielle, or Tourbillon, our brilliant pet, and the youngest of
                     our quartette, although her graceful figure rises above the rest of us; my
                     sister Marguerite, la Gentille Demoiselle;
                     and I, Cecilia.
                  Then come the household retinue: Bernard, the coachman, already introduced, a
                     smart-looking young Irishman, whom the maids always find very beguiling; Lina,
                     the autocrat of the kitchen, a little, wiry-looking woman from Stockholm,
                     formerly cook, so she says, to King Charles of Sweden; and Minna,
                     the maid.
                  Minna is a pretty young Bavarian, who has been only fifteen days in the Land of
                     Liberty, but she has already learnt, I am amused to see, not to
                     address a lady as "gnädige Frau," or
                     "Fräulein"—a style of address imperative in South Germany from a maid to her
                     mistress. Minna has not, however, imbibed all of the democratic principles that
                     will, I fear, come to her only too soon, for she has not yet learnt to emulate
                     her mistress in dress. It is really quite refreshing to see a servant dressed
                     as a servant. Minna is the perfection of neatness, and her plain stuff or print
                     gowns are sans reproche in their freshness.
                     In the matter of aprons she must be quite reckless, for they always look as if
                     just from the ironing-table. They are made, too, in an especially pretty
                     fashion that I have never before seen out of Munich. Scorning chignons, Minna
                     appears with her own luxuriant hair in massive braids wound about her
                     well-shaped head, and as to-day is Sunday and a Fest-tag, she adorns herself with a large shell-comb. She has
                     very pretty, coquettish ways, that have already melted the heart of our
                     hitherto unsusceptible Bernard, and it is quite charming to hear her attempts
                     to converse with him in her broken English.
                  Minna came to me this morning directly after breakfast, and said, "Where shall
                     I go to church, Fräulein Cecilia?"
                  "I do not really know, Minna," I replied. "You are a Lutheran, I suppose?"
                  "Yes, Fräulein Cecilia."
                  "There is no church of that sort here," I said, "but there is a Reformed Church
                     next door."
                  With a very doubtful expression, she said: "I will see, Fräulein. And bitte, is not the Pfingsten a Fest-tag in America? In our country, you know, it is
                        more than Sunday, and the people always amuse themselves."
                  I explained to her as clearly as I could, that Pfingsten (Whit-Sunday) was only
                     a Fest-tag in her church, mine, and the Church of England, and that it was
                     never in this country a Fest-tag, outside of the religious observance.
                  
                  A very perplexed face was the result of my explanations; why Pfingsten should
                     not be Pfingsten the world over, and a public holiday with all sorts of
                     merry-makings, she could not understand.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  Arrival of the Piano—Routine of a Day—Morning Toilettes—The
                     Dining-room—Pictures—Ida and Gabrielle—How occupied—The Evening Mail—Musical
                     Evenings.
               
               
                  June 4.
               
               YESTERDAY the piano was sent up from Steinway's, where it has been stored since
                  last fall, and now we have all settled to our different occupations, and are as
                  methodical in the disposition of our time as though we were in school.
               None of us are very early risers, for mamma, who should naturally set us a good
                  example, has been too long an invalid to admit of it, and we girls have become
                  habituated to the luxury of breakfasting in bed, from residence abroad and in the
                  tropics. Not that we breakfast in bed at the "Villa Greeley," however; we are much
                  too sociable, and our dining-room is too attractive, for that. But we gratify our
                  taste for reasonable hours by assembling around the table at half-past eight.
               "Shocking!" I fancy I hear Katie exclaim. "I breakfast at least two
                  hours earlier. How can you bear to lose so much of the beautiful morning?"
               Don't imagine, dear Katie, that I sleep till half-past past eight: you must know the wakeful temperament
                  of our family too well for that. I find it, however, very poetic and delightful to
                  listen to the matins of the robins, thrushes, and wrens, from my pillows; and by
                  merely lifting my head I have as extended a panorama of swelling hills and emerald
                  meadows, as though promenading the piazza.
               I have been in my day as early a riser as any one—even you, dear Katie, have not
                  surpassed me in this respect; for you recollect those cold winter days when I
                  arose at "five o'clock in the morning," not, however, to meet Corydon, but to
                  attack the Gradus ad Parnassum of Clementi by gaslight, in my desire to accomplish
                  eight hours of practice undisturbed by visitors. At seven, however, I used to meet
                  with an interruption from my German professor. Poor man! I now pity his old
                  rheumatic limbs stumbling over the ice and snow to be with me at that unreasonable
                  hour of the morning. But I then was ruthless, and would not allow him even five
                  minutes grace, for my time was then regulated like clockwork, and a delay of a few
                  moments would cause an unpardonable gap in my day. Now, however, that my education
                  is nominally finished, I feel that I may without self-reproach indulge in some
                  extra moments of repose, for it is impossible for one to work all the
                  time; and a quiet hour of reflection is often, I think, as useful as continual
                  reading or writing.
               We indulge in very simple morning toilettes here, as we have no gentleman guests
                  for whom to dress, nor ladies to criticise us; consequently a few brief moments
                  before the mirror suffice to make us presentable. A black print wrapper made
                  Gabrielle-fashion, with our hair brushed off plain from our faces, and flowing
                  loosely à la belle sauvage, or in cool braids,
                  is the order of the day. Even Marguerite, who is the most conventional of our
                  quartette, has conformed to the fashion reigning here, and no longer coiffed in
                  the stylish Impératrice mode, her sunny brown
                  hair floats over her shoulders unconfined by hair-pins, cushions, or rats. Truly
                  we live in Arcadian simplicity, for under our roof there are neither curling nor
                  crimping irons, nor even a soupçon of the most
                  innocent poudre de riz.
               
               At half-past eight a little hand-bell, silver in material and tone, summons us to
                  the breakfast-room. This room is on the ground floor, and is one of the prettiest
                  in the house. Four windows give us an extended view of our Dame Châtelaine's
                  sloping meadows and wooded hills, and the carriage road winding off towards the
                  pine grove and the house in the woods. We have several pictures on the walls—first
                  a portrait of my dear uncle; a boyish face with fair hair, deep blue eyes, and an
                  expression angelic in sweetness. No one would imagine it to be the face of a
                  married man, but it was painted, mamma says, when he was thirty years old. Two large and admirable
                  photographs, taken early last summer, hang opposite it. A striking contrast they
                  are to the pensive, fragile, blonde boy; these are impressed with the vigor and
                  mental and physical activity of his busy life, but the broad intellectual brow,
                  and the almost divine expression that plays about the mouth, are the same in
                  each.
               An engraving from a picture by Paul Delaroche, the Archangel Gabriel—the "patron,"
                  in Catholic parlance, of our little Gabrielle—hangs between the windows, and over
                  the comfortable sofa is a copy of Liotard's celebrated pastel "la belle
                  Chocolatière" in the Dresden Gallery. This copy Aunt Mary bought in that city when
                  there some years ago, and it is considered wonderfully fine. Very pretty and
                  coquettish she looks in her picturesque Vienna dress, with the small,
                  neatly-fitting cap, ample apron, and tiny Louis Quinze shoes. In her case 
                     "My face is my fortune,"
                   was exemplified, and so pretty and modest is her demeanor that it is no
                  wonder that Count Dietrichstein, haughty nobleman though he was, married her. She
                  is very different, however, from the chocolate vendors whom I have seen in the
                  streets of Paris. I don't think a nobleman would ever raise one of
                     them from their original station, for they are as a rule past
                  fifty, and ugly and withered as only a Frenchwoman of that age can be.
               
                  
                     THE SPRING. (See Page 25.)
                  
               
               
               Breakfast is followed by a turn upon the piazza, a little stroll to the spring,
                  near which delicious wild strawberries nestle in a background of sweet clover,
                  bright buttercups, and field daisies, or a game of croquet under the grand old
                  oak-trees 
                     "After the sun has dried the dew."
                   Then we separate, each to our own room, and our different occupations.
               Ida is very busy now, for she is preparing a volume for publication in the
                  fall—her dear father's manuscript lectures and letters.
               Gabrielle throws herself upon a sofa, and lies there motionless, absorbed in the
                  fascinating pages of some favorite book; indeed, she is so quiet that in my
                  periodical fits of tidiness I often seize a print or bombazine frock, thrown, as I
                  suppose, carelessly upon the bed or sofa, and only by its weight do I discover
                  that it is animated. Last year, Gabrielle's favorite site for reading was in the
                  dear old apple-tree close beside the house; but since she has attained the dignity
                  of sixteen and train dresses, she has abjured the apple-tree.
               Marguerite is translating a volume from the German, Musikalische Märchen, and I divide my time between the piano and
                  occasional newspaper articles.
               But it is already one o'clock and dinner hour. The afternoon passes much like the
                  morning. We have letters to write, and much reading aloud. I have two books in
                  progress—Plato's "Dialogues," and Madame
                  de Staël's incomparable "Germany:" the latter I read aloud while in Munich, but it
                  is a work that cannot be too often studied.
               At half-past six we dress and go down to the post-office (about a hundred yards
                  distant) for the evening mail. Half an hour later we sup, and then follows, as L.
                  E. L. would say, "a struggle and a sacrifice." What could be more delicious than a
                  game of croquet, or a drive in the cool twilight? But Chappaqua, lovely though it
                  is, possesses a malaria that is dangerous after sunset, they say, and much as I
                  love to drive when Nature is bathed in the last ruddy flush of day, and during the
                  soft gray hour that succeeds it, I must heed the prediction of chills
                  to all who indulge.
               The evening is always devoted to music. Both Ida and Gabrielle are very fond of
                  the piano, and Ida is rapidly becoming quite proficient in the divine art. She
                  commenced the study of music when a little child, under an excellent teacher, and
                  also took lessons while in boarding-school; but one studies the piano under
                  difficulties while in the routine of a pensionnat, for the hour devoted to it must be taken from one's
                  recreation time, or from some other lessons. Our friends will remember, too, that
                  dear Ida was taken out of school while yet very young, to become the devoted nurse
                  that she has since shown herself to her mother, and from the time she left the
                     Sacré Cœur until this spring she has never
                  opened the piano. Now, however, she practises regularly and conscientiously, and
                  brings to her music all the enthusiasm of her loving nature, and the intelligence
                  of her superior mind; consequently, when her fingers are well trained, I shall
                  expect to see her a thoughtful and brilliant pianist.
               Gabrielle is still in the tedious preliminary steps, for Geometry and Latin,
                  rather than the Rhythme des Doigts and the
                     Ecole de la Velocité, have hitherto engaged
                  her attention; but time will show.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  An Unexpected Visit—Morning Drives—Gabrielle's Ponies—A Repulsive Object—A
                     Visitor—The King of Sweden's Soup—Advantages of a Royal Kitchen—Startling
                     Experience—Ida's Letters—Strange Contents—A Lucky Stone—Request for a
                     Melodeon—Offers of Marriage—Arrival of a Suitor—Reasons why he should marry Ida
                     Greeley—He proves a Lunatic—He is taken before a Magistrate—He is lodged in the
                     County Jail.
               
               
                  
                     June 5.
                  
                  AN unexpected visit yesterday from Mr. O'Dwyer, a member of The
                        Tribune staff, and for several years dear uncle's private
                     secretary.
                  Mamma had invited Mr. O'Dwyer to come out and pass a quiet day with us, and had
                     appointed Wednesday for the visit. Desirous of a little excitement, and already
                     somewhat weary of our nun-like simplicity of toilette, we decided to do honor
                     to our guest by dressing our hair quite elaborately, and attiring ourselves,
                     despite the heat, in our best bombazines with their weight of crape. We were
                     assembled in the dining-room after our early dinner, discussing, in our plain
                     print wrappers and Marguerite braids, our plans for the morrow, when Minna
                     announced:
                  "A visit, Madame; a gentleman."
                  "Probably a neighbor upon business," said mamma to us; "show him in here,
                     Minna."
                  The door opened, and enter the guest for whom, in imagination, we were making
                     such extensive preparations.
                  A very expressive glance was telegraphed around our circle. I was engaged in
                     the domestic occupation of hemming one of papa's handkerchiefs, and although
                     Hawthorne draws so pretty a picture of the beautiful Miriam while engaged in
                     "the feminine task of mending a pair of gloves," with all deference to the
                     poet's taste, I consider the beguiling little scraps of canvas or kid which I
                     produce when company is present, much more attractive than plain sewing.
                  In a moment the surprise was explained. Mr. O'Dwyer had received orders to
                     represent The Tribune somewhere, the following day, just in time
                     to catch the Pleasantville express, and run out to tell us that he could not
                     come at the time appointed.
                  "The circumstances were trying," we said to each other, after his departure;
                     but imagine, girls, how much worse they would have been, had the visitor been a
                     lady! As long as a wrapper is black, I very much doubt if a gentleman would
                     know it from an afternoon dress.
               
               
                  
                     June 8.
                  
                  The usual routine of our morning occupations has been somewhat broken of late,
                     for these June days are too perfect to
                     be spent within doors, even with such grand companions as Plato or Beethoven.
                     We plan charming hours to be spent in the pine grove, where Marguerite will
                     read to us a chapter or two of Kohlrausch's "Germany," and Ida will give us a
                     few pages of Taine's brilliant "Angleterre;" but as we are starting with camp
                     chairs, books, and work, Bernard approaches:
                  "Any orders, Miss?"
                  Frail mortals are too weak to resist, and in a few moments we are seated in
                     Ida's stylish new phaeton; and Gabrielle's irrepressible ponies, under the
                     guidance of Tourbillon herself, are dashing away at a pace that terrifies our
                     sober Quaker neighbors beyond expression. Mamma has been solemnly warned
                     against allowing Gabrielle to drive "those fearful horses;" but we all share
                     our pretty Tourbillon's fondness for a tourbillon pace, and know well the strength she possesses in her
                     little wrists, and the coolness she could exercise were there any danger.
                  While returning from a charming drive upon the Sing Sing road, a day or two
                     since, the horses, whose spirits were unusually high, shied suddenly at
                     something dark by the roadside. By a dexterous management of the reins,
                     Gabrielle quickly subdued them, and we all looked to see what had startled
                     them. An object was crouching in the grass, evidently human, but of what sex or
                     nationality it was impossible in one swift glance to determine; and it was
                     quite amusing to hear our different opinions as we drove on.
                  "I think," said mamma, "that it was an enormous woman, with a baby in her arms,
                     but I really cannot be sure, for I only looked at the face—such a hideous,
                     repulsive face. I shall dream of it to-night, I am convinced."
                  "A woman!" said Marguerite. "My impression was of a very murderous-looking
                     man—an Indian, I thought, he was so very dark."
                  Gabrielle's view of the case differed from the others. The creature had, she
                     said, a heavy black beard, which was un-Indian-like, and was garbed in a dark
                     calico gown with open sleeves, through which she plainly perceived a pair of
                     unmistakably muscular, masculine arms. In the words of Macbeth— 
                        
                           "You should be woman,
                           And yet your beard forbids me to interpret
                           That you are so."
                        
                     
                  
                  Neither Marguerite nor Gabrielle had seen the baby, and Gabrielle's conclusion
                     that this frightful being was a convict who had escaped from Sing Sing
                     disguised as a woman, was quite logical.
                  "Chappaqua is certainly in unpleasant proximity to Sing Sing," I said with a
                     shudder, for I have not many elements of a heroine about me.
                  "Yes," was mamma's cheerful rejoinder, "and you know we were told yesterday that one or two of
                     the most dangerous convicts had recently escaped, and had entered several
                     houses in Chappaqua—to say nothing of Mr. O'Dwyer's report that that dreadful
                     Captain Jack has escaped, and is known to be lurking in the neighborhood of our
                     peaceful little village."
                  "Pray let us change the subject," I entreated, "or between convicts and Modocs
                     I shall have the nightmare for a month."
               
               
                  
                     June 9.
                  
                  We have just said good-by to Señor Delmonte, of Hayti, who has gone down on the
                     4.45 train, after passing, I hope, a pleasant day with us.
                  We have led such a quiet life since last fall, that a visit from a friend is a
                     very pleasant excitement, and with the assistance of our invaluable Minna and
                     Lina, there is nothing to be dreaded in the preparations. Then, too, it is so
                     pleasant to unpack the superb linen that Aunt Mary bought abroad—the heavy
                     damask table-cloths with their beautiful designs, and the immense dinner
                     napkins, protecting one's dress so admirably against possible accident—and to
                     take out the exquisite silver and Sèvres; everything is perfection, even to the
                     little gold, lily-shaped hand-bell. Afterwards we go to gather flowers in all
                     their morning freshness, and if it is ten o'clock, we walk down to the station
                     to meet the New York train.
                  Señor Delmonte is a very agreeable gentleman, and
                        THE RAIL-ROAD STATION. (See Page 32.)
                     
                      quite a favorite in New York circles. In
                     figure he rises far above ordinary humanity, six feet two inches being, I
                     believe, his exact height—and his very dark complexion and stately gravity
                     render him quite conspicuous in a drawing-room. He is reported extremely
                     wealthy.
                  Upon returning from a drive on the Pleasantville road with Señor Delmonte, Ida
                     ran down to the kitchen for a moment, to see if harmony reigned there (for Lina
                     and Minna are not, I regret to say, becoming warm friends; but more of that
                     to-morrow). Ida rarely troubles the cook with her presence, for Lina, like all
                        cordons bleus, is a great despot, and
                     impatient of surveillance; but as she can be
                     trusted to arrange an entire menu without any
                     hints from Ida, la Dame Châtelaine gladly leaves the responsibility to her.
                     What therefore was my surprise to see Ida return from her visit downstairs with
                     an unmistakable look of anxiety upon her pretty face, and beckon me out of the
                     music room where we were sitting.
                  "What do you think, Cecilia?" she announced, in despairing
                     accents. "Lina has made a soup of sour cream, which is now reposing in the
                     ice-box!"
                  "Of what?" I said, scarcely crediting her words, and running down
                     to the kitchen.
                  Lina's feelings were considerably ruffled that her young mistress did not
                     appreciate the soup, which she considered a triumph of art, and which consisted
                        of sour cream, spices, and a little
                     sugar—to be eaten, of course, cold.
                  "Nice soup," she said, in the most injured tones; "King of Sweden think
                     excellent, but Miss no like it."
                  It was, however, too late to make another soup, so we consoled ourselves with
                     the thought that a king approved of it, and we would show a plebeian taste if
                     we did not also appreciate it. However, some wry faces were made over the
                     unlucky soup at the table, and the King of Sweden's taste was the subject of
                     much merriment.
                  I was somewhat sceptical at first that Lina had ever been in the royal
                     household at Stockholm, notwithstanding that she did cook so admirably; but she
                     managed yesterday evening to tell me, in her broken English, about her
                     residence in the palace.
                  It seems that inexperienced cooks can, by paying a certain sum, be admitted
                     into the royal kitchen to learn from the chief cook. After they have perfected
                     themselves in their profession, they receive wages, and upon leaving, are
                     presented with a diploma. Why could not a somewhat similar institution—omitting
                     the sovereign—become practicable in our own country? Both housekeepers and
                     newspapers groan over the frightful cooking of our Bridgets; Professor Blot
                     lectures upon the kitchen scientifically and artistically considered, and our
                     fashionable ladies go to his classes to play at cooking; but the novelty soon
                     wears off, and home matters continue as badly as ever.
                  I do not know if the President would consent to imitate the Swedish sovereign,
                     by throwing open the kitchen of the White House in the same liberal fashion,
                     but surely he ought to be willing to make some sacrifices for the common
                     good—perhaps even to submit occasionally to a dinner spoilt by the experiments
                     of young apprentices to the culinary art. Three months' training ought to
                     suffice to make a very good cook, and with a diploma from the White House,
                     situations would be plentiful, wages higher than ever, and employers would have
                     the satisfaction of knowing that their money was not thrown away.
               
               
                  
                     June 11.
                  
                  We may pass some sad hours at Chappaqua this summer, but I do not think we
                     shall suffer from ennui—that is, if the
                     startling events of the past week are to be repeated often during the
                     summer.
                  I have already spoken of the escaped convict whom we saw in the grass the other
                     day. It is unnecessary to say that we carefully barricaded our doors that
                     night; for, in case of danger, our situation would not be a cheerful one—a
                     household of seven helpless women, save during papa's weekly visit, and
                     Bernard, our only protector, asleep in the side-hill house. Our precautions, however, were superfluous; the
                     convict did not favor us with a visit, but something far more thrilling than
                     the loss of the family silver was in store for us.
                  Dear Ida has received since last fall scores of letters from, I think, every
                     State in the Union, and even from Europe, from people of whom she had never
                     heard before, and upon all sorts of subjects. Some of her correspondents are
                     interested in her spiritual, others in her temporal, welfare; some advise
                     change of air as beneficial after her affliction, and alternately she is
                     offered a home in Colorado and Maine. But such letters form the exception;
                     usually the writer has a favor to request. The most modest of the petitions are
                     for Ida's autograph or photograph, while others request loans of different sums
                     from units to thousands. She is occasionally informed that the writer has a
                     baby named Ida Greeley, and it is intimated that a present from the godmother
                     would be acceptable. Again she is asked to assist in building a church, or to
                     clothe and educate some poor girl—her own cast-off wardrobe of colored clothes
                     will be accepted, the writer graciously says, although new dresses would be
                     preferable.
                  One letter dated Lebanon is chiefly upon the virtues of a lucky
                        stone, which the writer will as a great favor sell to Miss Greeley
                     for twenty-five dollars. All further misfortune will, she says, be averted from
                     Ida if she becomes its owner; the stone is especially recommended as beneficial
                     in love-affairs, and, the writer kindly adds, it is not to be taken
                     internally.
                  Another letter is from the mother of a young invalid girl, begging Miss
                     Greeley, whom she knows by report to be very wealthy and charitably inclined,
                     to make her daughter a present of a melodeon, as music, she thinks, might help
                     to pass away the tedious hours of illness.
                  Sometimes Ida is solicited to open a correspondence for the improvement of her
                     unknown friend, or to dispose of some one's literary wares, while offers of
                     marriage from her unseen admirers are of almost daily occurrence. I think I
                     would not exaggerate in saying she might reckon by the bushel these letters,
                     written generally in very questionable grammar, and worse chirography. In very
                     few instances has she ever replied to them, for they have been usually from
                     people possessing so little claim upon her, that the favors they so boldly
                     requested could only be viewed in the light of impertinence.
                  One letter, couched in somewhat enigmatical terms, was dated from Baltimore,
                     and was explicit upon one point only—that it was the manifest will of
                     Providence that Ida should marry him—S. M. Hudson. We read the letter together,
                     laughed a little over it, and threw it into the waste basket. Time passed, and
                     we came out here. Ida was greeted upon her arrival by another letter from the
                     mysterious Hudson, who, not at all
                     discomfited by the cool reception of his proposal, addressed her as his future
                     wife, and announced that he had come on from Baltimore to marry her, that he
                     was now in New York, and would wait there to hear from her.
                  "The man is certainly crazy!" exclaimed Marguerite.
                  "Indeed he is!" said mamma, reading his rambling sentences very slowly: "I
                     should judge him to be perfectly insane, and I only hope he will not come out
                     here to pay his fiancée a visit."
                  "You know he requests me to send him funds to defray his expenses, Aunt
                     Esther," said Ida quietly; "perhaps the lack of money will avert such a
                     calamity."
                  "What an unromantic conclusion to a love-letter!" said Gabrielle
                     scornfully.
                  The conversation turned to the depredations of the neighbors and neighbors'
                     children upon the property. "Mr. Greeley's place" had always been looked upon
                     in the light of public property, and intruders walked and drove through the
                     grounds quite as a matter of course, and helped themselves freely to whatever
                     they liked in the floral, fruit, or vegetable line. The young ladies, however,
                     decided that they had submitted to such conduct quite long enough, and we sent
                     to Sing Sing for some printed handbills warning trespassers off the place.
                  Two or three days passed, and we had entirely forgotten Ida's erratic admirer,
                     when Gabrielle returned from a morning walk with the information that an
                     intoxicated man was sitting upon the steps of the side-hill house. She met
                     mamma and Ida starting for a little stroll, and communicated this unpleasant
                     news to them. Mamma, however, is not timid, and she walked on with Ida,
                     determined to view the invader from afar, and then summon Bernard to dismiss
                     him.
                  A figure was sitting, as Gabrielle said, upon the piazza of the new house, but
                     was so motionless that Ida exclaimed laughingly:
                  "It is a scarecrow placed there by some one in retaliation for our notice to
                     trespassers to keep off the grounds."
                  As they passed it, however, the scarecrow slowly lifted its head and addressed
                     them with:
                  "Is this Mr. Greeley's place?"
                  "Yes," said mamma.
                  "And is this young lady Miss Ida?"
                  "Yes."
                  "You have received, I believe, a few letters from me, Miss Ida: my name is
                     Hudson."
                  Fortunately our family are not of a fainting disposition, for a tête-à-tête with a lunatic was a situation
                     requiring some nerve and perfect self-control; so, although mamma and Ida were
                     much alarmed upon learning the name of their visitor, they neither screamed nor fainted, and mamma invited him
                     quite courteously to walk up to the house.
                  Mr. Hudson was a tall, powerful man, with cunning, restless, gray eyes, was
                     well dressed, and wore a linen duster. He had come, he said, seven hundred
                     miles to see Ida. Upon reaching the house, he followed mamma into the
                     dining-room where Marguerite, Gabrielle, and I were sitting at work.
                  "Ah, Miss Gabrielle!" he said, "I supposed you were at school."
                  One or two other rational remarks of the sort, and mamma's perfect sang-froid so deceived me that I decided the
                     supposed lunatic must be perfectly sane. In a moment, however, he looked
                     somewhat uneasy, and said:
                  "I have a long story to tell your niece, ma'am, but I feel a little bashful
                     about speaking before so many young ladies."
                  "Would you like to see me alone, then?" said mamma promptly; "you would not
                     object to telling your story to a married woman."
                  Then signing to us to leave the room, she followed us to the door, and
                        breathing rather than whispering, "Run for Bernard,"
                     returned.
                  It appears that the man grew more excitable when alone with mamma, and the
                     story he told her was not a cheerful one to hear.
                  "It began," he said, "five years ago, by my father cutting his throat with a
                     razor. They say he was crazy, and," with a fiendish chuckle, "some people say I
                     am crazy too."
                  "Indeed!" said mamma, sympathetically, "how sad!"
                  "This we may call the first scene in the story," he added, although what
                     connection there was between suicide and his proposed marriage with Ida, poor
                     mamma could not imagine.
                  I could half fill my journal with the rambling, senseless, and menacing remarks
                     that Hudson made to mamma, adding emphasis to his discourse by whirling a pair
                     of very long and sharp scissors close to her eyes (he was further armed with
                     two razors, we subsequently learnt). Ida, he said, first appeared to him in a
                     vision—a beautiful young girl in distress, who appealed to him for aid, but
                     some one seemed to stand between them—a tall woman dressed as a Sister of
                     Charity (evidently mamma, in her mourning dress and long crape veil). He then
                     enlarged upon the awful punishment that inevitably overtook those who opposed
                     the Will of Providence (i.e., his marriage with Ida): death by some violent
                     means being unavoidable. At this point, the scissors were whirled more
                     excitedly than ever, and Hudson's eyes glared with rage. I need not say that
                     mamma feared every moment would be her last; but still preserving a calm
                     exterior, she never took her eyes off him for an instant, and merely remarking, "It is quite
                     warm here; shall we not sit upon the piazza?" accompanied him there, and sat
                     down close beside him, that he might not suspect she feared him. The moments
                     seemed endless until Bernard's heavy tread was heard upon the kitchen
                     stairs.
                  "Excuse me a moment," said mamma, with a most innocent face; and in an
                     interview of half a minute, explained to Bernard that Hudson was a
                     dangerous lunatic who must be taken away immediately; then waiting till the
                     valorous Bernard was safely out on the piazza, she unceremoniously shut and
                     locked the door. Hudson, apparently much surprised at such inhospitable
                     conduct, pulled the door-bell half a dozen times. When he was quite wearied
                     with his exertions, Bernard suggested that they should take a little walk
                     together. Much coaxing was requisite, for Hudson was quite determined to effect
                     an entrance; but finally Bernard took his arm, and bore him off to the
                     tavern.
                  "I had much more to say to Mrs. Cleveland," he remarked, en route, "but I fear it has already been too much
                     for her nerves."
                  At the tavern, Bernard found a constable, who immediately arrested the unhappy
                     victim of misplaced affection, and telegraphed to Mount Kisco for a magistrate.
                     Then ensued endless hours of waiting. Mamma lay upon the sofa whiter than any
                     ghost, now that the strain upon her nerves was relaxed, and Mrs. L——, a
                     loquacious neighbor, ran in from time to time with reports of what people were
                     saying, and how the prisoner looked and felt.
                  At 7 P.M. the magistrate, Mr. Clarence Hyatt, arrived, and we all went down to
                     the improvised court-house in the tavern. Ida and mamma were shown into a
                     private room, where Mr. Hyatt, a very polite and agreeable gentleman, took
                     their affidavits before they were confronted with the enemy. The news had by
                     this time spread far and near, and all Chappaqua was assembled. The wildest
                     reports were now circulated, to the effect that Hudson had pointed a pistol at
                     Ida, and vowed to kill her instantly if she did not promise to marry him, and
                     mamma and Ida were advised to keep their veils down, that he might not become
                     familiar with their faces, and to remain at a respectful distance from him.
                  Hudson was sitting between two constables, and was being inspected by a large
                     crowd. He looked very quiet, and upon listening to the affidavits, remarked
                     that Mr. Hyatt must have misunderstood the ladies, for he was perfectly
                     incapable of having alarmed them to the extent indicated; that he certainly
                     admired Miss Ida, and desired to marry her, but that he would not willingly
                     injure or alarm the humblest creature—adding reproachfully that those
                     affidavits would suffice to condemn him to State prison for life. He appeared so perfectly rational and
                     calm, that the magistrate was perfectly dumbfoundered, and for the moment
                     thought him sane; and even we commenced to reproach ourselves, and doubt which
                     was the insane party.
                  "Well," said Mr. Hyatt, "I will now hear your story."
                  "I will read it to you," said Hudson, drawing a book from his pocket, and then
                     commenced again the same incoherent nonsense with which he had already favored
                     mamma. The object now was to show the chain of evidence that pointed out Ida as
                     his bride. The most important link was the fact that he had once seen a flock
                     of white geese sailing through the air. He put up his finger, and one fluttered
                     down to him; and as G stood both for goose and Greeley, it was a clear
                     manifestation of the Divine Will (at this point, the audience burst into a roar
                     of laughter). Besides, he liked our family, we suited him in every respect; and
                     especially because we so much reminded him of John the Baptist (we inwardly
                     hoped that the resemblance would not extend to decapitation). If Miss Greeley
                     would not marry him, he kindly added, he would take her cousin Marguerite
                     instead, but he must positively marry one of the family. He was now perfectly
                     wild, and when he remarked, with a reproachful glance at Ida, that he disliked
                        ko-kwettes, and liked a girl who would say in answer to an
                     offer, "Yes sir-ee," or "No sir-ee," the magistrate brought the evidence to a
                     conclusion. He gave him to the constable to be taken to the county jail, where
                     he was to be detained until the Court sat, if, in the meantime, his relatives
                     did not appear from Massachusetts to claim him (for his place of residence
                     varied—at first Baltimore, then Michigan, it was now Massachusetts).
                  Hudson spent the night at the tavern, and appeared at times so rational, that
                     he was not strictly guarded; consequently, when the constable looked for him
                     after breakfast, the bird had flown. He was instantly followed, and discovered
                     walking on the railway track about two miles off, swinging his little bundle
                     quite unconcernedly. In reply to the questions of his captors, he said that he
                     had just intended to make a little circuit about the country, and then return
                     to marry Ida. He is now, thank fortune, safely lodged in jail.
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               
                  A Visit from Papa—A Musical Squirrel—Letters—Croquet—Extracts from
                     Letters—Visitors—The Loss of the Missouri—The True Story of Ida's
                     Engagement.
               
               
                  
                     June 13.
                  
                  PAPA came up late last night with a supply of the latest periodicals, weekly
                     journals, etc., and my pet squirrels in a new and spacious cage. These little
                     creatures were presents to me this spring, and are very pretty, and partially
                     tame. I remember, however, one escapade of theirs shortly before we left the
                     city.
                  My balcony at home is enclosed with glass, and there I frequently allowed the
                     squirrels to play. A game of cache-cache, of
                     half an hour or so, was generally necessary before I could induce Fliegende
                     Holländer, the livelier of the pair, to return to the narrow limits of his
                     cage. One day, however, through some carelessness, the door from the balcony
                     into my room was left open, and the squirrels were missing. Senta (christened
                     after the heroine of Wagner's clever opera) was captured after some little
                     difficulty, but not the Dutchman. Being a flying squirrel, he was so very tiny
                     that he could easily conceal himself in a dark corner, and although I descended
                     upon my knees to peer under my sofa, bureau, writing-table, and chiffonnière, my search was fruitless—the Flying
                     Dutchman had evidently vanished to join the Phantom Ship. I felt very uneasy,
                     fearing he might fall a prey to my two cats, who would no doubt find cold
                     squirrel a very tempting entremet; or if he
                     escaped this Scylla, the Charybdis of death by starvation lay before him. The
                     hours passed, and Fliegende Holländer did not appear. Senta was cheerful, and
                     reigned mistress of the revolving wheel—always the bone of contention between
                     the pair. Once, during the afternoon, I fancied I heard a scratching as if of
                     tiny claws, but could not obtain even a glimpse of his vanishing, fan-shaped
                     tail.
                  In the evening two or three gentlemen were present, and Marguerite sang for
                     them. After the song (Gounod's "Naïade," a lovely salon piece), we were speaking of the loss of dear little
                     Holländer, when one of our friends exclaimed:
                  "Why, that squirrel was perched over the register while Miss Cleveland was
                     singing, but he was so quiet that I thought he was stuffed."
                  "He evidently is fond of music," said another; "pray sing something more, Miss
                     Cleveland, and perhaps he may again come out."
                  He had travelled down from the third story to the parlor through the flue (fortunately there was
                     no fire), and was now commencing to desire society and food again.
                  "Since he is fond of music," said Marguerite, "I will sing the ballad of the
                     Flying Dutchman from Wagner's opera—that ought certainly to draw him out
                     again."
                  A music-loving squirrel evidently, and one versed in the art; for with the
                     first strains of those curious harmonies and chromatic runs, descriptive of the
                     howling winds that herald the coming of the Phantom Ship, Holländer's tiny head
                     peered out, followed, after a furtive glance about, by his little body. Two
                     gentlemen started to capture him, and then a chase ensued. Holländer tried to
                     scamper up a picture, but tripped upon its glass, and fell. At last, the
                     Colonel captured him in an attempt to scale the curtains, and after much
                     struggling, kicking, biting, and other vigorous protestations from Holländer,
                     landed him safely in his cage.
                  The squirrels evidently enjoy country life very much. Early this morning Minna
                     took them out of doors, and removed the bottom of the cage that they might play
                     upon the grass, which so much exhilarated them that I am convinced they fancied
                     they were entirely free. Then I removed the hot cotton from their little nest,
                     and filled it with fresh clover-leaves, which I am sure they much prefer. They
                     run no risk of being devoured here, for Aunt Mary always disliked cats, so that
                     there is not one upon the place, and Gabrielle's pet dog, a native of Bordeaux,
                     has viewed them from afar, and snuffed at the cage, but is evidently too
                     well-bred a Frenchman to desire even to tease them.
               
               
                  
                     June 14.
                  
                  A letter to-day from one of my Paris friends, Jennie Ford. She says:
                  "How divine it must be at Chappaqua! I am glad you are enjoying yourself, and
                     are well. But you do not say a word of your Western trip. I hope you have not
                     given it up."
                  Then follows a cordial invitation for me to visit her in her beautiful home
                     upon Lake Erie, now looking its prettiest in the leafy month of June. All sorts
                     of pleasant inducements are held out: a croquetlawn of velvet softness, long
                     drives, and charming rides in which to display my stylish new beaver and habit,
                     moonlight excursions upon Lake Erie, and no lack of handsome cavaliers,
                     including naval officers. However, despite all these attractions, I do not
                     think I shall care to leave Chappaqua this summer.
                  Jennie enclosed a photograph of the lady who reigned as belle of the American
                     colony in Paris, some four or five years ago—Mrs. Horace Jenness, then Miss
                     Carrie Deming. Three years of married life have changed the beautiful Carrie
                     somewhat, if this picture is a
                     truthful one. The perfect outline of her face is unaltered, but the haughty
                     expression that "La Princesse" wore in former days has vanished, and the fond
                     young mother, grouped with her two little children is prettier than ever.
               
               
                  
                     June 15.
                  
                  I feel singularly indolent, and indisposed to journalize this evening. Perhaps
                     it is the result of two hours spent in croquet, a game in which I am very
                     unproficient and therefore find decidedly wearisome; but Gabrielle, who is the
                     best croquet player in Chappaqua, is in the city to-day, and my feeble
                     assistance was necessary to make up the quartette.
                  Two entire hours spent in this game seem quite an unwarrantable loss of time,
                     but we have had a guest from New York to-day, and therefore both Plato and
                     Kohlrausch have remained under lock and key in the library.
                  I think no one enjoys the country more thoroughly than a physician when he can
                     escape from his patients for a holiday, and Dr. Howe, our visitor of to-day,
                     was not an exception. This gentleman is, I fancy, quite young in his
                     profession, for his figure is of almost boyish slenderness; his face, too,
                     which reminds one somewhat of Shelley in its delicacy and brightness, and its
                     dark eyes and luxuriant curls, is quite youthful for a fully fledged M.D.
                  Dr. Howe returned from Europe some months since, and brought us a letter of
                     introduction from a friend of mamma's in Florence; but owing to mamma's long
                     illness and the seclusion in which we lived last winter, we have not seen him
                     many times.
                  I have in my lap a number of letters received in this evening's mail. One is
                     from my dear friend, Mrs. Knox, the charming contralto of Christ Church. We had
                     expected her to visit us this week, but her unexpected departure for the West
                     has prevented her from doing so. She says:
                  "You must truly be enjoying Chappaqua these heavenly June days. I hope that the
                     fresh air and rest are putting roses into your pale cheeks and giving you
                     health and strength for your literary labors. My sudden departure compels me to
                     forego the pleasure I had anticipated in seeing you at Chappaqua—at least until
                     the fall. I am appreciative of the courtesy of your dear mamma in inviting me
                     to spend a day in that lovely retreat, already made sacred to me by my high
                     regard and admiration for your most noble uncle, whose home it was."
                  Another letter is written upon most dainty stationery, bearing the impress of
                     Tiffany, and adorned with a prettily devised monogram in lavender and gold
                     (handsome stationery is one of my weaknesses). This letter I know to be
                     sprightly and amusing before I open it, for my friend Lela has been for two or
                        three years one or my most
                     entertaining correspondents. We were intimate friends in Paris three or four
                     years ago, when Lela was a school-girl, and I an enfant
                        de Marie, and although we have been separated by hundreds of
                     miles, by the ocean, and finally, by Lela's marriage, our attachment continues;
                     so, no reproaches upon school-girl friendships, I beg.
                  Lela was married last winter, but she and her handsome French husband are yet
                     in the honeymoon, which will last, I fancy, forever—certainly the former Queen
                     of Hearts seems now to care for only one heart. She says:
                  "You must be having a lovely time in such a charming place. We have been to
                     Saratoga. It was stupid enough to send your worst enemy there."
               
               
                  
                     June 17.
                  
                  This week has been quite lost, so far as study is concerned, for nearly every
                     day has been interrupted by visitors.
                  Looking out of the window this morning, I saw a carriage containing two strange
                     young ladies stop before the house. In answer to their inquiry for Miss Greeley
                     and Miss Gabrielle, Minna informed them, in her broken English, that they were
                     both in the city for the day. They looked quite aghast upon receiving this
                     information, for they had already dismissed their carriage, in which they had
                     driven from Pleasantville, and knew probably that there was no down train till
                     4.45, so quite helplessly they inquired if no members of the
                     family were at home. Learning that Mrs. Cleveland and her daughters were here,
                     one of the young ladies, a stylish girl in mourning, desired Minna to announce
                     Miss Hempstead and her cousin. I puzzled a little over the name while glancing
                     in the mirror to see that my crape ruffle was properly adjusted, and my hair in
                     tolerable order. The name seemed familiar, and yet I knew that no friend of
                     mine bore it.
                  I found the young ladies in the music room. Miss Hempstead introduced herself
                     by saying:
                  "Perhaps you may have heard my name, although you do not know me. My brother
                     was a friend of Mrs. and Miss Greeley, and was purser of the Missouri."
                  I was then somewhat surprised that I had not divined Miss Hempstead's identity
                     from the name and her black dress; but the burning of the Missouri made scarce any impression upon me at the time, surrounded as I was
                     last fall by such heavy family afflictions; and the name of the young purser,
                     whose tragic fate then filled the newspapers, had since then almost entirely
                     passed from my memory.
                  An ordinary passenger ship is wrecked or burned, "Extras" are issued, a three
                     days' excitement follows, and it is then a thing of the past; but as the Missouri bore, on this
                     memorable voyage, not indeed Cæsar and his fortunes, but the supposed fiancé of dear Ida, its loss is an event still
                     interesting to the gossiping public. It was useless to try to convince any one
                     that no engagement had ever existed between Mr. Hempstead and Ida: no one would
                     credit my most solemn protestations. Many people not personally acquainted with
                     us, but who knew the facts "upon the best authority," as outsiders usually do,
                     said that the marriage was to have taken place before the election, but after
                     Aunt Mary's death it was postponed for three months. Before two weeks had
                     elapsed, however, Mr. Hempstead was, in the poetic language of the journals,
                     "sleeping beneath the coral wave," and poor Ida received as many well-meant
                     condolences over his death as over Aunt Mary's.
                  When the tragedy of last autumn was all over, the interest of the public was
                     greater than ever, and Ida, "who had within four short weeks lost mother,
                     lover, and father," formed the subject of many a pathetic editorial and sermon.
                     A London journal styled Ida the "maiden widow," spoke of uncle's fond
                     attachment to Mr. Hempstead, and announced that the loss of his prospective
                     son-in-law was an affliction that precipitated Mr. Greeley's death.
                  I first heard of Mr. Hempstead in the winter of 1869-70. Aunt Mary, who was
                     then commencing to fail, went with Ida to Nassau to spend the cold months. Her
                     state-room, engaged at the last moment, was a very uncomfortable one, and Mr.
                     Hempstead, then purser of the Eagle, gave up for her use a large
                     deck state-room with three windows—a great comfort to Aunt Mary, who was always
                     so partial to an airy bedroom. The voyage proved, however, a very stormy one,
                     and the waves dashed in through these three windows, quite drenching poor Ida,
                     who suffered so much from sea-sickness as to be quite indifferent to danger or
                     discomfort.
                  In writing to me after reaching Nassau, Ida mentioned Mr. Hempstead in a few
                     words:
                  "The purser was an agreeable and gentlemanly officer, and so kind to
                     mamma."
                  She did not, however, mention his name, and I never knew it till last
                     summer.
                  After their return to New York, in the spring of 1870, Aunt Mary invited Mr.
                     Hempstead to visit them at Chappaqua, as she felt under some obligations to him
                     for having given her his state-room, and subsequently executed some little
                     commissions for her, between New York and Nassau. He came out here, and made a
                     visit of a week. In July of the same year, Aunt Mary and Ida went abroad, and
                     from that time the acquaintance dropped. That he admired Ida I know, but how
                     any one could manufacture an engagement from such slight material, I cannot
                     imagine.
                  One day last summer, during the excitement of the campaign, I had taken up a rose-tinted society
                     journal as a little respite from politics, when my eyes fell upon a paragraph
                     announcing Ida's engagement to Mr. William Hempstead, Purser of the Missouri; and then I for the first time learnt the officer's name.
                     My astonishment can be imagined; and to this day it remains an enigma who
                     invented that little society item. If a fertile-minded reporter had desired to
                     head his column of Engagements in High Life with Ida's name, and had announced
                     that she would shortly be led to the hymeneal altar (I believe that is the
                     correct phrase in newspaper parlance) by any one in our circle of acquaintances
                     with whom she was at all intimate, it would not have been surprising; but why a
                     person whom she had not seen or heard of for two years should have been
                     selected, is a mystery worthy of G. P. R. James.
                  But in writing about Mr. Hempstead, I have neglected his sister. Miss Hempstead
                     was a tall, fine-looking young girl, with, however, a strikingly foreign
                     appearance for an American pur sang. She was
                     born, she told me, in Belize, Central America, where her father was United
                     States Consul. A tropical sun had given her a complexion of Spanish darkness,
                     heightened by large black eyes and jet black hair—the exact counterpart, Ida
                     afterwards told me, of her brother, who was often mistaken for a Cuban.
                  When the period of the consulate of Mr. Hempstead
                        THE CHILDREN'S PLAY HOUSE. (See page 62.)
                     
                      stead père was over, he had become so
                     much attached to Belize, that he decided to make it his future residence. His
                     daughter said she could not imagine what he found to like in the place, for
                     between earthquakes and yellow fever, one was in a continual state of terror;
                     there was no society, the population being almost entirely negro, and no
                     schools; consequently the children of the few white resident families were
                     obliged to go to England or to the United States to be educated.
                  Miss Hempstead was sent to London, and five or six years of the discipline of a
                     first-class English school have made her quite different from the fully fledged
                     society queens who graduate from our Murray Hill pensionnats at sixteen or so. A little English reserve to tone
                     down somewhat their sparkling natures is all that our bewitching American girls
                     need to make them perfect, but I fear they will for several years yet bear the
                     stigma of, "Charming, but too wild."
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               
                  Sunday in the Country—Proximity of a Meeting-house—How we pass our Sundays—The
                     House in the Woods—Ida's Glen—Mrs. Greeley's Favorite Spring—The Children's
                     Play-house—Gabrielle's Pets—Travelling in 1836—New York Society—Mr. Greeley's
                     Friday Evenings—Mrs. Greeley as a Bride—Her Accomplishments—A Letter concerning
                     Mr. Greeley's Wedding.
               
               
                  June 16.
               
               SUNDAY is, I think, a very triste day in the
                  country (low be it spoken). I cannot remain longer than an hour at church, for the
                  Mass is a low one, and the sermon consists of fifteen minutes of plain, practical
                  instruction, unembellished by rhetoric, to the congregation. The church, it is
                  true, is four miles distant, but Gabrielle's aristocratic ponies, Lady Alice and
                  The Duchess, fairly fly over the ground—up or down hill, it is immaterial to
                  them—and consequently, I find myself, when my religious duties are over, with many
                  idle hours upon my hands.
               The croquet balls and mallets, our "Magic Rings," and other out-of-door games, are
                  put away in the "children's play-house," a little white hut on the borders of the
                  croquet ground, where Ida and dear little Raffie used to keep their toys, and
                  where Gabrielle in later days housed her menagerie of pets.
               The piano, too, is not only closed, but locked, for the flesh is weak, and I fear
                  the temptation of the beautiful cold keys. It may be the baneful effect of a
                  foreign education, but I cannot see that there would be any evil result from a
                  little music on Sundays. However, we have a Dissenting church for a next-door
                  neighbor, and the residents of Chappaqua are chiefly Quakers, who frown upon the
                  piano as an ungodly instrument; so with a sigh, I replace in my portfolio that
                  grand hymn that in 1672 saved the life of the singer, Stradella, from the
                  assassin's knife, and a beautiful Ave Maria, solemn and chaste in its style as
                  though written by St. Gregory himself, but composed and dedicated to me by mamma's
                  friend, Professor F. L. Ritter.
               My pretty bits of fancy work with their bright-colored silks, the tiny needle-book
                  worked while in Munich in an especially pretty stitch, and in the Bavarian
                  colors—blue and white—and my Bavarian thimble—silver and amethyst—are put away in
                  a bureau drawer, for although a Catholic, I do not imitate our Lutheran maid, who
                  spends her Sundays in sewing and knitting.
               Plato and Kohlrausch, our week-day sustenance, do not come certainly under the
                  head of Sunday reading, although I see
                  nothing objectionable in them; but after all, one requires, I think, a change of
                  literature on Sundays as well as a different dress, and an extra course at
                  dinner.
               "What shall we do?" says Gabrielle.
               We have each written a letter or two, for Sunday is, I am sure, every one's
                  letter-writing day, and now we put on our broad-brimmed garden hats, with their
                  graceful trimmings of gauze and crape, and stroll off to the spicy pine grove,
                  where we sit down on the dry spines, and Arthur repeats to us quaint bits from
                  some of the rare old books he read in the British Museum three years ago, or
                  entertains us with some of his own adventures when travelling on foot over
                  beautiful France and Italy, and "Merrie England."
               Ida and I, however, wandered away foom the others this morning, and strolled up to
                  the dear old house in the woods where she passed her childhood. This is, to my
                  mind, the sweetest and most picturesque spot upon the entire estate, and I do not
                  wonder that Aunt Mary, with her keen love for the beautiful in Nature, her
                  indifference to general society, and her devotion to her children, to study, and
                  to reflection, preferred the quiet seclusion of her home shut in by evergreens,
                  with the deep ravine, and the joyous little brook at her feet, to the most superb
                  mansion that graces our magnificent Hudson.
               One of the purest springs on the place is in the ravine, or "Ida's Glen," as uncle
                  christened it long ago. Here at the foot of the long wooden staircase is a basin
                  of natural rock, and flowing into it is the sweetest, coolest water in the world.
                  This water Aunt Mary always preferred to any other on the place—even to the spring
                  at the foot of the side-hill, so celebrated in the campaign times as the spot
                  where uncle and his visitors would stop to "take a drink," when returning from a
                  walk. Exquisite in her neatness, Aunt Mary would frequently order the basin of her
                  favorite spring to be well purified by a thorough scrubbing with brush and soap,
                  followed by a prolonged rinsing with water. During her illness last fall, she
                  frequently asked to have a pitcher of water brought from this spring, which she
                  always especially relished.
               That uncle shared his wife's partiality for this spring is evident by his
                  description of it in his "Recollections":
               "In the little dell or glen through which my brook emerges from the wood wherein
                  it has brawled down the hill, to dance across a gentle slope to the swamp below,
                  is the spring,—pure as crystal, never-failing, cold as you could wish
                  it for drink in the hottest day, and so thoroughly shaded and sheltered that, I am
                  confident, it was never warm, and never frozen over. Many springs upon my farm are
                  excellent, but this is peerless."
               The house in the woods was built by uncle to suit Aunt Mary's taste, and very comfortable and
                  complete it is. Uncle says of it:
               "It is not much—hastily erected, small, slight, and wooden, it has at length been
                  almost deserted for one recently purchased and refitted on the edge of the
                  village; but the cottage in the woods is still my home, where my
                  books remain, and where I mean to garner my treasures."
               The house consists of two stories with that most necessary addition to a country
                  house, a broad piazza. To the right stands a white cottage, built for the
                  servants. Almost in front of the house is a large boulder, moss-grown and
                  venerable. This, Aunt Mary would not have removed, for she loved Nature in its
                  wildest primeval beauty, and now the rock is associated with loving memories of
                  Raffie's little hands that once prepared fairy banquets upon it, with acorn-cups
                  for dishes; but now those baby hands have long since been folded quietly in the
                  grave.
               The little play-house, that has since been removed to the croquet-ground, once
                  stood not far from this rock, and has been used, as I said, by Gabrielle as a
                  menagerie for her pets. A strange assortment they often were for a little girl.
                  Inheriting her mother's exquisite tenderness of feeling towards helpless animals,
                  Gabrielle would splinter and bandage up the little legs of any baby robin or
                  sparrow that had met with an accident from trying its wings too early, would nurse
                  it till well, and then let it fly away. At one time she had in the play-house a
                  little regiment of twelve toads, a red squirrel, and a large turtle. Aunt Mary
                  never wished her to cage her pets, as she thought it cruel; consequently they had
                  the range of the playhouse, and Gabrielle fed them very conscientiously. She
                  ought, however, to have followed the example of St. Francis, who used to preach to
                  animals and insects when he had no human audience, and given her pets a daily
                  dissertation upon brotherly love and tolerance, for they did not, I regret to say,
                  live together in the Christian harmony that distinguished Barnum's Happy Family.
                  The result was, that one day when Gabrielle went to minister to their physical
                  wants, she found only a melancholy débris of
                  little legs. Her supposition was that the turtle had consumed the toads and then
                  died of dyspepsia, and that the squirrel had by some unknown means escaped from
                  the play-house, and returned to primeval liberty.
               Forgetting this sad experience, Gabrielle endeavored at another time to bring up a
                  snake and a toad in the way they should go (this time in an empty hen-coop); but
                  the snake certainly did depart from it, and astonished the family much by gliding
                  into the kitchen with the unhappy toad in his mouth. Poor Gabrielle's feelings can
                  be imagined. She endeavored courageously to wrest the toad from its enemy's jaws,
                     but all in vain; she was obliged to
                  see the hapless creature consumed by the snake.
               Mamma has often described Aunt Mary to me as she looked when she first met her.
                  The portrait mamma draws of her as a bride would scarcely be recognized by those
                  who only knew her after long years of weary illness had 
                     "Paled her glowing cheek."
                   I will give it in mamma's own words:
               "Immediately after your uncle's marriage, he sent for me to come from my parents'
                  quiet farm in Pennsylvania, to spend the winter in the city with himself and his
                  wife. A great event this was to me—far greater than your first visit to Europe,
                  for the journey occupied double the time that is now spent between New York and
                  Liverpool, and I was a young girl whose acquaintance with the world was confined
                  to the narrow limits of the little village of Clymer; I had never even been sent
                  away to boarding-school.
               "One bright September morning I started upon my eventful journey. Your uncle
                  Barnes drove me in a buggy to Buffalo, a distance of three days at that time. At
                  this city—the first large one that I had ever seen, my brother left me in charge
                  of a party going through, as he supposed, to New York. Then ensued two weeks upon
                  a canal boat; very slow travelling you children would consider it, accustomed as
                  you are to whirling over the country in an express train; but at my romantic age,
                  this dreamy, delicious style of boat travel was the perfection of happiness.
               "At Rochester my friends left me, first placing me under the care of the captain
                  of the canal-boat, who promised to put me upon the steamboat when we should reach
                  Albany.
               "The prospect of the day to be spent upon the Hudson possessed no charms for me,
                  but on the contrary, untold terror. I had never before seen a steamboat, but they
                  had been introduced upon Lake Erie, near enough to my home for me to hear, with
                  alarm, of all the accidents that had so far befallen them upon that very turbulent
                  sheet of water; consequently, I embarked upon the 'Washington,' in the full
                  conviction that I was about to meet with my doom.
               "All that day I sat motionless in a corner of the promenade deck, reading my
                  Bible. Perfectly oblivious alike to the magnificent scenery that I was passing,
                  and to the elegant toilettes such as my country-bred eyes had never before beheld,
                  by which I was surrounded; I neither spoke to nor looked at any one, nor dared to
                  leave my seat even to go to dinner; but endeavored to gain, from the sacred volume
                  in my hands, strength for the terrible fate that I was confident awaited me. I
                  have often since wondered what my fellow-travellers thought of the still, shy
                  little figure whose eyes were never once lifted from her Bible.
               
               "About four o'clock a terrible explosion was heard, the boat was thrown violently
                  upon her side, and a scene of confusion, shrieks, and fainting-fits then ensued. I
                  did not faint—I was much too alarmed for that; I merely turned very white, and
                  trembled from head to foot. The wheel-house had been blown away, I learnt before
                  long, but no one fortunately was injured, and after a delay of an hour or so the
                  boat was righted, and we proceeded upon our journey, at a snail's pace,
                  however.
               "Owing to the accident, we did not reach New York until ten o'clock. No one was at
                  the pier to meet me, for brother had supposed that I would arrive before sunset.
                  As I did not appear, however, he concluded that I had not left Albany at the time
                  appointed. But my adventures of the day were not yet over. I secured a cab, and
                  drove to the address he had given me, 123 Hudson Street, which in 1836 was by no
                  means the plebeian locality it is at present, but a fashionable street, devoted
                  exclusively to elegant residences. Upon inquiring for Mr. Greeley, my
                  consternation was great to learn that although he had looked at rooms in that
                  house, he had not engaged them, and the landlady had no idea of his address. I was
                  almost as timid about cabs as I had been about the steamboat; for I had heard
                  stories of young girls being robbed and murdered by New York cab-drivers, and here
                  I was, late at night, in all the whirl and excitement citement of the metropolis,
                  driving I knew not where, and entirely at the mercy of an assassin. However, my
                  modest trunk did not look very inviting, I suppose, for I reached The New
                     Yorker office—the only other address I knew in the city—without further
                  adventure, where I ascertained that brother was now living at 124 Greenwich
                  Street—a most beautiful situation close by the Battery—then the fashionable
                  promenade of New York. He had written to tell me of his change of residence, but
                  the letter failed to reach me.
               "It was half-past eleven when I finally reached my home. The large parlor was
                  ablaze with lights, and crowded with people; for it was Friday, the night that
                     The New Yorker went to press, and brother's reception evening. I
                  was trembling with fatigue and excitement, and very faint, for I had not eaten
                  since early in the morning; but all these emotions vanished when I was introduced
                  to my new sister. I had seen no pictures of her, and knew her only through
                  brother's description, and a few letters she had written me since her marriage,
                  and I was quite unprepared for the exquisite, fairy-like creature I now beheld. A
                  slight, girlish figure, rather petite in
                  stature, dressed in clouds of white muslin, cut low, and her neck and shoulders
                  covered by massive dark curls, from which gleamed out an Oriental-looking coiffure, composed of strands of large gold and
                     pearl beads. Her eyes were large,
                  dark, and pensive, and her rich brunette complexion was heightened by a flush, not
                  brilliant like Gabrielle's, but delicate as a rose-leaf. She appeared to me like a
                  being from another world."
               To continue mamma's reminiscences of uncle's first year of married life:
               "I found my sister-in-law's tastes," she said, "quite different from those of the
                  majority of young ladies. In literature her preference was for the solid and
                  philosophic, rather than the romantic class of reading; indeed, I may say that she
                  never read, she studied; going over a paragraph several times, until
                  she had fully comprehended its subtleties of thought, and stored them away in her
                  retentive memory for future use. During that year, I never knew her to read a work
                  of fiction; but philosophy or science formed her daily nourishment; whilst
                  brother, whenever he had a free evening, read aloud to Mary and I from Gibbon's
                  Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, sweetened now and then with a selection from
                  Lord Byron or Mrs. Hemans—the two poets that at that time he preferred.
               "But although your Aunt Mary had such severe literary tastes, she was by no means
                  gloomy in her disposition, as you might perhaps infer. Your uncle being at that
                  time editor of a weekly journal, he was comparatively a man of leisure, and he and
                  Mary went frequently to the theatre, and to hear lectures—a source of great
                  enjoyment to both of them. They also mingled considerably in general society, for
                  Mary was then very fond of dancing, although there was rarely or never any at her
                  Friday evenings, for literary people then, as now, eschewed the goddess
                  Terpsichore.
               "I told you that I arrived in New York upon brother's reception-night. Those
                  Friday evenings were a great source of pleasure to me, introducing me as they did
                  to the literary coterie of the metropolis. Nearly all the men and women of note at
                  that time met in our parlors on Greenwich Street, and many of them were regular or
                  occasional contributors to brother's journal. Among the names that I can recall,
                  were Gen. Morris, then editing the New York Mirror; the two Clark
                  brothers, editors of the Knickerbocker, one of whom, Willis Gaylord
                  Clark, was at that time writing his clever 'Ollapodiana;' Fitz-Greene Halleck, the
                  poet; George M. Snow, who later in life became financial editor of The
                     Tribune, and is now deceased; Professor A. C. Kendrick, of Hamilton
                  College, the translator of Schiller's 'Victor's Triumph,' which subsequently
                  appeared in The New Yorker, and which, you will remember, your
                  uncle has occasionally read for us at our own Tuesday evening receptions; Mrs. C.
                  M. Sawyer, the accomplished wife of brother's pastor, then making her débût in the literary world with poems and occasional
                     translations from the German;
                  Elizabeth Jessup Eames, who was writing stories and poems for The New
                     Yorker, under the signature of 'Stella;' Mrs. E. F. Ellet, in 1836 a
                  handsome young bride, who had come up from the South, and was contributing
                  translations from the French and German to the same journal; Anne Cora Lynch, now
                  Madame Botta; and many others.
               "I must not forget to mention Fisher, the sub-editor of The New
                     Yorker, and, in his own estimation, the most important person upon that
                  journal. He was what might be called a literary fop, and was much given to the
                  production of highly-wrought, Byronic poems and sketches. I remember hearing that
                  some one called one day at the office, and asked to see the editor. Fisher
                  immediately presented himself.
               "'What!' said the visitor, somewhat surprised, 'are you Mr. Greeley?'
               "'No,' said Fisher, running his fingers nonchalantly through his curls, 'I am not
                  Mr. Greeley, but,' drawing himself up, 'I am the editor of The New
                     Yorker. Mr. Greeley is only the printer.'
               "This incident having got out among brother's friends, it was considered so good a
                  joke that for years he was called in the office and by the literary fraternity,
                  'The Printer.'
               "The entertainment at these Friday evenings was mainly conversation, varied by the
                  occasional reading of a poem. Your Aunt Mary was much admired that winter, both
                  for her exquisite beauty and the charm of her winning, artless manners. As I said,
                  she was very fond of dancing; but brother never had time to accomplish himself in
                  the art. I remember, however, that at a Christmas party given by his partner, Mr.
                  Wilson, he was induced to dance a quadrille. His mathematical accuracy enabled him
                  to go through the figures perfectly, when he had once seen them danced; and he
                  enjoyed it so thoroughly, and wore such an air of unconscious happiness, that an
                  old Quaker lady (the mother-in-law of Mr. Wilson) who was looking on remarked to
                  me, 'I didn't think thee could find so beautiful a sight as thy brother's dancing
                  this side of heaven.'
               "I have described your Aunt Mary as beautiful, and perhaps you would infer that
                  she was also over-fond of dress. She was no devotee to fashion, and her toilet
                  was, even at that period, characterized by great simplicity, but was oted, at the
                  same time, for picturesqueness."
               Ida showed me, the other day, a very interesting letter written to her father by a
                  friend, Mr. Yancey, who was present at his marriage, and as it confirms what mamma
                  has said of Aunt Mary's beauty, I will make some extracts from it. Mr. Yancey was
                  the son-in-law of Squire Bragg, at whose house Aunt Mary resided while teaching
                  school in North Carolina.
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "GERMANTOWN, TENNESSEE, July 6, 1847.
                              "MR. GREELEY:
                           
                           "DEAR SIR:—Sitting to-night 'all solitary and alone,' my mind has
                              wandered back upon scenes that have past eleven years ago, though
                              vivid now even as yesterday. It was about that time that I saw you
                              first, and indeed saw you last.
                           "Little did I then dream that I beheld in that modest personage one
                              who is now acknowledged as the 'distinguished and accomplished Horace
                              Greeley.'
                           "You well remember your first visit to the South, I dare say. You
                              cannot have forgotten many incidents that occurred at a little village
                              of North Carolina, called Warrenton? No, there is one
                              circumstance I feel assured you never can forget while memory lasts,
                              and there are others to which I claim the right to call your
                              attention: for instance, do you remember your first meeting with a
                              certain Miss Cheney at the house of Squire Bragg, the father of Capt.
                              Bragg, who lately distinguished himself at Monterey and Buena Vista?
                              Do you now remember to whom you related the secret of your visit, who
                              procured the parson, and what persons accompanied you to church, and
                              then with your beautiful bride returned to breakfast? We saw you take
                              the solemn vows, we witnessed the plighted betrothal, and when you
                              bore away from us this prize, you also carried our best wishes that
                              you might be ever blessed, and she be made always happy. May it not
                              have been otherwise.
                           "I would, my dear sir, be pleased to hear from you, and to learn
                              something of the results and changes which time has brought about in
                              your own family.
                           "Be pleased to remember me to your sweet wife, and if there be any, or
                              many little G——s, my kind regards to them also.
                           
                              "Very respectfully,
                              "A. L. YANCEY."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               
                  Visitors—Our Neighbors—The Chappaqua Croquet Club—Gabrielle's Letter—A Riding
                     Party—Summer Heat—The Music-room—Friends from the City.
               
               
                  
                     June 18.
                  
                  WHILE out on the croquet ground this afternoon, a lady and gentleman alighted
                     from a carriage, and walked up to join us. They proved to be our friends, Mr.
                     and Mrs. Charles E. Wilbour, of New York, who had driven over from White Plains
                     to make us an afternoon call. Mrs. Wilbour is a charming, intellectual woman,
                     the president of Sorosis, and a friend of many years of both mamma and Aunt
                     Mary. In appearance she is tall, handsome, and queenly, dressing in perfect
                     taste, and a graceful hostess. Her pretty daughter Linny is a school friend of
                     Gabrielle's at St. Mary's.
                  Mr. and Mrs. Wilbour spend much time during the summer, driving about from one
                     town to another; certainly the most comfortable and agreeable mode of
                     travelling that one could adopt.
                  We have some agreeable neighbors here, who contribute somewhat to the general
                     entertainment. The aristocracy of Chappaqua are chiefly Quaker families who
                     have lived here since the days of the Indians, and who look down quite
                     doubtfully upon the New York families who come out here for the summer only,
                     and of whose ancestry they know nothing. The fathers and mothers wear the
                     Quaker dress, and use the "Friends" phraseology, which I think very pretty and
                     caressing, but the young people depart somewhat from the way of grace, in
                     speech, costume, and habits. The young girls wear whatever color of the rainbow
                     best suits their fresh complexions, are skilled in flirting, and with the
                     assistance of the young gentlemen, have organized a club for weekly croquet
                     parties and private theatricals at the residences of the different members,
                     whilst picnics and riding-parties to Croton and Rye Lakes, and other pretty
                     points of interest, are of frequent occurrence. But of the riding-parties
                     Gabrielle has just written a sprightly description to a school friend, and
                     before the letter goes to the post, I will transcribe it.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 CHAPPAQUA, June 18.
                              
                              "DEAR MOLLIE: I received your charming letter and photograph last
                                 week. Many thanks for both. You ask me how do I pass my time, and
                                 what is the latest excitement?
                              "Well, to begin with, you must know that we have just started a
                                 club in Chappaqua for mutual amusement, but as I have been
                                 indisposed for some time,
                                 I certainly have not yet derived much benefit from it, but spend
                                 most of my time reading.
                              "Last Saturday I was just longing for something to happen, and
                                 apostrophizing the world as a hollow sham, when Minna came up to
                                 say that we had all been invited to an equestrian party, to start
                                 after tea. You would have imagined I had been offered several
                                 kingdoms by my delight. I gave two or three screams of condensed
                                 joy, while dancing wildly around the room, much to Aunt Esther's
                                 surprise.
                              "But on second thoughts, what was I to do for a horse?
                                 My ponies had never been broken to the saddle, but having made up
                                 my mind to go, go I would, if I had to ride a wild buffalo; so I
                                 ordered Lady Alice around an hour before the time to start. When
                                 she arrived, the balcony was filled with a large and anxious
                                 audience, and rather than fail before so many, I was determined
                                 that either I should break the horse in, or she should break me. I
                                 sprang into the saddle, but before I could seat myself or put my
                                 foot in the stirrup, she jerked her head away from Bernard, and
                                 commenced a series of exciting manœuvres, rearing, plunging, and
                                 kicking. For about five minutes I defied all the laws of
                                 gravitation. But when the coachman tried to seize her bridle, she
                                 shied so suddenly that I was surprised to find myself on terra
                                 firma. I jumped up directly and assured every one that I had not
                                 hurt myself in the least, in fact had never felt better; but
                                 between you and me, I felt very like the dog that was tossed by the
                                 cow with the crumpled horn. I am afraid that by this time I had let
                                 my little angry passions rise—in other words, I was decidedly
                                 angry.
                              "I got on splendidly this time, and was quite ready to start with
                                 my cousins when the time came, although my Lady Alice evinced
                                 serious objections to the gate, and preferred ambling gently along
                                 sideways up the hill. After a while I intimated kindly with my whip
                                 a desire to gallop. I fear that, like some of our friends, she is
                                 hard to take a hint, for she progressed by the most wonderful
                                 plunges, garnished with little kicks; but I kept her head well up,
                                 and clawed out several handfuls of her mane. When we came to the
                                 rendezvous, my cavalier proposed running her for two or three miles
                                 to take down her spirits a little, after which she went
                                 beautifully, and I never enjoyed a ride so much before.
                              "We rode to Lake Wampus, and everything looked so lovely, for the
                                 full moon lighted it up like a mirror, and we had singing and
                                 thrilling ghost stories.
                              "Dear me, how awfully long this letter is! Be sure you answer it
                                 soon.
                              
                                 "Yours lovingly,
                                 "GABRIELLE."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     June 19.
                  
                  The heat and dust are becoming insufferable, for we have had no rain, save in very homœopathic
                     doses, during the three weeks that we have been here. The shrubs and bushes by
                     the roadside look so piteous under their weight of dust, that I feel half
                     inclined to try the effect of a feather brush upon their drooping leaves; and
                     Bernard, who is never prone to take cheerful views of anything, grows daily
                     more gloomy when we inquire after the progress of the kitchen-garden. But,
                     although we are sighing under the heat, it is nothing, we are told, to what the
                     New Yorkers are now enduring, and our friends, Mrs. Acheson and Dr. Taylor, who
                     came out yesterday from the city to spend the day with us, congratulated us
                     upon the coolness of the temperature at Chappaqua.
                  The morning was passed out of doors playing croquet and walking 
                        "Sotto i pini del boschetto,"
                      to use the words of the coquettish Countess and her arch waiting-maid in
                     the "Marriage of Figaro" (that Letter Duo contains, I think, some of the most
                     delicious music that the joyous Mozart ever wrote).
                  The sun was too hot after our early dinner, for us to find much pleasure in
                     croquet; so we sat in the music-room, and upon the piazza, and listened to a
                     few songs from Marguerite, and watched the skill of papa and the handsome blond
                     doctor in the "Magic Rings,"—a very easy game, to all appearance, but one which
                     really requires much dexterity of hand.
                  The music-room is, I think, the coolest and pleasantest room in the house. It
                     is one of the additions built by uncle after he had purchased this house—a
                     large, square room on the ground floor, with curtained windows opening upon the
                     balcony, and upon the old apple-tree. It is singularly favorable for music, for
                     it contains no heavy furniture, and the floor is uncarpeted. We had intended to
                     remove all the pictures from the walls, that they might not deaden the sound of
                     the music, but we could not resist an exquisite "Mary in the Desert," purchased
                     by uncle in Florence, in 1851; so this painting is now hung over the piano.
                  Our sprightly brunette friend with the merry black eyes, Mrs. Acheson, looked
                     unusually pretty and charming yesterday. I love to describe stylish toilettes
                     as well as any fashion-writer; so here is hers in all its details:
                     steel-colored silk trimmed with turquoise blue, demi-traine, her hair
                     beautifully dressed (or coiffured, to use the fashionable
                     newspaper word) in puffs and rolls, and finished with a little blue feather;
                     while an elegant fan attached to half a yard of gold chain depended from her
                     belt.
                  When the 4.45 train was at hand, Ida and I walked down to the station with our
                     friends. Quite luckily there was a drawing-room car attached to the train,
                     although such luxury is generally confined to the express, which does not stop
                     here. I learnt, however, from the
                     station-master, that this car had borne some happy pair as far as Albany the
                     day before, had stayed there over-night for repairs, and was now returning in a
                     leisurely manner to New York.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               
                  Midsummer Day—An Artist's Visit—Ida's Letter—Moonlight on Croton Lake—Morning
                     Readings—Plato and Kohlrausch.
               
               
                  
                     June 21.
                  
                  IN honor of Midsummer Day, Marguerite and I have spent the morning at the
                     piano, playing Mendelssohn's delicious fairy music from the Midsummer Night's
                     Dream.
                  We have had little time to practise or read this week, for company has been of
                     almost daily occurrence. Marguerite returned yesterday morning from a flying
                     visit to the city, accompanied by our friends, Colonel Rogers and Mr. Hows, the
                     artist, who is a neighbor of ours in our rural part of the city—Cottage Place.
                     Colonel Rogers was dressed entirely in gray, a costume that looked delightfully
                     cool, and was a perfect match for his eyes.
                  The morning was spent in playing croquet, and in showing our guests over the
                     place, whose wild beauty delighted Mr. Hows' artistic eyes. We walked first to
                     the flower-garden, where we gathered flowers to dress the table for dinner, and
                     then visited the pine grove, the romantic dell, and the stone barn of which uncle was always so proud, where we
                     spent an hour amid the sweet hay.
                  For the evening a drive was proposed, as we have now quite recovered from our
                     former dread of malaria. Ida held the ribbons on this occasion, and as I was
                     not one of the party, I will insert her graceful description of the pleasant
                     evening.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "CHAPPAQUA.
                              
                              "DEAR JULIA: I was so sorry to get your letter saying you could not
                                 come. I wish you had not let your tiresome old dressmaker deprive
                                 me of the pleasure of your company on our expedition to Croton
                                 Lake.
                              "I must tell you all about the delightful time we had. Two of the
                                 numerous friends of our blue-eyed Marguerite, Colonel Rogers and
                                 Mr. Hows, whose exquisite pictures you and I have so often enjoyed
                                 together, were our cavaliers on this occasion. As our light
                                 carriage only has room for four, I drove the ponies myself. We
                                 started just about sundown, and the pleasant coolness of evening
                                 came on while there was still daylight enough to light up the
                                 constantly changing panorama of hill and dale, and forest and
                                 distant river, beyond which the blue mountain range dimly seen, now
                                 seemed to emerge into bolder relief, and again to fade back into
                                 cloud-land.
                              "Mr. Hows' delight in the scenery was certainly equalled by mine in
                                 listening to its praises. I am very fond of this part of
                                 Westchester, and when people talk of the beauties of the
                                 Adirondacks, I listen with the silent conviction that we have
                                 everything here but the musquitoes and the bad cooking, with both
                                 of which I cheerfully dispense.
                              "But to return to our drive. The last mile the road ran through a
                                 dark forest, following the course of a stream called Roaring Brook,
                                 which generally makes good its title to the name, but now, owing to
                                 the recent drouth, was reduced to roaring as gently as Bottom's
                                 Lion promised to do. At last the lake was reached, and turning to
                                 the right, we were soon skimming along at a great pace on the wide
                                 boulevard that skirts the water as far along as Pine's Bridge.
                                 There we put up our ponies at a hotel with an impossible and
                                 unpronounceable Indian name, and accepted the Colonel's kind
                                 invitation for a row. We all regretted there was no moon, with as
                                 much self-reproach as if it had been accidentally left behind, but
                                 were glad enough to get into our little white boat, that looked
                                 quite silvery against the dark current.
                              "The gentlemen, who had been dying to hear Marguerite sing ever
                                 since coming out here, now suggested that her voice was all that
                                 was needed to make the hour perfect; so Marguerite, who is as sweet
                                 and unaffected about her singing as if she hadn't the most
                                 exquisite soprano ever heard off the stage, consented without any
                                 tiresome urging, and asked what it should be. We were evenly divided between
                                 'Robin Adair' and Mario's 'Good-bye, Sweetheart,' so our pretty
                                 songstress kindly gave us both.
                              "I cannot recall the delicious effect of her singing as we were
                                 drifting along in the sombre twilight, better than by quoting
                                 Buchanan Read's charming lines, which I dare say you have seen
                                 before: 
                                    
                                       "'I heed not if
                                       My rippling skiff
                                       Float swift or slow from cliff to cliff;
                                       With dreamful eyes
                                       My spirit lies
                                       Under the walls of Paradise.
                                    
                                    
                                       "'Under the walls
                                       Where swells and falls
                                       The bay's deep breast at intervals;
                                       At peace I lie,
                                       Blown softly by
                                       A cloud upon this liquid sky.
                                    
                                    
                                       "'No more, no more
                                       The worldly shore
                                       Upbraids me with its loud uproar:
                                       With dreamful eyes
                                       My spirit lies
                                       Under the walls of Paradise.'
                                    
                                 
                              
                              
                                 "I. L. G."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     June 24.
                  
                  The week commenced with a dash of rain, but this morning it was again as hot as
                     though no clouds had darkened the sky. Croquet was out of the question, and not
                     even for the sake of trying my new beaver and stylish habit, so becoming to a
                     slight figure, could I confront the dust and the sun's blazing rays upon
                     Nancy's back (for such is the unromantic name of the horse that oftenest has
                     the honor of bearing me when we ride). No one seemed inclined to drive, so Lady
                     Alice and the Duchess, that had been for some time impatiently stamping, and
                     arching their pretty necks, evidently impatient to be off, were sent back to
                     the stables, much amazed, I doubt not, at our capricious conduct; while
                     we—mamma, Marguerite, and I—sauntered up to the cool pine grove, accompanied by
                     Arthur, bearing a camp-chair for mamma, and a couple of wise-looking tomes, in
                     whose society we were to spend the morning.
                  But I have not yet introduced Arthur. He is neither brother, cousin, nor
                        fiancé, but bound to us by almost
                     brotherly ties, having been our playmate when we were little children; and
                     after the death of his parents (our eminent historian Richard Hildreth, and his
                     gifted artist wife), he became mamma's ward, and was our constant companion in
                     Italy and France. Arthur has come on from Cambridge, where he has just taken
                     his degree as a lawyer, to make us a visit of some weeks, and we have had much
                     pleasure talking over with him those poetic days that we passed together in
                     Florence and Venice.
                  
                  But our life is never made up of talking and dreaming, delightful
                     though it may be, and we have a certain amount of reading to do every day,
                     which we despatch as conscientiously as we do our prayers. There is no rule,
                     however, limiting the reading to any one person, and Arthur often relieves us
                     of that duty. I enjoy his reading very much, especially when one of Plato's
                     "Dialogues" is the lesson of the day, for into them he throws so much
                     enthusiasm and dramatic force, that they are quite a revelation to me. I was
                     amused this morning, upon turning over the leaves of my journal of last winter,
                     to find my first impressions of the "Dialogues" thus laconically expressed:
                  "I have to-day commenced to read Plato aloud. I cannot say that I find him very
                     refreshing as yet; still I try to admire him as much as I conscientiously
                     can."
                  I must confess that at first the abstruse subtleties of Socrates and his
                     brother logicians were too much for my little brain, but now that I am more
                     familiar with them, I quite delight in following their arguments. These
                     "Dialogues" remind me of a fugue in musical composition; only melody is wanting
                     to make the resemblance perfect, for here, as in the "Well-tempered
                     Harpsichord," one train of thought is taken up, viewed from every side and in
                     every light—that is to say, pursued through every possible key only to return
                     and end at the original starting-point.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               
                  Story-telling—Mr. Greeley's Father—His Personal Appearance—His Education—A Fine
                     Voice—Mr. Greeley's Mother—A Handsome Woman—How she is remembered in
                     Vermont—Field Labor—Bankruptcy—A Journey to Vermont—School Days—The Boy
                     Horace—How he entertained his Playmates—His First Ball—Separation from his
                     Family.
               
               
                  June 25.
               
               "WHAT a delightful evening for story-telling!" said Gabrielle, as she listened to
                  the heavy rain-drops falling upon the leaves of the old apple-tree; "will you not
                  give us one, Aunt Esther?"
               "Yes," said Ida and Marguerite, drawing their chairs closer to mamma's sofa. "Do
                  tell us about yourself when you were a young girl, and about grandpapa and
                  grandmamma!"
               "Ah," said mamma, with a sigh, "you children have never known my dear
                  parents!"
               Marguerite was the only one of the young quartette who remembered having seen
                  grandpapa, and her recollections of him were confused with memories of people in
                  Europe, where our childhood was spent.
               "How did he look when you were a little girl, mamma?" I inquired. "I think he is
                  quite imposing ing in your little picture
                  taken the year before he died, and he must have been very handsome when he was
                  young."
               "He was not only handsome: he was an unusual man," said mamma, decidedly. "No
                  biographer, in speaking of our family, has ever estimated him correctly, and even
                  dear brother himself does not give sufficient importance to father's fine
                  character and mental qualities; but you know that he left home when a boy of
                  fifteen, and after that time he only saw father at long intervals.
               "You remember, Cecilia, that all the foreign sketches you have ever read of
                  brother, announce that his parents were 'common peasants,' while many American
                  writers, although they do not use the word 'peasant,' convey a similar impression.
                  Father was by no means a common man, for to be 'common' one must be vulgar or
                  ignorant, and father was neither. He was not uneducated, although his schooling
                  was very slight; but he was a good reader, was very skilful in arithmetic, and
                  wrote an excellent hand—an accomplishment for which our family are not
                  celebrated—beside possessing a hoard of self-acquired information upon different
                  subjects. During the long winter evenings in our lonely Pennsylvania home, he
                  taught us younger children arithmetic, and was very fond of giving us long sums to
                  puzzle out. I have often heard him say to brother Barnes,
               "'You must store your mind with useful knowledge, that when you go out into the
                  world you will have something to talk about as well as other people.'
               "A poor farmer in those days did not have much opportunity to acquire
                  accomplishments, as you may well imagine; but father possessed one talent that, if
                  properly directed, might have made his fortune and ours. I have never yet heard a
                  natural voice that excelled your grandfather's; a high, clear, powerful tenor,
                  with unsurpassed strength of lungs, which, added to his handsome presence, would
                  have made him one of the finest singers that has yet trodden the boards. Of course
                  his voice was uncultivated, with the exception of the slight training of country
                  singing-classes, and the songs that he knew were simple ballads; but his memory
                  was very retentive, and his singing was in great demand when company was present.
                  At husking-parties and apple-bees, when supper was over and the young people
                  wished to dance, if no fiddler was present, father would be petitioned to sing. I
                  have often known him to sing country dances for hours, and he sung so heartily,
                  and marked the time so well, that the young people enjoyed the dancing as much as
                  if the music had been furnished by the most skilful violinist.
               "I told you that father was a handsome man. He had large blue eyes, soft, silky,
                  brown curls clustering around a magnificent brow, a set color in his cheeks, and a hand that the hardest field labor
                  could not deprive of its beauty—long, tapering fingers, and pointed nails, such as
                  novelists love to describe, but in real life are rarely seen outside of the most
                  aristocratic families. His teeth were small, white and even, and at the time of
                  his death, when eighty-seven years old, he had only lost one. His figure, though
                  less than six feet, gave the impression of a much taller man; for he was slenderly
                  built without being thin, and his carriage was almost military. To this fine
                  presence was added an air of dignity and almost hauteur, that was very unusual in a poor farmer. But father was
                  proud to an unparalleled degree. Indeed, it was his pride that caused him to
                  plunge into the wild forests of Pennsylvania. His haughty nature could not bear
                  the life of subordination that he led in Vermont, where he did not own an acre of
                  land, and was obliged to work under the orders of others, often far inferior to
                  him, and where he fancied the story of his flight from New Hampshire was known to
                  every one. Smarting with mortification, he toiled until he could save a few
                  hundred dollars to buy some acres in the wilderness, far from all his former
                  associates, and there he buried himself with my dear mother and their five little
                  children. But these morose feelings were somewhat subdued as the years rolled
                  on.
               "With his children he was affectionate, but, like an old-school father, very
                  distant. He never struck one of us in his life—a glance being sufficient to
                  enforce obedience, or subdue the wildest spirits. He was always as particular
                  about the etiquette of the table as though we were served by footmen in livery;
                  and in our poorest days, when cups and saucers were scant and spoons still more
                  so, we were obliged to observe the utmost decorum till we were helped; and any
                  laughing or chatter among the younger ones was immediately quelled by the emphatic
                  descent of father's fork upon the coverless table, with the words, 'Children,
                  silence!'
               "Father was highly respected by our neighbors in Pennsylvania, and was often urged
                  to accept some county office. However, he always declined."
               "Do you think, mamma," said Marguerite, "that grandmamma was as handsome as
                  grandpapa?"
               A pause of a moment or two.
               "They were very different," was her reply. "Mother had neither father's brilliant
                  face, nor his imposing presence, but she was a very handsome woman. She had soft
                  blue eyes, a perfectly straight nose, a mouth rather large, perhaps, for beauty,
                  but full of character, brown hair tinged with red, and a transparent, though not
                  pallid complexion. If you wish more minute details, look at your uncle's picture.
                  No man ever resembled a woman more strikingly than he did our dear mother."
               "In a recently published life of uncle," said I, "the author speaks of grandmamma as often working
                  in the fields, and describes her as large and muscular, and possessing the
                  strength of a man. Is not that an exaggeration?"
               "Mother was above medium height," was mamma's reply, "but her figure was slender,
                  with small and well-shaped hands and feet. It was her pride that water could flow
                  under the arch of her instep; and her fingers, notwithstanding the hard toil of
                  daily life, remained so flexible, that, when fifty years old, she could still bend
                  them backwards to form a drinking-cup."
               "Let me tell you, Aunt Esther," interposed Ida, "how grandmamma is remembered in
                  Vermont. When Gabrielle and I were quite small children, we went there on a visit,
                  and papa took us to see some old lady (whose name I have forgotten) residing in
                  Westhaven. This lady had known grandmamma very well, and, after contemplating
                  Gabrielle and I for some time, remarked curtly, 'Neither of you children are as
                  handsome as your grandmother was.'"
               This uncomplimentary remark caused us all to laugh heartily. Mamma then resumed
                  her story.
               "As for field labor, your grandmother may, while we were in New Hampshire, have
                  sometimes assisted father for a day or two, during the pressure of haying or
                  harvesting time; but never, since I was old enough to observe, can I recollect
                  seeing her work in the fields. Certainly mother was not a woman to hesitate to do
                  cheerfully whatever necessity required. But she had quite enough to occupy herself
                  at home with the entire duties of a house, with the spinning, weaving, and making
                  up of all the linen and woollen cloth that the household used; and the care and
                  early instruction of her little ones—for it was her pride that all of her children
                  learned to read before going to school. I remember that when I was first sent to
                  school, at the age of four, the teacher, with a glance at my tiny figure (for I
                  was a small, delicate child), called me up to read to her, and opened the book at
                  the alphabet. Deeply injured, I informed her that I knew my letters, and could
                  read over in 'An old man found a rude boy in one of his apple-trees,'—a fable that
                  all familiar with Webster's Spelling-book will remember.
               "My first distinct recollection of mother is in the dark days in New Hampshire.
                  Father, as you know, had lost everything that he possessed, and was obliged to fly
                  into the next State to escape imprisonment for debt. After he left, his furniture
                  was attached and sold. I remember seeing strange, rough men in the house, who
                  pulled open all the trunks and chests of drawers, and tossed about the beautiful
                  bed and table linen that mother had wrought before her marriage. Another picture,
                  too, is impressed indelibly upon my mind—how mother followed the sheriff and his
                  men about from room to room with the tears rolling down her face, while brother Horace, then a little
                  white-haired boy, nine years old, held her hand and tried to comfort her, telling
                  her not to cry—he would take care of her.
               "But mother, although humiliated and heart-sore at the poverty and disgrace that
                  lay before her so early in her married life, was not a woman to fold her hands and
                  think sadly of what 
                     "'—might have been.'
                   She wiped away her tears, and her busy fingers were soon preparing warm hoods
                  and dresses to protect her little ones from the bitter cold during the journey
                  that lay before us, for in the course of two or three months father had by hard
                  toil earned money sufficient to send for us. I remember very well that journey
                  over the mountains covered with snow into the State of Vermont, and our
                  establishment in what was called the 'small house by the ledge' in the little
                  neighborhood of houses clustering on and about the old Minot estate.
               "You children, accustomed as you have been from your infancy to the attractive
                  text-books of the present day, would quite scorn the system of instruction at the
                  school I attended in Westhaven. I went there three winters, but although I soon
                  rose to the first class in reading and spelling, in which branches I was unusually
                  precocious, my education was confined entirely to those two departments of
                  learning. Few text-books were then used in the school, for the parents of the
                  children were generally too poor to pay for many, and the musty old Grammar and
                  Arithmetic were kept in reserve for the older scholars. On account of my youth the
                  teacher did not advance me, and I went again and again through the old
                  Spelling-book, and learnt by heart what was called the 'fore part of the
                  book'—some dry rules of orthography, which never conveyed the slightest idea to my
                  mind, although I repeated them, parrot-like, without missing a word, and which the
                  teacher never thought of explaining to me. From the spelling-book I was in time
                  promoted to the New Testament (not as easy reading as might have been selected, by
                  the way) This was followed by the American Preceptor, and subsequently by Murray's
                  'English Reader,' a work reserved for the most advanced scholars.
               "My brothers did not go to school during the summer months, for their services
                  were then required to assist father in his work; and I, too, had to leave school
                  every day at eleven o'clock to carry their dinner to them at the place, a mile and
                  a half distant, where they were clearing a portion of the Minot estate.
               "When brother Horace was thirteen years old he was taken out of school, as the
                  teacher could instruct him no longer. I was kept at home also, and brother taught
                  me, giving me lessons in arithmetic and penmanship, which studies had been
                  prohibited me at school. Here commenced a
                  most tender attachment and sympathy between brother and I. As there were two
                  children—Barnes and sister Arminda—between us, our difference of years had
                  hitherto kept us somewhat apart; but after brother had been for several months my
                  instructor, we were from that time the nearest in heart in our large
                  household.
               "I think that mother must have entirely regained her spirits during the four years
                  that we lived in Vermont, for I remember that men, women, and children alike
                  delighted in her society, and our house was the centre of the little neighborhood.
                  We resided very near the school-house, and rarely did a morning pass without a
                  visit from some of the girls, to have a few words of greeting from mother on their
                  way to their lessons. When recess time came, they would arrive in numbers to spend
                  the time with her, and beg for a song or a story from the inexhaustible supply
                  with which her memory was stored, and there they would remain, fascinated by her
                  sweet, low voice until she would be obliged to playfully chase them out of the
                  house to compel them to return to school. From the teacher, for tardiness,
                  punishment was a very frequent occurrence, but it made slight impression upon the
                  girls in comparison with the enjoyment of listening to one of mother's thrilling
                  or romantic stories, for the following day they would return to our house to again
                  risk the penalty.
               "I told you that brother taught me after we were taken out of school. He was the
                  gentlest and kindest of instructors, and was always ready to lay down his own book
                  to help me out of any difficulty that my lesson presented, although it was by no
                  means easy to make him close his book under other circumstances, such as the
                  solicitations of his young friends to join them in a game.
               "I have described father to you as a stern man in his every-day intercourse with
                  us, but although his motto was 'Work,' he was always willing to grant us a holiday
                  or a play-hour, when he thought we had earned it. He would relax his dignity, too,
                  somewhat when young people came to pass the evening with us; would encourage us to
                  play games and dance, and would often join us; for, although he never played cards
                  himself, nor would he allow them to be played in his house, he himself taught us
                  how to dance.
               "When our young friends came to see us, there was much rejoicing from brother
                  Barnes, who was full of life and spirits, and always ready to play, and from
                  Arminda and myself; but brother Horace, not at all allured by blind-man's-buff or
                  a dance, would retire to a corner with a pine knot (for in those days candles were
                  few), preferring the companionship of his book to our merry games. Coaxing was all
                  in vain: the only means of inducing him to join us was to snatch away his book and
                  hide it; but even then he preferred to
                  gather us quietly about him and tell us stories. I remember that before he left
                  home he had related to us, among other things, the thousand and one stories of the
                  'Arabian Nights,' and 'Robinson Crusoe.' This gift of story-telling he inherited
                  from mother, whose talent in that line certainly equalled that of the beautiful
                  Sultana Scheherazade herself. At this time, although I had never seen a copy of
                  Shakespeare, I was familiar with the names and plots of all his imaginative, and
                  many of his historical plays, which mother would relate to us in her own words,
                  embellished now and then with bits of the original verse, as she sat at her
                  spinning-wheel, or busied herself about the household work.
               "It was, I think, at this same time—our last year in Vermont—that a large ball,
                  for young people only, was given in our neighborhood. Much speculation was excited
                  among our young friends as to whether Horace would dance at this ball, and
                  especially if he would fetch a partner with him. It was the general opinion that
                  he would not, as he did not bear a high reputation for gallantry. Great, then, was
                  the astonishment of all present when Horace entered the ball-room with Anne Bush,
                  the prettiest girl in the neighborhood, upon his arm. He opened the ball with her,
                  and his deportment quite silenced those who had questioned his appearance.
               "Before long, preparations for another journey were in progress. Father had earned
                  money sufficient to buy some land, and I heard that we were going to Pennsylvania.
                  I was, however, too young to be much impressed by this news, and it was not until
                  I saw mother once more in tears that its importance was apparent to me. This time
                  mother wept as bitterly as before, for not only was she to be separated by a
                  greater distance from her family in New Hampshire, to whom she was fondly
                  attached, and from the pleasant circle of friends she had made in Westhaven, but
                  her darling among us children, her beautiful eldest boy, of whom she was so proud,
                  was to be left in Vermont."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               
                  A Picnic at Croton Dam—The Waterworks—A Game of Twenty Questions—Gabrielle as a
                     Logician—Evangeline's Betrothal—Marguerite's Letter—Description of
                     Chappaua—Visitors—Edmonia Lewis.
               
               
                  
                     June 26.
                  
                  GABRIELLE and I have just returned from spending the day at Croton Dam. A large
                     party from the prominent families of Chappaqua was organized by Miss Murray,
                     the pretty daughter of one of our neighbors, and at nine o'clock a number of
                     carriages, packed to overflowing with young people and lunch-baskets, and led
                     off by a four-horse wagon, started caravan-wise from the place of rendezvous,
                     Mr. Murray's elegant grounds.
                  The drive was a very pretty one, skirting for some distance the beautiful
                     little lake that supplies the great thirsty city of New York; and the spot
                     chosen for the picnic—shady, terrace-like heights, with a gradual slope to meet
                     the water, and a rough bench here and there—was declared the most suitable
                     place in the world to lay the cloth. One or two members of the party remained
                     behind to unload the carriages, count the broken dishes, and estimate the
                     proportion of contribution tributions—many people fetching salt in abundance
                     but forgetting sugar, whilst others furnished elaborately frosted cakes, but
                     omitted such necessaries as knives and forks. Meantime, we climbed the stone
                     steps leading to the waterworks, and after a glimpse of the seething dark-green
                     water through the heavy iron grating, we hunted up the overseer and asked him
                     to unlock the doors for us, that we might have a nearer view. He assented, and
                     admitted us very obligingly, giving us meantime a graphic description of the
                     yearly journey of the Inspector in a boat down the dark passage to New York,
                     and pointing out the low narrow place of entry from the water-house where they
                     must lie down in the boat.
                  Dinner hour is generally a most interesting moment in a picnic, and this was
                     the time when the young gentlemen showed their gallantry by partaking only of
                     such viands as had come from the baskets of their favorites among the young
                     ladies.
                  A cloth was spread upon the ground; seats were extemporized for the ladies out
                     of carriage cushions, waterproofs and wraps; the knives, forks and plates were
                     dealt out as impartially as possible, and we passed a very merry hour.
                  When the repast was over, the party dispersed—some to play croquet, others to
                     row upon the lake, or to stroll about under the trees; some young ladies
                     produced books and bright bits of fancy-work, while Gabrielle, Arthur and I, with our pretty
                     captain, Miss Murray, and one of her attendant cavaliers, decided to pass away
                     the time by playing a game—no trivial game, however; neither "consequences" nor
                     fortune-telling, but an eminently scientific one entitled "Twenty Questions."
                     For the benefit of the uninitiated I will remark that the oracle chooses a
                     subject (silently), and the others are allowed to put twenty questions to him
                     to enable them to divine it—usually commencing with "Is the object that you
                     have in your mind to be found in the animal, vegetable, or mineral
                     kingdom?"
                  Gabrielle is very clever in this somewhat abstruse game, for she possesses her
                     mother's spirit of inquiry and love of reasoning, and she passes entire
                     evenings with Arthur, pursuing the most perplexing and intangible subjects. She
                     and Arthur are admirably matched in this game; for if she is unparalleled in
                     the quickness with which she will follow up a clue and triumphantly announce
                     the mysterious object, after asking eighteen or nineteen questions, Arthur is
                     no less adroit in selecting unusual subjects, and so artfully parrying her
                     questions as to give her the least possible assistance. I often hear them call
                     to each other—
                  "I have chosen a subject; you will never in the world guess it!"
                  Then follows an hour of questions and reasoning, with inferences drawn and
                     rejected, and a display of sophistry that would do credit to a more fully
                     fledged lawyer than Arthur is at present.
                  Yesterday, after dinner, they launched into one of their games, and Gabrielle
                     guessed after eighteen questions what would have required forty, I am sure,
                     from any one else—the eighty-eighth eye of a fly!
                  Another was even more puzzling. The object belonged, Arthur assured her, to the
                     vegetable kingdom, the color was white, and he had often met it within a dozen
                     yards of the railway station. "A daisy," was the first and natural solution,
                     but she was, he assured her, very far adrift. "A telegraph post," she next
                     announced, but she was again unsuccessful. At this point I left them; but after
                     an hour had passed Gabrielle ran up to my room to tell me that she had guessed
                     it—a polka dot upon one of her morning dresses!
                  The object chosen by Arthur at the picnic was the right horn of the moon.
                     Gabrielle, this time, sat beside me and enjoyed the perplexity of the
                     questioners, for not until we were about to step into the carriage to return
                     home did they guess it.
               
               
                  
                     June 27.
                  
                  A letter this morning from our pretty cousin Evangeline, announcing that she is
                     engaged to a Dr. Ross of Chautauqua county, where she lives. Evangeline is the
                     only daughter of mamma's youngest sister, Margaret. She is eighteen years old,
                     of medium height, and well formed, with a fair complexion, the chestnut hair that is peculiar to the younger
                     members of the Greeley family, and brown eyes inherited from her father's
                     family, for the Greeley eye par excellence is
                     blue. Although Evangeline has been brought up in the quiet little village of
                     Clymer, she has been well educated, and besides being uncle's favorite among
                     his nieces, she was much admired in general society during the winter that she
                     spent with us in New York two years ago. At uncle's birthday party, which she
                     attended, she was by many pronounced the handsomest young lady present.
                  We have never seen Dr. Ross, but mamma remembers his family well, and says that
                     "he comes of a good stock." He is not wealthy, but he is in a good profession,
                     is of unexceptionable character, and very devoted to our dear Evangeline; so
                     they have my blessing. The marriage will not take place until
                     December, when Evangeline will have laid off her mourning.
                  Marguerite's portfolio is open upon her writing-table, and a letter to
                     Evangeline, not yet sealed, lies between the blotting-sheets. As it speaks of
                     Evangeline's betrothal, I will insert it here:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "CHAPPAQUA, June 27.
                              
                              "DEAREST EVANGELINE: —You complain in your last letter that I do
                                 not write enough about Chappaqua and 'the farm.' You wish
                                 particulars. My sweet cousin, I thought that you were familiar with
                                 descriptions of this dearest spot on earth, as I remember that dear
                                 uncle gave each of us a copy of his 'Recollections' the last
                                 Christmas that you were with us—the last Christmas indeed that he
                                 spent upon this earth. Peruse that volume, dear, for in it you will
                                 find a more vivid picture, a more poetic description of his dearly
                                 loved home and surroundings, than anything that I can say.
                              "As to Chappaqua being a large or small village—it is small, very
                                 small, not half so large as Clymer, where you live; but it is far
                                 more picturesque. There are only a dozen or two houses in all,
                                 including a couple of stores, a post-office, a 'wayside inn,' and a
                                 church without a bell. There are, however, many fine residences
                                 scattered over the township; whichever way we drive, we see elegant
                                 mansions nestling in a copse of wood, or crowning some
                                 hill-top.
                              "The valley through which we approach Chappaqua is faced on either
                                 side by a succession of beautiful undulating hills that are thickly
                                 covered with dark-green foliage. This farm, consisting of
                                 eighty-four acres (for you know that there is another lying
                                 adjacent of nearly the same size), presents very beautiful and
                                 varied scenery. Near the house in the woods, where uncle and aunt
                                 lived so many years, a pretty brook winds down by the lower barn,
                                 and goes singing away through the meadows bright
                                 
                                    "'With steadfast daisies pure and white.'
                                 But this is not all; this lovely, babbling brook fills a large
                                 pond, high up in the woods, then flows over a stone dam, and comes
                                 rushing down in a succession of waterfalls, stopping for
                                 breathing-space in one of the wildest story-telling glens I ever
                                 saw.
                              "And here, in the gloom of the forest-trees, where the birds love
                                 to congregate, and a thousand perfumes of clover and new-mown hay,
                                 and the aroma of the evergreen grove, come up, Ida and I spend many
                                 an hour, forgetful of city life, and heedless about ever returning
                                 to it.
                              "This year we are occupying the roadside house, which, although not
                                 so beautiful as the new one on the side-hill, nor so retired and
                                 romantic as the one in the woods, still is lovely and has a very
                                 charming prospect. It stands on sloping ground that is skirted by
                                 forest and fruit trees. Some of them throw their grateful shade on
                                 the piazza and balcony that run the width of the front of the
                                 house. My room opens on the balcony by three French windows, and
                                 here I often walk to catch the last gleam of departing day, or
                                 linger after nightfall to see the far-away stars come out. The
                                 moonrise here is perfectly enchanting, climbing up as it does over
                                 the eastern hills, and throwing its pensive light over the silent
                                 meadows, and distant, dark woods.
                              "But I have filled my sheet before speaking of your engagement. As
                                 I have not seen your handsome some doctor, you will not expect me
                                 to be enthusiastic. I hear that he is intelligent, clever in his
                                 profession, and of excellent character, but not rich. Well,
                                 Evangeline, you know I approve of wealth, combined with other good
                                 qualifications; but if I had to choose between a man of mind and a
                                 man of money, I don't think I would hesitate long which to take: so
                                 you are sure of my approbation, and you have my best wishes for
                                 your future happiness.
                              
                                 "Your loving cousin,
                                 "MARGUERITE."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     June 29.
                  
                  A visit yesterday from our friend Mrs. Sarah L. Hopper, the clever contributor
                     to several Southern journals. Among them the Washington Gazette,
                     and the True Woman—the latter an anti-suffrage journal. Mrs.
                     Hopper not only writes well; she is also a woman of varied and excellent
                     reading, and the appreciation of the modern classics is displayed in one of her
                     poems—an admirable apostrophe to the character and works of Dante. This poem,
                     which was published some time since, Mrs. Hopper once recited to us, and both
                     mamma and I were struck with the true ring of poesy so apparent in it.
               
               
                  
                     June 30.
                  
                  Upon returning from church yesterday, we found the front door standing open, a
                     couple of arm-chairs upon the piazza, and a newspaper or two in lieu of the occupants—proof unmistakable of
                     a masculine invasion. Who it was we could not imagine; that it was not a
                     neighbor we were convinced by seeing the morning Herald and
                        Times, for the Sunday papers cannot be obtained here, save by
                     being at the depot when the interminable way-train comes up from New York, and
                     waylaying the newsboy who accompanies the cars; and for this our neighbors are
                     rarely sufficiently enterprising. Unmistakably our visitors had come from the
                     city.
                  Upon questioning Minna, she gave us a graphic description of the gentlemen. One
                     was "tall, oh so tall! with dark hair and red cheeks"—in him we recognized Mr.
                     Walworth Ward—the other was a blonde gentleman whom she had seen here
                     before.
                  "Lina has already made wine padding," she said, seeing Ida about
                     to descend and inspect the larder. "Miss no fret—all right."
                  Ida and I then started to walk to the grove, where we thought we would probably
                     find our guests awaiting our return. Not there, indeed, but in the vegetable
                     garden we found them, where they were kindly looking after the interests of the
                     family by weeding the strawberry-beds, regardless of the Sabbath, and
                     notwithstanding one of the gentlemen was a grandson of a D.D. In answer to our
                     regrets that we should have been absent when they arrived, they mildly
                     intimated some surprise, one having telegraphed his proposed coming, and the
                     other sent a message through papa the day previous; dear papa, however, had as
                     usual forgotten to deliver the message, and whither the telegram went, no one
                     could imagine.
               
               
                  
                     July 1.
                  
                  A visit yesterday from the little colored sculptress, Edmonia Lewis. Miss Lewis
                     was accompanied by a box of formidable size, containing, she told us, a marble
                     bust of Mr. Greeley, which she had brought out here for the opinion of the
                     family; but as Ida was in the city where she had gone for a day's shopping, we
                     reserved our judgment until she should return and see it with us.
                  I was very glad to learn that Miss Lewis was prospering in both a pecuniary and
                     an artistic point of view. She had, she told me, received two orders for busts
                     of uncle—one from the Lincoln Club, and one from a Chicago gentleman. She
                     intends returning to Rome before long.
                  Miss Lewis had already opened a studio while we were in Rome four or five years
                     ago, and I heard much talk about her from her brother and sister artists. I
                     intended at one time to visit her studio and see her work, but several
                     sculptors advised me not to do so; she was, they declared, "queer,"
                     "unsociable," often positively rude to her visitors, and had been heard to
                     fervently wish that the Americans
                     would not come to her studio, as they evidently looked upon her only as a
                     curiosity. When, therefore, I did see her for the first time (last summer), I
                     was much surprised to find her by no means the morose being that had been
                     described to me, but possessed of very soft and quite winning manners. She was
                     amused when I told her what I had heard of her, and remarked, quite
                     pertinently:
                  "How could I expect to sell my work if I did not receive visitors civilly?"
                  Miss Lewis expressed much gratitude to Miss Hosmer and Miss Stebbins for their
                     kindness to her in Rome, and of Miss Cushman she said enthusiastically, "She is
                     an angel!"
                  She is, I have been told, very well received in society abroad, and when
                     baptized a Catholic in Rome, two ladies of high position, Countess Cholmondeley
                     and Princess Wittgenstein, offered to stand godmother for her. Edmonia chose
                     Lady Cholmondeley, whom I remember well in Rome as a great belle and a highly
                     accomplished woman. She wrote poetry, I was told, and modelled in clay with
                     much taste, and her finely trained voice and dainty playing of the harp I well
                     remember as one of the attractions of Miss Cushman's receptions.
                  Edmonia has, beside her somewhat hard English appellation, two pretty baptismal
                     names—Maria Ignatia.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               
                  Cataloguing the Library—A Thousand Volumes—Contrasting Books—Some Rare
                     Volumes—Mr. Greeley's Collection of Paintings—Authenticity of the Cenci
                     Questioned—A Portrait of Galileo—Portrait of Martin Luther—Portrait of Greeley
                     at Thirty—Powers' Proserpine—Hart's Bust of Mr. Greeley—Mosaics and
                     Medallions.
               
               
                  
                     July 2.
                  
                  THIS morning we have had a family picnic at the side-hill house, where the
                     amusement was, however, neither "Twenty Questions," gossip, nor croquet; but
                     arranging and cataloguing uncle's large library. The books had hitherto been
                     kept in the house in the woods, with the exception of those in daily use,
                     filling three good-sized bookcases in our present residence; but as the house
                     in the woods had been twice broken into last winter, Ida thought it safer to
                     move them all down this summer to the side-hill house, where Bernard sleeps.
                     Accordingly, a wagon-load or two was brought down the other day and deposited
                     in the dining-room, and this morning, as we had no guests, and no very pressing
                     occupations, we all, including Minna, went up there directly after breakfast to
                     look them over.
                  "I am resolved," Ida had said, "to have the books catalogued, that I may know in future how many I
                     yearly lose by lending them to my friends." Consequently the work was doubled
                     by the necessity of writing down the names, and we had unluckily chosen the
                     hottest day that we had so far experienced for this laborious task. We all went
                     to work, however, with as much energy as though the temperature was at a
                     reasonable degree, and I felt quite proud of my achievements when the work was
                     done, having catalogued, myself, over three hundred volumes.
                  Our work was divided: mamma read off the names of the books, and Marguerite and
                     I wrote them down, and Minna then dusted and carried them into the next room to
                     Ida, who placed them upon the shelves, dividing the library into compartments
                     for poetry, biography, science, fiction, etc. An endless task it seemed at
                     first to sort the books, for more than one thousand volumes of all sizes and in
                     every variety of binding from cloth to calf, had been thrown promiscuously on
                     the floor, and the hottest antagonists in the political and religious world
                     were now lying side by side in the apparent enjoyment of peace and good-will.
                     "Slavery Doomed" and "Slavery Justified" composed one externally harmonious
                     group, while "Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World," "How I became a
                     Unitarian," and Strauss' "Life of Jesus," lay beside their rigidly orthodox
                     neighbors, the "Following of Christ," by Thomas à Kempis, Cardinal Wiseman's
                     "Doctrines of the Church," and a Jesuit Father's idea of the Happiness of
                     Heaven.
                  Uncle's fondness for his country home was manifested by thirty or more large
                     volumes upon Agriculture, and several others upon Rural Architecture, while his
                     literary and æsthetic taste was displayed by a superb edition of Macaulay, in
                     eight octavo volumes, combining the whitest of paper and the largest and
                     clearest type, with richest binding; Lord Derby's translation of the Iliad,
                     Mackay's "Thousand and One Gems," a large and elegant volume of Byron's
                     complete works, and Bryant's "Library of Poetry and Song"—the two latter
                     beautifully bound and illustrated. Xenophon, Herodotus, Josephus, and Caesar
                     lay off at an aristocratic distance from their neighbors, and looked down with
                     scorn upon anything so modern as Noel's "Rebellion," or Draper's "Civil War in
                     America;" while memories of the buried "Brook Farm" arose from the past as
                     mamma took up a volume or two upon Co-operative Associations.
                  Uncle's strict temperance principles were illustrated by half a dozen volumes
                     upon the "Effects of Alcohol," including "Scriptural Testimony against Wine;"
                     and a work or two upon the Tariff Question recalled many a
                        Tribune editorial penned by the dear, dead hand.
                  A large dark pile of some twenty volumes loomed up from a distant
                     corner—Appleton's useful Cyclopædia
                     pædia—and beside them lay an enormous Webster's Dictionary, handsomely put up
                     in a chocolate-colored library binding.
                  Many elegantly bound volumes were presentation copies from their authors—among
                     them a magnificent album of languages, beautifully illuminated, and bound in
                     scarlet morocco, containing the Lord's Prayer in one hundred different tongues.
                     This book sold, Ida said, for one hundred dollars a copy.
                  In striking contrast with this gorgeous volume were two little yellow-leaved,
                     shabbily bound books, valued, however, at one hundred dollars each, and
                     treasures which no money could have bought from uncle—one a copy of Erasmus,
                     dated Basle, 1528, and the other "The tvvoo Bookes of Francis Bacon on the
                     Proficience and Aduancement of Learning, diuine and humane," printed, the
                     fly-leaf states, at London, in 1605.
               
               
                  
                     July 3.
                  
                  I have not yet, I believe, spoken of more than one or two of the pictures that
                     uncle bought while in Europe the first time. He then spent ten thousand dollars
                     on paintings, a piece or two of sculpture, and a few little curiosities of art
                     in the way of mosaics and antiquities from different ruins of Italy, which, for
                     a man who was by no means a Stewart or an Astor, showed great liberality. Uncle
                     could not afford, like ostentatious millionnaires, to dazzle the public with
                     paintings bought by the yard; but for a man of his means he displayed, I think,
                     a true love for art and a strong desire to encourage it. His purchases, too,
                     were very different from the second-rate pictures so often purchased abroad by
                     uncultivated eyes, for instead of depending merely upon his own judgment, he
                     asked the assistance of the sculptor Story in choosing his souvenirs; and his
                     collection, though small, is admirable, containing two or three bonâ-fide old masters, purchased at the sales of
                     private galleries in Florence and Rome.
                  The pictures, like the books, have been kept hitherto in the house in the
                     woods, but this spring Ida moved them all to the roadside house that we might
                     constantly enjoy them, and the parlor now presents quite the appearance of a
                     museum. It is over the music-room, and its long French windows open upon a
                     balcony, from which we daily admire our tender, Italian-like sunsets. To the
                     right it is overhung by the branches of our favorite apple-tree, from whose
                     clusters of tiny fruit we each chose an apple some days since. Gabrielle then
                     marked them with the owner's initial cut out of paper, the form of which we
                     will find in the autumn indelibly impressed in the apple's rosy cheek.
                  But to return to our museum. Upon ascending the stairs one's eyes first rest
                     upon the "very saddest face ever painted or conceived," as Hawthorne
                        describes the beautiful Cenci.
                     While in Rome I resided upon the Piazza Barberini, opposite the palace
                     containing this exquisite painting, and I visited it with a devotion almost
                     equalling Hilda's. Much excitement prevailed that winter in art circles
                     concerning the authenticity of this picture, and hot discussions took place
                     wherever the believers and unbelievers chanced to meet. No possible proof
                     existed, one party would declare, that Guido had ever painted Beatrice Cenci;
                     and no one had thought of it as other than a fancy head until Shelley had
                     aroused the interest of the public in the half-forgotten tragedy of poor
                     Beatrice's sad life by the sombre drama, "The Cenci." From that time, they say,
                     caprice has christened this picture Beatrice Cenci, and Hawthorne has added
                     much to its interest by the prominence he gives it in the "Marble Faun." They,
                     however, are unable to find the traces of sorrow, the "tear-stained cheeks" and
                     "eyes that have wept till they can weep no more," so eloquently described by
                     all writers and art-critics of the present day; and so far I agree with
                     them—the face does not impress me with such depths of woe.
                  Their opponents, however, hold the time-honored tradition that Guido painted
                     Beatrice in her cell upon the morning of her execution, or as she stood upon
                     the scaffold—for there are two versions of the story—and that the gown and
                     turban which she wears were made by her own hands on the night preceding the
                     fatal day. But no words of mine can give a fair idea of this celebrated
                     painting: I will transcribe Hawthorne's description of it.
                  "The picture represented simply a female head; a very youthful, girlish,
                     perfectly beautiful face, enveloped in white drapery, from beneath which
                     strayed a lock or two of what seemed a rich though hidden luxuriance of auburn
                     hair. The eyes were large and brown, and met those of the spectator, but
                     evidently with a strange, ineffectual effort to escape. There was a little
                     redness about the eyes, very slightly indicated, so that you would question
                     whether or no the girl had been weeping. The whole face was quiet; there was no
                     distortion or disturbance of any single feature, nor was it easy to see why the
                     expression was not cheerful, or why a single touch of the artist's pencil
                     should not brighten it into joyousness. But in fact it was the very saddest
                     picture ever painted or conceived; it involved an unfathomable depth of sorrow,
                     the sense of which came to the observer by a sort of intuition. It was a sorrow
                     that removed this beautiful girl out of the sphere of humanity, and set her in
                     a far-off region, the remoteness of which—while yet her face is so close before
                     us—makes us shiver as at a spectre."
                  Next to the Cenci a St. Francis hangs, his hands devoutly folded and his head
                     bowed in pious meditation upon the sufferings of his Redeemer, whose figure
                     bound upon the Cross lies before him. The skull at his feet and the dreary landscape surrounding
                     him indicate his hermit-life of isolation and penance. The Saint is dressed in
                     the coarse brown habit of a mendicant friar, and his face is luminous with that
                     gentleness that distinguished his character after his conversion; for it is
                     recorded of him that he would step aside rather than harm the smallest
                     insect.
                  Above St. Francis is one of the most precious gems, historically and
                     intrinsically considered, of the collection. The picture is small—only cabinet
                     size; but it is none the less valuable on that account, when we reflect that it
                     dates from the sixteenth or early in the seventeenth century. It is a portrait
                     of Galileo painted from life by Andrea Bartone, and was bought at a sale of the
                     Santi Gallery. Only the head and bust are represented—the latter clothed in a
                     dark-brown open vest, with a scarlet mantle thrown over the shoulders; but the
                     face is one that would not easily be forgotten—a rugged, powerful face, with
                     great, earnest eyes, scant hair well sprinkled with gray, and deep furrows
                     lining the dark brow.
                  Over the doorway, opening into the room that was formerly Aunt Mary's, is an
                     antique marble medallion of Juno, the haughty Mother of the gods; this was dug
                     up near Tusculum.
                  Next comes an exquisite Madonna and Child by Carlo Dolce (a copy). The mother's
                     face is youthful and radiant with divine beauty: the Infant Jesus stands upon
                     her knee, and extends a plump little hand in benediction.
                  Next, a portrait of uncle painted in 1839—two years earlier than the one that
                     hangs in the diningroom. This picture, mamma says, was an excellent likeness of
                     him when he was twenty-eight years old; and the biographers who are so prone to
                     describe him in his younger days as having been "uncouth" and "awkward," would
                     be, I think, much startled if they could see it. His coat is black, with a
                     black tie, like other gentlemen, and his air, instead of being "rustic" or
                     "gawky," is expressive of gentle dignity, while his face, so often described as
                     plain, is to me beautiful enough to have represented a young saint.
                  Next these pictures is another medallion—the "Mother of the Gracchi," and under
                     them a small table upon which stand several marble curiosities: a model of the
                     tomb of Scipio, Minerva issuing from the head of Jupiter, and two busts of
                     Roman soldiers in the time of Titus—antiques, and quite yellow and
                     valuable.
                  In the centre of the parlor is a round table bought in Rome, and made of
                     variegated marble taken from the ruins of the palace of the Cæsars.
                  In a corner, upon a handsome pedestal, stands Powers' bust of Proserpine, of
                     which uncle was especially proud. He speaks of it in his "Glances at Europe,"
                     in these words:
                  
                  "I defy Antiquity to surpass—I doubt its ability to rival—Powers' Proserpine
                     and his Psyche with any models of the female head that have come down to us;
                     and while I do not see how they could be excelled in their own sphere, I feel
                     that Powers, unlike Alexander, has still realms to conquer, and will fulfil his
                     destiny."
                  A very prominent picture, and one that was a great favorite with uncle, is an
                     original portrait of Luther, by Lucas Cranach, one of the great lights of the
                     Flemish school of painting. I have seen in the Dresden Gallery the counterpart
                     to this picture, painted by the same artist, but representing Luther after
                     death. I much prefer the animated expression of the living
                     picture, for it is hard to think of the fiery reformer as dead, even at this
                     late day.
                  Over the sofa is a large Holy Family, a painting in the school of Raphael, and
                     underneath it hangs one of our most valuable pictures—a veritable Guercino,
                     painted in 1648. The subject is St. Mary Magdalen.
                  I wish that I had time to write in detail of all the beautiful things in the
                     parlor—a card-table made like the centre-table of classic marble from the ruins
                     of Rome, an exquisite moonlight view of a Benedictine Convent upon the Bay of
                     Naples, with a young girl kneeling before the shrine of the Madonna; a Venetian
                     scene—the Doge's palace with its graceful, Moorish architecture; St. Peter and
                     St. Paul; the Cumæan Sybil, a beautiful female figure whose partly veiled face
                     seemed full of mystery; St. Agatha, and an Ecce Homo. There are still some more
                     marble medallions that I have not mentioned; several valuable antiques,
                     portraits of Alexander the Great and Tacitus, and a bas-relief representing the
                     flight of Æneas—the former found near the Appian Way—and two others that are
                     comparatively modern—likenesses of Pope Clement XI., and Vittoria Colonna, the
                     gifted Italian poetess of the fifteenth century.
                  But I have not yet spoken of the pearl of our museum. This piece of sculpture
                     was not one of uncle's Italian purchases, nor does it date back for centuries,
                     but it is priceless to us, especially as it is, we believe, the only copy now
                     existing. I allude to the bust made of uncle in 1846 by Hart, the Kentucky
                     sculptor. This bust was the first work of importance that Mr. Hart had ever
                     executed, for he was then in the first flush of manhood, and the early vigor of
                     that genius that has since wrought out so many beautiful creations. Then,
                     however, he had not modelled his fine statue of Henry Clay, ordered by the
                     ladies of Virginia, nor had he even dreamed of his lovely "Triumph of Woman"
                     that when finished will send his name down to posterity, as our greatest
                        creative American sculptor.
                  Mamma was living with uncle when Mr. Hart arrived in New York with a commission
                     from Cassius M. Clay to make this bust, and she has often told me all the circumstances of the
                     sittings. Uncle was then, as ever, extremely busy, and it was very difficult
                     for him to give Mr. Hart an occasional half hour for a sitting. As ordinary
                     means failed, Mr. Hart brought his clay and instruments to The
                        Tribune office, and there he worked whilst uncle rested from his
                     daily editorial labors; but even while "resting," his lap was full of
                     newspapers, and he could not afford the time to "pose," for his eyes were
                     rapidly scanning their columns.
                  "I never," said mamma, "knew an artist to make such a study of another's face
                     as Mr. Hart did of brother's. He was not content with a mere sitting from him
                     now and then; he visited him at the house; he watched his face in company, and
                     attended every occasion when he spoke in public, that he might model him, he
                     said, in his best mood. Consequently the bust was the most perfect likeness
                     that had ever been made of brother, and as his face was then delicate and his
                     features so classic in their cut, it was, I thought, the most beautiful piece
                     of sculpture that I had ever seen. It was quite a revelation to dear brother,
                     who in his modesty had never had an idea of his own beauty."
                  Ten plaster busts were struck off for the family and a few intimate friends,
                     but as none of them were ever put into marble, they have all, I believe, with
                     the exception of this one, been destroyed. Mamma's copy was overthrown by
                     Marguerite's little hands when a child; another belonging to one of our cousins
                     was broken by her little son; and although Cassius Clay's copy was buried, Mr.
                     Hart told me, during the war to save it from the hands of the soldiers, he had
                     no reason to suppose that it finally had escaped the fate of the others. Aunt
                     Mary, however, in her anxiety to preserve her copy, at once enveloped it in
                     linen, and packed it in a box. Consequently it is now as perfect as the day it
                     left the studio; but mamma had never seen it from that time until this spring,
                     when Ida exhumed it from the store-room.
                  Mr. Hart and uncle were always warm friends, although Mr. Hart left for Europe
                     soon after completing this bust, where he has since remained, with the
                     exception of a flying visit to America about twelve years ago. Uncle speaks of
                     visiting his studio in 1851, in these words ("Glances at Europe," page
                     217):
                  "I saw something of three younger sculptors now studying and working at
                     Florence—Hart of Kentucky, Galt of Virginia, and Rogers of New York. I believe
                     all are preparing to do credit to their country. Hart has been hindered by a
                     loss of the models at sea from proceeding with the statue of Henry Clay, which
                     he is commissioned by the ladies of Virginia to fashion and construct; but he
                     is wisely devoting much of his time to careful study, and to the modelling of
                     the ideal, before proceeding to commit himself irrevocably by the great work
                     which must fix his position among sculptors tors, and make or mar his destiny. I have great
                     confidence that what he has already carefully and excellently done is but a
                     foretaste of what he is yet to achieve."
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               
                  The Fourth of July—A Quaker Celebration—The House in the Woods—Mrs. Greeley's
                     Life there—Pickie—Mary Inez—Raffie—Childhood of Ida and Gabrielle—Heroism of
                     Mrs. Greeley—The Riots of 1863—Mrs. Greeley defends her House against the
                     Mob.
               
               
                  
                     July 5.
                  
                  YESTERDAY was the pleasantest Fourth I ever experienced in America. Last year
                     at this time I was upon the Catskill Mountains, and was aroused at an unearthly
                     hour by the discharge of a cannon, whose reverberation was something appalling,
                     and made me doubt if I was not shot. The hotel was graced with the presence of
                     some thirty or forty children, whose fond parents had invested largely in
                     fire-crackers and toy cannon for them, and no place upon the grounds, it
                     seemed, was so favorable for the ebullition of youthful patriotism as the spot
                     directly under my window. Consequently, as I was already weak from the effect
                     of a prolonged attack of nervous fever, I was before nightfall in a state akin
                     to distraction, and filled with anything but patriotic sentiments. I could not
                     then but think with regret of a previous Fourth spent upon the steamship St. Laurent, where fire-crackers were tabooed, and the celebration consisted entirely
                     of a magnificent dinner, and speeches—during the latter I made my escape to the
                     deck.
                  This year was pleasanter still. I do not know if the Chappaqua people are less
                     patriotic than other citizens of the Union, but our nerves were only disturbed
                     by the occasional popping of a fire-cracker in the garden of our neighbor, the
                     train-master over the way; and when we strayed off to the Glen after dinner, we
                     were as free from disturbing noise as though our country had not been born
                     ninety-seven years ago. But although noisy demonstrations do not seem the
                     fashion here (perhaps owing to the predominance of Quakers in the
                     neighborhood), the dormant enthusiasm of the people for the Fourth was aroused
                     at sundown, when a mass meeting was held at the tavern, or "Chappaqua Hotel" as
                     it is grandly styled, and lengthy and energetic speeches were delivered. From
                     our piazza we could hear the orators' voices ascending to a very high key as
                     they warmed with their topic, and quite congratulated ourselves that we were
                     not obliged to be of the audience.
                  After dark there was a small display of Roman candles and sky-rockets; and so
                     ended the glorious Fourth.
               
               
                  
                     July 6.
                  
                  I have again dreamed away an entire morning upon the piazza of the house in the
                     woods—to me the stillest est, sweetest spot in the world. I have described this
                     dear old house and its romantic surroundings again and again since I have been
                     here this summer. I can scarcely turn over half a dozen leaves of my journal
                     without finding some allusion to it; but it is a subject possessing such
                     fascination for me that I must again revert to it. I like to pass a quiet hour
                     upon the steps of the piazza, or upon the large moss-grown boulder in front of
                     the house where Ida, Raphael, and Gabrielle have all played; and while my
                     fingers are busily employed with some fanciful design wrought with gold thread
                     or emerald-green silk, 
                        "My thoughts wander on at their own sweet will,"
                      oftenest returning, however, to Aunt Mary's life here in the woods with
                     her little children. A lonely, comfortless life many women would have deemed
                     it, so entirely shut in as she was from the outer world; and to any one less
                     self-reliant and self-sustained than Aunt Mary it would have been so. For that
                     there were discomforts in her country life I do not doubt,
                     although they were much lessened by uncle's easy circumstances; and the house
                     itself was finished off with all the city improvements and conveniences
                     practicable to introduce into a building of its size and situation. Still, the
                     house was distant from good markets, and the trees encircled it so closely that
                     the sun's rays did not penetrate the rooms until ten o'clock; but Aunt Mary
                     loved her trees as though they were
                     human, and at that time would not allow one to be cut down, notwithstanding the
                     dampness that they created. An idle woman would have regretted the distance at
                     which the house stood from the public road, as no distraction ensued from
                     looking out of the windows; and a timid or nervous one would have dreaded the
                     long nights in that solitary house when uncle was in the city or absent upon
                     lecturing tours, and no neighbor was within calling distance in case of
                     danger.
                  Occasionally, too, Aunt Mary would be left without servants, for all American
                     ladies know how difficult it is to retain them in the country, especially in so
                     small and lonely a place as Chappaqua was then, and although she frequently had
                     some friend making her long visits of months, still there were days when she
                     would be alone with only the sad memory of her buried darlings, her splendid
                     Pickie, the pride and hope of both parents, and sweet little Mary Inez, and her
                     two living children, too young to be very companionable.
                  Raphael, mamma says, was a beautiful boy, although not perhaps so noticeable as
                     Pickie, for he had not his brilliant color, and his hair, too, was not so
                     dazzling in shade, but very much like his father's. His features, however, were
                     quite as finely cut as those of his much admired brother, and his temperament
                     was gentle and loving. Ida cherishes very tender memories ories of him, for he
                     was the only brother whom she knew, and her constant playfellow before
                     Gabrielle's birth. There were seven years difference in the ages of the
                     brothers. Pickie died at five, of cholera; and Raffie at seven years old, of
                     croup.
                  But although Aunt Mary had such sad memories in the past, she had two beautiful
                     children left to her, and for them she lived this life of seclusion at
                     Chappaqua, remaining here six months of every year that they might acquire a
                     fine physical development from walking, driving, and riding in the pure country
                     air. Ida has often told me of the wild games of play she used to have when a
                     child with Osceola, a little Indian boy, and dwelt especially upon her prowess
                     in racing down hill in emulation of him. The parents of this boy then occupied
                     the roadside house, which did not at that time belong to uncle.
                  Gabrielle's stories are different. She loved to ride the unbroken colts, and
                     tend her menagerie in the play-house. She has, too, much to tell about the way
                     her mother used to train her to be as fearless in case of fire or thieves as
                     she was when seated upon a bare-backed horse, and often she has made me smile,
                     though fully recognizing the wisdom of Aunt Mary's lessons, when telling me how
                     she was obliged to rehearse imaginary escapes from fire or midnight
                     attacks.
                  Besides a devoted love for her children, a passion for the beautiful in Nature,
                     and fondness for solitude and books,
                     or the companionship of some one person of congenial tastes and highly cultured
                     mind, Aunt Mary possessed a fund of moral strength and heroism that one might
                     indeed read in the flash of her black eyes, but which a casual observer would
                     think incompatible with her frail figure. It was, however, many times severely
                     tested during uncle's absence when she had no male protector to whom to look
                     for assistance: but then she proved all-sufficient in herself. At one time a
                     number of workmen were employed upon the place—rough, sullen creatures—who used
                     to come to her to receive their pay; and knowing her, a delicate, sickly woman,
                     to be there alone, they would often clamor for more wages than they were
                     entitled to receive, but never could they frighten her into granting it, for
                     though generous and charitable, nothing was more repugnant to her feelings than
                     an attempt to take an unfair advantage of her.
                  Upon one occasion, a man with whom she had had some business transactions came
                     to claim a payment that was not due him. Aunt Mary explained to him that he was
                     not entitled to it, and refused to see him again. He returned another day, and
                     she would not allow the door to be opened. He then remained outside pulling the
                     bell and thumping for admittance. Aunt Mary spoke to him from the balcony
                     above, and requested him to leave. He vowed he would not stir without his
                     money, and tried to coerce her by the most frightful threats and oaths. When
                     his imprecations were at their highest, Aunt Mary descended, and throwing open
                     the door, told him to come in; then turning to Gabrielle, who stood beside her,
                     said:
                  "Go upstairs and fetch my pistol off from the bureau."
                  Upon hearing these words the man left very quickly, and never returned again to
                     annoy her. In relating this incident to me, Gabrielle said:
                  "Of course I knew perfectly well that I would find no pistol upon the bureau,
                     but I had been too well trained by mamma to show the slightest surprise, and
                     promptly went upstairs in quest of imaginary fire-arms."
                  But this exhibition of cool courage paled in contrast with the true heroism of
                     Aunt Mary displayed at the time of the terrible anti-draft riots in July, 1863.
                     Living in the retirement of the woods, she was not in the habit of going down
                     to the village or associating with the neighbors; consequently, she was rarely
                     informed upon the local news. She wondered that no letters or papers had
                     arrived for a day or two, but merely supposing that some accident upon the road
                     had delayed the mails, she went about her ordinary occupations, perfectly
                     unconscious of the peril she was in. Finally, Mr. Quinby, a Quaker neighbor,
                     came to the house by a long circuit, and informed her that a mob of about three
                     hundred men, who had collected from
                     Sing Sing and other parts of the country, were drinking at the tavern, and
                     threatening to sack "Greeley's house," and hang the family to the nearest
                     trees. It was at the risk of his life that Mr. Quinby had come to warn Aunt
                     Mary, and he implored her to escape as quickly as possible, and offered to
                     conceal her and the children in his house.
                  Aunt Mary did not shriek or fall down in a fainting fit upon learning that
                     hundreds of desperate men were threatening her life. Although she had been very
                     ill and was still weak, perfectly cool and collected, she considered what was
                     best to be done. Her husband was in New York, and of the dozen or so Irish
                     laborers employed upon the place, two or three had already been seen drinking
                     amicably with the rioters, and the others, as well as the Irish servant, she
                     feared to trust. Clark, the overseer, a very competent Englishman, was an
                     excellent shot; but what could one man do against three hundred? As for saving
                     herself by deserting her house, Aunt Mary scorned to do it; but immediately
                     devised a plan that reminds one of the heroism of a Dame Châtelaine of the Middle Ages.
                  First of all, the valuables were to be moved, but without exciting the
                     suspicions of the servant or workmen, as they might inform the rioters. The men
                     were accordingly sent off to a distant part of the farm to work, and the maid
                     kept busy, while twelve trunks were lowered into a wagon standing at the back
                     of the house. Mr. Quinby immediately covered them with hay, and drove to his
                     own house, where he stored them until the trouble should be over, and then sent
                     his son back to help the family.
                  To Gabrielle's surprise, her mother and Ida now appeared in very voluminous and
                     housewifely looking aprons, and were constantly going up and down stairs. At
                     last an untimely draught blew Aunt Mary's apron aside, and Gabrielle, who had
                     not been informed of the danger, caught a glimpse of the picture of the
                     Archangel Gabriel. All of the pictures and pieces of sculpture were then
                     removed to a little hut in the orchard near the stables, built in the side of a
                     hillock, half under ground, and quite overgrown by vines; and when both
                     pictures and the precious books were safely out of the house Aunt Mary felt
                     that she could breathe. By that time Clark had returned from Sing Sing, where
                     he had purchased a large amount of gunpowder by Aunt Mary's direction. This he
                     arranged in a train from the house to a distant point, and the preparations
                     were then completed. When the rioters should come Aunt Mary was to speak to
                     them from the balcony and warn them to go away, and in the meantime Mr. Quinby
                     and Clark were to take the children out of the house by the back window, which
                     was but a step to the top of a low woodshed, from which they could easily get
                     to the ground. Then, while the rioters were storming the barricaded doors, Aunt
                     Mary was to make her escape, and when she and the children were at a safe distance a match was
                     to be applied to the gunpowder, blowing up alike house and rioters.
                  Mr. Quinby, being a Quaker, had looked on reluctantly while the mine was being
                     laid, and when he had done all he could to help Aunt Mary, he returned to the
                     tavern to see the state of affairs there. He found the mob still drinking, and
                     uttering horrible threats against the family. His conscience then obliged him
                     to give the wretches a hint of the doom that awaited them, ending with these
                     words:
                  "Heed my warning, my brethren; Horace Greeley is a peace man, but Mary Greeley
                        will fight to the last!"
                  After dark, the rioters came to the gates and howled, and uttered threats, but
                     dared not approach very close to the fortress armed by a sick woman and two
                     children; and when weary of exercising their lungs went peacefully away.
                     Meantime, Aunt Mary, being fatigued by the exertions of the day, laid down, Ida
                     said, when everything was in readiness to meet the rioters, and slept
                     peacefully till morning.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               
                  Pen Portraits—Lela—Majoli—Guerrabella and Celina—Their Characteristics.
               
               
                  July 8.
               
               WHILE looking over a box of old letters and newspapers this morning I came across
                  a little sketch descriptive of our quartette, written last winter for a New York
                  journal. This sketch, or "Pen Portraits," as it was styled, veils our identity
                  under fictitious names, the initials only being preserved, and although it passes
                  over our imperfections and very much exaggerates our accomplishments, still it
                  contains, I think, so much that is characteristic that I will preserve it by
                  copying it into my journal. The writer commenced with a description of mamma's
                  room in Cottage Place, and dwelt particularly upon a picture of uncle hanging over
                  the mantelpiece, but that portion of the sketch has been torn off and lost.
               "But let us regard the living pictures. You see that youthful group!
                  A group to inspire a poet or painter! They are four—they are cousins. Two are
                  orphans; you see a resemblance to the face in the frame wreathed in immortelles. We will first observe those two that sit
                  with arms entwined, smiling up into each other's eyes. It is the gentle Lela*
                   and her cousin Majoli, belle Majoli we
                  may call her. These cousins are nigh the same age, and their hearts beat in sweet
                  accord. And there is a certain likeness, spiritual more than physical—for Majoli
                  is taller and slighter, and fairer, too, if we reckon by the hue of the hair and
                  color of the eyes.
               
                  
                  *For Lilian, Ida's second name.
               
               "Lela has soft, soliciting, brown eyes; Majoli is azure-eyed, laughing or languid
                  according to her varying mood. Lela's face is pale as moonbeams; filial solicitude
                  and divine sorrow have left their chastening impression upon her exquisite
                  lineaments. Her countenance is Madonna-like in purity, ingenuousness, and
                  self-abnegation.
               "Majoli's delicate features are untouched by pain or care, and though her
                  spiritual countenance is often tinged with melancholy, no harsh experience has
                  traced those pensive lines. 'Tis but the soul's limning—a musical nature is hers,
                  emotional and imaginative.
               "Lela's head is large, though not unfeminine, and the magnificent wealth of
                  tawny-colored hair reminds one of Guercino's Holy Magdalen. She has pretty, modest
                  ways of looking down under those pale, drooping lids with her calm, confiding
                  eyes, and if the mouth is somewhat large, the teeth are white and even, and the
                  lips are coral-tinted. The nose is straight and slender, and suggests the chisel
                  of Phidias, and from the expansive brow we infer a broad culture and comprehensive
                  understanding. It is the seat of Philosophy, as well as the throne of the
                  Muses.
               "Majoli's head is smaller than Lela's, but its pose is aristocratic and graceful.
                  The blonde hair is artistically coiffed, and though the features are not
                  strikingly regular, there is sympathy and great sweetness in the face, and art and
                  refinement are expressed even by the slim, pale hands. An airy, lithesome figure
                  she has, and the beat of her footfall is cadenced to the measure of joyous music.
                  Frail she seems compared with Lela's well-rounded figure, but if she has not equal
                  strength, she has elasticity; and if more energy and power is indicated by the
                  physiognomy of Lela, Majoli has ambition and judgment to compensate.
               "We have compared Lela's face to the rich portraiture of Guercino; Majoli's
                  suggests the pencil of that famous old Spanish master, Ribera, whose pictures of
                  women were always a blending of the elegance of a court lady with the simplicity
                  and naïveté of a church devotee. Half belle,
                  half religieuse we may style her.
               "And on what have these dainty minds been nurtured, and who have been their
                  intellectual mentors? Lela has been bred within a cloister's walls, and foreign
                  travel has polished both mind and manners.
               "In no school has Majoli's mind been formed, nor is she greatly indebted to
                  learned professors for her mental
                  attainments. A mother's love has quickened the budding intellect, a mother's
                  intelligence has trained and directed the unfolding powers. The grace of foreign
                  speech is on her tongue, and scenes and pictures of distant lands are enshrined in
                  her memory. Ancient lore has for her a peculiar charm; history is her delight;
                  Plutarch, Josephus, Gibbon, Macaulay, she has conned well. Poesy she loves much.
                  The poetry of the Bible, Dante, Schiller, Herbert, Browning, are her favorites. In
                  sacred books she finds sweet enjoyment. The Fathers of the Church afford her great
                  pleasure; St. Augustine, St. Basil, Thomas à Kempis, etc. She has the grace of
                  devotion, but her love of the Church is affected more by its æsthetical qualities
                  than its theological dogmas.
               "Lela is a passionate book-lover. There are few modern writers that have not
                  furnished entertainment to her accomplished mind, and she is not unacquainted with
                  the best Latin and Greek authors. English, German, and French literature are alike
                  open to her. Biography, essays, dramas, poetry, with more serious reading, occupy
                  her time. Virgil and Horace, Bacon, Shakespeare, Racine, Victor Hugo, Heine and
                  George Eliot may be mentioned as among her preferences.
               "But while we are attempting to portray some noticeable characteristics in Lela
                  and Majoli, how are Celina and Guerrabella occupied? You see Guerrabella has a
                  pencil in her hand. She is sketching a head; if we look closely, we shall probably
                  recognize our own, grotesquely drawn, for there is no denying that our young
                  genius is fond of caricaturing her friends. Celina sits by a table; her large,
                  open eyes have a distant, dreamy expression. Her pen moves rapidly across the
                  page; she is writing a Musical Recollection, we may presume.
               "Guerrabella is the youngest of the group. She is tall, picturesque, imposing. Her
                  face is radiant with blushes, dimples, and smiles. She looks so fresh and
                  beautiful that she might have set for Greuze's picture of 'Sweet Sixteen.' A sense
                  of thorough enjoyment flashes from the bright blue-gray eyes, and is indicated by
                  the rose-bloom on cheek and lips. There is an air of strength and courage
                  perceptible, and a certain dash in her manner that associates her with Scott's
                  favorite heroine, Di Vernon. She has great mimic powers, and might adorn the
                  histrionic stage. Towards art and literature she seems equally attracted, and what
                  she will eventually decide to follow we cannot now predict. She will fail in
                  nothing for want of talent.
               "Celina's height scarce reaches to Guerrabella's shoulder; her figure is fragile
                  and dainty; and though her cheek lacks bloom, the lines are soft and graceful, and
                  the face pensive and poetic. The mouth is small and well curved, and the air of
                  repose that rests upon the imaginative brow resembles the Muse of Meditation. The
                  serenity that is uniformly spread over her unique countenance is in strong contrast to the
                  animated, vivacious features of her cousin. Celina's head is fashioned after a
                  classic model, and the mass of amber-hued hair which crowns it might be taken for
                  an aureola. Her pansy-like eyes are full of sweet, poetic vision. The brow is
                  marked by delicately defined eyebrows, and the eyelasnes are long and silken. 'Tis
                  a melodic countenance, foreshadowing that dream-world from which our young heroine
                  has never for a moment awakened. Too petite,
                  some might deem her, for womanly perfection; but physical symmetry, ease, and a
                  dignified bearing elevate the fairy figure to the true standard. She moves about
                  with an airy grace, and nothing earthly is lighter than her footfall. Her small,
                  delicate hands grace the keyboard, and music in her has an enchanting
                  interpreter.
               "Guerrabella participates in the family passion for literature. She possesses
                  great intellectual independence, and her preferences are decided, usually
                  inclining to the bold and strong. She is fond of Macaulay's 'Heroic Lays of Many
                  Lands;' she rejoices in Becky Sharp; and there is a tradition that she learned to
                  read in the works of Thackeray, spelling out the words of that magnificent novel,
                  Henry Esmond.
               "Celina has explored the treasures of classic lore in music and literature. Homer,
                  Herodotus, Plato, she has read, with Tasso and his chivalrous lays, and Spenser
                  and his stately verse. In music, Glück and Grétry, Beethoven and Boieldieu's
                  dulcet tones have helped to fashion her musical mind.
               "But we must not dismiss our heroines without indicating the toilettes that most
                  become them. Velvets and rich brocade befit the Lady Lela's superb figure. Scarlet
                  is her color, and diamonds her essential ornament. The moss-rose should be her
                  favorite flower.
               "Soft gray or pale azure of light fabrics do best agree with Majoli's sylph-like
                  form. Pearls and feathers are consonant to her artistic taste. Her emblematic
                  flower is the lily, of sacred and legendary lore.
               "All shades and fabrics of whatever texture harmonize with Guerrabella's style.
                  Ample should be the folds that habit her majestic figure, and brilliant the gems
                  that are to rival her flashing, sparkling eyes: yet we might indicate couleur de rose as best blending with her own
                  exquisite tints, and the opal with its mysterious light as in some way prefiguring
                  her genius and high destiny.
               "And how shall we vest our mignonne—Celina?
                  Gossamer tissues, fabrics of airy texture—a magic web for the daintiest Lady in
                  our Land. No color of human invention; their dyes would oppress her.
                     White with a gleam of moonlight upon it; a reflection of the aura
                  of her hair, or the first pale beams of the morning. Other gems would I not but
                  those wondrous starlike eyes, to light up a face radiant with thought and
                  sensibility."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               
                  Biography of Mr. Greeley—Gabrielle's Questions—Mrs. Cleveland's Corrections—The
                     Boy Horace not Gawky, Clownish, or a Tow-head—His Parents not in Abject
                     Want—Mr. Greeley's Letter about his Former Playmates—Young Horace and his Girl
                     Friends—He Corrects their Grammar and Lectures them upon Hygiene—He disapproves
                     of Corsets.
               
               
                  July 10.
               
               "AUNTIE, is it possible," said Gabrielle, indignantly running into mamma's room
                  with an open volume in her hand, "that papa was as homely and awkward when a boy
                  and young man as this writer describes him? 'Tow-head,' 'gawky,' 'plain,' and
                  'clownish,' are some of the most uncomplimentary epithets applied to him. He is
                  described as having 'white hair with a tinge of orange at the ends,' and as
                  'eating as if for a wager;' while grandpapa, the writer says, was so poor that
                  papa had to walk barefooted over the thistles, without a jacket, and in trousers
                  cut with an utter disregard of elegance or fit, and it was remarked that they were
                     always short in the legs, while one was invariably shorter than
                  the other. Was it possible that grandpapa could not afford an inch more of cloth
                  to make poor papa's trousers of equal length, and was it true that papa never had
                  but two shirts at a time until he came to New York, and that he never had any
                  gloves? When he was an apprentice in Portland every one used to pity him,
                  Mr.——says, as he walked shivering to the Spectator office on cold
                  winter days, thinly clad, and with his gloveless hands thrust into his pockets to
                  protect them from being frost-bitten!"
               "My child, you overwhelm me with your questions," said mamma. "Let me take them
                  singly, and I will do my best to refute this writer's unpleasant statements.
               "First as to personal appearance. You say he styles your papa 'plain' as a boy.
                  That is absurd, for his features, like mother's, were as perfect as a piece of
                  Grecian sculpture. 'Tow-head' is also a misstatement. Brother's hair never was at
                  any time tow-color, and the tinge of orange at the ends existed only in the
                  author's imagination. Tow-color, you know, is a sort of dirty white or gray;
                  whereas brother's hair, until he was thirty years old, was like Raffie's, pure
                  white. After that time, it commenced to change to a pale gold-color, which never,
                  however, deepened into orange. What was your next question, my dear?"
               "About papa's wardrobe," said Gabrielle, her cheeks still flushed with excitement;
                  "were you indeed so miserably poor, auntie?"
               
               "We were certainly very poor after father failed," said mamma firmly, "but we were
                  by no means reduced to abjectness. I can never remember the time, in our poorest
                  days, when the boys had not, besides their brown linen work-day shirts, cotton
                  shirts for Sunday, and father his 'fine shirt' to wear to church and for visiting.
                  Your papa was dressed suitably for our station in life—neither better nor worse
                  than the sons of neighbors in our circumstances. As for going barefoot, all
                  country boys at that time did so during the summer months; your papa was not an
                  exception.
               "You speak of his gloveless hands. I never saw a pair of kid gloves worn by
                  farmers while we lived in Vermont or Pennsylvania; and certainly they would have
                  been very inappropriate for a boy-farmer or a printer's apprentice to wear; but
                  brother was always, both at home and at Poultney, supplied with warm woollen
                  mittens of mother's knitting. As for the cut of his trousers, I am surprised that
                  any sensible author should use so unfit a word as 'elegance' in speaking of a poor
                  farmer's clothing. I told you the other day that our wardrobe for every-day wear
                  was spun, woven, and made by mother, and it is not to be expected that home-made
                  coats and trousers should have the cut of a fashionable New York tailor; but they
                  were, at all events, warm and comfortable. That brother's trousers were always
                  short, and especially in one leg, is an absurd fabrication. The story may perhaps
                  have risen from some one who remembers his lameness in Poultney, when he acquired
                  the habit of dragging one leg a little after the other, and that style of walking
                  may have apparently shortened one of the trouser legs. Have you anything else to
                  ask, little one?"
               "Yes, auntie," said Gabrielle, smiling at mamma's methodical way of answering:
                  "was papa an awkward boy, and did he eat vulgarly?"
               "I have told you, dear," mamma replied, "how we were brought up. I never saw your
                  papa eat ravenously while he was at home; for father was a despot at table, and
                  any appearance of gluttony would have been quickly checked by the dreaded descent
                  of his fork upon the table. I think it probable that later in life, when your papa
                  became a distinguished man, and every moment was of value, that he did eat quicker
                  than was consistent with the laws of etiquette, but not when he was a boy.
               "As for his awkwardness, I can readily imagine that a boy so intensely preocupied
                  would not appear in so favorable a light to strangers as one who should seek the
                  society of people rather than books, and a superficial observer might have
                  mistaken his air of abstraction for rustic bashfulness. You know that he was
                  always absorbed in a book from the time he was three years old. Father would often
                  send him to do an errand—to fetch wood
                  or the like; he would start very obediently, but with his eyes upon his book, and
                  by the time he had reached the door he would have completely forgotten everything
                  outside the page he was reading, and it was necessary to send some one after him
                  to remind him of his errand. He certainly was very unlike every-day boys, not only
                  in appearance, but in habits and moral qualities. Never did I hear a coarse or
                  profane word pass his lips; the purity of his soul was radiant in his beautiful
                  modest countenance; while his slender, boyish figure, with the ponderous white
                  head poised upon his long, slim neck, always reminded me of a lovely, swaying
                  lily."
               "I have seen recently in some book," said Marguerite, "that uncle was never at his
                  ease in polite society. This I think very absurd. To be sure he had not the
                  manners of a dancing-master, but—"
               "Yes," interrupted mamma; "this statement is another of the usual exaggerations
                  current about brother. As you say, he had not the manners of a dancing-master, and
                  when importuned and annoyed by shallow people, may often have been abrupt with
                  them; but when in society, I have always seen his company as much or more courted
                  than that of any other person present, and have never known him to shrink or be
                  embarrassed in the presence of people of distinction or rank. Few men have, I
                  think, been more misrepresented, though often with the kindest intentions, than my
                  dear brother."
               "You spoke of papa's lameness while at Poultney, Aunt Esther," said Ida, looking
                  up from a letter that she was reading; "pray how did he become lame? Was it
                  serious? I do not remember hearing him mention it."
               "It occurred, I believe, in this way," said mamma. "Whilst your papa was in the
                     Spectator office, he chanced one day to step upon a rough box,
                  which turned over, and hitting him upon the leg, inflicted a cut below his knee.
                  At first, brother thought it a mere scratch not worth noticing; but when he
                  subsequently took cold in it, he found it very troublesome, and although he then
                  consulted several medical men, they were unable to cure it. I do not remember
                  hearing that he was ever confined to the house with it—probably because he could
                  not afford to give up his work long enough to have it properly treated; but for
                  two or perhaps three years he limped to and from the office. When he went
                  subsequently to Erie, Pennsylvania, to work as a journeyman printer, the wound,
                  which had partially healed, had again opened, and was very painful. Some old woman
                  residing there, however, gave him a simple remedy which soon cured it
                  permanently."
               "From whom is the letter that you are reading, Ida?" inquired Gabrielle, putting
                  up her father's biography in a
                  bookcase; "does it contain a request for a loan of $500, or is it an offer of a
                  home in a Christian family?"
               "Neither, for once," answered Ida. "It is from The Tribune office,
                  and contains a slip cut from the Omaha Bee, headed, 'Horace Greeley
                  upon Girls.' It appears that a lady, Miss Hewes, who did not know papa personally,
                  wrote to him to ask if he recollected his first school-house, and a former
                  playmate of his, named Reuben Nichols, whose acquaintance Miss Hewes had just
                  made. Here is papa's answer, dated Washington, 1856. Let me read it to you, Aunt
                  Esther, and tell me if you think it is genuine.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "'MISS HEWES:—As I do not know you, and am little interested in any
                              but a part of your letter, you will allow me, in my terrible
                              hurry—having two days' work that ought to be done to-day, while I must
                              leave at evening for a journey to our Pittsburg Convention—to speak
                              only of that.
                           "'I very well remember the red school-house in which I first began to
                              learn (the paint was worn off long since, and it was very far from red
                              when I last saw it); I remember the Nichols children, who lived, just
                              below the school-house, in a large house. But I was very young then,
                              and I do not make out a clear mental picture of Reuben Nichols. I
                              think he must have been considerably older than I. But I recollect one
                              Aseneth Nichols, one of two girls not much older than I, whom I
                              thought very pretty, so that while I was a very good speller, and so
                              one of the two at the head of the first class in spelling, who were
                              entitled to "choose sides" for a spelling match; I used to begin by
                              choosing these two pretty girls who couldn't spell hokee to save their
                              souls. Well, this was found not to answer; I knew enough to spell but
                              not to choose sides; so the rôle had
                              to be altered, and the two next to the one at the head had the honor
                              of "choosing sides." Ask Mr. Nichols if he had a sister Aseneth, and
                              if he remembers any such nonsense as this. My kind regards to him.
                           
                              "'Yours,
                              "'HORACE GREELEY.'"
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "I don't believe," said Gabrielle, "that papa ever wrote that letter."
               "It does not sound much like him," rejoined Marguerite, "with the exception of
                  'Yours, Horace Greeley'; what do you think, mamma?"
               "The letter is characteristic," was mamma's reply; "the style is his, but there
                  are several words that I have never known him to use; however, they may have been
                  illegible in the original, and their place supplied by the printer's ingenuity. I
                  remember hearing father and mother often speak of Reuben Nichols who lived near
                  grandfather in Londonderry, and I
                  believe that he had a son named Reuben, and a daughter named Aseneth, so the
                  letter must be genuine, I suppose."
               "Was it true, mamma?" inquired Marguerite, "that uncle was fond of little girls?
                  You know it has been said of him that he was as a man quite indifferent to
                  women."
               "Yes, he was very partial to little girls," was mamma's reply, "when they were
                  pretty and gentle. Not, however, in the love-making way of the present precocious
                  generation, but he liked to talk to them, and relate stories from the books he had
                  read. Perhaps the secret of his preference lay in the fact that they made more
                  attentive and sympathetic listeners than his rough boy-friends.
               "I told you the other day that at the ball he attended when thirteen years old, he
                  was the escort of Anne Bush, the prettiest girl in the village. She was perhaps a
                  year younger than he, and as I remember her, extremely pretty—a slender figure,
                  cheeks like roses, blue eyes, dark hair, and very gentle, ladylike ways. She had a
                  sister Sophie, who was as plain as Anne was pretty; and a wild, mischievous girl,
                  but my inseparable and dearest companion.
               "There were two other girls of whom brother was very fond at that time; Cornelia
                  Anne Smith and Rebecca Fish. Cornelia Anne was older than the other girls, about
                  fourteen, I think, and was the fondest est of learning of the trio. I remember
                  that she often used to bring her school-books to brother when some difficulty had
                  arisen in her lessons, and he would explain the hard points. I think that he
                  always corresponded with these girls, and visited them occasionally after they
                  became women, for you know with what tenacity he clung to his early associations.
                  He has often spoken to me of Rebecca Fish, who is now Mrs. Whipple, of
                  Fairhaven.
               "You would be amused if I were to tell you how he used to pass the time that he
                  spent with these three girls. A city-bred boy of thirteen or fourteen would have
                  been quite capable of arranging an elopement with the prettiest one, but brother's
                  style of courtship was quite unique; he used to correct their grammar when they
                  conversed, and gravely lecture them upon the folly of wearing stays!
               "The corsets which so aroused his ire were quite different from those of the
                  present day. At that time, you must know, the Empire dress, that you have seen in
                  portraits of the time of the first Napoleon, was all the fashion; no crinoline,
                  skirts so extremely scant and gored that they clung to the figure like drapery
                  upon a statue, and waists a finger and a half in depth, with inch-wide bands
                  instead of sleeves. This style of dress was very graceful and becoming when worn
                  by a woman of slender figure, and those who were not thus favored by Nature made
                  the best of their figures by wearing
                  what was then called 'busks,' or more popularly 'boards.' The corsets worn in
                  those days did not clasp in front, but merely laced behind, and inserted in the
                  lining of the front was the 'busk,' a piece of steel, or (among poorer people)
                  wood two inches wide, and the depth of the corset. This busk, with the addition of
                  very tightly drawn lacing-strings, was supposed to give great symmetry to the
                  figure. No village belle ever liked to own that she laced tightly, or that she
                  wore a board; as it was a tacit admission that her figure could not bear unaided
                  the test of the Empire dress; consequently brother's remarks would be received by
                  his young friends with an injured air, and a vehement protest against such a false
                  accusation. Brother would then test their truth by dropping his handkerchief and
                  requesting them to pick it up; if they 'wore a board,' stooping would be
                  impossible, or, at all events, very difficult; an ordeal that would cover them
                  with confusion, when the philosopher of thirteen years old would resume his moral
                  lecture upon the laws of hygiene, and the follies of fashion."
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               
                  The Morning Mail—A Letter to Mrs. Cleveland—Strange Contents—Ida's Letter
                     Bag—Appeals for Money, for Clothing, and for her Hand—An Original Letter from a
                     Trapper.
               
               
                  July 12.
               
               GOING to the post-office for the morning mail is, I think, our greatest daily
                  pleasure. For some reason, we seldom have many letters by our second mail, the
                  6.30 P.M. train, but in the morning our box is always well filled, for we receive
                  regularly the dear daily Tribune, six weekly journals, and the
                  leading magazines, and as we all have quite a number of correspondents, we feel
                  deeply aggrieved if our box is not filled to repletion at least once
                  a day.
               Ida, of course, is blessed with the greatest number of letters in the family, for
                  besides those from her own and her father's friends, 
                     "The cry is, still they come!"
                   in shoals from unknown people of high and low degree, sometimes containing
                  merely poems, or expressions of sympathy and interest in the sad history of our
                  beautiful cousin, but varied occasionally by some of the extraordinary appeals for help which I have
                  already mentioned.
               This morning I went down to the office when the mail came in. There was the usual
                  number of expectant faces—Miss Murray and Miss Cox in their carriages, and our
                  more rural neighbors standing about the pigeon-hole; however, every one makes way
                  for us in Chappaqua, and I approached nearer, and asked for our letters. A very
                  rough-looking man standing near by, looked on with interest while the post-master
                  handed out letter after letter, and finally said:
               "You belong to the family, do you not?"
               "Yes," I said, for I always answer the rustic salutations of the people about
                  here, knowing them to have had a sort of feudal attachment to uncle.
               "I thought a great deal of the old gentleman," he said with a rude pathos in his
                  voice that was very touching. "I used to see him very often, for I live in these
                  parts, and he always used to say good-morning so pleasant, and was never ashamed
                  to shake my dirty, hard hand!"
               This reminds me of a little incident that mamma related yesterday. She was
                  standing upon the balcony when an old gentleman who was driving past, seeing
                  mamma, stopped his horses, looked up and bowed, hesitated, and then said:
               "Excuse me, but is thee the sister of Horace Greeley that was?" Mamma
                  assented.
               "I thought so," he said, "I saw it in thy countenance."
               He then told mamma his name, and, after making a few remarks about uncle that
                  showed thoroughly good feeling, drove on.
               It is not uncommon for those driving past to slacken their horses and gaze
                  earnestly at the house, and, if any of us are upon the piazza or at the windows,
                  they always bow—a mark of respect that is also shown us by all the farmers and
                  working people about here.
               But I am forgetting Ida's letters. I brought her this morning as many as six or
                  eight, some of which were put up in yellow-brown envelopes, and directed in very
                  questionable chirography. In a few moments she knocked at mamma's door and
                  said,
               "I have brought you a few letters from some of my extraordinary correspondents,
                  Aunt Esther."
               "We will compare notes, my dear," said mamma, looking up from a rose-colored sheet
                  embellished with decidedly scrawly writing. "I have just received one that is
                  quite astounding."
               "From Tennessee," said Ida, looking at the post-mark. "I know the writing; that
                  man has sent me as many as half a dozen letters, wishing to enter into
                  correspondence. I suppose that finding me so unresponsive he thinks he will try
                  another member of the family."
               
               "He comes to the point in a most emphatic manner this time," said mamma, "by
                  asking me for your hand; and as the letter is really a curiosity in a literary
                  point of view, I will read it to you."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *I insert this and the subsequent letters precisely as they are written,
                     merely withholding some of the signatures.
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "NASHVILLE, TENN.
                           
                           "MRS. JOHN F. CLEVELAND:—I reckon I am one of the spoilt children of
                              the South, similar to what Mr. Greeley says of South Carolina. I want
                              to Marry Miss Ida, because she is the daughter of the most powerful
                              Man that has yet appeared on the American Continent. Mr. Greeley
                              turned four millions of slaves loose with the Pen can't I win his
                              daughter with the same facile weapon? Now Mrs. Cleveland won't you
                              help me? I am not a Humbug, I have too many bullet holes through my
                              body to be classed with that tribe of insects. I begin to feel a
                              little skittish about my age, 35 and not yet Married. Yet I have
                              always been rather a fatalist and incline to Worship some star. The
                              Greeks Worshiped the sun, And moon under the Name of Isis and Osiris,
                              but I am more like the Arab look to the stars for something sublime
                              and unchanging among all the bright lights that hang and move in the
                              firmament. The North Star Appears to be the most important. The Axis
                              on which our Earth daily turns. The point from which all Mariners
                              calculate culate their course in mid ocean, and safely guides Them
                              from continent to continent. Without the North Star there would be no
                              Magnetic Meridian by which Governments could be surveyed and divided
                              equitably to its inhabitants and civilization would lose its strong
                              hold in being based on Justice. If there is any South Star that plays
                              such an important part on this continent or Europe I have never heard
                              of it. Miss Ida is the North Star made so by the fact her father was
                              the great center around Which The whole country swung. And As she is
                              the oldest the crown of greatness ought to rest on her head. And if
                              she will Marry Me I will do as hard fighting as Cæsar did to put it
                              there. With great respects yours Truly
                           
                              "—— ——"
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This letter would have excited more astonishment than it did, had it not been only
                  a fair specimen of what Ida has been daily receiving since her father's death. She
                  then read us one from Indiana, addressed to herself, and written, as the
                  newspapers would say, with a view to matrimony, but couched in quite a
                  business-like strain:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MISS IDA GREELEY:
                           
                           "May I not surprise you by the fact that I desire an acquaintance with
                              you. I send you my photograph (which however is too light to be perfect), hoping yours in
                              return. If answered, I in my next will give my age and history
                              generally.
                           
                              "Yours truly"
                              —— ——."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Another was from a widow with a son at college, who was very badly in debt. The
                  mother appealed to Ida as a lady of fortune and generosity, and the only person to
                  whom they could look for aid, to pay the son's debts, "And," Ida added with mock
                  indignation, "she does not even promise that I shall be ultimately rewarded with
                  the young man's hand."
               A third was dated Illinois, and bore the sonorous signature of Greeley Barnum M——.
                  This epistle was extremely prolific, inasmuch as it gave the occupations, ages,
                  and a personal description of not only the immediate members of the writer's
                  family, but even extended to cousins once or twice removed. He had also much to
                  say about his name of Greeley; sometimes he was proud of it, and sometimes the
                  reverse, according to the company he was in. Passing over all this prelude, we
                  discovered that Greeley Barnum M——'s object in writing was to request a complete
                  outfit for his sister who was about to go to school. "You are a young Lady, Miss
                  Greeley," the writer touchingly said, "and know everything that my sister would be
                  likely to want." The clothes, he kindly intimated, could be put up in a box, and
                  sent by express, prepaid; and having done so, Ida was requested to notify his
                  sister and also an uncle and aunt at some distant point, that they might not be
                  distressed by thinking their niece was going to school without a suitable
                  outfit.
               The next letter that Ida took up was from a Kansas man, more modest in his
                  requests than the others, for he neither asked for her hand nor a loan, but being
                  anxious for self-improvement, solicited a little assistance from her in that line.
                  This letter was written in an even, flowing hand, with very few mis-spelt
                  words.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "WICHITA, KANSAS.
                              "MISS IDA GREELY:
                           
                           "Well, here is another fool, will no doubt be the first thought that
                              will pass through your mind, and it is quite likely that you may in
                              the main be correct.
                           "I have a very high regard for all womankind. I have read so much
                              about your sympathetic nature, I thought perhaps our sympathies might
                              be mutual in some respects.
                           "I am always desirous of improving, and have heretofore looked to much
                              to persons no better qualified than myself to instruct or improve in
                              correspondence of any kind. Knowing that you are educated and refined
                              I apply to you as a perfect Gentleman for a small portion of your time
                              say one half-hour in four weeks as a time set aside to answer any
                                 letter I might write, at
                              same time corract misspell'd words etc. And do it unreservedly. I am
                              formerly from the east: come west less than one year ago, have lost my
                              wife, am thirty years old, and like you without friends. In return for
                              your favor I can write you a description of this great Arkansas Valley
                              and county beyond, of the rapid growth of the country etc. which may
                              in part repay you for your trouble to please one lonely heart far from
                              home. Will not give you any description of Self or business unless I
                              receive some answer but will say that I am of good family, in good
                              business, and doing well.
                           
                              "With respect
                              "—— ——"
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Here is another letter that at all events is short," said Ida, continuing to
                  read:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MISS GREELEY:
                           
                           "For some years past your father very kindly gave me assistance during
                              three months of the year; if you can continue this, it will be a great
                              charity, as I am very much in need of it.
                           
                              "Yours respectfully
                              "—— ——"
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Have you not yet exhausted your mail?" inquired Gabrielle.
               "No," said Ida, "I have still two or three letters to read to Aunt Esther. Here is
                  one in which you will be interested, Gabrielle. The writer calls you familiarly
                  'Ellie': I think he must have read that very accurate description of you that went
                  the rounds of the papers last summer, in which you remember you are a shy and
                  shrinking flaxen-haired fawn. He would be quite surprised, I think, if he could
                  see what a majestic 'Ellie' you are."
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "ALLEGHANY CO. PENN.
                              "To whom it may concern:
                           
                           "Know ye that I have had a desire to know more about the Greeley girls
                              for several months, and that the desire for acquaintance became so
                              strong after meeting your father and sister a few nights since (while
                              sleeping) that I concluded to write.
                           "It seems to be Gabrielle's acquaintance I particularly desire, but
                              she being young and inexperienced I address you as her natural
                              guardian, allowing you to dispose of my communication as you think
                              best.
                           "Being what some folks call an eccentric individual; feeling
                                 lonely in the world, and believing, from what I know
                              of the laws of Hereditary Descent and your parents that you and your
                              sister must possess the noblest natures; and believing that no harm
                              but good—at least to me—can come from our acquaintance, I
                              write to ask a correspondence.
                           
                           "If you or 'Ellie' feel like sending a reply—well; if not, there shall
                              be no hard feelings, but it would be a satisfaction to me to know that
                              my letter had been received.
                           "Sincerely wishing you and all the world all happiness, I close.
                              Accept my warmest sympathy in your bereavement, and believe me to be
                              the friend of Humanity.
                           
                              "VICTOR MELVIN.
                           
                        
                        
                           "P. S. For reasons not necessary to mention, I write under an assumed
                              name.
                           
                              Write, PLEASE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The next one was from Chicago, addressed to Miss ida greeley. The writer said:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I am about to pen you a few lines, hopeing you will not receive them
                              in a contemptious manner, but rather in a business than a formal
                              way.
                           "Pleas to put the form of introduction and society regulations aside,
                              and consider your future happiness, pleasure and welfare only. I am
                              well aware that you are very much anoid and persecuted, thereby I mean
                              persistant attentions from undesirable persons; now my object at
                              present is to aid you in a manner that you can soon and forever shut
                              down on all disagreeable attentions.
                           "now I would suggest some beautiful locality in California or orogon
                              there to live a quiet retired life free from former acquaintances and
                              continnad anoyances ances. now if you think you could accept my
                              services, they are honorably tendered and would be kindly and heartily
                              given. Pleas to inform me at the earliest conveniance. Pleas to not
                              misinterpret my intentions.
                           
                              "yours in sincerity
                              "pleas to
                              
                                 "Address —— ——."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               After listening to this extraordinary epistle, mamma said dryly:
               "I think, my dear, that that is the strangest letter you have yet received."
               "It is nothing, auntie," was the reply, "to one I have in reserve, in which the
                  writer not only has a request to make, but actually proposes making
                     me a present; it is not, however, his hand, for a
                  wonder!"
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEERLODGE, MONTANA.
                              "TO MISS IDA GREELY:
                           
                           "Young lady I suppose you will be surprised at receiving a letter from
                              the frontier, my motive for writing is this. I am a mountaineer—that
                              is a trapper a good many years ago I met with your father Horace
                              Greely on the plains, and greatly admired the old gentleman. The way I
                              came to make his acquaintance is this. A drunken, unruly Cuss seeing
                              that your father appeared quiet and peaceable thought it safe to play
                              the bully at his expence so he commenced to insult and threaten Mr.
                              Greely in a pretty rough manner. Seeing that your father was quiet and
                              peaceable and did not wish to quarrel with the Cuss I took the Cuss in
                              hand, and spoiled his beauty for him, and taught him a lesson to mind
                              his own business. Mr. Greely greatly overated the trifleing service I
                              had done, he thanked me warmly, he became very friendly with me and
                              gave me good advice. Among other things he advised me to do was to get
                              a breach loading rifle instead of my muzlle loading rifle. I laughed
                              at the idea I supposed my old muzlle loader was the best. Since then I
                              have found out that Mr. Greely was right and that I was rong. Mr.
                              Greely at the time offered to purchase one and give it to me I refused
                              to accept it. He then told me any time I changed my mind to let him
                              know, and he would send me a good breech loading rifle. I have often
                              thought about it since, but never wrote to him. My reasons for writing
                              to you now are these; I and my partner Beaver Bob started down the
                              Yellow Stone last fall to trap near the Big Horn river. We were pretty
                              successful and made the Beaver mink martin and other vermin suffer—but
                              one day we were attaced by a hunting party of 15 or 20 Ogallala Sioux.
                              In the fight my old partner Beaver bob was wiped out I was wounded but
                              managed to make my escape and after a pretty hard time reached the
                              Mission on the head of the Yellow Stone —I mean near the head. I lost
                              my horses all my outfit in fact almost everything. When my ammunition
                              was expended—I mean used up—I threw my rifle away and took to the
                              brush and ran for it—I mean the chance of life. Lately I have heard
                              that Mr. Greely has handed in his chips—that is passed in his checks—I
                              mean gone to limbo you know. I'm sorry for the old man but we must all
                              go some time you know. and now miss what I want to know is will you
                              instead of your father send me a breech loading rifle. If you do I
                              shall be much obliged to you and if you don't I hope there is no harm
                              done. The kind of rifle I want is one of Sharps new improved shooting
                              rifles with a barrell 36 inches in length and a barrell 16 pound
                              weight Calibre 44. They are mad in Sharps factory Connetticot in a
                              place called Hartford. If one was sent to me by Wells and Fargoes
                              express to Deerlodge city Montana Territory, I should get it. The name
                              or rather the nickname by which I am known among mountain men is Death
                              Rifle. The redskins I mean the indians gave me that name many years in
                              Dacotah Territtory and it stuck to me ever since. My right name is
                              Hugh De Lacey so when you wish to address or direct any thing to me
                              direct to Hugh De Lacey, Deerlodge City, Montana. Miss Greely a great
                              many eastern men we remarked seem to think that we mountaineers are to
                              blame for having trouble with the redskins I can assure you we
                                 never bother the
                              infernal vermin only when they bother us and that is pretty often for
                              when they get a chance to go for our hair they take it no more at
                              present I remain
                           
                              "Yours respectfully
                              "HUGH DE LACEY.
                           
                        
                        
                           "N. B. I have heard you eastern ladies are in the habit of useing a
                              deal of false hair in your toilets if you choose miss Greely I will
                              send you a lot of indians hair any time you want it. I remain yours
                              respectfully
                           
                              "HUGH DE LACEY."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "It reads like a chapter from one of Cooper's novels," said mamma, "and the
                  romantic name of Hugh De Lacey would be more appropriate to the handsome young
                  descendant of some old Huguenot refugee family than such a rough trapper as your
                  correspondent 'Death Rifle;' but the present he offers you is most singularly
                  inappropriate; no one who had ever seen your wealth of hair, my child, would think
                  of presenting you with a chignon;" and as she spoke she loosened and shook out
                  Ida's heavy clusters of hair, which, released from their orderly Marguerite
                  braids, swept over her black dress like a tawny mantle.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               
                  Life in the Woods of Pennsylvania—Journey from Vermont to Pennsylvania in
                     1826—Travelling on Canal-boats—Incidents by the Way—Home in the
                     Wilderness—Aggressions of Bears and Wolves.
               
               
                  July 14.
               
               "AUNT ESTHER, in all the stories of your early days that you have told us, you
                  have not yet described your life in Pennsylvania," said Ida one evening, when we
                  were gathered about the piano. "Do tell us about it. You have once or twice merely
                  alluded to living in the woods, and my curiosity is quite excited. Were they
                  veritable forests? I do not remember hearing papa say much about them."
               Mamma smiled sadly.
               "What makes you think of Pennsylvania to-night, my child?" she asked.
               "I do not know, auntie," was the reply, "unless perhaps it was hearing Cecilia
                  sing 'My love is like the red, red rose.' You told me, I remember, that grandmamma
                  used often to sing that pretty little Scotch ballad."
               "Yes, it was one of mother's favorite songs," said mamma. "I can remember
                  perfectly the way she used to sing it.
                  Not in your English version, Cecilia, but with Burns' own Scotch words, and in her
                  sweet, low voice, with a ring of passion that one rarely hears in a drawing-room
                  at the present day. As Charles Reade says of one of his heroines, 'She sung the
                  music for the sake of the words, not the words for the sake of the music—which is
                  something very rare.'
               "I am not surprised that you have never heard your papa say much of our life in
                  Pennsylvania, for you remember that he did not accompany us there, but only made
                  us occasional visits. Before we left Vermont father had already apprenticed him,
                  at his earnest desire, to the publishers of the North American
                     Spectator, at Poultney, and brother Barnes (who is fifteen months his
                  junior) then took his place in the household. I think that your papa had been some
                  time in the Spectator office before our departure for the woods, in
                  September."
               "Yes," said Marguerite, who always remembers dates; "he was apprenticed the April
                  before you left, and came over to Westhaven to bid you all good-by. I remember
                  what he says of the parting in his 'Recollections:'*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Page 62.
               
               "'It was a sad parting. We had seen hard times together, and were very fondly
                  attached to each other. I was urged by some of my kindred to give up Poultney ney
                  (where there were some things in the office not exactly to my mind), and accompany
                  them to their new home, whence, they urged, I could easily find in its vicinity
                  another and better chance to learn my chosen trade. I was strongly tempted to
                  comply, but it would have been bad faith to do so; and I turned my face once more
                  towards Poultney, with dry eyes but a heavy heart. A word from my mother, at the
                  critical moment, might have overcome my resolution. But she did not speak it, and
                  I went my way, leaving the family soon to travel much farther and in an opposite
                  direction. After the parting was over, and I well on my way, I was strongly
                  tempted to return; and my walk back to Poultney (twelve miles) was one of the
                  slowest and saddest of my life.'
               "Do commence at the beginning, mamma," Marguerite continued, "and tell us all
                  about the journey to Pennsylvania, and how your new home looked when you arrived.
                  How large was the family then? Aunt Margaret was born in Vermont, was she
                  not?"
               "Yes, and a very pretty little creature she was," said mamma, with a sister's
                  pride in the youngest of the family. "She was extremely small for her age—indeed,
                  she weighed only three pounds and a half at her birth, and I recollect hearing
                  some one say that the nurse put her into the family coffee-pot and shut down the
                  lid."
               "The coffee-pot!" we all exclaimed, in chorus. "Pray how large was it? Somewhat over the ordinary
                  size, I trust."
               Mamma laughed. "Yes, it was larger than coffee-pots of the present day," she said;
                  "an old-fashioned tin coffee-pot, broad at the bottom and gradually narrowing
                  towards the top. But still it was extraordinary that a baby could be put in it,
                  and the lid shut down."
               "What induced grandpapa to select Pennsylvania for a residence, Aunt Esther?"
                  inquired Ida. "Was land cheaper there than elsewhere?"
               "You have answered your question yourself, dear," was mamma's reply. "Land was
                  very cheap there, and through our careful economy in Vermont, father had saved
                  enough money to buy about two hundred acres, to which he subsequently added, from
                  time to time, so that the old Greeley homestead now consists of between three and
                  four hundred acres. Then two of father's brothers, Uncle Benjamin and Uncle
                  Leonard, had settled in Wayne township three or four years previous, and, to use
                  your papa's words, had 'made holes in the tall, dense forest that covered nearly
                  all that region for twenty to fifty miles in every direction.' Father went to
                  Pennsylvania in advance of us, bought his land, and then returned to fetch us to
                  our new home.
               "I remember seeing mother weep bitterly when she left Vermont; but, as ever
                  through her brave life, she made no complaint. As for myself, I remember no
                  regrets, save at parting with dear brother; for I was too young to feel other than
                  childish exultation at the prospect of making a long journey; and that journey
                  from Vermont to our new home upon the 'State line,' between New York and
                  Pennsylvania, I must here remark, occupied a month. Locomotion, you see, was not
                  so rapid in the year 1826 as it is now."
               "I should think not!" exclaimed Gabrielle. "Pray, auntie, in what way did you
                  travel to advance at such a snail's pace? I should think you could almost have
                  walked the distance in that length of time."
               "You will be amused when I tell you the length of the first day's journey,"
                  replied mamma. "Father hired a large wagon, and stowed away our trunks, furniture,
                  and all of his family in it, and we went as far as Whitehall, a distance of about
                  nine miles. Here we stopped over night, and the next day took the boat for Troy,
                  where we again broke the journey after travelling, I believe, two days. At that
                  time there were no regular ferry-boats to cross the river from East to West Troy,
                  and passengers were taken over in row-boats. I remember that the boatmen stood by
                  the river-side and called all day and night:
               "'Over, over, over, going o-o-o-o-ver!' to attract custom.
               "Now came the most delightful part of the journey—going from Troy to Buffalo upon
                  the canal-boat. There were two
                  different kinds of boats that went between those cities; the packet-boats,
                  carrying the mails and passengers but no freight, and the line-boats, which took
                  both freight and passengers, and were consequently cheaper. These were used by
                  people like ourselves, who were moving from one part of the country to the other,
                  with furniture, who wished to economize, and to whom time was no object; for the
                  packet-boats travelled twice or thrice as rapidly as the line-boats.
               "I think I never enjoyed myself so thoroughly when a child, as at that time. My
                  sisters and I were much petted by the captain and the passengers; and the
                  excitement of being on the water, and the constant change of scene, kept up our
                  spirits to the highest pitch. Margaret, who was then four years old, was, I
                  remember, an especial favorite on the boat; for she was extremely pretty, with her
                  fragile, doll-like figure, her clear complexion, bright blue eyes, and reddish
                  gold curls. She inherited the family talent for spelling, and was very fond of
                  displaying her accomplishments in that line; for sister Margaret was a very
                  self-possessed little creature, and was afraid of no one—not even of father
                  himself. I recollect that when the boat stopped at any small town to take on
                  passengers, Margaret's bright eyes would if possible discover a shop with the sign
                  'Grocery;' and then, going up to some one of her new friends, would gravely spell
                  'G-r-o, gro, c-e, ce, groce, r-y, ry, grocery;' followed usually by an intimation
                  that a reward of merit would be acceptable. She was so extremely small for her
                  age, that her achievement of spelling a three-syllable word was looked upon as
                  something marvellous by the passengers, and some one would immediately take her
                  ashore, and buy her some candy or fruit from the grocery.
               "Another incident that impressed itself strongly upon me during this journey, was
                  eating a peach for the first time. I had never seen a peach in either New
                  Hampshire or Vermont.
               "But, during those long September days that we children spent running over the
                  boat, and indulging in all sorts of wild mischief, poor mother had by no means an
                  easy life. It was impossible for her to keep us together and under her eyes; and
                  what with the fear that we might fall overboard, or meet with some accident from
                  the bridges, I know that she only looked forward to the time when the journey
                  should be over, and we safe on land again."
               "The bridges, mamma!" said Marguerite, "to what danger were you exposed from
                  them?"
               "The bridges crossing the canal," explained mamma, "were so extremely low, that no
                  one upon the boat could stand upright; often the boat could barely glide under
                  them without grazing the rails of the deck. The captain used to keep on the
                  lookout, and as we approached one,
                  would call, 'Bridge ahead.' Then the women and children would rush down the
                  staircase to the little cabin, and the gentlemen would usually throw themselves at
                  full length upon the deck until the bridge was passed. That was always a moment of
                  terrible anxiety for poor mother if we were out of sight; for accidents and even
                  loss of life had been known to occur; indeed, on father's previous journey, he
                  witnessed an accident of a most terrible character. A woman, who was going only a
                  short distance in the boat, was very much afraid that she would be taken past the
                  town where she wished to stop, and paid no attention to the warning to go below as
                  they approached a bridge. The captain, seeing the danger she was in, seized her by
                  the arm, and thrust her downstairs. She rushed up, and he again pulled her down.
                  Confident that she was about to be taken past her destination, the poor woman for
                  the third time broke away from him, and reached the deck just in time to be struck
                  by the bridge and instantly killed."
               "Frightful!" said Marguerite with a shudder. "Tell us about the rest of your
                  journey, mamma. How did you travel after you left Buffalo? Upon Lake Erie, I
                  suppose?"
               "No, indeed!" replied mamma, "although there were at that time steamboats upon the
                  lake; but father had had so terrible an experience upon his previous vious
                  journey, that he would not subject his family to the caprices of Lake Erie. He had
                  started from Buffalo upon a schooner, but a dreadful storm arose, in which the
                  boat struggled for three days and was then obliged to put back to Buffalo a
                  complete wreck. Father declared at that time that he would never expose his family
                  to the hair-breadth escape from death that he had undergone; consequently, he
                  hired a strong wagon at Buffalo, and we travelled along what was called the 'Lake
                  Shore Road' to the town of North East, whence we took a southern course to
                  Wattsburgh.
               "When at Wattsburgh, we were only eight miles distant from our destination, but as
                  we were now to leave the main road and plunge into the deep forest, father
                  exchanged his horses and wagon for a heavy wooden sled and a yoke of oxen. Then we
                  commenced to realize what our new life was to be. There was no road through the
                  woods, and the only indication of the route was blazed or marked trees. Huge logs,
                  so high that the oxen could barely step over them, lay occasionally across our
                  path, and from time to time we had to stop while father and brother Barnes hewed
                  down the trees that obstructed the way. We children thought this pioneer episode
                  even preferable to our experience upon the boat, but I remember that dear mother
                  sighed often and deeply.
               "At the close of the second day, the eight miles were accomplished, and we reached father's
                  property. He had bought with the land a rough little log-house, or rather hut, as
                  it had but one room, and in this we were to live until he could build a better
                  one. At the sight of her dreary home, mother's heart fairly sunk, and I shall
                  never forget her tears."
               Mamma paused for a moment; then steadying her voice, said:
               "I am prouder than ever of my mother when I think how nobly she bore the
                  separation from her darling son, and her exile from her family, and, you may
                  almost say, from civilization. She could not, at first, it is true, restrain her
                  tears, but from that moment never a murmur of complaint crossed her brave lips,
                  and we children never dreamed, till years later, how keenly she felt the sacrifice
                  that she had been compelled to make."
               "But were you really so far out of the world, Aunt Esther?" inquired Ida. "Did you
                  have no neighbors at all? We had two uncles there, I thought. Surely they must
                  have been some society for grandmamma?"
               "I do not believe," mamma replied, "that any other spot upon the globe, not even
                  Robinson Crusoe's island, could now seem so desolate and shut off from all
                  communication as our home in the woods did then. You must remember that there were
                  no railways in 1826, which fact made us still more remote from the rest of the
                  world. Now, with the railways spreading in every direction over our vast Republic,
                  you can scarcely imagine what it was to live with an almost impenetrable forest
                  between yourself and your nearest neighbor. Uncle Benjamin occupied what was
                  called the 'next lot,' and had the ground been cleared, the distance from us would
                  still have been three-quarters of a mile; but when the distance was increased
                  threefold by the darkness of the forest, and there was in addition every
                  probability of meeting a bear or two on the way, you can imagine that being
                  neighborly was scarcely practicable."
               "Bears!" exclaimed Gabrielle, her eyes sparkling with excitement; "how lovely!
                  Darling auntie, do tell us more about them. It must have been like one of Captain
                  Mayne Reid's stories, to live in that delightful Pennsylvania!"
               "Our life there," said mamma, "certainly equalled the wildest tales of adventures
                  experienced by early settlers that I have ever read, and we children found it
                  quite as 'lovely' as you imagine it to have been. We never felt
                  isolated, although our entire 'clearing' consisted of only four acres, upon which
                  our house stood, and any further prospect was shut out by the woods. To us it was
                  delightful to realize the adventures of Robinson Crusoe, which, as I told you,
                  brother had read to us in Vermont, merely changing tropical animals and scenery
                  for that of the North. I do not
                  remember ever being afraid, but the wolves, who nightly howled in gangs about our
                  slightly built house, the bears who ate up the corn in our little patch, the
                  porcupines who gnawed the hoops off our pork barrels, and the frightful, screaming
                  owls, struck terror to poor mother's heart.
               "I recollect that one night father went out to drive away a porcupine whose teeth
                  and claws he heard busily at work upon a barrel hoop, but the creature rushed into
                  the house through the open door, and ran across the trundle bed where sister
                  Arminda and I slept. I need not tell you how dangerous it would have been had one
                  of his quills penetrated our flesh."
               "Do go on, auntie; this is delightful," said Gabrielle.
               "When father had paid for his land," said mamma, "and bought a yoke of oxen and a
                  cow—two essential things for a farmer—he had very little, if any, money left.
                  There was no danger, however, that we should suffer from want, for the woods were
                  so full of game that father would take his gun in the morning and go out to shoot
                  something for dinner with the same confidence that he would have gone to a market
                  to buy it. Partridges and pigeons in the greatest abundance formed our daily fare,
                  while the deer used to walk into our corn-patch and almost offer themselves as
                  targets for father's or brother Barnes' gun. Venison, I recollect, was so
                  plentiful that a farmer, after shooting a deer, would only trouble himself to
                  fetch home the hind-quarters and hide—the latter being-marketable. In the spring
                  there were cowslips and other wood plants in abundance, which made a delicious
                  substitute for spinach. Tea was very scarce with us, and was kept for Sundays; but
                  beech nuts, burnt and ground, made a very palatable coffee, that formed our daily
                  beverage. Butter must have been an unmarketable article, for I remember that
                  during the first three years we spent there, it sold for six cents a pound."
               "Did you grow anything on the farm to sell, mamma?" I inquired. "I suppose not,
                  during the first years."
               "No," said mamma; "and if we had, there would have been no market for it."
               "Then what did you do for money, Aunt Esther?" said Ida. "Grandpapa had very
                  little, you say."
               "I must not forget," said mamma, "that we had one marketable
                  production, and one that you would not easily guess.
               "I wonder, Gabrielle, if your favorite chemistry goes back so far into elementary
                  principles, as to tell you from what black salts are made? School-books seldom, I
                  think, trouble themselves with the origin of things, so I will tell you that after
                  the great logs were burnt that father had felled in clearing, the ashes were
                  collected and leeched, and the lye boiled down in immense cauldrons till it became
                  granulated like sugar. It then formed
                  what was called 'black salts,' and these salts are the basis of potash, soda, etc.
                  The salts could always find a ready market, and with them we paid our taxes, and
                  bought what necessaries we could not raise ourselves."
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               
                  A Birthday—A Surprise—The Day celebrated by a Dinner—An Awkward Mistake—A Queen
                     of Fashion—A Drive to Tarrytown—A Poem to Ida.
               
               
                  
                     July 16.
                  
                  AN air of mystery has pervaded the house for the past week. My offers to take
                     Ida's letters to the post, or to go and fetch home the mail, have been met with
                     a hasty negative, and Minna despatched forthwith to attend to them; and
                     whenever I might enter Ida's room, it would appear to be at a most inopportune
                     moment, for the earnest conversation that had been going on between herself and
                     Gabrielle would instantly stop, and their countenances assume a most
                     transparent expression of indifference. Long whispered conversations with mamma
                     were continually taking place, and Ida seemed to be more frequently called to
                     the kitchen by Lina than I had ever before known her to be, that autocrat being
                     ordinarily by no means tolerant of her presence there. Finally, Ida was
                     summoned to New York upon important business—to meet her lawyer, I supposed,
                     but wondered why she did not simply authorize papa to represent herself, as well as Gabrielle, whose guardian
                     he is, and thus spare herself a tedious day in the city in such sultry
                     weather.
                  Yesterday was my birthday, and to-day is Marguerite's. As the fêtes occur in
                     midsummer, we are usually—if in America—upon the Catskill Mountains, or some
                     equally inaccessible place, so that a celebration is not practicable; indeed,
                     our birthdays have not been celebrated since 1869, when some friends in Paris
                     took us all to St. Germain, where we passed a most delightful week at the
                     Pavillon Henri Quatre (a hotel built upon the spot where Louis XIV. was born),
                     and daily drove and picniced in the grand old forest for which St. Germain is
                     noted. The events of yesterday were therefore most unexpected and
                     agreeable.
                  Ida and Gabrielle, after congratulating Marguerite and I, and giving us some
                     elegant presents (for we usually receive our presents upon the same day, as
                     less than twenty-four hours separate our anniversaries), asked us to drive down
                     to the station with them to meet the train, and gently intimated that as some
                     one might come up from New York with papa, we had better put on our best
                     bombazines. Quite obediently I went upstairs, put on the dress with its weight
                     of crape, clasped on my new black velvet ceinture, with its buckles of oxidized silver in delicate
                     filagree work, (Marguerite's gift), and obtuse to the inappropriateness of a
                     dress fan for morning use, suspended from the châtelaine another birthday
                     gift—a black lace fan. Then, when I had put the finishing touch, in the shape
                     of dear Ida's present—a vinaigrette of oxidized silver formed like a
                     half-furled fan—I was quite satisfied with my toilette; before the day was
                     over, however, my ceinture was adorned with a
                     tortoise-shell châtelaine, whistle, and tablets, as well as a dainty
                     riding-whip—papa's present—and I deeply mourned the impossibility of wearing
                     two beautiful pictures, a new novel, and a large box of lauch's best
                     bonbons.
                  When the train arrived, papa emerged, followed by our artist neighbor, Mr. John
                     Hows.
                  "Why, papa has brought up Mr. Hows!" I said. "How very—"my exclamation of
                     pleasure was checked by surprise at the appearance of his brother, the musical
                     editor of the Express, followed by our friends, Dr. Taylor and
                     Colonel Rogers.
                  "Is this a surprise party?" Marguerite and I inquired blankly.
                  My dear friend Lela Paraf then tripped out, assisted by her elegant husband,
                     and followed by Mr. Eugene Durkee and his brother, two Paris friends of ours.
                     Then the car door opened once more, and "our young chief," as papa calls Mr.
                     Reid, and Colonel Hay issued—a surprise party indeed.
                  Ida had intended to invite only a few young gentlemen to spend the day with us,
                     fearing that if she sent out invitations to ladies to dinner, some
                        enterprising reporter might
                     announce that she had given at least a fête
                        champêtre, if not a bal masqué,
                     which in our deep mourning would not be an agreeable report to be in
                     circulation; but Lela is so charming and dear to us all, and has remained so
                     faithfully my most intimate friend for the last six months, notwithstanding the
                     rival that I dreaded in her husband, that Ida made an exception for her.
                  As we were marshalling our regiment to return to the house, a tall, dark,
                     distinguished-looking gentleman, elegantly dressed, hastened towards us. Who he
                     was I could not imagine, but as his face seemed familiar, I welcomed him with a
                     beaming smile. He must, however, be very near-sighted, I thought, for he
                     overlooked my extended hand, merely bowing very low, and going on towards the
                     house.
                  "Who is he, Ida?" I said in a whisper; "I don't remember his name."
                  "I suppose not," said Ida, laughing; "though you have seen him often enough. It
                     is Emile, from Delmonico's. I sent for him to help Minna serve the table."
                  I was no longer surprised that my distinguished-looking gentleman did not shake
                     hands with me.
                  When we were upon the croquet ground, I had an opportunity to admire Lela's
                     toilette. A born Queen of Fashion, her dresses even when as a school-girl were
                     my admiration, and her toilette for my birthday showed the refinement of
                     delicacy and taste: for, not wishing to be the only lady present in colors, she
                     wore a black grenadine, with black bows and a black lace hat; her diamond
                     ear-drops and one half-blown deep red rose alone testifying that her mourning
                     robe was only worn through sympathy.
                  We had sat three hours at the table, and were lingering over the ices and
                     awaiting the coffee and fruit, when a shrill whistle, warning the guests that
                     the train was nigh, caused a flight more rapid than that of Cinderella.
                     Farewells were left unspoken, and "French leave" taken in good earnest, as our
                     friends made a short cut through the garden of Bischoff, the trainmaster, who
                     lives opposite us. Their departure could scarcely be said to be graceful, but
                     as they had only three minutes' time to meet the train, it was obligatory.
                  Lina had exercised all of her art in preparing the birthday dinner, and as Ida
                     gave her carte blanche in her most
                     extravagant demands—such as twenty pounds of beef for gravies, and an entire
                     bottle of Madeira for the soup, the dinner was very elegant and satisfactory.
                     Lina would, I fancy, have been much aggrieved, had she known that her artistic
                     dishes were supposed to have been sent up from Delmonico's.
               
               
                  
                     July 20.
                  
                  A drive to Tarrytown to-day. After two months of inland air, the change to the
                     exhilarating salt breeze blowing up
                     from the Hudson was very refreshing, and made us quite regret, during the few
                     hours we spent there, that Chappaqua could not be occasionally transported to
                     the seaside.
                  "I am especially fond," said Ida, "of living by the sea, although I do not
                     enjoy an ocean voyage; but a cottage at Newport is my ideal home for the
                     summer."
                  "Newport air," said mamma, "would, I think, be too strong for me. The most
                     agreeable sea air that I ever experienced was upon the Isle of Wight. There the
                     climate was so mild as to be very beneficial to me. But you must know as much
                     or more than I do about the Isle of Wight air, for you spent several months
                     there with your mother when last in Europe, did you not?"
                  "Yes, we spent a winter and spring at Ventnor," said Ida; "that town, you know,
                     is especially recommended to people with lung troubles, although I could never
                     see that it did poor mamma much good."
                  "Did you ever see, Aunt Esther," inquired Gabrielle, "the poem that was
                     addressed to Ida while she was at Ventnor?"
                  Mamma had not before heard of it; therefore, upon our return, Ida took it out
                     of her portfolio, and showed it to us. It was written by a New York editor and
                     poet, and was, we all thought, very beautiful and appropriate. As it was in
                     MSS., Ida allowed me to copy it into my journal.
               
               
                  A FAMILIAR IDYL.
                  FOR IDA LILLIAN GREELEY.
                  
                     Dear friend! If I could step to-day
                     Upon your cosey English isle,
                     Victoria's chosen home erewhile,
                     And hallowed by the Laureate's lay;
                  
                  
                     Though beauty breaks from every view,
                     And one long splendor edge the shore,
                     I should not pause an hour before
                     I touched the terrace graced by you.
                  
                  
                     For what's a Queen's or Poet's worth?
                     The light that lies on land and sea
                     Resplendent? Dearer far to me
                     The friendship which outweighs the earth.
                  
                  
                     Should I not find you—happy chance—
                     Just where your ivied cottage stands,
                     Dreaming with hope of western lands,
                     Or facing torn and tortured France?
                  
                  
                     And you could tell of sunny days?
                     Of chalky cliffs and spreading downs;
                     Nature is more than bustling towns,
                     And country life than city ways.
                  
                  
                     But hearing now a robin sing,
                     I wonder if his English mate
                     May not be hopping near your gate,
                     A harbinger, with ours, of Spring.
                  
                  
                  
                     I know the precious charge you hold;
                     But now, when comes the budding year,
                     I wish the rather you were here
                     To see our leafy months unfold.
                  
                  
                     To watch the coming choir of birds,
                     And note the lengthening twilight hours,
                     The miracles of buds and flowers,
                     And tender shows too sweet for words.
                  
                  
                     But you who hear the throstle sing,
                     And greet the lark's high ecstasies,
                     May learn to care no more for these,
                     And spurn each weaker voice and wing.
                  
                  
                     I will not think it—home is home;
                     And much as other skies may do,
                     Ours will not reach its sweetest blue,
                     Nor May seem perfect, till you come.
                  
                  
                     March 1, 1871.
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               
                  Gabrielle and her Embroidery—Life in Pennsylvania
                     continued—Sugar-making—Horrible Incident—A Woman devoured by Wolves—A Domestic
                     Picture—Evening Readings—The Library of Mr. Greeley's Father—Mr. Greeley's
                     Mother intellectually considered—Her Education—Mr. Greeley's Eldest Sister—She
                     teaches School at the Age of Twelve.
               
               
                  July 25.
               
               "IT is some time, auntie," said Gabrielle, from the sofa, "since you have told us
                  any stories. Now I wish that this evening, while I am working upon my pin-cushion,
                  you would relate some more episodes of your Pennsylvania life;" and she opened her
                  work box, and took out a little roll of canvas, upon which she was busy
                  delineating in pale yellow wool a stiff little canary, with a surprising eye, and
                  an impossible tail.
               "I have forgotten what I have already related, dear," replied mamma; "you must
                  tell me where to take up my story."
               "You left off at the manufacture of black salts," said Gabrielle, "and I want you
                  to commence at that very point, and not forget anything that occurred."
               
               "Perhaps you would like to hear about sugar making," said mamma; "that was one of
                  father's yearly enterprises, and great sport we young people thought it."
               "Oh, do tell us about it," said Gabrielle, with sparkling eyes; "that will be
                  delightful; almost as good as meeting a bear."
               "Although not so exciting, I fear," said mamma, laughing; "I am sorry that I have
                  no encounters with bears to meet your demands for thrilling adventures to-night;
                  but if, as I suppose, you have never seen the process of sugar making, you will
                  find an account of it quite interesting."
               "Father had upon his extensive acres hundreds of grand old forest maples, which,
                  growing as they did, in patches in the wilderness, formed what were called in
                  country parlance 'sugar bushes,' or, in the more elegant language of books, 'sugar
                  orchards.' Early in the spring, when the sun stood high, and the snow began to
                  melt, the maples would be 'tapped,' as the farmers say; sometimes by boring into
                  them, and often by driving in a chisel; then a wooden spout would be inserted
                  through which the sweet sap would begin to trickle down into the troughs placed
                  there to receive it. From these troughs it was collected and carried in buckets
                  and pails to an immense receptacle hollowed out of the trunk of some great tree;
                  usually selecting what was called the 'cucumber tree,' as its soft wood could be
                  more easily excavated than that of other trees. The men used to wear a yoke upon
                  their shoulders with hooks from which the pails were suspended; and thus equipped
                  they would traverse to and fro with the sap. I well remember lending my assistance
                  to father by trudging valiantly through snow that reached my knees, to carry
                  buckets of sap, but without the assistance of a yoke.
               "The process of making sugar is very like that I described in the manufacture of
                  black salts. The sap is poured into immense cauldrons, and boils sometimes for
                  several days. As fast as it evaporates, fresh sap is poured in until the syrup
                  becomes thick, and then follows granulation, or, as the farmers call it, 'sugaring
                  off.' These periods of sugaring off, which occurred usually once or twice a week
                  during the sugar season, were participated in by the neighbors from far and near,
                  who would come to eat sugar and make merry.
               "I forgot, however, to tell you that while the sap was boiling, some one had to
                  spend the night in the woods to refill the cauldron, and to keep up the fire. In
                  our family this duty fell to brother Barnes, who took much delight in it. With
                  some boy friend he would camp out upon a bundle of straw before the fire, and with
                  a nice supper, and songs and stories, diversified by rising every half hour to
                  stir up the fire, and watch the cauldron, and to have a private sugaring ing off for their own benefit, the boys
                  would pass away the night.
               "But were they in no danger from wild animals, mamma?" inquired Marguerite.
               "Not much," replied mamma; "the boys always took their guns with them, but
                  although the deer would rustle over the leaves, and bears and wolves would creep
                  softly up to the little encampment, the fire was usually sufficient protection,
                  and the wolves would content themselves with howling, and with a dissatisfied
                  grunt the bears would move slowly away.
               "Often the boys would see through the darkness a pair of fiery eyes glaring at
                  them, and seizing their rifles they would shoot; but if they missed aim, the bears
                  or wolves would have been sufficiently alarmed by the noise to make their escape
                  whilst they could. Boys accustomed to a pioneer's life feared nothing; such
                  adventures were as great sport to them in the woods, as they are to you,
                  Gabrielle, while listening to them safely housed."
               "But in novels, and books of travel in new countries, auntie," said Gabrielle with
                  a dissatisfied shake of her pretty head, "when you fire at a bear or other wild
                  animal and do not kill him, he instantly turns and kills you. Were
                  the bears and wolves of Pennsylvania less ferocious than those of other
                  countries?"
               "They did not often seem bloodthirsty," replied mamma, "for the reason, I suppose,
                  that the woods were full of smaller animals on which they could prey, and
                  consequently they did not need to attack human beings for sustenance. I remember,
                  however, one incident that may perhaps satisfy your desire for more
                  thrilling adventures.
               "An old woman living near what was called 'the Carter settlement,' some six miles
                  from us, started to pay a visit to a friend in the next 'clearing.' To reach her
                  destination she had to pass through the densest part of the forest, with no
                  indication of a path to guide her: but she never thought of danger as she started
                  upon her long, lonely walk.
               "Several days elapsed before it was fairly realized that the old lady was missing;
                  and then the neighbors started en masse through
                  the forest with tin pans, tin horns, and stalwart lungs, to look for her. Their
                  shouts met with no response, but after a long search they met a pack of wolves who
                  fled rapidly past them. Fairly alarmed now lest the old woman should have perished
                  from fatigue and exposure, they pursued the search with desperate haste, and not
                  far from the spot where they had met the wolves, found some scraps of a dress that
                  was recognized as her's, a few bones, and her feet, which, encased as they were in
                  stout boots, the wolves had disdained to devour. Whether the old woman had fallen
                  a live victim to the wolves, or had died of hunger and fatigue and then furnished
                  a repast to them, we never knew; this latter supposition tion, however, seemed hardly probable, for she
                  could have found in the woods wild berries, succulent roots, and water sufficient
                  to subsist upon for several days."
               A shiver of horror went around our little circle, and even Gabrielle's love for
                  the terrible was satisfied.
               After a short pause, Marguerite said:
               "You must often have felt lonely, mamma, did you not, living so far away from all
                  places of amusement, lectures, and the like? Indeed, I suppose that buried as you
                  were in the woods, you did not even have the excitement of going to church."
               "No," said mamma; "we were dependent for entertainment entirely upon our own
                  resources and the few books we had brought with us from Vermont; but we children
                  were never conscious of a lonely hour, and if dear mother felt sad and weary of
                  our uneventful life, we never knew it.
               "We worked hard all day, every one of us, even little Margaret having something to
                  do; but in the evening we had a change of occupation. At twilight, when father and
                  brother Barnes had come home, and our early supper was over, father would say:
               "'Mary, what have you to read to us to-night?'
               "Immediately fresh logs would be piled up in the great open fireplace, the candles
                  lighted, we girls would draw up to the table with our knitting or sewing, Barnes
                  would throw himself down before the fire, and mother would take up a book for the
                  evening's ing's reading. This reading was as much a part of the routine of the day
                  as dinner or supper, and was indeed our only means of culture that winter, distant
                  as we were from schools and all other educational advantages. Mother always
                  monopolized the position of reader; indeed, until after her death, father seldom
                  read a book, but contented himself with being a listener."
               "And was he a good listener, mamma?" I inquired, "or did he stop grandmamma from
                  time to time to comment upon the author and the events?"
               "Father's intentions were the best in the world," replied mamma smiling, "but you
                  must remember that he would sit down to listen, completely exhausted from a day's
                  work that had commenced with the first tinge of dawn, and before very long,
                  soothed by mother's musical voice, his breathing would become more and more
                  audible, and his head commence to nod. Quite patiently mother would continue her
                  chapter, feigning not to be conscious of the heavy breathing that proceeded from
                  the arm-chair, and often from the boyish figure stretched before the fire, until
                  their slumber would become too apparent, when, closing the book, she
                  would call them severely to task for their inattention.
               "Rubbing his eyes, father would rouse up, and indignantly refuting the accusation,
                  declare that he had heard every word.
               
               "Instantly putting him to the test, mother would inquire what she had been reading
                  about?
               "After a moment of deep reflection, father would say penitently:
               "'Well, Mary, if you will just read back a page or two, I will remember all about
                  it.'
               "Very indulgently mother would turn back, but often before she had reached the
                  former stopping-place, father's breathing would announce that he was again resting
                  from the hard day's toil.
               "Barnes was somewhat better as a listener, but he, like father, worked hard, and
                  it was often difficult for him to keep awake during the reading of history or
                  novels; but we three girls were a most interested audience, and somewhat
                  compensated for masculine inattention.
               "But father was not always drowsy; at times he would listen with keen interest to
                  the evening reading, and very much vexed he would be if the arrival of any
                  neighbor should put a stop to it.
               "'My wife is reading something extremely interesting to us,' he would artfully
                  say; 'perhaps you would like to listen to it also?'
               "'By all means,' the unsuspecting visitor would reply, and not another opportunity
                  would he have to speak until it was time to take leave."
               "What books did grandmamma read to you?" inquired Marguerite. "You have mentioned
                  both history and novels, but without giving any names."
               "Your uncle," replied mamma, "supplied us with light literature from the resources
                  of the Spectator office—newspapers, pamphlets, periodicals, etc.,
                  and mother's own little library was sterling in its quality as her own
                  old-fashioned ballads; it was quite varied, too, considering how few volumes it
                  contained.
               "One of the books that I remember was Butler's 'History of the United States;' a
                  ponderous tome that I presume you children have never seen.
               "Another volume from which we derived much information and pleasure was a large
                  'Universal History;' the name of its author I have forgotten.
               "The 'History of the Jews,' by Josephus, was also a great favorite with mother;
                  this work did not, however, belong to us, but was lent us by your other
                  grandfather, Marguerite. Mr. Cleveland, a neighbor of ours, you know, had, like
                  us, a small library of standard books, which he was always glad to lend to an
                     appreciative reader.
               "The 'Wonders of Nature and Providence' was another book that I remember well, and
                  a 'Life of Napoleon,' by what author I do not know, but which was a source of
                  endless delight both to father and mother. The emperor, you know, had been dead
                  only since 1821, consequently his exploits were fresh in every one's memory, and
                  some of mother's most stirring ring
                  songs were about 'General Bonaparte.' You four children come legitimately by your
                  devotion to Napoleon, for both father and mother were enthusiastic in their
                  admiration for the great French hero.
               "Among our smaller books was a life of Prince Eugene of Savoy, and the memoirs of
                  Baron Trenck, whose romantic history we enjoyed as much as the most thrilling
                  novel.
               "As for novels, we had not many at that time, although the newspapers with which
                  brother furnished us usually contained serial stories that mother used to read
                  aloud. I remember, however, that mother owned 'Waverley,' 'Rob Roy,' and 'Francis
                  Berrian,' a romance of which father was especially fond, and all of which she read
                  to us.
               "For poetry, we had a volume of selections from English poets, accompanied with
                  brief sketches of their lives, a volume about two-thirds the size of Dana's
                  'Household Book of Poetry,' a copy of Cowper, whose poems mother particularly
                  liked, especially 'The Task'; a small, unbound copy of Byron's 'Corsair,' and a
                  volume of English songs, a collection that I have never since seen. This list
                  refers, you know, to our first years in the woods, and everything that I have
                  mentioned was read aloud to us by mother.
               "On Sundays we had a change of literature. Father, although not what would be
                  called a religious man, as he was not a member of any church, had a great respect
                  for the observance of the Sabbath, and unlike his less scrupulous neighbors,
                  rested from work on that day. The morning was devoted to reading the Bible, and in
                  the evening father would sing with his splendid voice, 'God of Israel,' the 'Rock
                  of Ages,' and other fine old psalm tunes. One hymn of which he was especially
                  fond, I remember commenced, 
                     
                        "'The day is past and gone,
                        The evening shades appear;
                        Oh, may we all remember well
                        The day of Death draws near.'
                     
                  
               
               "This he used to sing with great expression of devotion.
               "I have often wished that I had had the advantage of living in New York when a
                  child, but I would not now exchange a city education for the sweet memory of our
                  quiet evenings at home, and the sphere of intelligence and affection in which I
                  was nurtured."
               Mamma paused a moment, then continued:
               "These books that I have mentioned were not new to mother: she had read and knew
                  them almost by heart long before she commenced reading them to us, and her mind
                  was an inexhaustible source of knowledge. Although her school-days were limited,
                  she was not ignorant of the common branches. She had studied, she told me, the
                  'Ladies' Lexicon,' from which she had obtained a very thorough knowledge of English grammar. She wrote a trim
                  hand, she had a practical knowledge of arithmetic, and geography had claimed a
                  portion of her time in school; but what she had learnt there was but a
                  commencement. She must subsequently have studied astronomy, for she taught me
                  without books to recognize the planets and trace the constellations, and at any
                  hour of the night she could tell the time by looking at the position of the stars.
                  She had the talent for dates that you have inherited, Marguerite, and was
                  authority for the neighborhood upon all disputed points in politics since the days
                  of Washington; indeed, it was quite amusing to see the men all come to consult
                  'Aunt Mary' rather than father, when a knotty question arose."
               "As you have described grandmamma," said Marguerite, "she appears to be superior
                  to grandpapa. Do you so consider her?"
               "Mother was father's superior," replied mamma, "intellectually and morally. Father
                  was rather cold in his nature, but mother had a warm heart. She was an
                  enthusiastic friend, and she loved every living thing. I do not remember ever
                  hearing her speak an ill word of a neighbor, and I am sure she never had an enemy
                  in her life.
               "Though I do not call father warm-hearted, he certainly had great affection for
                  mother, and was sincerely attached to his family. I have heard him say that he
                  would walk all night, rather than stop short of his home.
               "Father was sometimes called by our neighbors a hard parent. He never was, it is
                  true, demonstrative in his affection, but he was strictly just, and never harsh in
                  his treatment of us. As I have often told you, he believed in work for himself and
                  his family, and I have heard him say that sooner than have a child of his grow up
                  idle, he would make him pick up stones in one lot, and throw them over into the
                  next one. He considered that he had been generous in allowing brother Horace to
                  leave home, or, as country people call it, 'giving him his time,' six years before
                  he became of age, and he was willing at any time to allow his daughters to seek
                  their fortunes away from home, should they desire to do so.
               "This winter of 1826-27 was the last one that we four children spent at home
                  together. The next year sister Arminda, although only twelve years old, opened a
                  school in the little log-house upon our west farm—"
               "When only twelve years old!" we interrupted in chorus; "pray whom did she teach?
                  Babies?"
               "No," replied mamma, "she had a dozen or fourteen pupils, little boys and girls,
                  some of whom were older than herself, for very young children could not have
                  walked that distance—three and four miles."
               "But I should think," interposed Gabrielle, "that the scholars would have felt more inclined to play
                  with Aunt Arminda, than to learn the lessons she gave them; she was such a
                  child."
               "Your aunt was tall and well-developed," replied mamma, "and had a natural air of
                  dignity that gave her the appearance of being older than she really was. She did
                  not find it difficult to impress her pupils with respect, or to enforce
                  obedience."
               "What did she teach them, Aunt Esther?" inquired Ida; "only the elementary
                  branches, I suppose?"
               "Reading, writing, and spelling," replied mamma; "arithmetic and grammar,
                  geography, sewing and knitting."
               "And how much did she make?" I inquired, being of a practical turn of mind at that
                  moment.
               "She was paid by the week," said mamma, "and received the same salary as the
                  majority of school-mistresses in those primeval days; seventy-five cents and her
                  board. She 'boarded around,' as the phrase was, among her pupils. This may seem
                  very little to you, but you must remember that in those days a good milch cow cost
                  only ten dollars, and everything else was proportionately cheap.
               "The next two winters, sister Arminda was in school herself, and the following
                  year, when she was fifteen, she was married to our handsome cousin Lovel, Uncle
                  Benjamin's son."
               Another exclamation of amazement from the little group, and a chorus of—
               "Married at fifteen! How surprising! And did she make a pretty bride?"
               "She was a very handsome girl," replied mamma, and made a striking contrast to her
                  blonde brothers and sisters, for she had a rich brunette complexion, large,
                  dark-blue eyes, glossy dark hair, and set roses in her cheeks, which, even now
                  that she is a great-grandmother have not entirely faded. She was womanly far
                  beyond her years; not so romantic, perhaps, as sister Margaret and I were at her
                  age, but that she possessed talent, enterprise, and ambition, is shown by the
                  success of her school, established at an age when most girls are contentedly
                  dressing their dolls.
               "Sister Arminda is a woman of superior character, and a devoted wife and mother.
                  She has had many severe trials to contend with during her long married life. Her
                  heart has known bitter sorrow, for of her family of eleven beautiful children only
                  four are now living; but she has borne all these afflictions with enduring
                  heroism. The devotion of herself and her husband is something people of the world
                  would consider quite Arcadian in these days of matrimonial infelicity, for until
                  your Aunt Arminda paid me that visit three years ago, she had never, since her
                  marriage, left her husband two successive nights."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               
                  Visitors—A Sunday Drive—Croton Lake by Daylight—A Sail—A Sudden Squall—Anxiety
                     about our Fate—Miraculous Escape from Drowning—Arrival of a Pretty Cousin—A
                     Child Poetess.
               
               
                  
                     August 4.
                  
                  A GAP in my journal of several days, during which time I have found it
                     impossible to write. I have now several events to record.
                  Papa came out Saturday afternoon to make us his weekly visit, accompanied by
                     Mr. Reid.
                  Papa's "young chief" looked as well as though he had not the weight of the new
                     nine-story Tribune building upon his shoulders this hot weather,
                     and was exceedingly agreeable. Those who have only known Mr. Reid in New York
                        salons and in editorial rooms can have no
                     idea what a different man he is when enjoying the relaxation of the country.
                     Never could I have imagined that the haughty young proprietor of The
                        Tribune would condescend to participate in "ring toss," croquet, and
                     similar frivolities; but I have found this summer that, besides being an adept
                     in the masculine accomplishments of driving and riding, he is an enthusiastic
                     champion of croquet, taking apparently ently the same pleasure in sending an
                     adversary's ball to the extreme limits of the croquet-ground that he would in
                     refuting a Times editorial.
                  The evening was devoted to cards and ballad-singing, for, although so prominent
                     a member of New York literary society, Mr. Reid does not, I am glad to say,
                     think it necessary to dislike music.
                  For the next day an expedition to Croton Lake had been planned. When alone, we
                     never drive on Sunday, except to church, lest our sober Puritan neighbors
                     should be shocked; but as we had a guest for that day, we made an exception to
                     our usual severe rules; for a Sunday in Chappaqua is somewhat gloomy to a
                     visitor. Immediately after breakfast, therefore, the carriage came, and Ida and
                     I, with papa and Mr. Reid, started on this pleasant little excursion, papa
                     mischievously suggesting that we should look pious, and the
                     neighbors would never know that we were not going to church.
                  One little contretemps marked our departure.
                     The Duchess had been lame for a day or two, and another horse had been hired
                     for the day to replace her. The strange horse was evidently the property of a
                     Quaker, and more accustomed to going to meeting than on frivolous pleasure
                     parties, for she was a very staid and subdued animal, and strongly
                        disinclined to keep up with the lively pace adopted by spirited
                     little Lady Alice. The drive, therefore, was decidedly an interesting one. Papa
                     held the reins, and Mr. Reid devoted himself to whipping up the laggard beast. In this style we
                     proceeded over the country at a moderate pace, and finally reached the
                     beautiful lake and the hotel upon its banks. The shade of the broad piazza
                     formed a very pleasant relief from the heat overhead, and we were glad to rest
                     a little while. We had not been there many minutes before some one recognized
                     Mr. Reid, and informed the portly landlord, who immediately hastened upon the
                     scene, and welcomed him to Croton Lake with enthusiasm.
                  In the parlor the piano was open, and half a dozen children were drumming upon
                     it; therefore, seeing that "music" on Sundays was not prohibited by the rules
                     of the house, I went to the piano when the children wearied of it, and sung, at
                     Ida's request, an Ave Maria, and grandpapa's favorite "Rock of Ages." We had
                     some little amusement over the necessity of going four miles from home in order
                     to enjoy music on Sundays.
                  The water looked very inviting, rippling up to the beach, and a row to Croton
                     Dam was proposed. After some little delay, a boat and a very good-natured negro
                     boatman were procured, and we departed.
                  The sun, I must own, was rather hot at that hour of the day, and struck with
                     peculiar force upon our hot bombazine dresses, and heavy crape veils. Ida and I
                     looked with a sigh at Mr. Reid's cool white flannel suit. Sam, the boatman,
                     ceased to row, and let the boat drift, being overcome by the heat, while papa
                     sat in the bow, and looked disconsolate that he had not the morning news to
                     read.
                  We were now at quite a distance from the shore, and as there was no one present
                     but the boatman to be shocked by hearing secular music, I ventured to sing a
                     few simple ballads, for music and water I think blend most harmoniously.
                  Soon light, fleecy clouds commenced to shield us from the sun's scorching rays;
                     we closed our parasols, and played with the deliciously cool water, wondering
                     meantime like Miss Helen, in that exquisite "Atlantic" story, if we could call
                     up a mermaid from below. But while we were drifting along so charmingly, the
                     clouds had become heavier and blacker, and seizing the oars, Sam commenced to
                     row with desperate haste. We were, however, beaten in our race with the storm,
                     and reached Croton Dam in a perfect tempest of thunder, and lightning, and
                     dashing rain. Unfortunately Ida and I had worn slippers, not having expected to
                     walk, and there was only one umbrella in the party—our little parasols with
                     their crape borders and bows being more suitable for ornament than service;
                     however, we scrambled up the steep bank as best we could, and ran to the
                     protecting door-way of the water-house (the house itself was locked as it was
                     Sunday). Here we stowed ourselves away like so many sardines, and waited patiently under the umbrella for an hour.
                     Finally the sun broke out, and we made our way over deep ponds of water back to
                     our boat. Sam looked up with a dejected expression as we approached, and feared
                     the boat wasn't fit for the ladies to go home in; he was bailing it out as fast
                     as he could, but it was very wet.
                  Wet indeed! Why Sam had not drawn the boat up on the beach and turned it over
                     during the rain, no one could imagine; but that brilliant idea had not occurred
                     to him. Therefore we were obliged to row back with our feet reposing in little
                     pools of water.
                  Before long, down came the rain again in torrents, but stimulated by the
                     prospective fee, Sam rowed with giant strokes. About a mile from the hotel, we
                     met the landlord rowing with desperate haste. It seems that the rain had been
                     even more violent at his end of the lake, having been magnified
                     into a squall upon the water, and a tornado upon land, blowing down trees, and
                     breaking away the lattice-work of the hotel piazza; consequently he supposed
                     our boat must have been ingulfed, and had come to look for the corpses. His
                     amazement at finding us alive, and, though very wet, in excellent spirits, was
                     great.
                  An entrée into the hotel in our wet dresses was rather a formidable affair for
                     Ida and myself, as all the boarders were assembled upon the piazza to see, I
                     suppose, how we looked after our "miraculous escape cape from drowning."
                     Hastening past them into a private room, we took off our dripping wraps, and
                     supplied their places with brilliant plaid shawls lent us by the landlady, in
                     which we drove back to Chappaqua—to the wonder, I doubt not, of all who
                     recognized us on the way. The horses this time went more evenly, and the entire
                     strain of propelling the carriage did not fall upon poor Lady
                     Alice. But when we reached home, Mr. Reid's white suit, and our dresses, veils,
                     and even faces, were a sight to behold from the liquid mud with which we were
                     bespattered. We had to turn out of our way for a couple of miles, as a tree
                     blown down by the storm lay across the main road, and this second detention did
                     not increase the enthusiasm of our welcome from Lina, for dinner had been
                     ordered at half-past three, and it was five when we reached the house. Her pet
                     dessert, a lemon soufflée, intended to be
                     eaten as soon as baked, was not, I must own, improved by standing so long; but
                     otherwise no serious damage was done to the dinner, and we were thankful that
                     our adventures when indulging in pleasure parties on Sunday were over.
                  The evening passed quietly, but very agreeably. Mr. Reid went down to the city
                     in the six o'clock train, and papa read aloud to us Byron's splendid, stirring
                     "Isles of Greece," and portions of "Child Harold." Reading poetry is quite an
                     accomplishment of papa's, and although he is very happy in sentimental tal and heroic verse, he has also a
                     keen sense of humor, and his reading of comic and dialect poems, especially
                     those of Hans Breitmann, have been much complimented; indeed, in "our circle"
                     he is the reader par excellence of Bret Harte, John Hay, and Hans
                     Breitmann.
               
               
                  
                     August 7.
                  
                  Marguerite and Ida went down yesterday to the city for a day's shopping, a
                     relaxation of which we are all quite fond. I walked down to the station to meet
                     them upon their return, and was not a little surprised to see a third
                     black-robed figure emerge from the cars with them. Too petite to be Gabrielle, who has been visiting a school-friend for
                     the last week, it was not until the second glance that I recognized the
                     abundant golden-brown hair and romantic eyes of our pretty cousin, Theresa
                     Walling.
                  Theresa is Aunt Arminda's granddaughter, and although only eighteen, is
                     entitled to pass through a door in advance of Marguerite, Ida and I, and to
                     occupy the back seat in a carriage, for she is married, and has had two sweet
                     little girls, one of whom died during that sad month of November, last year,
                     and the oldest, her pretty Theresa Beatrice, only a week ago. Quite delicate
                     from her childhood, the loss of her babies has been a great affliction to their
                     poor little mother, and Ida brought her out to visit us, hoping that change of
                     scene might bring back the former rose-flush to her pale cheeks.
                  Early marriages appear hereditary in that branch of the family, for Aunt
                     Arminda was married at fifteen, and Theresa's mother at fourteen; consequently,
                     Aunt Arminda found herself a great-grandmother when some years short of
                     sixty.
                  I said that Theresa lost her youngest child within the thirty days that elapsed
                     between uncle's and Aunt Mary's deaths; but those were not the only
                     bereavements in our family that sad winter; before the spring came, Theresa's
                     father and a little girl, our cousin Victoria's child, had also died.
                  Theresa's beauty is not the true Greeley type—blonde, with blue eyes. Her
                     complexion is somewhat like her grandmother's—a delicate olive with an
                     exquisite flush, when in health. The contour of her face is a perfect oval; her
                     eyes are dark and pensive, and although her hair is almost golden in its
                     brightness, both her eyebrows and lashes are of a dark chestnut brown. In
                     figure she is, as I said, very petite; she
                     and I are the two "little ones" of the family.
                  Theresa displays considerable taste for literature; and, notwithstanding the
                     demand that her children made upon her time, has written some romantic stories
                     that have been published in New York journals.
                  She has a bright little brother, and three sisters—Fannie, Jessie, and Lillian;
                     all pretty and clever children.
                     Fannie, who is now only fourteen, will, I hope, when older, become a graceful
                     poetess; for the verses that she has already had published under her pretty
                     signature, "Fannie Fawn," are very musical, and promise well for the
                     future.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               
                  Mr. Greeley visits his Family in Pennsylvania—He expounds Mathematics and
                     Philosophy to his Brother and Sisters—Fishing and Bee Hunting—Forest Fires—A
                     Subsequent Visit—He returns as Editor of the New Yorker—He
                     writes the 'Faded Stars'—Characteristics of Mr. Greeley's Brother—His
                     Children—Mr. Greeley's Younger Sisters—Their Education.
               
               
                  August 9.
               
               "MAMMA," said Marguerite, looking up from the tea-table where we were all
                  assembled, "did uncle visit you often in Pensylvania? I suppose so, for I know
                  what an affectionate family you were, and how very fond he was of his
                  parents."
               "He visited us as often as he could," replied mamma, "but you know that the
                  distance was great, and during the four years that he spent in Poultney, his time
                  was not at his command. I can only remember two visits that he made us during that
                  period; each one, however, lasted a month.
               "It was, I think, during our second year in the woods that he came home for the
                  first time. I well remember, after the first joy of the reunion was over, examining his trunk to see what books
                  he had brought with him. Those that I found there were quite different from what
                  many boys of seventeen would have chosen, when going home for a vacation. I do not
                  recollect meeting any books of adventure or romance; but works upon the higher
                  mathematics and philosophy were there to show that dear brother's education was by
                  no means at a standstill, although he was working hard to earn his own living.
               "During the evenings, he would gather us about him, and illustrate some
                  mathematical problem, or, giving us a dissertation upon natural science, would
                  expound the laws of gravitation, etc.
               "In the daytime, when not fishing or bee hunting, he would work in the fields with
                  father and brother Barnes. There was excellent trout fishing, I remember, in the
                  brooks; and that, with bee hunting and watching the forest fires, was his only
                  amusement; for shooting was a pastime in which he never indulged."
               "I thought," said Marguerite, "that boys in the country were always fond of
                  shooting."
               "As a rule they are," replied mamma; "but your uncle was not. His delicate,
                  sensitive nature was always shocked by the sharp report of a gun. I remember that
                  when we were in Vermont he and brother Barnes would go out together to hunt
                  squirrels, Barnes carrying the gun; and that when the game was found, brother
                  Horace would cover his ears with his hands, to soften the noise of the
                  discharge.
               "I suppose, my dears, that you do not know how hunters find wild honey?"
               We knew little of wild honey save that John the Baptist used to eat it, so mamma
                  continued:
               "The bees, having no hives provided for them, made their honey in the hollow
                  trunks of trees; and as it was one of the luxuries of our table, it was quite
                  important to trace out their hiding-places. Brother Barnes would go out with a
                  little box of syrup or honey, and when he found a bee upon a flower would imprison
                  it in the box, detaining it there until it had had time to load itself with
                  sweetness. When it was released, it would make a 'bee line' for its home in the
                  tree; never pausing by the way, even for the sweetest flowers. Barnes would note
                  the direction it had taken, and follow it as well as he could; but often he would
                  be obliged to capture several bees, and sometimes pass days in the pursuit, before
                  he would be rewarded by hearing in some tree a buzzing that could almost be called
                  roaring. The next step was to fell the tree, which would cause the bees to quickly
                  disperse; not, however, without stinging the intruder; but the result compensated
                  for a sting or two, for it was not unusual for Barnes to find from twenty to
                  thirty pounds in a tree, often, however, so mixed with the soft wood that we were obliged to strain it before it
                  was fit to put upon the table."
               "You spoke of the forest fires, mamma," said Marguerite; "pray, what were they?
                  The woods were never literally on fire, I suppose."
               "Oh yes," replied mamma, "and the fire often lasted a long time. One means of
                  clearing the ground to make a farm was to fell the trees, while in full leaf-age,
                  in what were called 'winrows.' They lay in great piles for a year and sometimes
                  longer; then when quite dry they would be ignited, and a glorious bonfire on a
                  gigantic scale would ensue. The fire would burn up not only all the logs and dead
                  leaves upon the ground, but, spreading its way through the forest, would do
                  considerable damage to the living trees, burning as it often did for weeks. It
                  was, however, a grand sight to watch it through the darkness of the night, and
                  when the fire running up the hollow trunk of some dead tree would burst out in a
                  blaze at the top, we children were filled with enthusiasm, and used to call them
                  'our beacon lights.' Never did brother Horace seem happier than during that fiery
                  season, and often he and brother Barnes spent the greater portion of the night
                  among the burning log-piles, stirring up the fires when they smouldered, and
                  throwing on brush and fresh logs.
               "During the year that he worked at his trade upon the shores of Lake Erie, we saw
                  him more frequently; but the visit that I remember with the greatest pleasure was
                  one that he made us just after establishing his New Yorker. I was
                  much impressed during this last visit with a marked change in brother's taste and
                  character—a change indicated as much by his reading as by his external appearance.
                  His trunk was now filled with standard works and volumes of poems, instead of
                  treatises upon science, and he appeared in a perpetual rose-dream. He seemed to me
                  the embodiment of romance and poesy, and now as I think of him with his pure,
                  unselfish nature, so early devoted to what was noblest and best, I can only
                  compare him to the high-minded boy-saint, the chaste, seraphic Aloysius.
               "It was while at home this time that he wrote his poem 'The Faded Stars,' that was
                  published in the New Yorker, and copied into several leading
                  journals—"
               "Oh, I am so fond of that poem," interrupted Ida, "that I have copied it into my
                  album of poetical selections. Papa wrote it, you say, while visiting you?"
               "Yes, he wrote it in the room where the family were all assembled. I recollect
                  sitting beside him and watching his face as line after line flowed from his pen. I
                  had never before seen any one write a poem, and it seemed to me quite wonderful.
                  Read it to me, Ida, if your album is at hand; I do not recollect all the
                  stanzas."
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "THE FADED STARS."
                           BY HORACE GREELEY.
                           
                              I.
                              "I mind the time when Heaven's high dome
                              Woke in my soul a wondrous thrill—
                              When every leaf in Nature's tome
                              Bespoke Creation's marvels still;
                              When morn unclosed her rosy bars,
                              Woke joys intense; but naught e'er bade
                              My soul leap up like ye bright stars!
                              
                                 *
                                 
                              
                           
                           
                              
                              *Here a line is missing.
                           
                           
                              II.
                              "Calm ministrants to God's high glory!
                              Pure gems around His burning throne!
                              Mute watchers o'er man's strange, sad story
                              Of crime and woe through ages gone!
                              'Twas yours, the wild and hallowing spell.
                              That lured me from ignoble glens—
                              Taught me where sweeter fountains
                              Than ever bless the worldling's dreams.
                           
                           
                              III.
                              "How changed was life! A waste no more
                              Beset by Pain, and Want, and Wrong,
                              Earth seemed a glad and fairy shore,
                              Made vocal with Hope's impassioned song.
                              But ye bright sentinels of Heaven!
                              Far glories of Night's radiant sky!
                              Who when ye lit the brow of Even
                              Has ever deemed man born to die?
                           
                           
                              IV.
                              "'Tis faded now! That wondrous grace
                              That once on Heaven's forehead shone:
                              I see no more in Nature's face
                              A soul responsive to mine own.
                              A dimness on my eye and spirit
                              Has fallen since those gladsome years,
                              Few joys my hardier years inherit,
                              And leaden dulness rules the spheres.
                           
                           
                              V.
                              "Yet mourn not I! A stern high duty
                              Now nerves my arm and fires my brain.
                              Perish the dream of shapes of Beauty!
                              And that this strife be not in vain
                              To war on fraud intrenched with power,
                              On smooth pretence and specious wrong,
                              This task be mine tho' Fortune lower—
                              For this be banished sky and song."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "How did it happen, mamma," inquired Marguerite, "that Uncle Barnes has not become
                  a distinguished man? Is he not clever like Uncle Horace, or was he not fond of
                  learning? It seems strange that he never left home to seek his fortune in the
                  world."
               "Brother Barnes has quite as much genius," mamma quickly replied, "as your Uncle
                  Horace, and under equally favoring circumstances would have made as brilliant a
                  man. A farmer's life was distasteful to him, and it was for years his dream to go
                  away from home, and receive an
                  education that would fit him for the bar or the pulpit, towards both of which
                  'callings' he was strongly attracted. It would, however, have been impossible for
                  father to have hewn a farm unaided out of the wilderness, and he could not afford
                  to hire any assistance, so brother Barnes generously sacrificed all his own
                  aspirations and preferences, and devoted his life, which might have been a
                  brilliant and successful one, to the dull routine of farm acres."
               "Did Uncle Barnes resemble papa much, as a boy?" inquired Ida.
               "Your uncle was of a very different temperament," replied mamma; "he was as gay
                  and loquacious as your papa was silent and abstracted. He was very fond of reading
                  and of study, but he lacked your papa's perseverance; he was more awake to the
                  outer world and its distractions, whereas brother Horace was oblivious to
                  everything else, when he once held a book in his hand.
               "I have told you what a splendid voice your grandfather had. Brother Barnes was
                  the only one of the five children who inherited it, and with it a very quick ear
                  for music. I remember hearing mother say, that when he was three and four years
                  old, he was often called upon to sing for our friends, who not unfrequently
                  rewarded his talent with presents; however, at the time when his voice changed, it
                  completely lost its musical qualities, to our great regret.
               "As he grew older, he developed a taste for argument, that would have done him
                  good service had he been able to follow out his darling project of becoming a
                  lawyer; indeed, as it was, he was always called upon, unprofessionally, to settle
                  the neighbors' disputes, and was renowned for making all the love-matches of the
                  neighborhood. In his reading he had rather a peculiar taste; he delighted in
                  theological and controversial books, and I never knew any one who was more
                  thoroughly acquainted with the Bible. He could not only give the precise chapter
                  and verse from which any text was taken, but was able to detect the slightest
                  verbal error in the quotation.
               "He had a passion for preaching, and although unordained, was always ready to
                  deliver a sermon whenever he could find a vacant church and an audience.
               "Every one in America has heard of your papa's benevolent disposition, and the
                  amount he used to spend in private charities. Your Uncle Barnes was, if possible,
                  more generous. I have known him to part with his last dollar to relieve another
                  from want or embarrassment, and this was not done through weakness or inability to
                  refuse, but from a genuine impulse of sympathy with those in need.
               "I am very proud to say of my only surviving brother, that although he has never
                  had the advantage of a good education, he has lived to the age of sixty without
                  indulging in tobacco, wine, or profane
                  language, and has brought up his boys in the same temperate habits."
               "How many children has Uncle Barnes, Aunt Esther?" inquired Ida. "I have, I think,
                  seen only three."
               "There are ten living," replied mamma. "Brother Barnes, you know, has been twice
                  married. His first wife was a woman of fine character, but became, soon after her
                  marriage, a confirmed invalid, and brother Barnes' constant attention and care of
                  her during her years of illness was almost unparalleled for devotion.
               "Victoria is the oldest of the children: she was a very bright, clever little
                  girl, and a great pet with mother, as she was the first grandchild born at home.
                  Sister Arminda's children, living at some distance, were not so available for
                  instruction, and in that occupation consisted mother's happiness. She taught
                  Victoria to read when she was two years and a half old, and I remember seeing her
                  stand, a few years later, at mother's knee, reading one of Hans Christian
                  Andersen's stories, with the tears streaming down her cheeks at the pathos—a proof
                  of appreciation that delighted mother's heart.
               "Victoria is married, and lives in Kansas. She is a fine, intelligent woman, and
                  since the loss of her little girl, last winter, has shown a strong disposition to
                  write. She has the ability to do so, and if her health and her home duties permit,
                  I am sure she will make a clever writer.
               "Horace, whom you have seen, is next Victoria in age; he is also married, and
                  lives in New Jersey.
               "Two married daughters, Mary and Esther, follow. Mary's mind resembles mother's in
                  her grasp for politics and history, but she inherits her own mother's feeble
                  health, which unfits her for giving expression to her masculine intellect. Esther,
                  who was named for me, is a sweet and lovely woman, and a devoted wife and
                  mother.
               "Poor Woodburn came next on the list—a sensitive, silent youth, more resembling
                  his Uncle Horace than any of the other children. You all recollect his sad death
                  three years ago.
               "Oscar and Clarence are the youngest of Sally's, the first wife's, children.
                  Clarence is the cleverest of the family among the boys. He is very well educated,
                  and now supports himself as a land surveyor, although not yet twenty years
                  old."
               "Where does he live, Aunt Esther?" inquired Gabrieller "With his father?"
               "No; in Kansas with Victoria," was the reply. "I must not forget to tell you that
                  he taught school in Indiana when only sixteen years old, and received a diploma
                  from the State. His half-sister, Eugenia, who is only fourteen, has had very
                  pretty verses published in different New York journals."
               
               "Did Aunt Margaret receive as good an education as you did, when a young girl,
                  mamma?" inquired Marguerite. "I remember hearing you say that you were sent away
                  to school for two or three years."
               "No," replied mamma, "her advantages for learning were not so good as mine;
                  indeed, I was her principal teacher. As I have told you, I went to school very
                  little as a child, and the village school at Vermont gave only the most meagre and
                  elementary instruction, but I was always an eager reader of whatever came in my
                  way, as well as an attentive listener, and thus I contrived while in the woods to
                  pick up considerable information. I remember seeing at that time in a neighbor's
                  house, a little, cheaply bound volume, 'Blair's Rhetoric,' which so interested me
                  that I offered to take care of the owner's baby for two weeks, if she would give
                  me the book. A bargain was accordingly made; I 'tended baby' for fifteen days, and
                  received in exchange the precious volume, which I studied until I learnt it by
                  heart.
               "Then I saved pennies until I had collected a sufficient number to send to Erie
                  and purchase a copy of Comstock's Natural Philosophy—the first one by the way that
                  had ever been brought into our township—and these two books, together with my
                  self-acquired knowledge, and my own experience of two years as a teacher, sufficed
                  to fit me to enter the Fredonia Academy emy, and to compete fairly with the other
                  girls whose instruction had not been so dearly bought.
               "I spent four of the happiest years of my life in school at Fredonia, and only
                  regretted that sister Margaret could not have shared my advantages.
               "Meantime, Margaret commenced to teach school at the age of fifteen, and continued
                  to do so, until she was married, when twenty years old, giving great satisfaction
                  to every one. She has, you know, three children. Her two boys, Eugene and Arthur,
                  are promising young men, and are both employed in The Tribune
                  office. Arthur is married, and has several children. We all know how pretty his
                  sister Evangeline is; she, you know, is to become Mrs. Dr. Ross this winter."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               
                  A Quiet Household—Absence of Marguerite and Gabrielle—Amusing Letters from
                     them—A Gypsy Fortune-teller—Marguerite returns with a Visitor—The Harvest
                     Moon—Preparing for Company—Arranging the Blue Room—Intense Anticipation—"'He
                     Cometh Not,' She Said."
               
               
                  
                     August 14.
                  
                  OUR little household has been unusually quiet for the past week, owing to the
                     absence of the two lively members of the family, Marguerite and Gabrielle, who
                     are visiting friends by the seaside and upon the shores of Seneca Lake. Their
                     absence makes a great change in the ways of the household, for Ida and I have
                     not the high spirits and constant flow of words that distinguish our sisters,
                     and we spend our time as quietly and busily as two little nuns, not even
                     dreaming of asking any one to come up from the city and pass Saturday with us.
                     We miss them very much, especially at the table, and in the half hour after
                     tea, when we always gather about mamma's sofa for a little chat, before
                     separating for our evening's work—writing, practising, or whatever it may
                     be.
                  Ida and I usually form the audience upon these occasions, and listen with great
                     interest to Marguerite's entertaining stories of adventures at home and abroad,
                     or Gabrielle's droll mimicry of the strongly marked characteristics of some one
                     she has met or dreamed of. Sometimes the candles are extinguished, and a ghost
                     story is told, for Gabrielle is fond of the supernatural, and her dramatic
                     style of narration adds much to our enjoyment; indeed, chancing the other day
                     to read in a magazine one of her pet stories, I was astonished to find how tame
                     it sounded.
                  Ida and I find, however, some compensation for our sisters' absence in their
                     sprightly letters, which arrive while we are at the tea-table. Marguerite
                     writes every day, and her letters are inimitable in their humor and esprit, for she writes exactly as she talks. She is
                     visiting some friends whose acquaintance we made in Paris, and who have a
                     beautiful country-seat upon Long Island. Her letters are filled with accounts
                     of drives, fishing-parties, and excursions in yachts and row-boats, and,
                     lastly, of meeting a real gypsy encampment (not the time-honored
                     one in "Trovatore") and having her fortune told.
                  A gypsy woman, it seems, stopped the carriage as Marguerite was driving past,
                     and expressed so strong a desire to "unveil the future for the young lady,"
                     that Marguerite consented, and held out her hand. Quite scornfully the gypsy
                     said that her own palm must first be crossed with money.
                     Marguerite accordingly gave her a
                     dollar bill, thinking that would be the full value of any fortune she would
                     receive from a wandering gypsy, but the money was indignantly returned—the
                     oracle did not tell one-dollar fortunes.
                  Somewhat astonished at so extensive a demand upon her purse, Marguerite gave
                     her another dollar, whereupon the gypsy at once declared that the young lady
                     had a lucky face, and would never want for anything during her life. The usual
                     dark and fair gentlemen figured largely in her fortune, and—with a glance at
                     Marguerite's blonde complexion—she was to beware the treachery of a brunette
                     rival; however, she was destined to triumph in the end, and would indeed
                     succeed in all her undertakings. I am sure the gypsy could have promised no
                     less, considering the high price she placed upon her predictions.
                  Gabrielle's experience is very different. She is visiting a former schoolmate,
                     a young girl of her own age. Bessie is now a pupil of Vassar College, and
                     enthusiastic over her studies: consequently the amusements of the two girls are
                     of a very sedate nature: in Gabrielle's words, "A hermit in his cell, my dear
                     Cecilia, never had a more quiet life than I at present enjoy."
                  She and Bessie had commenced, Gabrielle told me, to write a story together. The
                     débût was most brilliant, and for a time they worked very harmoniously, but
                     unluckily the two little authoresses had different views respecting the
                        proposal (not drawn from life, I imagine, considering their
                     years), and in Gabrielle's letter of yesterday no mention was made of the
                     progress of the story.
                  The letter, which was very vivacious, was chiefly devoted to the girls'
                     exploits while taking a buggy drive. Gabrielle, who is so fearless with her own
                     ponies, quite scorned the lamb-like animal that was sent up from the livery
                     stable, but she appears to have had much diversion, nevertheless, to judge from
                     her letter. She says:
                  "Yesterday I tried to break the monotony of life at Seneca Lake by hiring a
                     buggy and horse for Bessie and me to drive. You should have heard the shriek of
                     horror that rent the air at the approach of the peaceful old nag. Miss
                     Carpenter exclaimed:
                  "'Oh mercy, he points his ears!'
                  "Poor beast, his ears were pointed by nature, and he could not
                     help it. Mrs. Brown burst forth to the astonished stableman:
                  "'Does he kick, roll, rear, bite, or shy? Tell me quick, for I know he must do
                     some of them.'
                  "We did have our drive though, and an adventure too, for we were caught in the
                     rain, and entered a barn where a handsome young man acted the part of host, and
                     generously bestowed hay upon our horse."
               
               
                  
                     August 16.
                  
                  A telegram last night from Marguerite, saying, "Will come on the early train with the Honorable
                     Francis"—a very pleasant surprise, for, knowing the habits of that gentleman,
                     we had supposed him to be, if not at the Antipodes, at least in Europe;
                     accordingly, we went down to meet the train in quite a flutter of
                     excitement.
                  Mr. Colton is "honorable" from having represented his government for four years
                     at Venice. In appearance he is tall and swarthy, with a foreign and picturesque
                     cast of features not unlike the Italian type: a "lovely brigand" we sometimes
                     call him. Notwithstanding his easy and somewhat nonchalant air, he is a true
                     American in his active and restless disposition and his love for travelling. I
                     would be afraid to state the number of miles he has travelled since we made his
                     acquaintance in Paris four years ago, and I have known him to start at
                     forty-eight hours' notice to make a tour of the world.
                  Mr. Colton made us a visit of two days, and was sufficiently enthusiastic over
                     dear Chappaqua to satisfy even our exacting demands.
                  We had some sport over the probable speculations of the telegraph operators
                     concerning our visitor. Out of mischief, Marguerite had mentioned him in her
                     telegram merely as "the Honorable Francis;" for so deep an interest is taken in
                     the messages we receive and send, that we enjoy puzzling the operators a
                     little; indeed, we may say that our telegrams are common property here, for
                     seldom do we receive them until they have been carefully read by
                     the telegraph and railroad officials, and then handed to any interested
                     outsider who may chance to be in the office. I will give a little scene that
                     occurred not long ago, by way of illustration.
                  Our friend Mr. A——alights from the morning train, and is welcomed by a friend
                     of his who is stopping for a week or so in Chappaqua.
                  "Delighted to see you, A——.Knew you were coming up this morning, so thought I
                     would run down to the train and meet you."
                  "How in the world did you know I was coming, my dear fellow?" inquires the
                     astonished A——."You don't know Mrs. Cleveland or her niece, do you?"
                  "No, I don't know them," is the prompt reply, "but I was in the telegraph
                     office yesterday, and saw your acceptance when it arrived."
               
               
                  TABLEAU.
                  
                     August 19.
                  
                  I am not partial to Friday, as it is often an unlucky day for me—a superstition
                     that has come down to me from grandmamma; but, although I try to think it
                     absurd, our experience of yesterday proved a singular confirmation.
                  Ida and I had thought to celebrate the return of Marguerite and Gabrielle by
                     inviting several friends from the
                     city to enjoy the delicious moonlight with us. Mamma accordingly wrote the
                     invitations, and we at once commenced our preparations. The fête we decided should last three days, and was to
                     commence Friday afternoon—ominous day! We were to have moonlight walks and
                     drives; we were to kindle a fire of pine cones and charcoal upon the beach at
                     Rye Lake, and boil the kettle and make tea; a boat was to be placed upon our
                     own little pond, and a tent pitched near by; and, last and most brilliant,
                     Ida's lovely Southern friend, Miss Worthington, and Gabrielle, were to occupy
                     the tent, dressed as gypsies, and tell the fortunes of the company.
                  We could scarcely wait for Friday to arrive, but there were many preparations
                     to be made, so we curbed our impatience and worked very industriously. As we
                     were now seven in the household, not counting the servants, and had invited
                     quite a number of guests, the resources of our house were not extensive enough
                     to stow them all away, consequently we spent a lively morning at the side-hill
                     house fitting up three rooms, with Minna's assistance.
                  The blue room, with its pretty outlook upon the meadows, was our favorite, and
                     upon it we bestowed the most attention. The carpet was gray and blue, of an
                     especially pretty pattern, and the handsome marble-topped bureau, exhumed from
                     the never-failing resources of the house in the woods, looked as fresh as
                     though purchased yesterday. We made the bed with our own hands, touching with
                     reverent care the superb blankets with their inscription:
                  "To Horace Greeley, the Protector of American Industry."
                  Then, when the blue silk eider-down counterpane was adjusted to our
                     satisfaction, and one or two little ornaments added to the bureau and
                     chimney-piece—"Cupid" in the Naples Gallery, and my dear Lela's portrait, both
                     framed in blue velvet, and a beautiful Sèvase vase which mamma calls "the one
                     that Pickie didn't break" (his little hands destroyed its mate)—we
                     congratulated ourselves upon the effect of the room.
                  
                     Apropos of the Cupid, Ida sent it last winter
                     with Annibal Caracci's "Magdalen" and one or two other religious pictures to be
                     framed at Schaus'. When they were sent home, to our surprise, the frames were
                     all surmounted by crosses—an emblem that, although quite en règle for the Holy Magdalen, was, we thought,
                     singularly inappropriate for Cupid. Stopping in at Schaus' a day or two later,
                     I inquired of young Mr. Schaus, to whose taste we had left the selection of the
                     frames, his reason for this extraordinary innovation. His reply was as naïve as
                     unexpected:
                  "But, mademoiselle, does Cupid, then, never meet with crosses?"
                  Having done our best for the blue room, we walked over the grounds to see that
                     they were all in order, and when we
                     had admired the pretty blue boat, the white tent, and the water-lilies in full
                     bloom (planted that morning), and gone down to the express office to receive a
                     package due by the ten o'clock train—a copy of the poems of one of the expected
                     guests, which was to be left carelessly in his room with a mark at one of the
                     ballads,—we congratulated ourselves that we had done all in our power to make
                     the rooms look tasteful and pretty.
                  Lina was in her glory, having had an unrestricted order to do her best. I had a
                     slight foreboding of disappointment, as it was Friday, remembering, too, that
                     the dining-room was lighted by three candles the previous night (a French
                     superstition); but we all dressed in good spirits.
                  The somewhat spectral appearance of five ladies in mourning was somewhat
                     relieved by the recent addition to our little circle, Miss Worthington, whose
                     dress, though black, was enlivened by a little dash of pale blue—a most
                     becoming match for her fair complexion and golden curls.
                  We did not wish to ruffle our hair unnecessarily by playing croquet or walking,
                     so we all sat very sedately in the music-room watching for the 5.15 train to
                     arrive. It came at last. We rushed out on the piazza, but recognized no one
                     among the few passengers who alighted.
                  Disappointment number one. However, they will surely come at half-past six, we
                     argued, and taking up some books and work, we waited patiently until the next
                     train arrived. Again we ran out upon the piazza. Papa was upon the platform at
                     the depot, but we saw no other figure that looked familiar.
                  "What did I tell you, Ida," said I solemnly, "when, against my entreaties,
                     three candles were lighted last night?"
                  Never before was papa so long in walking up from the station—I suppose for the
                     reason that he came laden with messages, notes, and telegrams. His "young
                     chief" was detained in the editorial rooms by affairs of great moment; another
                     gentleman had been summoned to the bedside of his father, who was in a dying
                     condition; two other gentlemen had plunged rashly into the preliminary steps to
                     matrimony, and were, I suppose, engaged in serenading their fiancées, while the other two had apparently been
                     made way with, for from them we had no message of any sort.
                  The crowning injury was the receipt of a book from a friend who is in the habit
                     of supplying me with the latest novels. Usually I am pleased with the books she
                     sends me, but a glance at the title, "'He Cometh Not,' She Said," made me hurl
                     it to the farthest corner of the room; that was too much for any one to
                     bear.
                  We sat down with small appetites to the elaborate dinner that Lina had
                     prepared, and went gloomily to bed at an early hour.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               
                  The Story of Mr. Greeley's Parents continued—He accompanies his Mother to New
                     Hampshire—Her Sisters—Three Thanksgivings in One Year—Pickie as a Baby—His
                     Childhood—Mrs. Greeley's Careful Training—His Playthings—His Death—A Letter
                     from Margaret Fuller.
               
               
                  August 21.
               
               "MAMMA," said I, waking from a deep reverie as I sat beside our bright wood-fire
                  (for we have had two days of dashing rain, and fires have not been at all
                  disagreeable), "did grandpapa ever return to New Hampshire after he left it in
                  1821?"
               "No, my dear," was the reply; "he never returned, nor did he manifest any desire
                  to see his former home and his old friends again. I suppose that all of his
                  pleasant recollections of New Hampshire were superseded by the thought that it was
                  the scene of his bankruptcy, and his proud spirit shrunk from meeting those who
                  might remember that he had left Amherst a fugitive. He was deeply attached to his
                  forest home, and I do not think he ever had an hour of discomfort after he came
                  there. Father always expressed the wish that he might be buried upon his farm. His
                  old age was very serene and happy; he lived to see his 'hole in the forest' become
                  an extensive farm, and the vast wilderness that had surrounded him disappear,
                  while the little tavern and cluster of log-houses across the State line from us
                  grew to be the village of Clymer.
               "Father died in 1867, at the age of eighty-seven.
               "As for mother, she had the happiness before her death of seeing her fondly loved
                  relatives once more. In the autumn of 1843, mother and I went to New Hampshire to
                  visit the old home and friends. Father was urged to accompany us, but he chose to
                  cling to his Western home. For the third time I now travelled in a canal-boat, but
                  this time it was a packet, and not one of the slow 'line-boats' that I described
                  to you in speaking of our journey from Vermont to Pennsylvania.
               "Brother Horace accompanied us from New York to New Hampshire, where we spent
                  several weeks visiting mother's old friends and relatives. The meeting between
                  mother and her sister, Aunt Margaret Dickey, was especially tender, for they had
                  been separated many years, and did not expect to meet again.
               "Aunt Margaret is still living, although now in her ninetieth year. I remember
                  hearing that she read your uncle's 'Recollections,' as they appeared in the
                     Ledger, with the liveliest interest. She was at that time
                  eighty-four years old.
               
               "In her youth Aunt Margaret was a decided beauty, with luxuriant hair of the
                     real golden shade, neither flaxen, ash-color, nor red. She was
                  naturally refined and amiable.
               "From New Hampshire we went to Fitchburg, Massachusetts, where mother's
                  half-sister, Sally, resided. Aunt Sally was doubly my aunt, having married
                  father's brother, Dustin Greeley. She was a slender, handsome woman, with blue
                  eyes and light hair, and possessed mother's happy temperament, which all the
                  trials of her hard life had not been able to change.
               "That year I celebrated three Thanksgivings within as many weeks."
               "Pray how did that happen, auntie?" inquired Gabrielle, who had just entered the
                  room.
               "Thanksgiving Day was not then restricted to the last Thursday in the month," was
                  the reply, "but was appointed by the Governor of each State at any time that he
                  saw fit between harvest and the holidays; therefore, being in three different
                  States within a month, I had three Thanksgiving dinners.
               "When we returned to New York, we stopped for a short visit at Turtle Bay. Pickie
                  was then eight months old, and as sweet and poetic-looking as one of Correggio's
                  cherubs. Your mamma was then in the first flush of her maternal enthusiasm. She
                  and your papa were desirous that mother should remain in New York and spend the
                  winter with them; but fondly as she loved your papa, and dear as her
                  daughter-in-law and her little grandson were to her, she felt that her duty and
                  her strongest love recalled her to her husband and her home in the woods. She
                  returned to Pennsylvania, and took up again her life of daily care, but she
                  brought back little joy with her, although no word of discontent escaped her. Her
                  favorite seat was by the window looking east, and there we often surprised her
                  gazing with an intent look down the road. When we would ask her if she was
                  expecting any one, or for whom she was looking, she would say with a startled
                  expression, 'Oh, no one;' but we always fancied that she was thinking of her early
                  home that she had now left forever.
               "A year or two later, slowly, silently, and peacefully she passed away."
               "I thought, auntie," said Gabrielle, "that you lived with mamma when Pickie was a
                  baby. I am sure I have heard her say that you helped her to take care of him."
               "That is true, dear," replied mamma, "but I did not remain in New York at the time
                  of which we are now speaking. I accompanied mother home to Pennsylvania, and the
                  following spring, when Pickie was a year old, your mamma wrote to ask me to come
                  back, and assist her in the care of her beautiful boy. I remained with her until
                  my marriage, consequently Pickie became
                  very near to me, and his death was almost as great a shock to me as it was to his
                  parents."
               "Do tell us, mamma," said Marguerite, "about Pickie's childhood. I have always
                  heard that he was brought up in a very remarkable way, but beyond the fact of Aunt
                  Mary's great devotion to him, I know very little concerning him."
               "Your Aunt Mary," mamma replied, "looked upon Pickie's birth as much in the light
                  of a miracle as if no other child had ever before been born. He was Heaven-sent to
                  her, and she sacrificed herself completely for the better development of Pickie's
                  individuality, or, to use the language of the reformers of those days, in
                  'illustrating the independence of the child's self-hood.' Nothing could have been
                  more boundless than her enthusiasm for her baby; and it was night and day her
                  study to guard his health, and to watch and cherish his opening intellect. No
                  child prince could have been more tenderly and daintily nurtured than he was; as
                  his father often said, 'Pickie is a dear boy in every sense of the word;' for
                  nothing was too rare or too costly for him.
               "You have heard of the brilliancy of his complexion: this was owing in part to his
                  mother's watchful care of his diet, and to his bathing. An hour was allowed for
                  his daily bath, and for brushing out his luxuriant, silken hair. This was one of
                  my duties, and no doubt it was that scrupulous care that gave it so rare a
                  shade.
               "As for his food, it was quite peculiar. He never ate baker's bread, nor indeed
                  any bread prepared by other hands than his mother's or mine, and he was not given
                  meat or cake—with the exception of oatmeal cake—while candies, or indeed sugar in
                  any form, butter, and salt were rigidly excluded from his diet; but white grapes,
                  and every choice fruit that this or foreign markets afforded, he was allowed to
                  eat in abundance, and the result of this system was a sturdy constitution, and a
                  complexion unparalleled for beauty.
               "I said that he never ate butter; but cream and milk were given him instead."
               "What sort of toys did he have, mamma?" I inquired. "I can never imagine him
                  playing with dolls like an ordinary child."
               "He never did," replied mamma; "his toys, like his meals, were peculiar. One of
                  the largest rooms in the house was chosen for his nursery, and as his mother would
                  not have a carpet upon the floor, it was scrubbed daily. Here his playthings were
                  kept—a singular assortment one would think them, but your aunt seldom gave him
                  what would simply amuse him for the moment, but sought rather to surround him by
                  objects that would suggest ideas to his mind—on a plan somewhat like that of the
                     Kindergarten system, but more poetic, and
                  entirely original with herself. He had
                  lovely pictures, and a real violin, while the shops were constantly
                  searched for whatever was curious, instructive, or beautiful.
               "Pickie's mind and conversation were very unlike those of the children even of our
                  best families, for he never had children for playfellows, and those friends whom
                  his mother permitted to be near him were of the most cultivated and noble
                  character. His language consequently was as choice as that of the minds who
                  surrounded him, and very quaint it sounded from a child's lips. At this time
                  Margaret Fuller was with us, and Pickie lived in most intimate relations to this
                  pure, high-minded woman.
               "In her care to prevent Pickie from knowing of the existence of wickedness and
                  cruelty in this world, your Aunt Mary would rarely permit him to converse long
                  with any save the chosen few that I have mentioned, lest the innocence of his
                  child-mind should be shocked by hearing of war, or murder, or cruelty to animals,
                  while she was ever guarding him lest his eyes might rest upon some painful or
                  disagreeable object."
               "Don't you think, mamma," said Marguerite, "that that letter of Margaret Fuller's
                  upon Pickie's death shows remarkable feeling for a child unrelated to her?"
               "Which letter?" inquired Ida.
               "The one that is copied in the 'Recollections,'" was the reply.
               "I think," returned Ida, "that the one she wrote to papa which has never been
                  published is much finer."
               "Oh, do read it to us," said Marguerite. So, unlocking a little box, Ida took out
                  a sheet quite yellow and worn, and read it to us:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "RIETI, August 25, 1848.
                           
                           "MY BELOVED FRIEND:—Bitterest tears alone can answer those
                                 words—Pickie is dead. My heart has all these years
                              presaged them. I have suffered not a few sleepless hours thinking of
                              our darling, haunted with fears never again to see his sweet, joyous
                              face which on me, also, always looked with love and trust. But I
                              always thought of small-pox. Now how strangely snatched from you, oh
                              poor mother; how vain all your feverish care night and day to ward off
                              the least possible ill from that fair frame. Oh, how pathetic it seems
                              to think of all that was done for dear, dear Pickie to build up strong
                              that temple from which the soul departed so easily.
                           "You say I left him too soon to know him well, but it was not so. I
                              had spiritual sight of the child, and knew his capacities. I hoped to
                              be of use to him if he lived, for sweet was our communion beside the
                              murmuring river, and when he imitated the low voices of the little
                              brook, or telling him stories in my room, which even then he well
                              understood. A thousand times I have thought of the time when he
                                 first said the word
                                 Open to get into my room, and my heart always was open
                              to him. He was my consolation in hours sadder than you ever guessed—my
                              spring-flower, my cheerful lark. None but his parents could love him
                              so well; no child, except little Waldo Emerson, had I ever so loved.
                              In both I saw the promise of a great future: its realization is
                              deferred to some other sphere; ere long may we follow and aid it
                              there.
                           "Ever sacred, my friend, be this bond between us—the love and
                              knowledge of the child. I was his aunty; and no sister can so feel
                              what you lose. My friend, I have never wept so for grief of my own, as
                              now for yours. It seems to me too cruel; you are
                              resigned; you make holy profit of it; the spear has entered and forced
                              out the heart's blood, the pure ichor follows. I know not yet how to
                              feel so; I have not yet grieved away the bitter pang.
                           "My mother wrote me he said sometimes he would get a boat and carry
                              yellow flowers to his Aunty Margaret. I suppose he had not yet quite
                              forgotten that I used to get such for him. I often thought what I
                              should carry him from Europe—what I should tell him—what teach? He had
                              a heart of natural poetry; he would have prized all that was best.
                           "Oh, it is all over; and indeed this life is over for me. The
                              conditions of this planet are not propitious to the lovely, the just,
                              the pure; it is these that go away; it is the unjust that triumph. Let
                              us, as you say, purify ourselves; let us labor in the good spirit
                              here, but leave all thought of results to Eternity.
                           "I say this, and yet my heart is bound to earth as never before; for
                              I, too, have a dearer self—a little son. He is now about the age sweet
                              Pickie was when I was with him most; and I have thought much of the
                              one in the dawning graces of the other. But I accept the lesson, and
                              will strive to prepare myself to resign him. Indeed, I had the warning
                              before; for, during the siege of Rome, when I could not see him, my
                              mind, agonized by the danger of his father, as well as all the
                              overpowering and infamous injuries heaped upon the noble, sought
                              refuge in the thought of him safe in his green nook, and, as I
                              thought, in care of worthy persons, When at last we left, our dearest
                              friends laid low, our fortunes finally ruined, and every hope for
                              which we struggled, blighted, I hoped to find comfort in his smiles. I
                              found him wasted to a skeleton; and it is only by a month of daily and
                              hourly most anxious care (in which I was often assisted by memories of
                              what Mrs. Greeley did for Pickie) that I have been able to restore
                              him. But I hold him by a frail tenure; he has the tendency to cough by
                              which I was brought so low.
                           "Adieu. You say, pray for you; oh, let us all pray together. I hope we
                              shall yet find dear Pickie
                              where he is; that earthly blemishes will be washed out, and he be able
                              to love us all. Till then, God help and guide us, dear friend.
                              Amen.
                           
                              "M. F. O.
                           
                        
                        
                           "You may address me in future as Marchioness Ossoli."
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               
                  The Friends' Seminary—The Principal Chappaqua Residences—Reminiscences of Paris
                     during the War—An Accomplished Lady—Her Voice—Festivities—A Drive to Rye
                     Lake—Making Tea on the Beach—A Sail at Sunset—Fortune-telling by Firelight—The
                     Drive Home—Sunday Morning—A Row on the Pond—Dramatic Representations in the
                     Barn—A Drive to Lake Wampas—Starlight Row.
               
               
                  
                     August 24.
                  
                  A VISIT last night from Mr. Collins, the Principal of Chappaqua Institute. This
                     gentleman is one of our neighbors; so when the duties of school hours are over,
                     he frequently calls in to play a game of croquet, or to join in the evening
                     rubber of whist, of which Marguerite and Gabrielle are so fond. I had often
                     heard his name before he was introduced to us, and imagined, from his
                     responsible position, that he must be some staid, gray-haired Quaker; but, upon
                     meeting him, I was surprised to discover that, although Principal of the
                     "Friends' Seminary," he belonged to the "world's people"; and was quite young
                     enough to impress the more susceptible among his young lady pupils.
               
               
                  
                  
                     August 27.
                  
                  In speaking of the handsome residences about and near Chappaqua, I have
                     unintentionally overlooked one of the finest among them. It is situated about
                     halfway between Chappaqua and Mount Kisco; and so far as I can judge by a view
                     from the road, the grounds are both extensive and well cultivated. The house
                     stands back from the road, and is quite imbedded in trees, and the lawn and
                     flower-beds are very prettily laid out.
                  Upon asking Bernard one day, as we were driving to Mount Kisco, to whom this
                     place belonged, he said that he had forgotten the owner's name, but believed he
                     was now in Europe; and it was not until quite recently that I ascertained it
                     was the property of Mr. Elliott C. Cowdin, of New York City, Paris, or
                     Westchester County. I really do not know which place to accredit to him as his
                     residence.
                  Yesterday Mr. Cowdin dined with us, and we had quite a merry time recalling our
                     adventures upon leaving Paris in 1870. It was only three days before the battle
                     of Sedan, when every one was rushing away from the doomed city, that we also
                     decided to leave; and Mr. Cowdin was very kind in helping us off. We had many
                     tribulations and delays in procuring our tickets, and having our luggage
                     registered, for thousands were waiting in the Gare St. Lazare to escape from
                     the range of Prussian shells; but between the energy of Mr. Cowdin and his
                     servant Harry, and the talismanic name of Washburne (for our ambassador had
                     kindly given us his card to present at the ticket and freight offices), we
                     succeeded in running the blockade much easier than we had anticipated. Once in
                     the waiting-room, we seated ourselves upon our bags, for every chair had been
                     taken hours before, and waited for the twelve o'clock train. We sat patiently
                     for an hour, and were then informed it would not start until six, for what
                     reason we could not learn; for French officials can never be induced to give
                     you any information.
                  At the close of another hour, we were not only white with alarm, supposing the
                     Prussians were at the city gates, but were also in a starving condition, having
                     eaten nothing since our eight o'clock breakfast of chocolate and rolls. What to
                     do we did not know; the doors of the waiting-room were closed, and despite the
                     shrieks and frantic kicks of the terrified and penned-up passengers, no egress
                     was permitted. Finally, our party of five helpless women decided to appeal to
                     Mr. Cowdin, feeling confident that he would devise some means to relieve our
                     forlorn condition. A piteous note was accordingly written, informing him that
                     we should be prisoners until six o'clock, and appealing to his American
                     chivalry to come and share our confinement with us, and to fetch some bread and
                     butter, of which we stood sorely in need.
                  
                  Among the employees of the station a messenger was found, and in less than an
                     hour Mr. Cowdin's friendly face was seen, as he made his way through the crowd,
                     followed by the invaluable Harry with a basket. An impromptu table-cloth,
                     consisting of newspapers, was spread upon the floor, and we gathered about our
                     feast, the other passengers meantime eying us hungrily, as roast chicken,
                     Bordeaux, and a four-pound loaf appeared from the basket.
                  That was my last meal in Paris, and although the circumstances appeared very
                     amusing as we talked them over with Mr. Cowdin yesterday, they were anything
                     but entertaining at that time, expecting momentarily as we did that a shell
                     would explode among us.
               
               
                  
                     August 31.
                  
                  I have just returned from a walk to the station to meet our friend, Mrs. George
                     Gilman, whom we expected would spend the day with us, but found instead a note
                     from her saying that ill-health would prevent her from visiting us at
                     present.
                  Mrs. Gilman is a dear friend of ours, and a charming and accomplished woman.
                     Her elegant drawing-rooms upon Lexington Avenue are a resort for not only the
                     fashionable world, but a favorite rendezvous for the principal vocalists and
                     pianists of the city, for Mrs. Gilman is perhaps the only amateur in New York
                     society whose voice equals Carlotta Patti's in extent, and the ease with which
                     her flute-like tones reach G in alt. Her voice has been carefully trained by
                     many of the great New York masters, and has also had the advantage of Paris
                     instruction. Therefore we may congratulate ourselves that we possess in private
                     life, one who would make so admirable a prima donna.
               
               
                  
                     September 6.
                  
                  My journal, about which I am usually so conscientious, has been neglected for
                     nearly a week, for we have had a succession of visitors, and my time has been
                     entirely taken up with drives, games of croquet, and starlight walks.
                  On Saturday, several friends came up with papa in the morning train; some
                     merely to pass the day, and others to make a longer stay with us. Mr. James
                     Parton, the well-known author, had not visited dear Chappaqua in twenty years,
                     and was desirous of seeing the changes that time had effected in this lovely
                     spot. Others, too, were visiting us for the first time, and preferred to see
                     the wild, picturesque beauties of the place, rather than to drive, ride, or
                     play croquet; consequently the company soon divided. One party strolled off
                     through the woods, and followed the course of the brook up to our tiny
                     cascade—now, however, swollen by the heavy rains we have recently had into
                     quite a noisy and impetuous waterfall, while others who had earlier in the
                     season spent long mornings ings with
                     us under the pines and beneath the oaks on the side-hill, now enrolled
                     themselves in Gabrielle's regiment, confident that she would lead them to a
                     glorious victory on the field of croquet.
                  We did not assemble again until our two o'clock dinner, and as soon as that
                     meal was over, we started upon the long-contemplated picnic to Rye Lake. A
                     large six-seated carriage and a pair of stout horses had been hired, and Ida's
                     own phaeton and ponies were also at the door to convey our party to that most
                     romantic sheet of water.
                  Every seat in the two conveyances was occupied, and all the available corners
                     were filled with tightly packed baskets, containing charcoal and pine-cones to
                     kindle a fire upon the smooth beach, tea-kettles and teapots, table linen,
                     dishes and provisions. The drive was one of the most delightful that we have
                     yet had, and was heightened by the dreamy haze of autumn, that is now faintly
                     perceptible.
                  The lake is private property, and picnics are frowned upon; however, the most
                     attractive gentleman in our party was sent to ask permission for us to pass the
                     afternoon there, and a cordial assent was quickly granted.
                  A well-trimmed sward, shaded by fine old oaks, was selected as the most
                     suitable place to lay the cloth, and then, to pass away the time until six
                     o'clock, several of the party went out in a row-boat. We were absent an hour or
                     more, playing cards, singing, and drifting about; now and then grazing a rock,
                     or narrowly escaping an upset, owing to the disproportion of weight among the
                     passengers, and at sunset returned to our encampment. Here we found a blazing
                     fire, and the tea-kettle singing joyously. An extensive meal was spread upon a
                     neat white cloth, and we grouped about it upon our bright carriage rugs, so
                     like leopard skins with their black spots upon a yellow ground. Hot tea was a
                     very agreeable substitute for the lemonade that generally forms the beverage at
                     picnics, and as we all had excellent appetites, the meal passed off very
                     pleasantly.
                  "What are we to do now!" inquired one restless being, as we walked down to the
                     beach, leaving Bernard to consume the débris
                     of the feast and collect the dishes.
                  "I think this fire so comfortable," said one of the young ladies, "that I mean
                     to remain beside it, as it is now dark and rather chill."
                  "Let us play whist by the firelight," was suggested by those who had not been
                     out in the boat.
                  "Or, better still, have our fortunes told by its light," said Ida, throwing a
                     couple of branches upon the burning coals.
                  "Delightful!" exclaimed Marguerite. "I have not forgotten that we have among us
                     a Gypsy Queen, whose predictions are always realized;" turning to a pretty blonde, whose delicate
                     features and sunny curls testified that she was only a gypsy through her talent
                     for unveiling the future to her friends.
                  The rugs were accordingly spread out upon the beach, and we gathered about the
                     fire whilst the cards were being shuffled and cut for the past, present, and
                     future. A weird sight it was, and one that the great Rembrandt would have
                     delighted to paint: a background of dark, silent trees, before us the
                     motionless lake, illumined by the silver crescent then setting, while the faint
                     glimmer of starlight, and the fiery glow of the burning wood, lit up the face
                     of our young seeress, as with a puzzled brow, but a pretty air of faith, she
                     bent over the talismanic cards.
                  In turn our fortunes were all told, and not a little wonder was excited when
                     some hidden page of the past, as a former engagement, or a never-mentioned
                     marriage, was disclosed.
                  One young man was told that he would live happily, but always be poor—a destiny
                     that he received with a droll air of resignation and philosophy; while another
                     was warned to beware of a blonde enemy, causing him to recoil with a look of
                     mock terror from the fair-haired Philippe Hubert who sat beside him.
                  An elegant young Englishman was alternately inspirited and depressed, by
                     hearing that an uncle in India was about to leave him a legacy, and that a
                     tailor's bill of many years' standing was now upon its way to him, whilst for
                     all the young ladies a brilliant future was predicted.
                  My fortune was, however, quite mysterious. I was told to beware of a male
                     enemy, and two rivals, a blonde and a brunette, and was in imminent danger of
                     poison. I was soon to be engaged to a poor man, but was to marry a
                     millionnaire, who would leave me a widow at the end of five years' time.
                     Whether I was then to 
                        "—marry my own love,"
                      the oracle did not disclose.
                  Then ensued the long drive home. The air was chill but exhilarating, and we
                     sung and told ghost stories, and were astonished, when at last we dashed
                     through a white gate, to find ourselves at home once more. It was ten o'clock
                     the next morning before we were all assembled at the breakfast-table, and we
                     had scarcely risen from our last cups of coffee, when a couple of friends
                     arrived upon the slow Sunday train. How we were now to amuse ourselves was the
                     question, for the proximity of a church compelled very quiet demeanor. Finally
                     we had a brilliant idea: the stone barn which had been filled only a few days
                     previous with fresh, sweet hay, would be just the place to spend the morning.
                     Accordingly we walked up there, pausing, however, on the way for a row on the
                     pond in our pretty blue boat, and then ensued two charming hours. We mounted
                     the hay-loft, and nestled down in
                     the soft mounds (to the detriment of our black dresses, by the way, for upon
                     emerging we were covered with burrs and straws), and being far from reproving
                     ears we sung both sacred and secular music, and laughed at a droll
                     impersonation of Fechter's Claude— 
                        
                           "Ah! false one,
                           It is ze Prince zow lovest, not ze man," etc.,
                        
                      and an equally comic burlesque upon Forrest, and were very sorry to learn
                     that the carriages were waiting to take us to Lake Wampas.
                  "A new lake?" inquired a friend who had already accompanied us to Rye and
                     Croton Lakes; "pray how many does Westchester County possess?"
                  Each new one is of course the prettiest, and beautiful as Rye Lake had been the
                     previous night under the influence of the setting sun, and starlight, we all
                     decided that Lake Wampas was simply perfect.
                  Dinner was ready upon our return, and before the dessert was placed upon the
                     table a warning whistle was heard, and several of our friends were obliged to
                     bid us a hasty adieu, and rush through Bischoff's garden to catch the
                     train.
                  In the evening we walked up to the pond for a row among the water-lilies by
                     starlight. There we found the bonny blue boat awaiting us, but the oars had
                     disappeared. Whether Bernard disapproved of waterparties on Sunday, or had
                     merely put the oars away for safety, we could not tell, but having gone so far,
                     we were determined not to be disappointed, so we embarked, and with an old
                     garden-rake, and a long pole to propel the boat, we succeeded, at all events,
                     in having a very laughable row.
                  The next morning our friends left us; the play-days were over, and we once more
                     settled ourselves to study.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               
                  Marriage of a Cousin—A Pretty Bride—Letters—Home Circle Complete—A Letter of
                     Adventures—Wedding Cards—A Musical Marriage—Housekeeping under
                     Difficulties—Telegraphic Blunders—A Bust of Mr. Greeley—More Visitors.
               
               
                  
                     September 10.
                  
                  A LETTER yesterday from our cousin Estelle Greeley, signed, however, by a new
                     name, for she was married last week. Estelle is Aunt Arminda's youngest
                     daughter, and although not yet eighteen, was before the death of Theresa's
                     children a great-aunt. She sent us her picture, taken with her husband. She is
                     a very pretty girl, with large, dreamy, blue eyes, and lashes so long and dark
                     as to cast deep shadows—a languishing effect often produced on city belles by
                     artificial means. Her hair is of that sunny brown shade peculiar to so many of
                     our cousins, and she has hitherto worn it floating over her shoulders à la belle sauvage; but now I suppose she thinks so
                        negligée and girlish a coiffure
                     incompatible with her new dignity as a married woman, for I observed in her
                     picture that it was wreathed into an imposing diadem braid.
                  Although Estelle is rather young to have married, the match has received the
                     cordial approbation of the entire family. She was married at home, but has now
                     gone to live at Columbus, Pennsylvania, where her father-in-law is a prominent
                     merchant. Her letter was full of enthusiasm over her happiness, but I was glad
                     to learn that she did not intend, like so many young brides, to give up her
                     music in the excitement of her new married life.
                  Our mail was not large this morning, for our friends are now returning to the
                     city, and are busy with the demands of upholsterers and dress-makers in
                     anticipation of the gayeties of the coming season; some few, however, are still
                     enjoying this delicious September weather by the seaside or inland.
                  Our friend, Mrs. Cutler, the pretty Virginia novelist and society star, is now
                     in Westchester County, and promises us a visit very soon. She speaks with deep
                     feeling of the pleasure it will afford her to visit dear uncle's loved home,
                     and in conclusion sends many kind messages to mamma's "bouquet of girls."
                  One of my most intimate friends, Marguerite Aymar, after having visited several
                     watering-places, and contributed sparkling letters to different New York
                     journals this summer, has now come to Westchester County to pass away quietly
                     the remainder of the season, and gather up strength for her literary labors
                     during the coming winter. I learn by a letter received from her yesterday, that
                     she is boarding within driving
                     distance of Chappaqua—a very agreeable prospect for me, for Marguerite and I
                     are much given to long talks together, and are very fond of an exchange of
                     ideas over our many literary plans.
                  Miss Aymar is a clever young writer, by no means confining herself to the
                     graceful poems, stories, and sketches that she dashes off with such ease, but
                     evincing talent and tact in her more thoughtful magazine articles. She is now,
                     she tells me at work upon a novel.
               
               
                  
                     September 13.
                  
                  Our home circle is once more complete, for Mrs. Lamson, who left us some weeks
                     ago to visit friends in Connecticut, has now returned to remain with us until
                     we go down to the city.
                  Mrs. Lamson was one of dear uncle's earliest friends, their acquaintance dating
                     back indeed to the days of Poultney—and we are all deeply attached to her.
               
               
                  
                     September 15.
                  
                  Arthur's name, I believe, has not yet been mentioned in my journal since he
                     left us early in August. He is a very tormenting correspondent, for he never
                     writes with the promptitude that would be agreeable, but his letters when they
                     do come are always entertaining, and one that arrived this morning, detailing
                     his adventures since his departure from Chappaqua, we found especially so.
                     Before making some extracts from it, I must explain that he left us to join a
                     number of young men from Chappaqua, headed by our neighbor, Mr. Carpenter, who
                     were to camp out at Rye Beach, and indulge in unlimited fishing parties. This
                     out-of-doors life delighted Arthur, accustomed as he had been to foot journeys
                     in Europe, and when the party broke up he bought a waterproof suit, hired a
                     boat and a tent, and rowed up the Sound to Boston, where he lives, sleeping
                     meantime on land or in his boat, as best suited his caprice. I will now give
                     his exploits in his own words.
                  "I remained on the beach some time after Mr. Carpenter and the others left,
                     caught and made food of many fishes, and came near making myself food for them,
                     for in hauling up anchor in a rough sea I tipped out of the boat, but luckily
                     saved myself by clutching its side, and lifting myself in at imminent risk of
                     turning the whole concern bottom upwards.
                  "Being wrapped in slumber on the rocks one night with a big fire burning beside
                     me, my bed of dry sea-weed caught fire, and woke me by its fierce breath; but
                     escaping an evil fate for the present, I came safely home to Boston, which I
                     felt keen joy to see once more.
                  "I have gone into the office of a lawyer here, and am engaged in the delightful
                     occupation of 'sooing folks' (as the old fellow pronounces it). You may imagine
                     me seated on the extreme top of a high stool, forging like a young Cyclops with malignant
                     pleasure, the writs and summonses which are presently to be flourished by the
                     Sheriff in the face of the astonished Defendant."
                  Among our other letters this morning was a package from London containing the
                     dainty wedding-cards of a beautiful young American pianist (Teresa Carreño) and
                     her handsome violinist husband, accompanied by a long letter from the bride.
                     The letter was overflowing with happiness, and the naïveté with which she
                     described all the little annoyances of her new married life, and especially the
                     trials of a young housekeeper, was quite delicious. Her furniture had not yet
                     come from Paris, and there were but two chairs in the parlor; consequently,
                     when a visitor came, her husband was obliged to stand, she said, with the
                     greatest ceremony. She sat by the kitchen table to write to me, and the cook
                     overturned her ink, making a blot upon the page: all of these little details
                     made up a perfect picture of her life. Of course the letter was full of "my
                     husband," and the signature was no longer the impulsive, girlish—"With a
                     thousand kisses, my darling, ever your own Teresita," but a decorous and
                     matronly ending: "Yours affectionately, Teresa Carreño Sauret."
                  Two more letters by the evening mail; one having the features of the "Re
                     Galantuomo" upon the postage stamps, is from a young American music student in
                     Florence, a pupil of Hans Von Bülow, who will, upon her return to her own
                     country, be known as one of our finest amateur pianists.
                  There is also a letter from our estimable friend, Miss Booth, the accomplished
                     Editress of Harper's Bazar. She will spend next Saturday with us, accompanied
                     by her friend, Mrs. Wright.
               
               
                  
                     September 20.
                  
                  Ida went down to the city yesterday, to see both her lawyer and dress-maker,
                     saying that she would return by the half-past six o'clock train. We went down
                     accordingly to meet the cars, but she did not arrive upon them; a telegram,
                     however, was shortly sent up to the house, announcing that she would come on
                     the eight o'clock train, accompanied by Mrs. and Miss Wiss.
                  
                  "Mrs. Wiss!" exclaimed mamma, upon reading the telegram, "who can she be? I do
                     not know any such person."
                  Gabrielle could not remember any one by the name of Wiss among Ida's friends,
                     and suggested that the ladies might be old friends of her father's, whom Ida
                     had never before seen; so remarking that the eight o'clock train was a late one
                     for ladies to travel upon alone, mamma rang for Minna, and told her to delay
                     our tea an hour and a half longer.
                  When we heard the footsteps of the travellers upon the piazza, we all went out
                     with some curiosity to meet our
                     unknown visitors. For a moment we were speechless, as we recognized in the
                     matron of the party, Ida's charming Southern friend, Mrs. Ives, and in the tall
                     young man (her son) who accompanied her, the supposed Miss Wiss. How the
                     telegraph operator could have so confused the names, no one could imagine.
                  Mrs. Ives is a brilliant talker, and a woman of great polish and high family
                     connections. She has lived North for several years, but will return to
                     Baltimore this winter to our great regret, for her picturesque home near the
                     Manhattanville Convent was a most delightful place to spend an hour, while
                     listening to the entertaining conversation of the hostess, and the exquisite
                     harp-playing of her sister.
               
               
                  
                     September 25.
                  
                  A letter this morning from the little sculptress, Vinnie Ream. She is at
                     Washington, and writes me that she has sold her bust of dear uncle to the
                     Cornell University. I have not seen the bust since it was put into marble, but
                     when I saw it in clay at her New York studio two years ago, I considered it a
                     spirited and excellent likeness. Vinnie is full of the high courage that never
                     deserts her through all of her trials from public and private criticism, and
                     she has my best wishes for a bright and successful future.
               
               
                  
                     September 28.
                  
                  Two arrivals by the morning train: Mrs. Gibbons, a friend of many years of dear
                     uncle, Aunt Mary, and mamma, and a lady at whose hospitable residence uncle
                     often found a pleasant home, when his family were absent, and Lucy White, an
                     intimate friend of Ida and myself.
                  Miss White has just returned from a three months' visit to Europe, and she gave
                     us a very lively account of her gay season in London, and her visit to Paris. I
                     was glad to learn from her that my favorite Italian and Spanish pictures again
                     occupied their accustomed places in the Salon
                        Carré at the Louvre, and that the diadem mode of dressing the
                     hair, so becoming to my tiny figure, was by no means out of style in Paris, but
                     was, on the contrary, more fashionable than ever.
               
               
                  
                     September 30.
                  
                  A letter this morning from Katie Sinclair. I rejoice to learn that her health
                     is improving, for, when we visited her some weeks ago, her cheeks were almost
                     as white as the pillows upon which they rested.
                  We were disappointed that we could not hear Katie sing that day, for we had
                     anticipated quite a little musical matinée; but her sister Mary, who is an
                     enthusiastic pianoforte student, made amends by playing with much taste and
                     expression, a dreamy "Melody," by Rubenstein.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               
                  "All that's Bright must Fade"—Departures—Preparing the House for the
                     Winter—Page's Portrait of Pickie—Packing up—Studious Habits of the
                     Domestics—The Cook and her Admirers—Adieu to Chappaqua.
               
               
                  
                     October 1.
                  
                  
                     
                        "All that's bright must fade."
                     
                  
                  THIS long, delightful summer is now over, and the time approaches for us to
                     return to the din and whirl of city life.
                  Miss Worthington left us this morning to return to her beautiful Southern home,
                     and Gabrielle, too, has gone back to the quiet of her convent school, guided by
                     the Protestant Sisters of St. Mary.
                  Ida is busily counting, and packing away the dainty china and silver,
                     suggestive of so many pleasant gatherings of friends that we have had this
                     summer, and Minna has brought down from the store-room large chests to contain
                     the heavy linen sheets with Aunt Mary's initials beautifully embroidered in
                     scarlet.
                  The guest-room and the parlors commence to wear a dismantled look, for one by
                     one the pretty trifles that ornamented them are being removed, and although
                     many of the pictures still hang upon the walls, dear little Pickie's portrait
                     stands in an unoccupied bed-room swathed in linen, and ready to journey to the
                     city when we do, for Ida prizes it so highly that she will not box it up and
                     send it by express, but intends to have one of the servants carry it under her
                     supervision, lest some harm may befall it. I do not wonder that it is priceless
                     to her; I also think it of inestimable value, for not only is it a portrait of
                     the beautiful little cousin whom I never saw, but even one uninterested in
                     Pickie would, I am sure, be attracted by it as a rare work of art. It is a
                     full-length picture: the child holds in his hands a cluster of lilies—a fit
                     emblem of his spotless purity, and his undraped limbs are perfectly moulded as
                     those of an infant St. John. His hair, of the hue that Titian and Tintoretto
                     loved to paint, falls upon his shoulders like a shower of ruddy gold, and for
                     depth of tone and richness of color the picture more resembles the work of one
                     of the old Venetian Masters than a painting by modern hands.
                  Whilst in town the other day, I called in the Tenth Street Studio Buildings to
                     ask Mr. Page when he could give a few days of his time to restoring Pickie's
                     portrait, as it has been somewhat affected by the dampness during the years
                     that it has stood in the house in the woods. Mr. Page gave me a very amusing
                     account of the difficulty he experienced in obtaining sittings from Pickie.
                  
                  "Young children," he said, "are always averse to having their portraits
                     painted, and there is usually a struggle to induce them to submit to the
                     confinement of posing for me; but in Master Pickie's case, the child was so
                     full of life that I might almost as well have tried to obtain sittings from a
                     butterfly as from him."
                  Pickie's rapid illness and sudden death occurred before the picture was
                     completed, and although Mr. Page worked upon it for some time from memory and
                     from daguerrotypes of the child, a few finishing touches remain to be
                     added.
               
               
                  
                     October 3.
                  
                  This morning I at last realized what I have been endeavoring to banish from my
                     mind—that the day of our departure from dear Chappaqua is at hand. This fact
                     was brought home to me in a very practical manner by the arrival of our immense
                     French trunks from the side-hill house, where they have been stored this
                     summer, and the necessity of packing them, coupled with an intimation from
                     mamma that it would be as well to put my books and music in the bottom, and my
                     dresses in the top of my trunk. I am somewhat of a novice in packing, for
                     during the preparations for our eight ocean voyages that duty never once fell
                     to my lot; however I flatter myself that such very elementary
                     instructions were not necessary.
                  Quite tenderly I took down from the shelves the books that I had brought from
                     New York for summer reading, for mingled with every page was some pleasant
                     association. One chapter in Kohlrausch's "Germany" seemed still to retain the
                     faint perfume of the pale primroses that I gathered in the meadow that day to
                     mark my stopping-place, and my little volume of Voltaire's "Charles Douze"
                     recalled an interesting argument upon the relative claims to greatness of that
                     hero, and my hero par excellence, the first Napoleon.
                  My ponderous volumes of Plato brought before my mind Arthur's reading, and the
                     life with which he invested the words of these old-time philosophers that had
                     so keen an interest for him; while Madame de Staël's "Allemagne," and my little
                     copy of Ehlert's "Letters on Music" were associated with almost every hour of
                     the day. They had lain upon my writing-table the entire summer, and it was my
                     habit whenever I laid down my pen for a moment to take up one book or the
                     other, and glance at a page of Ehlert's criticisms upon opera, symphony, or
                     song, or Madame de Staël's profound essays upon art, morals, and politics.
                  This long summer has been one of great sweetness and content to us all. A tinge
                     of sadness has, it is true, been mingled with our daily life, but we have felt
                     the spiritual presence of our loved ones always near us, urging and encouraging
                     us to persevere and fit ourselves to
                     join them hereafter. With this feeling we have worked constantly and closely,
                     and our record of improvement has been somewhat satisfactory—to ourselves at
                     least. We have gone through the weighty volumes that we had given ourselves as
                     summer tasks; we have written and practised; and, although Minna constantly
                     exclaims upon our close attention to study, a desire for improvement has
                     extended (unconsciously to ourselves) from the parlor to the kitchen. Going
                     down there one night to give some orders for the next day, I was amused by
                     overhearing Lina say, "It is time to go to school now." Immediately Minna's
                     bright-colored knitting was laid aside, and the two women drew up to the table
                     with their books. After studying their English lesson, they recited it to each
                     other, followed by a brief reciprocal lesson of Swedish and German.
                  Bernard also had his book, and was studying with great apparent industry,
                     although in what foreign tongue he was accomplishing himself I do not know.
                     Perhaps he was trying to master the intricacies of the German language, that he
                     might offer himself to Minna through the medium of her own tongue. I was amused
                     to see that he occupied what might be called the neutral ground, at a table
                     lighted by a flickering candle, and at an equal distance from his sweetheart
                     and his foe; for since Bernard has commenced to take moonlight strolls with
                     Minna, Lina has taken deadly umbrage, which she manifests by giving him
                     candle-ends ends, cutting off his supply of coffee, and reducing his comforts
                     generally.
                  At first I felt quite sorry for Lina, so completely excluded as she was at one
                     time from the society of the other two, especially as she was much older than
                     Minna, and not at all prepossessing in appearance; but since I have learned
                     that she has in the village four Swedish admirers who make her weekly visits, I
                     have ceased to waste any sympathy upon her. We were quite amazed one Sunday
                     afternoon to see four stalwart blond men wending their way kitchen-wards, and
                     inquiring in broken English for "Swedish girl;" for of all places our quiet
                     little Chappaqua is the last one where we would have thought of seeing any of
                     Lina's compatriots. These men, it seems, are employed in repairing the railroad
                     track; and learning that they had a country woman in the village, called to
                     make her acquaintance; so Lina can now triumph over Minna. I have heard from
                     Minna that each one of the four men has already offered himself to Lina, and
                     that she refused them, remarking, however, that she knew a girl in New York who
                     would like to marry one of them. The men thanked her, but thought the distance
                     rather too great to go for a wife.
                  Despite their little difference over Bernard, the two women have lived together
                     quite amicably this summer; and it has been a great relief to dear Ida,
                        while so gracefully presiding as
                     mistress of the house, to feel that harmony reigned in the kitchen.
               
               
                  
                     October 5.
                  
                  Our last day in dear Chappaqua; we go down to the city to-morrow morning. How
                     dread is the thought of leaving the poetic quiet of our country home, to return
                     to the confusion and excitement of city life; that city, too, that will be
                     fraught with such sad memories for us during the last days of October and
                     November.
                  How quickly it has gone, this long, sweet summer. I cannot realize that near
                     five months have passed since that bright May morning that we arrived here, and
                     found dear Chappaqua in all her tender spring freshness. Imperceptibly the days
                     have flown; the delicate hues of leafy May have deepened and gone; the summer
                     is over, and autumn with her glowing tints has stolen upon us. Now in vain do
                     we hunt for daisies to pull apart petal by petal with the old French rhyme that
                     every schoolgirl knows, 
                        
                           "Il m'aime un peu—beaucoup,
                           Passionément,—pas du tout!"
                        
                     
                  
                  The daisies have gone with the sweet double violets and roses, and the fragrant
                     heliotrope and mignonette, of which we used to make bouquets to dress the table
                     and adorn the rooms; whilst brilliant, scentless flowers ers now fill our
                     garden beds, and the maples with their aureolas of flame color and molten gold
                     tell the same sad story—summer has fled.
                  For the last time I have walked up to the pine grove, and have taken leave of
                     that spot where dear uncle's feet have so often trodden, and said farewell,
                     too, to the forest trees whose trunks still bear the impress of the axe once
                     wielded by that hand now forever at rest; I have drunk once more from the
                     spring that Aunt Mary so dearly loved, and which is far sweeter to me than the
                     vaunted waters of Trevi, and entered for the last time her loved home in the
                     woods over whose threshold her weary feet will never pass again.
                  "Tempo passato, perche non ritorni a me?"
                  Adieu to Chappaqua and to my journal. My daintily bound volume, so large that I
                     feared not easily to fill its pages, is closely covered, and only a few blank
                     lines remain whereon to take leave of it forever. Adieus are always saddening,
                     and I close it with the words unspoken.
                  And for dear, dear Chappaqua, I can find no words more fitting to express my
                     love than those verses written, it is true, in honor of another Westchester
                     Home, but so appropriate that I will insert them here, trusting their author,
                     Mr. JOHN SAVAGE, will pardon me for so doing.
               
               
                  
                  OUR DEAR WESTCHESTER HOME.
                  
                     Where'er my hopeful fancy dares,
                     Or toiling footstep falls—
                     Through ancient cities' thoroughfares
                     Or Fortune's festal halls;
                     O'er mountains grand, through forests deep,
                     Or crest the yielding foam,
                     I find no spot
                     Like that dear cot,
                     My own Westchester Home!
                  
                  
                  
                     Bedecked with every sylvan charm,
                     By loving Nature blest,
                     Embraced between the ocean's arm
                     And Hudson's bounteous breast,
                     Westchester, in her beauty smiles
                     To Heaven's protecting dome,
                     For all the good
                     By field or flood
                     That crowns our happy home!
                  
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
