
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Fatal Secret, or, Crime and Retribution! .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6422
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  "VAIN BOASTER! SEE, THAT WINE CONTAINED A SLOW BUT SURE POISON, AND YOU HAVE DRANK ENOUGH OF IT TO MAKE MY VENGEANCE SECURE!" CRIED SHE, DRAWING A PISTOL FROM HER BOSOM AND POINTING IT AT HIS HEAD. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               THE FATAL SECRET; 
               OR, CRIME AND RETRIBUTION! 
               FACTS MOST SINGULAR AND FEARFUL!! 
               BEING A CHAIN OF CIRCUMSTANCES RECENTLY DEVELOPED IN A VERY EXCITING AND PROTRACTED CRIM. CON. TRIAL. 
               THE MOST THRILLING AND TERRIBLE REVELATIONS EVER PLACED BEFORE THE PUBLIC. 
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               A. F. JOY, 457 HOUSTON ST. 
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               E. B. BARCLAY, 283 MARKET ST.
             
            1852. 
             
            Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1852, BY E. E. BARCLAY in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
          
          
            
                
                  THE MYSTERIOUS DUEL. 
               
             
          
       
      
         
            The Fatal secret, or, Crime and retribution! 
             
            THE FATAL SECRET; 
            OR, CRIME AND RETRIBUTION. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               LOUISE DUFRONE was the only daughter of a wealthy merchant of Philadelphia. From childhood she had been the pet and darling of her parents. She was wayward, wilful, and extremely passionate. Her mother died when she was fourteen, and she was left to the care of an artful woman, whom her father had employed as superintendent of his household affairs. 
               Mrs. Walton, the housekeeper, frequently pointed out to her the dangerous course she was pursuing, but she would reply, "Did not my father (bless his kind heart!) rear me up according to his own pleasure? and if I am otherwise than what he intended, it is not my fault, I am sure." 
               Last summer, Mr. Dufrone intimated to Louise that he would go to Cape May, and if she felt any inclination to accompany him she might do so. She readily consented, and in the latter part of July he left the city, with Mrs. Walton and his daughter, and soon Louise was one of the favourites of that popular watering-place. 
               Several days after their arrival at Cape May, Mrs. Walton and Louise took a stroll along the shore, and while searching for shells in the sands, a genteel and well dressed young man stepped up to them and said- 
               "How do you do, Mrs. Walton?" 
               Mrs. Walton looked up, and in a voice of well feigned surprise replied, 
               "Well, Mr. Langdon, this is quite unexpected, indeed!" Then turning to Louise, she said- 
               "Mr. Langdon, permit me to introduce you to Miss Dufrone." 
               They exchanged salutations, and, after a little restraint, our heroine became quite familiar with her new acquaintance, and they conversed on different subjects until it appeared as if both had known each other for years. 
               Mr. Edward Langdon was represented by Mrs. Walton as the son of a planter in Louisiana, and had been in the city on a visit to some of his relatives. 
               On their return to the hotel, Mr. Langdon offered his arm to Louise, which she willingly accepted, as she had already formed a good opinion of the polished manners and noble person of Edward Langdon. Mrs. Walton introduced him to Mr. Dufrone, and the latter invited Mr. Langdon to call frequently, which he did, and soon he became a daily visiter. 
               Mr. Dufrone noticed the growing intimacy between his daughter and Mr. Langdon, but instead of attempting to oppose, he appeared rather to encourage it, for he learned, through Mrs. Walton (in whom he placed the most implicit confidence), that Mr. Langdon was respectably connected, and related to the first families of New Orleans. 
               Time passed on, and ere the party left Cape May Mr. Langdon was the accepted suitor of our heroine. 
               They arrived in the city in the middle of September, accompanied by Mr. Langdon. 
               Three months passed, and to Louise passed smoothly and pleasantly. There was not a party or ball given but her betrothed would take her to it; and she was as happy as she could have wished. One day she received an invitation to a soiree which some of Mr. Langdon's friends were to give in a few weeks, and she did not refuse; but, resolving to appear to the best advantage to the relations of her betrothed, she dressed herself in a queenly style, and when she entered the room on the evening of the soiree all acknowledged her as the belle of the party. 
               In one corner of the room sat a handsome young man, conversing with another, and their eyes followed the beautiful Louise Dufrone as she whirled around the room with Mr. Langdon in a waltz. 
               "Is she not beautiful?" remarked Henry Atwood to his companion. 
               "She is," was the reply; "I would like to be introduced." 
               "Who is her partner?" asked Henry. 
               "Cannot tell," replied his friend, Charles Singleton; "he appears to be a Southerner." 
               "I should pronounce him as such," returned Henry; "but don't you think they are brother and sister, or cousins? I think I can detect some slight resemblance in their features." 
               "I think you are right," said Singleton. "I think I can trace some resemblance." 
               During the evening, Henry Atwood was introduced to Louise, and her fascinating manner and bewitching conversation only tended to strengthen the secret love he bore her. 
               After the soiree, Louise returned home; and as she sat in her own room, she gave vent to her thoughts in the following strain- 
               "How handsome Henry Atwood is! I declare, he almost equals Edward. How sorry I am now that I am betrothed to Edward. How fine it would be to have two lovers-both vowing the most unalterable attachment-oh! it would be so fine." 
               There was a slight tap at the door at this moment, and the next minute Mrs. Walton entered. 
               "Why, Louise, who were you talking to?" asked she, looking around the room. 
               "To myself," replied she, laughing. 
               "Indeed!" cried Mrs. Walton, smiling; "you must be hard of hearing to speak so loud when talking to yourself for as I reached the door I heard you say, 'Oh! it would be so fine.' Now tell me, what would be so fine?" 
               For one moment Louise appeared in thought. She had not been aware that she spoke so loud, and now she feared that Mrs. Walton had overheard all. Then, Suddenly resolving to confide the burden of her thoughts to her instructress, she said- 
               "My dear friend, you must promise me, most solemnly, not to disclose what I am about to confide to you, and I will tell you all about it. Will you promise inviolable secrecy?" 
               "I will," replied she. 
               "Well, then, you must know that I was introduced to a charming young man at Mrs. Wilmar's soiree to-night." 
               "Well?" asked Mrs. Walton. 
               "Well," continued Louise, "he is almost as handsome as Edward, and he also seemed to be quite favourably impressed with my appearance. I do, in fact, believe he fell in love with me. I was just awhile ago thinking how unfortunate it was that I was not free to flirt with as many young men as, I took a fancy to. Now this young man, whose name is Henry Atwood, would be as devoted to me as Edward is-and, as I was saying, it would be so fine to have several lovers kneeling at one's feet!" 
               "Louise, my dear, you must be aware that you tread on dangerous ground when you reason thus; believe me, Louise, if you suffer such thoughts to harbour in your heart, they will finally turn into fixed statues, and ultimately wreck all your happiness." 
               "I don't know but you are right," replied Louise. "I do now really wish that the wedding would be delayed for three months longer, or even six months, or a year. I am not anxious to marry within a year; do you think it prudent to mention this to my father?" 
               "No," replied Mrs. Walton; "do not acquaint your father with this, but as you have mentioned this to me, I will tell you something which will set your mind at rest on that point. Edward received a letter from his father to-day, urging his immediate return, as he is dangerously ill; hence he will not be able to attend to the ceremony until after his return; tomorrow, or next day, he leaves." 
               When Mrs. Walton left the room, Louise clasped her hands together and muttered: 
               "Thank Heaven for this, then will I be under no restraint." 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               IN the morning, when Louise arose, her first thoughts were of Henry Atwood. His image haunted her in her dreams, and now she could not forget him in her waking hours. 
               "I must see him again," said she. 
               Thus did the tempter enter the heart of Louise Dufrone. Love of conquest already reigned in her bosom. 
               In the afternoon, Mr. Langdon sought a private interview, and after stating his reasons for leaving her, he concluded with saying: 
               "Louise, I shall in all probability not remain over three weeks, unless the continued illness of my father demands it; but you will hear from me frequently. In my absence, I do not wish you to be too circumspect; you need not be under any restraint whatever on account of our betrothal; live as you have lived, ere I knew you. To-morrow, I shall start for my home, but I will speak farther on this subject ere I leave." 
               This was what Louise wished, and she was really grateful to him for his frankness and generous manner. 
               Next morning he left the city; and, as the chaise rolled away from her father's door, she drew a heavy sigh, and exclaimed mentally, "Bless you, Edward, for your considerate advice; rest assured I will follow it to the letter, as far as freedom is concerned." 
               However, several days elapsed ere she visited any of her fashionable acquaintances, when, one evening, she received a pressing invitation to be present at a select evening party. She did not refuse; and on her entrance in the saloon she was agreeably surprised to perceive Henry Atwood. He also perceived her, the moment she entered, and bowed, which she returned gracefully, nevertheless with some embarrassment. During the evening, he selected her as a partner in the dance, and afterwards strayed into an adjoining room, when he opened the conversation in the following words: 
               "Miss Dufrone, how do you enjoy yourself?" 
               "Very well," was the reply; "I do really love a select party." 
               "How did you like the one of Mrs. Wilmar's?" asked Henry. 
               "As well as this, Mr. Atwood," replied she with animation; "and I must say I was happy on that evening." Then, after a pause, she added, "Let me see,-was it not on that evening we first met?" 
               "It was," replied Henry, fixing his eyes on her own, which caused her to change colour. 
               "So it was," Returned she; "I was accompanied by Mr. Langdon on that occasion. I do remember now, distinctly." 
               "Who is Mr. Langdon?" Henry ventured to ask. 
               "The son of a Louisiana planter, who was on a visit to the city." 
               "Then he is not in the city at present?" 
               "No; he left three or four days ago, to return home," replied she, with evident indifference. 
               "You surprise me; I was not aware of that. When will he return?" 
               "I cannot say. Perhaps in the course of three weeks; or, perhaps not at all," replied Louise. 
               A pause ensued, when Henry again spoke- 
               "Then you are free, Miss Dufrone?" 
               "I should be so," was the evasive reply. 
               "Then do not think me too bold, when I offer you my heart and hand." 
               She was about answering, when some one entered. 
               "I can at least give you hope," whispered she in his ear, and they returned to the saloon again. 
               Ere she left the house, she had given Henry to understand that he could hope to win her. 
               Three weeks passed, and Mr. Langdon did not return; and, what was more strange, he never once wrote. Mr. Dufrone thought this singular, and became uneasy; but Louise did not seem to care. She felt more at liberty during his absence, hence she did not wish for his return. Her whole aim was to win the affections of Henry Atwood. 
               Matters stood thus when she received a letter from Mr. Langdon, dated at New York, which ran as follows:- 
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              Miss DUFRONE,
                            
                           I take this opportunity to acquaint you of a fact which may be painful to you; nevertheless, it is necessary you should learn it now. I am unable to fulfil the engagement, on account of certain circumstances that transpired since my return home; you may consider yourself free henceforth. I will, perhaps, return to Philadelphia in the spring. 
                           You will not let your father see this letter, for reasons, best known to yourself. 
                           
                              Yours, respectfully, 
                              E. L.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Louise turned pale as death as she perused the letter. 
               At length Mr. Dufrone learned, through Mrs. Walton, that Mr. Langdon had married in New York, and was now residing in that city with his wife. Mr. Dufrone immediately summoned Louise to his room, and then, from her lips, learned the truth-she had been discarded. 
               "Louise, how can you account for his conduct? Have you given him any cause to act as he has done?" asked her father. 
               "It is all a mystery to me, father," was her reply, "he left me in hopes of his speedy return." 
               "He has deceived you," rejoined he, "and I will visit him, and punish him as he deserves." 
               "No, do not trouble yourself concerning him," replied she, anxiously, "do not quarrel with him. I am satisfied. I shall treat him as he deserves-with contempt." 
               Her father promised not to say any more about it; but he secretly resolved to punish him for trifling with his daughter's affections. 
               Henry Atwood was now a frequent visiter at the house of Mr. Dufrone, and the latter was resolved that he should not act in the manner Louise's first lover had done. Hence he kept a strict watch on Henry's actions. He was, however, soon relieved of all apprehensions on that score, for at the expiration of three months, Louise became Mrs. Atwood. 
               Spring came, and with it, Mr. Edward Langdon. Louise (or Mrs. Atwood as we shall call her henceforth) met him one evening at an evening party, and contrary to her expectations, he saluted her quite cordially. 
               "Mrs. Atwood," said he, "I hope you are well." 
               "Quite well," replied she; but she disdained to enter into any lengthy conversation with him; he appeared to notice her dislike to converse with him, therefore he remarked, 
               "Mrs. Atwood, I think you have grown quite reserved of late!" 
               "Why should I be otherwise to Mr. Langdon?" replied she, in a cold tone. 
               "Why so, Mrs. Atwood?" asked he, with an appearance of surprise. 
               "You can answer that question," replied she, turning away, and leaving him alone. 
               A meaning smile was seen on his lips as she left him, and he muttered, 
               "Ah! she keeps up her dignity quite admirably at present, we will see how long she will maintain it." 
               They met frequently after that, and every time he contrived to lead her into a longer conversation than on the former meeting. 
               Matters passed thus for several months. Mrs. Atwood often wondered at Mr. Langdon's continued stay in Philadelphia, while, according to his own words, his wife was still in New York. She wondered why he was not accompanied by his wife. 
                
               One evening Mrs. Walton requested a private interview with Mrs. Atwood, which was granted. 
               "Louise, my dear friend," began Mrs. Walton, "I believe you have seen Mr. Langdon, have you not?" 
               "I have," replied Mrs. Atwood, quietly. 
               "Have you conversed much with him?" asked Mrs. Walton. 
               "Why should I?" asked Mrs. Atwood. 
               "Rather, why should you not?" 
               "Mrs. Walton," cried our heroine, "I cannot comprehend your meaning." 
               "I will then be more explicit," was the rejoinder. "Did Mr. Langdon appear as usual-did he approach you in a respectful manner?" 
               "I scarce can tell," replied Mrs. Atwood; "he never referred to our former intimacy." 
               "Ah! his heart forbade him to do so, Mrs. Atwood. He still loves you as well, and as fervently, as ever." 
               "Mrs. Walton, do you jest, or what am I to understand by your words?" cried Mrs. Atwood. 
               "I do not jest, I assure you, my dear," continued Mrs. Walton. "I suppose you are not aware in what a peculiar position he has been in, previous to his union with his present wife?" 
               "I did not learn, neither do I wish to know," replied Mrs. Atwood, with dignity. "You should know, Mrs. Walton, that henceforth Mr. Langdon and myself should be strangers-decorum demands it." 
               "Ah I my dear Louise, circumstances alter cases entirely. Will you give attention, while I relate to you why Mr. Langdon failed to fulfil his engagement with you?" 
               "I will listen," replied Mrs. Atwood, calmly; and Mrs. Walton began- 
               "When Mr. Langdon arrived at the house of his father, he found him in a dying state; and under a solemn promise, Edward Langdon was bound to wed the daughter of his father's old friend, who resided in the neighbourhood. The second day after his return to New Orleans, he was united to the lady, in the presence of his father, who died ere the end of the week. This alone saved Edward from being a penniless beggar. How, then, can you censure his conduct?" 
               "Why does he come here, then, forcing himself in my presence?" asked Mrs. Atwood, somewhat sharply. 
               "His love for you, my dear friend, prompts him." 
               "Mrs. Walton," cried Mrs. Atwood, passionately, "leave this room, I command you I Leave me to my own thoughts! I have sinned enough; and you would tempt me to sin still more. Leave me, I beseech you I" Mrs. Atwood buried her face in her hands in agony. 
               "Louise, my dear," said Mrs. Walton, "you do not mean to insinuate that I would advise you to do anything improper, or unbecoming your dignity? Bid I not frequently advise you to check your foolish whims, and caprices? Do you call that tempting you? You wished two lovers at the same time kneeling to you. You were gratified; and still you were unhappy. Did I not point out to you the danger of such a course?-and after that you would say; I was the cause of your present unhappiness? Louise, you are very ungrateful." 
               "Mrs. Walton," cried the young wife, springing to her feet, "will you leave me, or must I call assistance?" 
                
               "I will leave you," replied the woman, moving towards the door; "I, leave you to your own reflections." 
               When Mrs. Walton was gone, Mrs. Atwood once more buried her face in her handkerchief, and wept bitterly. 
               A conflict between innocence and guilt was raging in her bosom. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               IN a fashionable gambling saloon, near the corner of Seventh and Chestnut streets, sat three young men. The tallest, who was slim and light complexioned, was named Walter Morrison; the next, with black hair and whiskers, was named Wilson Carlette; the third was Edward Langdon. 
               They had just ceased playing; and now they conversed in an under-tone. "Ned," said Morrison, "how do you progress in your amour with the handsome Mrs. Atwood?" 
               "Slowly, but surely," was the reply. "I am not very impatient, because I am sure of my game." 
               "Ah!" echoed Carlette, "that is a great deal, when one is sure of his game, but how will her husband bear this-does he not suspect?" 
               "Bah!" replied Langdon, contemptuously, "I care little what he may think of her conduct: if we are exposed, who will suffer?" 
               "Both, I suppose," replied Morrison. 
               "Yes," rejoined Langdon, "providing I will suffer myself to be caught in a trap; but I promise you, I will not be so silly as all that. I am sufficiently discreet to keep out of harm's way when it is apparent." 
               "Well, well," said Carlette, rising, "'all's well that ends well,' is a true proverb, and I wish you success." 
               It was ten in the evening, and the party left tie saloon. They parted at the door, Langdon leaving his two friends, and proceeded in an opposite direction from that of his companions. 
               He entered a house in Castle street, and soon after stood in the presence of Mrs. Walton, who arose as he entered. 
               "Well?" asked he, inquiringly. 
               "She will be here to-morrow, at eight," was the reply of Mrs. Walton. 
               "Ah, I knew it!" cried Edward Langdon, "she has proceeded too far in this business to turn back, eh, Mrs. Walton?" 
               "Yes; but not as far as she must go ere she dies; this is but the beginning," replied Mrs. Walton. 
               "What am I to think of you?" asked he, looking her in the face, and smiling. "Why does it seem that our fate will be the same? why are our destinies interwoven with each other? Tell me, Mrs. Walton, how did you become possessed of so much of my past life?" 
               "Edward Langdon, you have questioned me thus beforehand I refused to answer you, which I will do again. All I can tell you is this: your father and mother are both alive; you have seen both; conversed with both; but fate separates you from them at present. You will, however, learn the mystery of your birth ere long. This is all I can tell at present." 
                
               "Why can I not learn now the cause of this secrecy?" asked he. 
               "Because it must remain a secret until a proper time arrives to disclose it, when you will learn all you desire." 
               This was all Edward Langdon could learn from Mrs. Walton. She hinted to him that she possessed the secret of his birth, and hence his willingness to obey her injunctions. 
               "Then Mrs. Atwood will be punctual, you think?" asked he. 
               "She will." 
               "Without fail?" asked Edward Langdon. 
               "Rest assured," was the reply, as she left the house. 
               "What can that woman think of me, to induce her to follow me, and to lay the foundation for an intrigue, in which I am to figure most conspicuously? Why does she desire the ruin of Mrs. Atwood? and why must I be the instrument of her ruin?" 
               Thus did the young man soliloquize after Mrs. Walton left the house. It was all a contrived plot of Mrs. Walton's, from the first meeting at Cape May, until the present time. The readers may draw their own inference. 
               Next evening, at seven, Mrs. Walton knocked at Mrs. Atwood's door (for Henry took up his abode in Mr. Dufrone's mansion). Mrs. Atwood opened the door, but when she saw Mrs. Walton standing before the door she turned pale, and, with her finger to her lips, she motioned Mrs. Walton to remain silent on the subject she was certain she came to broach. 
               "Mrs. Walton," said she, "tell my father I'll be there in a minute." Saying this, the woman stepped into another room, where she was shortly after joined by Mrs. Atwood, who presented a wild and haggard appearance. 
               "Mrs. Walton," said she, in a low tone, "for Heaven's sake endeavour to postpone this meeting till some other night." 
               "Why so?" asked she, in surprise. 
               "Henry is ill. He lies in bed, and he does not wish me to leave him. Now do tell Edward to have patience until to-morrow evening. He will grant this much, I am confident, if you state my reasons. Will you not do this, dear Mrs. Walton?" 
               "Louise," replied the woman, apparently unmoved by the earnest appeal of the miserable young wife, "Louise, he is compelled to return to New York to-morrow forenoon; so you see it's utterly impossible to postpone it. I will watch at Henry's bedside until you return. I will frame some excuse for your absence. Now do go, and do not disappoint him. It would not be right, and he would think you cruel." 
               At length the deluded wife was persuaded. She soon dressed herself, and left the house to meet her paramour, Edward Langdon. 
               "Ah! you foolish and easily persuaded girl, you are rushing towards your destruction!" muttered Mrs. Walton, as she heard the front door close. 
               She entered Henry's room, and saw him out of bed with his coat on, and about putting on his hat. 
               "Where is Mrs. Atwood?" demand he quickly. 
               "She will be here ere long," replied she. "But, where are you going, Mr. Atwood? surely you do not mean, to leave the house; it might be imprudent." 
                
               "Nonsense," cried he, "but tell me, has Mrs. Atwood left the house?" 
               "I do not know," was the reply. 
               "I shall soon be satisfied on that point," exclaimed he, and he rushed from the room, followed by Mrs. Walton, who was chuckling inwardly at the success of her schemes. 
               The front door was opened and closed with a crash. Henry Atwood followed his unfaithful wife to the house, where she was to meet her paramour, Edward Langdon. 
               He was admitted and convinced of his wife's infidelity; he left the house and hurried home. He could control his temper, and he had a powerful command over his passion; hence his cool and deliberate manner of proceeding, in this most delicate ease. 
               He entered his room and threw himself in an arm-chair, when he ruminated and contemplated his misery, the ruin of all his brightest hopes of happiness and bliss. 
               He had received an anonymous note during the day, informing him of his wife's unfaithfulness, also where he could find them together; he was thoroughly convinced of her fall and dishonour. 
               He sat in silence for a minute, then retired. 
               An hour passed ere she returned. Mrs. Walton met her at the door. 
               "How is this," asked she, "why have you left the room?" 
               "Louise," replied Mrs. Walton, "he fell asleep soon after you left, but soon awoke, when he requested me to retire. Soon after, he left the house. He soon returned again, and is asleep now." 
               "Thank heaven," said Mrs. Atwood, greatly relieved, "I will retire now." 
               "Pretty fool-your husband knows you in your true light," muttered the woman as she left her victim. 
               Mrs. Atwood opened the door softly and saw Henry apparently asleep. She approached his bedside, she gazed on his features for a few moments, then stooping, she pressed her lips to his-he started as if stung by a serpent, and opened his eyes. He fixed them on her features for a moment with such a piercing look, that she quailed before it; then suddenly commanding all her fortitude, she said: 
               "Henry, why do you gaze at me with such a fixed stare? have you been dreaming?" 
               "Yes," replied he, calmly withdrawing his eyes, "sit down, dear, and I will relate to you all I remember of it." 
               She drew a chair near his bed, and he commenced. 
               "Louise, while I slept I thought, I was travelling through a dense forest; it appeared to be night. While I was walking along in apparent safety, I was startled by approaching footsteps, I turned around, when a man sprung upon me and hurled me to the ground. I looked in his face, and who do you think it appeared to be?" he paused as if for a reply.- 
               "I cannot guess, Henry," replied she in faltering accents. 
               "Edward Langdon!" cried he, unconsciously grasping her by the arm, which caused her to start and turn pale as marble. 
               "Nay, do not be alarmed," cried he, releasing his hold, "recollect, it was but a dream!" 
               Mrs. Atwood, however, averted her face. She suspected he was merely parleying with her; she almost believed he knew heir guilt, and pursued this plan to punish her. 
                
               "Louise, my love," said he, "will you not listen to the conclusion of my dream?" 
               "No, no, Henry," cried she, in agony; "not now-not to-night!" 
               "What ails you-tell me, what is the matter?" asked he, calmly. 
               "Nothing," replied she, not daring to look at him. 
               "Will you listen to the conclusion of my dream?" asked he. 
               "Yes!" replied she, firmly, "if you will absolutely press me to listen to it." 
               "I am sure it will be quite interesting to you; so do not interrupt me, if you please, until I finish." 
               She promised to listen patiently and attentively, and he continued- 
               "While Edward Langdon held me down, I thought I heard another voice, and while I lay at his mercy, another figure came before me. It was the figure and features of Louise Atwood. She was not aware I perceived her. She rifled my pockets, while Edward Langdon held me; then they left me. I fainted, and I felt a pressure upon my lips. I thought I awoke from my unconsciousness, and beheld her who had aided Mr. Langdon in robbing me standing by my side. I uttered a cry of surprise, which, I think, awakened me. Now was not this a singular dream?" 
               "It was, indeed!" replied she in a hollow voice, and the next moment she hurried from the room. Henry crept to the door, and saw her enter the room of Mrs. Walton. 
               "There she must remain to-night!" muttered he, as he re-entered his room and locked the door. 
               He dressed himself, and then taking writing materials, from a desk, he wrote two letters, which he folded, and directed one to Mr. Dufrone, and the other to Edward Langdon. He placed these in his pocket; then unlocking his trunk, he emptied it of its contents, which consisted of papers and letters; he thrust all into a narrow closet. Then opening another closet, he took therefrom several suits of wearing apparel; then placing these in his trunk, he locked it and placed the key in his pocket. 
               He left the house shortly after, and after half an hour's absence he returned. His wife was all anxiety; she knew that he either suspected her, or knew her guilt; therefore, when he returned she listened with a beating heart, and when he entered his room she crept up to the door, and heard him turn the key in the lock. She applied her ear to the keyhole, and heard him throw himself on the bed; then all was silent as the grave. She remained near the door for half an hour, and hearing nothing, she returned to the room of Mrs. Walton in a most unhappy frame of mind. 
               Mrs. Walton endeavoured to console her, but it was of no avail; she did not cease to curse her folly, and at length, from sheer weariness, she fell asleep. 
               At one o'clock that night, a chaise stopped near the mansion of Mr. Dufrone, and the driver left his horses in the care of another person. He admitted himself into the house by means of a dead-latch key; he hurried noiselessly up stairs, and stepping to the door of Henry Atwood he rapped lightly with his knuckles. It was soon opened, and they carried the trunk down stairs and hastened it to the chaise; after which, Henry stepped inside, with Charles Singleton, and the chaise rolled away. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               NEXT morning, Mrs. Atwood arose at a late hour, and when she appeared at breakfast, her father inquired after Henry. 
               "He has been unwell last night," replied she, "and has not arisen yet." Breakfast being over, and as Henry did not appear, she became alarmed, and being unable to bear the suspense any longer, she went to his room, and in a moment noticed the disappearance of the trunk. She opened the closet wherein he usually kept his wardrobe-it was empty. The truth flashed on her mind-he had forsaken her!" 
               She did not weep. No-she was most miserable-but not a tear escaped her eyes; on the contrary, they shone like those of a tiger! A fierce fire raged in her breast; she felt her utter degradation; and she vowed a fearful vow-the destroyer of her peace must die! She swore to take the life of Edward Langdon! 
               In the afternoon, her father requested her to call in his room, he wished to speak with her. 
               "Louise," said he, handing her a letter as she entered the room, "read that." 
               She took the letter, and at a single glance recognised the hand-writing of her husband. It ran as follows:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              MR. DUFRONE:
                            
                           It is with extreme regret, that I address you on a subject, which must prove most painful to you as well as to myself. Yesterday I received an anonymous note, apprising me of the infidelity of my wife, your daughter. I repaired to a house where my unknown informant apprised me I could see sufficient to convince me of her infidelity. I am sorry to inform you I saw more than I wished to behold. Your daughter met Edward Langdon by appointment, and she is now a guilty creature, no longer worthy of my regard; hence I left your house last night, never to return. 
                           
                              Most respectfully, yours, 
                              HENRY ATWOOD.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               She returned the letter to her father in silence. 
               "Well! what have you to say to this?" asked he sternly. 
               "Nothing father, nothing at all; I am indeed what Henry has represented me." 
               The old man buried his face in his hands, and remained in that position for a minute; when he looked up, his daughter had left the room. He paced his room for fifteen or twenty minutes with knit brows, and clenched hands; then ringing for a servant, he said: 
               "Tell Mrs. Atwood to come here." 
               "She has left the house, sir," was the reply. 
               "What I" cried he, "left the house?" "Yes, sir." 
               He dismissed the servant, with the request to tell Mrs. Walton he wished to see her. She soon entered his room. 
               "Mrs. Walton, where is Louise?" asked he. 
               "She left the house a short time ago," was the reply. 
               "Do you know where she has gone to?" 
               "I do not." 
               Mr. Dufrone paced the room once or twice, then asked. 
               "When did Mr. Atwood leave the house." 
               "I was not aware he had done so," replied she in well feigned surprise. 
                
               Months passed away, but no tidings came either of his daughter, or her husband, Henry Atwood. 
               Mr. Dufrone was not sorry that she left him, for it saved him the trouble of ejecting her from his house, which he had firmly resolved upon. 
               Mrs. Walton professed entire ignorance of the cause of his daughter's absence, and he fondly hoped that none of his acquaintances knew of his daughter's disgrace. 
               A year passed away, and Mr. Dufrone married again, and his guilty, dishonoured daughter was almost forgotten. His wife was young and beautiful, scarcely twenty-three, while he was almost forty-five. 
               When Mrs. Atwood left the house of her father, she repaired to the house of an acquaintance, to whom she related how her father, in a fit of passion, thrust her from the house, and that she never intended to return, either to her father, or her husband. She did not care whether her friend believed or doubted her story, for she resolved to leave Philadelphia secretly. She had some money about her person, besides some costly jewelry; with those means she left the house in the night without the knowledge of her friend. 
                
               It was towards the close of July when two young men entered the saloon of a fashionable gambling house in New York, One was Edward Langdon, the other was a young Southerner, whose acquaintance he found two weeks previous. They stepped up to a table around which sat a party of four, playing. 
               The Southerner was named William Montrose, and report said he had lately become the heir of a princely fortune. Hence the wily Edward Langdon resolved to establish himself in the good graces of the young heir. 
               "Mr. Montrose," said he, "you never play, do you?" 
               "No, I never fancied any kind of game of chance," was the reply. 
               "I am passionately fond of it," remarked Langdon, "and I shall try a hand as soon as those gentlemen have done." 
               Shortly afterwards two of the gentlemen arose, and Edward Langdon took the place of one of them. Opposite sat a young man who kept his eyes fixed on him, and he began to get annoyed at the continued stare of the stranger; he returned the stare for a few moments, but the stranger seemed in no hurry to withdraw his gaze. At length, Langdon remarked to him, 
               "Do you think you will be able to recognise me if we meet hereafter?" 
               The stranger curled his lip in contempt, and replied not. This enraged Edward Langdon, and he sprang from his seat to the side of the other, and cried, 
               "Sir, do you mean to insult me?" 
               "I cannot tell you, sir, but take it as you see fit," was the quiet reply. 
               This reply enraged the young man, if possible, still more, and he exclaimed, 
               "Sir, have you the courage to meet me with pistols to-morrow morning?" 
               "Yes; where shall it be?" 
               "Across the river, beyond Brooklyn," replied Edward Langdon, "at four in the morning." 
               "I shall not fail, depend on it," replied the stranger, as he left the room, followed by a companion. 
               "Will you be my second?" asked Langdon of Montrose, after they left the saloon. 
                
               "I will," replied he; "but I would advise you not to meet him; he may be a dead shot." 
               "Pshaw I what if he is? I, also, can drive a nail, and I will show you how I'll fetch him. I will not give him time to fire." 
                
               The parties met; the distance was measured, and each took life place. At the word "one," Langdon fired; but the other seemed to have had the same intention, hence, Langdon had scarcely fired, ere the other fired also: but the formers ball reached the heart of the stranger, who fired over the head of Langdon. 
               The stranger fell, and as Langdon hurried to his side, the second pulled a wig off the head of the dead man, and the features of Henry Atwood were disclosed to his view. He pressed his hand to his forehead for a moment; then exclaimed, in an agonizing voice, 
               "Why did I not know this before? Oh, my God! I had rather died than he." 
               He turned away, when his ear caught a piercing shriek. He turned around, and saw his own second fall on the corpse of Henry Atwood. William Montrose had fainted, Langdon picked him up, and, gazing in the face of his friend, he recognised the well-known features of Louise Atwood. 
               "Why should she seek to be my companion, thus disguised," thought he; "perhaps to seek my life. I must be cautious." 
               He requested the other second to hold her for a moment, and hurried from the spot with hasty steps. 
               When Mrs. Atwood recovered, her seducer had disappeared. 
               "He has escaped me this time," muttered she fiercely, "but we shall meet again." 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               IN a small room in one of the least frequented streets of New York, sat Mrs. Atwood. She was again in her proper dress, which was deep mourning. 
               As we have said, Mrs. Atwood sat in her room; It was one week after the death of her husband. She was in deep meditation; not a murmur escaped her lips; her heart was changed; it yearned but for revenge; the life of Edward Langdon alone could satisfy her desire, and she vowed that he should forfeit it, the first time an opportunity presented itself. 
               While she sat thus, a young girl entered the room. 
               "Well, Mary?" asked Mrs. Atwood, "what news? Have you ascertained where he resides?" 
               "I have," the girl replied. "He resides in -- street, No. 340." 
               "Are you certain of this?" cried she, eagerly. 
               "I am." 
               "Will you do as I have requested you, then?" 
               "I will." 
               "If I succeed, Mary," said Mrs. Atwood, solemnly, "I will reward you handsomely. So be careful not to fail in your plan, and I will succeed in mine." 
                
               Evening came, and Mary sat alone in the room we have mentioned. She was awaiting the appearance of Edward Langdon. On a table stood a bottle of wine and several glasses, besides an abundance of different fruits and confectioneries. 
               At eight, her lover appeared. He smiled, as he saw the refreshments, and he said, 
               "Why, my dear, you must think me an epicure, to have such a feast in store for me." 
               "What man could refuse it?" remarked she, pleasantly. 
               "True; yet I think you will spoil me with such a beginning." 
               "I hope not," replied she, and invited him to drink. He needed not a second invitation; and in half an hour he felt quite talkative, and in a remarkable good-humour. 
               "Excuse me for a few minutes," said she, rising, "I will return ere long;" saying this, she left the room. 
               "Devilish fine girl, that," thought he; "I wonder what caused her to pick me out as her 'cher ami.' I'm quite in luck, and would be perfectly happy, but for that unfortunate duel. Poor Louise! how I pity her! She must take me to be a monster-first to ruin her, and then 'murder' her husband. Oh, Mrs. Walton! it was an evil hour that threw you in my path." 
               His thoughts were disturbed by approaching footsteps; the door opened, and Mrs. Atwood entered. He jumped from his seat, and exclaimed, 
               "Lousie-Mrs. Atwood-what do you here?" 
               "Is my presence, then, so disagreeable to Edward Langdon?" asked she, in slow and measured accents, as she deliberately locked the door, and placed the key in her bosom-"there was a time, Edward Langdon, when my society was your only desire, your only wish; then, my presence was ever welcome; all you could desire was to be near me, to have the pleasure to converse with me, and hear me say, I love you. Are those blissful moments, then, past for ever-and so soon, too?" 
               She paused. He could not meet her gaze: he too plainly perceived the marks of bitter grief visible on her countenance. The bloom of beauty had forsaken her cheeks, and now they presented a truly haggard and frightful appearance. The sable dress she wore presented a striking contrast with her remarkably pale features; and, as she stood before him, the picture of despair, he felt as if his life could not repay the wrong he had done her; his conscience smote him, and he was unable to articulate a word. 
               "Well may you hide your face," continued she, taking the seat which Mary had left, "your own vile heart reproaches you for your hellish crimes. Not content with ruining me, you must steep your hands in the blood of my husband. Oh, misery! misery!" 
               The wretched woman for a moment seemed overcome; but, summoning all her fortitude, she asked, 
               "Why did you inflict this last wrong upon me?" 
               He raised his head, and tears were visible on his cheeks. "Mrs. Atwood, I swear to you, most solemnly, that if I had known it was your husband, I would have avoided meeting him. You are well aware he was completely disguised; then how should I have known him?" 
               "That is true," replied she; "still, why did you not spare me, when I was wedded?-why, I ask, did you not leave me to my own misery, after ruining me, instead of making me promise to meet you, under peril of exposure?" 
                
               "I cannot answer you, at present," replied he; "a fearful destiny seems hovering around me. I am urged to acts which my soul loathes. I loved you, Louise, when I asked your hand; but, by the instigation of an evil genius, I was persuaded to ruin, and then abandon you. When I heard that you were married, I exclaimed 'thank heaven!' and I resolved to leave you, to enjoy life as well as you could; but scarcely a month passed ere I was prevailed to seek you, and compel you to meet me by appointment. Each meeting I firmly resolved should be the last; but fate seemed to be leagued in opposition to my will; and, by the persuasion of my evil genius, I compelled you to meet me again, and again. On the night we met for the last time, my adviser said, 'This is to be your last meeting.' I replied, fervently, 'I hope so.' But when I learned, subsequently, that your husband had discovered our meeting, I cursed the hour I first followed the advice of my evil genius. He met me, and challenged me. I refused to meet him. Several days afterwards, he stopped me in the street, called me a coward, and struck me to the ground. I did not seek for revenge; for my heart told me I deserved any treatment at his hands that he seemed disposed to give. I resolved to avoid him; which I have done, until fate again threw him into my path. He died by my hand. But, God knows, I would never have met him, had I known that the stranger who insulted me was Henry Atwood." 
               "Yes," replied she; "he died by your hand; and who should avenge him, but his wife?" 
               "Mrs. Atwood-Louise-think better of this, I beseech you! Remember, I acted entirely under the control of another. I was not a free agent in this matter. Would I could recall the past! I would never again follow the advice of one who seemed but to seek the destruction of yourself and your father." 
               "Ha!" exclaimed she, "who is this person who sought my ruin, and whom you served so faithfully?" 
               "I cannot tell you," replied he. 
               "You cannot?" cried she fiercely, "pray, why not?" 
               "Because an oath binds me to inviolable secrecy." 
               "Indeed!" cried she, contemptuously. "I may have means to loosen your tongue, and make you regard your oath as nonsense." 
               "How do you mean?" asked he, in surprise. 
               "I will tell you, Edward Langdon," replied she; "listen, do you know why this girl invited you here to-night?" 
               "I did not know, but now I perceive it was by your command!" replied he. 
               "Yes, you judge rightly; she acted under my commands, and led you into my power; I have you here to punish you, and to avenge the death of Henry Atwood!" 
               "Mrs. Atwood," returned he, rising, "I respect you, and will not attempt to oppose you in any act, save when you attempt my life; therefore, name anything I can do to atone for my crimes, and for the wrongs I so blindly inflicted on you, and I shall make all the reparation that lies in my power; but do not attempt any violent measures, nor seek to intimidate me by threats, for I assure you, it will be of no avail." 
               "Vain boaster!" cried she, furiously, pointing to the half-emptied bottle on the table; "see, that wine contained a slow, but sure poison, and you have drank enough of it to make my vengeance secure! Ha! ha! ha!" 
               "Louise!" cried he in terror, "are you jesting, in order to terrify me, or have you indeed poisoned me?" 
                
               "You will see whether I jest!" cried she, triumphantly; and ere he could recover from his terror, she had drawn a pistol from her bosom, and, pointing it towards his head, she said, 
               "Now, Edward Langdon, will you reveal the name of the person under whose direction you destroyed my happiness? Tell me, and I will save your life; but refuse it, and I will leave you to die as you deserve!" 
               He half doubted that the wine had been poisoned; and he believed that she intended to terrify him, in order to force him into a confession. Still it was dangerous to delay in case he refused to grant her request, and after some hesitation, he asked, 
               "Louise, are you serious, or are you merely trying my courage?" 
               "Edward Langdon," replied she, solemnly, "despair never jests in a case like this; I swear, by all my hopes of future bliss, that I poured a powerful poison in that bottle ere you came here, and unless you accede to my demand, you will be a corpse ere midnight!" 
               This decided him as to the course he should pursue, and he said, 
               "Promise me not to hint that I betrayed my trust, and I will disclose the name of your, and your father's mortal foe." 
               "I will make no such promise!" was the firm reply. "I have you in my power, and I will not listen to any of your conditions; answer my question, or I will leave you to your miserable fate." 
               "Listen," said he, despondingly, "and you will not condemn me. This person whom I have reference to, possesses the secret of my birth, and had I not sworn to follow her directions, I would never learn who my parents were. Thus you see, Louise, the desire to know my parents prompted me in an evil moment to swear to do that which I would now gladly recall if it were in my power. Just place yourself in my situation, and then tell me, would you not have done a great deal to have the happiness, at last, to discover the secret of your birth?" 
               "This is no time for reasoning!" replied she, half relenting. "The time allotted to your life is short; so tell me the name of this female, for I find, by your own confession, it is a female; tell me quickly?" 
               "Mrs. Walton, your father's housekeeper!" said he. "She it was who prompted me to commit those crimes." 
               "Can it be true!" exclaimed she, in great surprise, "Can it be possible that Mrs. Walton, who so frequently rebuked me for my wild conduct, has aimed at my happiness!" 
               "I swear to you it was she!" returned he, 
               "Where is she now?" 
               "Still at your father's." 
               "That will do!" said she, unlocking the door, and inserting the key in the lock from the outside, she stepped outside, and then, in a triumphant voice, cried, 
               "Edward Langdon, you will die now, and if you have told an untruth, you will meet your Maker with a lie on your lip in your last hour. Mrs. Walton, also, shall feel my vengeance. So now farewell." Saying this, she locked the door on him, and left him to his fate. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               AGAIN our scene lies in the city of Brotherly Love. Mrs. Walton was bout leaving the house of Mr. Dufrone at dusk, when a not was handed to her by a boy. It was addressed to herself. The boy departed, and she half hesitated whether to return into the house to read the note, or wait until she returned from a visit to a house in the district of Southwark, to meet a friend. At length she resolved on the latter course, and she turned down the street. Arriving at the house, she was ushered into a splendid room, and requested to sit down. Presently the door behind her opened, and Mrs. Atwood entered. 
               "Louise, my dear, how do you do?" cried the hypocrite, with assumed candour. 
               "Quite well, Mrs. Walton," replied Mrs. Atwood, with a smile; "how is my father?" 
               "He is well," was the reply. "I suppose you have heard of his being married?" 
               "I have been informed," replied Mrs. Atwood; "but remain here for a moment, I will return soon." 
               Mrs. Walton took the small note from her pocket, and during the temporary absence of Mrs. Atwood she read it; it; ran as follows: 
               "Meet me to night at eight at our former meeting-place, for I have some important news to tell you; do not fail, Mrs. Atwood knows your secret-beware of her." 
               For a single moment the wicked woman turned pale, but no time wag to be lost, she was in her enemy's power, unless she made a bold attempt to escape; she arose, and approached the door just as the other entered; Mrs. Walton retreated, and Mrs. Atwood said: 
               "Mrs. Walton, will you accompany me to the residence of a friend of mine? I wish to have a long conversation with you, concerning my father and his young wife." 
               "I will," replied the other. 
               Mrs. Walton followed her guide out of the room to the front door, she, however, started back, when she beheld a cab standing there. It overthrew all her plans, for she expected to walk, and then contrive to escape her foe by some well-contrived stratagem; but now, she seemed in a frightful quandary; at length an idea struck Tier, and she determined to attempt it. 
               "Louise," said she, just as she pretended to step into the cab, "Louise, wait here a minute, I left my handkerchief in the room." Saying this, she re-entered the house. Closing the door after her, she hurried into the yard, and escaped. Half an hour afterward, she met Edward Langdon, who informed her, how Mrs. Atwood learned the secret. 
                
               When Mrs. Atwood became impatient at the delay of her intended victim, she also re-entered the house, and the reader may imagine her surprise and rage, when it flashed on her mind, that she had escaped. 
               "What, could she have suspected my motive! It is almost impossible, for who could have warned her! Edward Langdon is dead, and none other could inform her of my knowledge of her dark-dyed crimes. Ha!" cried she, "picking up a small note, and reading lit, "so! so! this is the telltale; no time is to be lost! I also will see you. My poison failed; we shall see whether my dagger proves equally unfaithful to its trust." She hurried out of the house, whispered, a few hasty words to the cabman, and stepped into the cab. 
               "Where's your victim?" asked a young man of Mrs. Atwood, as she entered the cab. 
               "She has divined my object, and escaped; but have patience, and we will soon overtake her." 
                
               She then related to her lover in the cab, how she came to suspect her motives, and also where they could meet her again. 
               The note Mrs. Atwood picked up, had been dropped by Mrs. Walton; it was the note Edward Langdon sent. Mrs. Atwood at once concluded, that Mrs. Walton would meet him at the house, where she saw Edward for the last time. 
               The cabman drove within a square of the house, when Mrs. Atwood alighted, followed by the gentleman; she concealed her features with a veil, so as not to be recognised by any of her acquaintances, should she meet with any. They reached the house, and passed it, then stopped. 
               "Now Walter," said she, "you are an entire stranger to both; so you may obtain admittance without suspicion. Then endeavour to ascertain whether they are inside; and if they are, let me know as soon as possible." 
               Walter Marsden entered the house-it was an assignation house-half an hour passed, and yet he returned not. She became uneasy and impatient. She was about stepping up to the door, when happening to east her eye up the street, she beheld Mrs. Walton approach. She retreated, and without being recognised by her evil genius, she gained a place of concealment. Mrs. Walton soon after entered the house. Shortly after Walter reappeared, and related to her that Edward Langdon, or at least one answering to his description, was in the house. 
               "Mrs. Walton just entered!" said she. 
               "Yes," replied Walter; "and what is our next movement?" 
               "I know not what to do," replied the unhappy woman. "I am all impatience for revenge, yet it seems as if some secret power worked in opposition to my plans. However, there is little time to be lost; they may return ere long-so listen, and I will propose a plan, by which I can yet get both in my power. You know, Edward Langdon is very anxious to earn the secret of his birth." 
               "Yes." 
               "Well, as soon as he leaves this house, follow him, and ascertain his residence. Then visit him to-morrow morning. Tell him you possess the secret he so earnestly desires to know; then tell him that Mrs. Walton also knows it, but on account of some crime which she committed she means to withhold it from him until after her death. Then invite him to call at your house in the evening, with Mrs. Walton, to whom he is not to hint of what you disclosed to him. I know it will succeed, and I shall show you how my enemies perish!" 
               Walter promised to do as she directed, and she left him and returned to the cab, then drove to her residence, or, more properly speaking, to that of Walter Marsden, her lover. 
               When she reached her room, she procured writing materials, and wrote an anonymous letter to her father, informing him of the wickedness and detestable hypocrisy of Mrs. Walton; also her intention to ruin him. 
               "This will spoil your fun in that quarter," muttered she, as she sealed the letter; "and if Walter succeeds (of which I have no doubt), I will yet triumph over both!" 
               She fell to musing, and her thoughts wandered back to her childhood and innocence, and her heart seemed ready to burst as she compared her once happy days to the present life she led. But tears,-hot, scalding tears of bitter regret-came to her relief, and she wept like a child for a long time. But when the image of Mrs. Walton presented itself to her mind, the fierce fire of her soul soon dried her tears, and the desire of revenge again usurped the throne, and predominated over every other feeling ing. And, as her desire for revenge on Mrs. Walton grew stronger, her hatred for Edward, Langdon diminished. She remembered his words in New York, when he acknowledged that he loved her when he first became acquainted with her, and would have wedded her had not Mrs. Walton commanded him, by her secret power, to ruin her! All this had a tendency to lessen her hatred for him, and at length she exclaimed- 
               "I will spare his life! I once thought I had taken it, but Mrs. Walton-ah! no power of hell or earth can turn aside my purpose. She must die, if it is in my power to take her life!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               EVENING came, and Mrs. Atwood congratulated herself on the near approach of her revenge. Seven o'clock came, and she heard a vehicle stop before the door. Ere long Walter entered the room where she sat, and said- 
               "They are here!" 
               "Admit them," said she; "and secure the door from the outside. Then be near the secret door, to come to my aid in case they attempt violence." 
               Walter departed, and soon after he ushered Mrs. Walton and Edward Langdon into the room; then, locking the door, he hastened into an adjoining room, and stationed himself near a secret door which led into the room where Mrs. Atwood received her visiters. He cocked a pistol, and with his finger on the trigger, awaited the result. 
               Both heard Walter lock the door, and they looked around in surprise, but soon a well known voice said- 
               "We meet again, Mrs. Walton and Mr. Langdon." 
               Then, for the first time, did the truth flash on their minds; they were betrayed and in the power of their foe once more. She held a cocked revolving-pistol in her hand as she stood before the guilty pair, like an avenging angel. Mrs. Walton sank into a seat in terror, but Edward remained standing on his feet. 
               Mrs. Atwood approached the wretch who still remained seated, in the chair, with her face buried in her hands. "Mrs. Walton," said she, "look at me. Surely it must be a source of extreme pleasure to you to see your poor dupe, your confiding and blind victim. Look up, I say," and she shook her roughly by the shoulder. Mrs. Walton did lift her head at last, and such a picture of misery and despair as her, features presented would have melted the heart of any one put the merciless woman before her, who only burst into a mocking laugh. "Methinks, my dear friend, you have greatly changed since last we met. Do you remember how you used to lecture me for my wild and wayward pranks? How you used to chide me when I would express a wish to have two lovers at the same time? Ah, you remember it well," continued she, as the wretch again covered her face. "Yes, you acted the part of the saint to perfection, and I, poor dupe, believed you sincere, and often, since I have become what I am now, have I repeated these words to myself: 'Oh, if I had only followed the kind admonitions of my dear friend, Mrs. Walton, I would not now be what I am.' Alas! your moral lectures were only the preparatory course-the foundation of that load of crime with which you were to store my heart. Ah, your base heartlessness is all laid bare now. I know you, wretch, and your miserable life shall be the forfeit of yon wrongs to me." 
               Mrs. Atwood paused for a second, when her victim said: "Louise, how do you know that Edward Langdon speaks the truth?" 
               "Woman," cried Edward, springing to his feet and confronting her; "woman, do you deny my charge? Do you dare to deny that you made me swear not to marry that poor girl, but ruin her, under peril of never discovering my parentage." 
               Mrs. Walton arose, and stepping up to him, she pretended to speak to him in secret, when turning around quickly, she grasped Mrs. Atwood by the throat with one hand, and her arm which held the pistol with the other. 
               "Quick, Edward, disarm her," cried she, but he said, 
               "Mrs. Walton, I detest you, and will not aid you." He was about catching hold of Mrs. Walton, when some one sprang from behind, and Mrs. Walton fell backwards on the floor. Walter Marsden had come to the rescue. 
               When she had recovered sufficiently to enable her to answer questions, Mrs. Atwood asked: 
               "Now will you disclose all you know concerning the parents of Edward Langdon?" 
               "No!" replied she firmly. 
               "You wont?" 
               "No!" 
               "I will then compel you," said her judge, emphatically. 
               "Do your worst," cried she with defiance; "no threats of yours can terrify me. You will find me firm; I have reasons for my silence on that subject, and I will be silent, depend on it." 
               "Mrs. Walton," returned the now enraged young woman, stepping closer up to her, "answer me truly, or as I live you will die this instant." 
               "Louise," said she, in a slow and measured tone, fixing her eye on those of the enraged woman, "Louise, do you remember how you were often told by different persons of your resemblance to Edward Langdon?" 
               Mrs. Atwood started; a fearful thought flashed across her brain, and she replied in a husky voice, 
               "Yes, I do remember; tell me, do you know how to account for it?" 
               "I do!" was the reply. 
               "Then tell me, I pray, I entreat you?" 
               "On one condition." 
               "What is it?" asked the young woman eagerly. 
               "That you release me, give me my liberty, and I will place in your hands a packet, which will reveal all you wish to learn." 
               "This is but a subterfuge to escape my wrath," cried Mrs. Atwood. 
               "It is not! I will swear on the Bible that I will place in your hands (ere an hour expires) a packet which will tell you why you so strangely resemble each other." 
               "Swear to give me my life and liberty, and I will lead you to the spot where it is concealed." 
               Mrs. Atwood held a whispered consultation with Walter for a few minutes, then, turning to the prisoner, she said, 
               "Will you swear that you speak the truth concerning this?" 
               "I will," was the answer. 
               A Bible was brought, and Mrs. Walton took the requisite oath; then said, 
                
               "Now, Louise, you will also swear to free me, as soon as I place the packet in your hands?" 
               Mrs. Atwood consented, and took the oath; then, sending for a chaise, the party left the residence, and drove down towards Moyamensing. Mrs. Walton knew that her life was safe; for Mrs. Atwood, from childhood, ever regarded an oath on the Bible as sacred. The vehicle stopped, and they entered a housed Mrs. Walton led them into an apartment; then, unlocking a chest, she opened it, and from a secret drawer she drew forth a sealed packet. On the outside appeared these words: "Revenge! Revenge! Revenge!" 
               When Mrs. Atwood read the superscription, she shuddered, and said, 
               "Mrs. Walton, I will now leave you; but remember, let us not meet again." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               SEVEN days passed since the events in our last chapter occurred. "Mrs. Walton," said Edward Langdon, one evening, as they stood at the window, looking out into the bright waters of the Schuylkill River, "when will you gratify me in my most earnest desire, namely, who, and what are my parents?" 
               "Edward," replied she, "have patience. Ere long you will know all. There is a fearful crime connected with your birth, which will all be made apparent in due season; but if it were revealed now, the guilty one would escape. So have patience, if you would know what you so eagerly desire." 
               "Who is this person you allude to?" 
               "It is not requisite you should know, Edward," replied she. "You would spoil all by a single ill-timed word to this person; but let me caution you not to permit Mrs. Atwood to get you again in her power, or your life will certainly be the forfeit." 
               Edward thought it strange that Mrs. Walton so earnestly cautioned him to avoid meeting Mrs. Atwood, and when he retired that night, he mused over it. "There is a mystery concealed beneath; all this which I cannot fathom," muttered he. "She does not wish that I should meet Mrs. Atwood, that is certain; but what can be her motive? I almost believe that in that packet lies the mystery, and I will visit her to-morrow night." 
               Next evening at eight, he informed Mrs. Walton that he would take a short walk, and would be back in an hour. 
               "Shall I accompany you?" asked she. 
               "No; I would rather be alone," replied he. 
               "I suspect your motive," muttered she, as he went into another room to get his coat and hat. He soon left the house, without entering the room again where she sat. 
               "Now," exclaimed she, "I will soon be convinced. I seldom guess wrong." She also left the house, but through the back way. 
               Edward Langdon pursued his way up the street; until he reached South, then turned down. He reached the house where Mrs. Atwood resided, and was in the act of ascending the steps when some one called him by name." He turned around, and beheld a woman. She beckoned to him; and he went to where she stood. He beheld Mrs. Walton. 
               "Mrs. Walton!" exclaimed he, in astonishment. 
               "Hush," whispered she, placing her hand on his mouth; "do not utter that name; this is a dangerous place; come, let us walk away from here." 
                
               "I have submitted to your will too long, and I am determined to act in Opposition to it henceforth." 
               "Is this your fixed determination?" asked she. 
               "It is." 
               "Then go," said she, pointing to the house; "go in there, and if you do not curse the hour you entered it, then may I not sleep to-night!" 
               Half an hour afterwards, Edward Langdon rushed from the house of Mrs. Atwood, and with hasty steps proceeded out South street. He reached the door of Mrs. Walton's house, and attempted to enter; the door was locked; he knocked loudly, but no one answered; he entered the rear of the house-burst the door off its hinges-he rushed up stairs-entered the room of Mrs. Walton. A lamp was on the table, but Mrs. Walton was absent! 
               "Oh, my God!" murmured he, in agony, "have I deserved such punishment? Yes, I have indeed deserved it, for obeying the fiendish commands of such a demon! Oh, is this my reward?-just heaven, spare me!" 
               The young man sat down in a chair, and groaned in agony. He was aroused by heavy footsteps coming up stairs; he looked up, and two officers entered, and arrested him as a burglar. He resisted not, but followed them quite passively; his misery made him insensible to further trouble; and he was confined in prison as a felon! 
               This was the beginning of Mrs. Walton's revenge. It was by her direction that Edward Langdon was arrested as a burglar, and thrown into prison. 
               She had, indeed, a motive to prevent him from again meeting Mrs. Atwood; for should he do so, he would learn a dreadful secret, and also become her bitterest enemy. Hence her attempt to persuade him to abandon the idea of visiting Mrs. Atwood. But when she saw that he was determined to act according to his own will, the demon became aroused in her malignant soul, and she resolved to permit him to learn the secret; for she intended he should learn it some day; still, she was not yet ready. But now she saw that the first part of her tragedy had literally commenced; she found that she would be obliged to press forward, or the latter part would lose its effect, by being delayed too long, and thus her revenge would not be complete. 
               Accordingly, when she left the house near the Schuylkill, she took another in the district of the Northern Liberties, in order to avoid meeting Mrs. Atwood or Walter Marsden. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               IN the room where the reader met her last, sat Mrs. Atwood. She was sadly changed. Her face was pale as marble; her eyes were sunken in her head. Altogether, she appeared at least five years older than when we saw her last. 
               Walter Marsden had forsaken her. She no longer pleased him as a companion; she became too irritable and evil-tempered for his taste. Still, he did not leave her destitute. 
               While she sat in her room, her thoughts wandered back to her father's house. She felt a desire to see her father; still she feared to meet his eye. No; she could not muster sufficient courage to return home. She would content herself where she was, to die, an outcast from her father's house. 
               "I wonder what has become of Edward Langdon?" thought she; "how he must have suffered by this time, if he has not destroyed his life ere this. I should have done so, but I fear to meet my God with such a fearful crime on my soul. No, no! I must live to seek that demon in woman's form." 
               She picked up a book, and commenced reading. 
               The packet she received from Mrs. Walton stated that she was not the daughter of Mr. Dufrone, and concluded by saying, that Edward Langdon was her brother; hence the anguish of Edward, and the awful change in Mrs. Atwood. Both had committed a heinous crime. 
               Mrs. Atwood vowed to take the life of her mortal foe the first time they met, and in view of this she had spies on the track of Mrs. Walton; but they lost sight of their prey, and, for the last two weeks, none heard of her. She seemed to have escaped effectually. *  *  *  * 
               Mr. Dufrone lived happy with his young wife. She was affectionate and dutiful; besides, he was the father of a beautiful boy; and the merchant felt as happy as a king. But the destroying angel hovered around his happy home. 
               One morning his beautiful boy was cold, stiff, and dead. He did not and any on the previous evening, and his sudden death created quite a feeling of horror in the breast of Mr. Dufrone. He had received the anonymous note his daughter sent him, and he suspected that his former housekeeper had done this, as a beginning of her revenge. He concluded not to mention this to his wife, for she was overwhelmed with grief at the death of her son. 
               Ere the boy was buried, Mr. Dufrone procured a physician to examine the body. The result was, there was a quantity of arsenic found in the stomach. 
               Mr. Dufrone requested the physician not to mention the incident, as he had secret reasons to keep quiet. 
               However, he could not imagine how the poison had been administered. It was all involved in a fearful mystery. Several weeks passed away, and everything about the house assumed its usual appearance. One afternoon Mrs. Dufrone went shopping, and, in Chestnut street, she was accosted by a middle-aged gentleman. She seemed pleased to see, him, for she smiled, shook hands, and asked after his health. 
               "Will you have leisure to accompany me to my house?" asked the man. 
               "Yes, I suppose so," replied she. 
               Some half an hour afterwards they sat side by side on a sofa, in a splendid room. 
               "When can we commence operations, eh, Kate?" asked he, with a smile of satisfaction. 
               "Perhaps in a week or so," replied she. 
               "Pshaw," cried he impatiently; then after a slight pause, he said: 
               "Kate, I am in want of some money." 
               "You are getting extravagant," remarked she, smiling. 
               "Humbug!" returned he; "but suppose I am, who else but Mrs. Dufrone should supply my wants; who raised her to her present exalted station?-ah! you come down," added he with a smile, as Mrs. Dufrone drew forth a purse, saying: 
               "I cannot spare much to-day; how much do you want?" 
               "One hundred, or fifty will do," replied he. 
               "Or twenty-five," remarked she, smiling. 
               "Hardly," replied he. 
               "I have no more," was the reply. 
                
               "Well, then, it must do," returned he. 
               She gave him the sum named and left the house, promising to meet him again ere the end of the week. 
               After she left, the man also left the house; he turned up the street and entered a hotel. A young man followed him, and when he disappeared in the hotel, the young man muttered: 
               "Ah, ha! I shall visit you to-night," saying which, he turned away and left the spot. *  *  *  *  *  *  * 
               Mrs. Atwood reclined on her bed; a severe fever had attacked her, and she was confined to her bed. 
               "Oh! if I could but leave this room," murmured she, "for an hour! but no, everything appears to be in opposition to my will; at the time my enemy is in my power, that moment fate opposes me; oh! for an hour's strength to work my revenge!" 
               She fell back in her bed, utterly exhausted. 
               Several days passed thus, the fever reached its height, and the danger was past. Mrs. Atwood was again regaining some little strength. One evening a young man was admitted to her room. She raised her head, it was Edward Langdon. 
               "One friend at least remains," remarked she feebly, as he approached her bed, and inquired after her health. 
               "Yes, Louise," replied he, sadly, "I will be your friend." 
               "Yes, but perhaps you will refuse to do that, which lies nearest to my heart," remarked she. 
               "You may wrong me," returned he; "tell me what is it?" 
               "Do you wish to avenge my wrongs-our wrongs?" 
               "Yes!" exclaimed he, "I shall never rest until Mrs. Walton has paid the penalty of her crimes." 
               "Will you seek her, if I point out the house where I saw her one afternoon?" 
               "I will." 
               "Thanks, Edward, listen: about one week ago, on the day the fever first attacked me, I stood at the corner of -- and Chestnut; presently Mrs. Dufrone (my father's wife) came along; I followed her, and ere long she was accosted by a portly, middle-aged man, and in a moment I recognised Mrs. Walton in the disguise of this man; I followed them to a house where they entered; half an hour passed, Mrs. Defrone reappeared; shortly after, Mrs. Walton also appeared, and she left the house and entered a hotel still dressed like a man; she wore large black whiskers. Now there is some mystery in this; will you go to this house and endeavour to secure this arch fiend, Mrs. Walton? place her but in my power again, and she shall never escape me." 
               Edward Langdon promised to obey her injunctions, and soon after left her, promising a speedy return. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               IT was midnight, and in the vicinity of Mr. Dufrone's dwelling, two men were prowling. One of them finally stepped up to the gate, and found it unlocked. "All right," whispered he to his companion, and both noiselessly entered the yard; then closing and locking the gate, they reached the rear of the house, where they found the doors also unlocked. They entered the kitchen, and also closed that door; then they sprung their lanterns, and made search for the silver plate. 
               On the pavement opposite tae house of Mr. Dufrone, stood a man. He watched the movements of the two burglars, and after they had entered into the yard, he stepped across the street, and gaining a secure retreat, he awaited their reappearance. Nearly an hour expired ere they emerged from the yard. The man kept his eye on the first one that reappeared, who glanced cautiously around, then seemingly satisfied, he whispered- 
               "Come on." 
               The other stepped out, and no sooner had he reached the pavement than the sharp, report of a pistol rang through the air, and the burglar fell, while his companion scampered off. 
               Several officers hastened to the spot, and soon saw how matters stood; for the booty, which consisted of two bags of silver plate, was left behind. The wounded burglar was picked up and conveyed to the Station House, where a surgeon was called to dress his wound, which was near the heart. 
               The inmates of Mr. Dufrone's house were soon awakened and made acquainted with what had transpired during their sleep; and when the officer concluded by saying that one of the burglars had been shot by some unknown person, Mrs. Dufrone turned pale as death, and became greatly agitated. 
               "You have the wounded man in custody, I presume?" remarked Mr. Dufrone. 
               "Yes, he is secure," replied the officer. "You can testify against him in the morning." 
               Next morning, Mrs. Dufrone despatched a servant to the Station House to inquire who the burglar was. The servant returned with the answer that it was a woman instead of a man. 
               Mrs. Dufrone fainted at this intelligence. The burglar was Mrs. Walton in disguise, and the man who shot her was Edward Langdon. 
               Mrs. Walton's wound was dangerous, and by the earnest request of Mr. Dufrone, she was conveyed to his own house. He promised to be responsible for her appearance to answer the charge preferred against her as soon as she sufficiently recovered. 
               She had not been aware that she was in the house of Mr. Dufrone until two days afterwards. 
               Mrs. Dufrone entered the room, locked the door, and approaching the bed, she asked-"How is this? Who wounded you?" 
               "I cannot tell, Kate," replied she. "I was [shot just as I left the yard." 
               "Was it Ben?" asked Mrs. Dufrone. 
               "No; he was near me at the time, and the wound, you see, is on the opposite side; beside, we had no pistols about our persons. I cannot account for it." 
               "What will become of you?" asked Mrs. Dufrone, in despair. 
               "Calm yourself," replied Mrs. Walton, confidentially; "I will not make a fool of myself, I assure you. I promise you I will not be convicted, so calm your fears. But you must not permit your husband to detect you in the act of visiting me; it may lead to unpleasant results." 
               "I'll be cautious," replied Mrs. Dufrone; and she left the wounded woman, who, in reality, was her natural mother. 
               Mr. Dufrone resolved to leave no means untried to compel her to reveal the cause of her deep hatred to himself and his daughter. He swore to learn it, or have her punished to the utmost extremity of the law. 
               Ah! little did he know what an enormous power the woman possessed; whom he inwardly threatened to crush. 
               Mr. Dufrone entered her room for the first time, as soon as she was able to leave her bed; she had not seen him in the room before. 
               "Well, how do you like your prison?" asked he, coldly, as he fixed his eye on her. 
               "Well enough," replied she. "Still I intend to change my quarters as soon as I am able to leave my room." 
               "You appear to presume greatly, madam!" exclaimed he, in real surprise. "Are you aware that you are a prisoner?" 
               "I am, sir!" 
               "Well," continued he, looking at her in astonishment, "you must also remember under what peculiar circumstances you have been taken prisoner. I am obliged to keep you prisoner until you are strong enough to appear at court to answer to the charge of burglary. I also have a charge against you for being the cause of my daughter's ruin, and the death of Henry Atwood; besides, you have sworn to ruin me. Woman, you do not know me!" 
               "I do, Louis Dufrone!" replied she, vehemently, "I do know you." 
                
               Great was the surprise of all concerned, at the disappearance of the female burglar; when the day of her trial was at hand, Mr. Dufrone declared that she found means to pick the lock of her room door, and escape through the night. 
               A week passed away, and the disappearance of Mrs. Walton was almost forgotten, when Mr. Dufrone received a letter from her, requesting his immediate attendance, as she was on the point of dying. He hastened to the residence of the dying woman, and found her indeed dying; she had again been shot by some secret assassin, and now her life was ebbing away rapidly. 
               "Louis Dufrone," asked she, "please send for Mrs. Atwood, also for Edward Langdon. I wish to see all ere I die." 
               Her request was complied with, and when Mrs. Atwood beheld her father with open arms to receive her, she rushed into his embrace, and wept bitterly; but when her grief had somewhat subsided, she said, 
               "Mrs. Walton informs me that you are not my father." 
               "I merely did that to punish you," exclaimed Mrs. Walton with a mocking laugh, which surprised all; for they thought she had repented of her sins, and was about to make reparation for the wrongs she had done them. But they were to learn the malignity of that demon's soul, ere she died. 
               "Mr. Dufrone," began Mrs. Walton, "do you remember when you ruined me, and then attempted to take my life? I escaped the death you intended should be my portion, and I now live to be avenged." 
               "You are revenged," groaned he in misery. 
               "Yes, partly," cried she, becoming weaker; "but the sweetest is not come yet. I had two children, a boy and girl. They are your children, Louis Dufrone; and now do you wish to know where they are?" 
               "Yes, tell me," replied he, "and I will provide for both, as if they were indeed lawfully entitled to my care." 
               "One is provided for, Louis, and the other stands there," pointing to Edward Langdon, who exclaimed: 
                
               "Are you my mother?" 
               "Yes, I am your mother, and there is your father-the father of Louise Dufrone, whom you seduced." 
               Edward sank down in a chair, almost heartbroken, and Mrs. Walton cried, 
               "Yes! I hate you all, and ere I die, you will have my curse, to follow you to your graves." Then she gave one piercing scream and fell back dead. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               MR. DUFRONE took his daughter and son home with him, and gave orders to have the body of Mrs. Walton privately interred. 
               Mrs. Atwood never recovered her wonted health; she failed almost perceptably. Edward, however, became more happy every day. He would converse for hours with Mrs. Atwood, bidding her to cheer up, and drive away all thoughts of the past. 
               One day, Mr. Dufrone called Edward into a private room, and, when seated, asked, 
               "Did Mrs. Walton ever hint to you about her early acquaintance with me?" 
               "Not to my recollection," replied Edward. 
               "You remember, she mentioned that she had two children?" 
               "Yes; but I never knew of this before." 
               "That is not what I intend to ascertain," continued Mr. Dufrone. "She has, according to her confession, a daughter, and that daughter must be a twin sister to you. Now, she never informed me, ere she died, where that daughter was, whether she was dead, or still in existence." 
               "She said, one is provided for," replied Edward. "That is all she hinted about the girl; for she it was she alluded to." 
               "Yes, I recollect," replied his father; "after that, she pointed to you, and said, 'The other stands there.' Now, I would like to see your sister." 
               "Have you examined her effects?" asked Edward. "Perhaps some papers may serve as a clue to the discovery of my sister." 
               "I never thought of that," replied his father; "I will look after them to-night." 
               In the evening, after supper, Mr. Dufrone entered the room where Mrs. Walton's trunk and clothes were. He was accompanied by Edward, and he called for his wife; when she appeared, he asked, 
               "Do you know where the key to this trunk is?" 
               "Why do you ask?" inquired she, turning pale. 
               "I wish to examine the effects of the deceased Mrs. Walton," replied her husband. 
               "For what purpose?" asked she. 
               He looked at her in surprise; she never appeared so before to him. 
               "What is the matter, Catharine?" asked he. 
               "Nothing," replied she, bursting into tears. 
               The father and son looked at each other in Surprise. Neither could imagine what affected her so. 
               "Catharine," said Mr. Dufrone, approaching her, "what is the matter? You surprise me by your singular behaviour." 
               She looked up, and answered, 
               "Louis, I have deceived you; and by certain papers in that trunk my deception would have been apparent to you-hence my reluctance to deliver the key." 
               "Ah!" cried the merchant, in painful surprise, "you have then examined the contents of the trunk?" 
               "I have," replied she. 
               "And learned all, perhaps?" exclaimed he. 
               "What I learned by the contents of the trunk," replied she, "I knew long ago." 
               "Impossible!" cried he. 
               "Why so?" asked she, now, in turn, surprised. "It astonishes me, that you knew the secret, and never once told me of it. I feared to disclose it, lest you would discard me; but I now find that you are more generous even than I thought." 
               "Then you knew that Mrs. Walton was-" 
               "Yes; I knew it," interrupted she, "from the time I was nine years old; and if she had not forbid me to disclose the fact to you, I would never have mentioned it. But I now perceive she was deceived; for she declared that you knew nothing of it." 
               "Explain yourself," cried Mr. Dufrone, in great perplexity; "I do not comprehend one word, you say. I think there is a misunderstanding." 
               "What I mean is, that Mrs. Walton was my mother," said she. 
               Both started; and when the reality burst on the mind of Mr. Dufrone, he exclaimed, in a voice of thunder, 
               "What! are you the daughter of Mrs. Walton?" 
               "I am," was the reply. 
               The merchant gazed at her, then, at Edward, and all doubts vanished. The resemblance was striking. He attempted to speak, but in vain; and he fell backward on the floor. A thin stream of blood issued from his mouth; he had burst a blood-vessel. *  *  *  * 
               "You have indeed been punished for your crime," murmured Edward, as he knelt beside the corpse of his father. 
               Two weeks passed away; and still Edward delayed to tell Mrs. Dufrone she was his sister, and the daughter of her husband. He confided the secret to Mrs. Atwood, who concluded it were best to spare her the misery its revelation would cause; but fate again interposed. 
               One day Mrs. Dufrone took all the papers out of her mother's trunk, and examined every one. At length she came to one which was sealed, and appeared of old date; it was not addressed to any one. She opened it, and learned the fatal secret. For a moment, she seemed as paralyzed. She could not trust her own eyes. She reread the fearful confession; and then burst into a loud laugh. She was mad. 
               Mrs. Dufrone was placed in the Lunatic Asylum; but, ere a week expired, she committed suicide. Three months later, Mrs. Atwood died; and Edward Langdon was heir of the vast wealth of his father. He turned all into cash, and started for New York, where he lived extravagantly, and, by associating with some dashing young men, he soon again became as reckless as ever, and at the end of six months more, he had spent half his wealth, when he suddenly resolved to reform; and, leaving New York, he went to Baltimore, where he married and went into business. About a year passed away; and one night he encountered Walter Marsden in the street, who deliberately plunged a dagger in his breast, and then robbed him of his purse and watch. Thus perished the last of that ill-fated family. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
