
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Thayendanegea, the Scourge, or, The Wareagle of the Mohawks .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6986
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Thayendanegea, the scourge, or, The Wareagle of the Mohawks 
            
               '4

ON.

TIE WAR-EAGLE OF THE MOHAWKS.

A TALE OF. MYSTERY, RUTII, AND WRONG.

BY NED BUNTLINE. ,3: d.

R'-

as       }           ~

*

NEW ,YORa-
RED E R I O        A. 'B RADY,
NO. 24 ANN STREET.

'.
a      ;
r
.r
+  ^,+,
'   .t
; y ii
i r
I*li i
1
_
1 , '.
. ,;
i
'i_ t'
' f' ,' '
;i
'    ;.
f
J       ,,
'      Y
a                      .    f'
.
Y  '    ,
k,  :,
,",

+.
S
,
..  '                       t"!  ,
...                          ;
"   f
"  j  r
"                      ,   i#
t                         ,
'       i                        , d
i

.

'~
,,
,    .

n1ngta, tkt $onqt;


WrIDnaseeording to Act of Congress, in the year 1858.
BY CAULDWELL, SOUTHWORTH &amp; WHITNEY,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.
.

9

CHAPTER I.
"Mother, I am almost a warrior now ! I
am more fleet of foot than any runner in the
tribe ! My arrow never misses its mark, and
when Ohanwanho lets me shoot his rifle, my
aim is yet more sure than his ! I am strong ;
I will soon put my foot upon the war-path,
nd then I will prove I am brave ! Now,
hide from me no longer the place of my birth,
or the name of my father ! It is time that I
should know it !-time that I should know
why we loiter here, away from the tribe of
winch you say [ should be chief! There is
hot, strong blood in my veins-a big heart
-ats in my breast--I am an eagle, and must
not be chained, or I will .die, beating myself
to death with my own wings !"
These words were uttered by an Indian
youth, whose age might he fifteenor sixteen-
it were hard to determine it, at a glance, for
his form wasyet slender, though every muscle
was well developed, and it in its grace, height-
ened by his scanty but picturesque costume,
would have formed a study for the first sculp-
tor in the world. His features were noble,
his eye large and flashing, and his thin nos-
trils dilated, and his veins seemed to swell and
darken as he spoke.
She whom he addressed looked young to
be the mother of such a boy-yet the like-
ness of the two could not be mistaken. Tall,
elegantly formed, clad, indeed, like an Indian
queen, she was very, very beautiful. And a
gook of settled sorrow added to her dignity,
for there was pride rather than despondency
mn it !
They stood upon the banks of La Belle
Rliviere, the then silvery Ohio, for the dust
and stain of commerce had not then been cast
spon its limpid bosom, nor the rush of paddle-
wheels migled earth with water.
t    "Tn1AvrNoAmaaA !"
The mother laid her small hand upon the
impatient youth's shoulder, as she uttered

this word, and for a moment she looked him
full in the face, firmly but not unkindly. He
east his eyes down for a moment, and then
said:
"Mother, my ears are open to your words--
your eyes go through me, as the sun pierces
the water!"
"The first duty of a warrior is to learn pa.
tienee and fortitude 1" she said, slowly.
"Yes, mother! To bear hunger, thirst,
pain of body, all without a murmur or a
groan! These I am equal to,'but not, not to
this agony of mystery. To know that I am
something, and yet know not what-to feel
that I have a field of action open for me-for
me alone-yet know not where it is-to know
that you have some hidden sorrow in your
heart, and not know where to seek him who
placed it there ! Again I ask-where is my
father?"
"Buried on the banks of the dear, dear Mo-
hawk, where-where--"
The woman suddenly restrained herself, but
evidently with an effort.
" Where you must guide meI" continued
the'youth. "I will stand beside my father's
grave, and there learn my name-there take
counsel of his spirit, and learn what a war-
rior's son should do. Mother, we must go to
the Mohawk !"
" Thayendaneges, I dare net!"
"Mother, you are a squaw !"
No pen could describe, or pencil properly
delineate, the tone and attitude with which
those words were delivered. To call a war-
nor a squaw is the deadliest insult which can
be given; to remind a woman that she is a
squaw, is to bitterly reproach her for unwa.
manly weakness.
his scornful tone-low, but deep and tun-
ing ; his turning upon his heel, with armed
folded upon his breast, as if he deemed it be.-
neath him to look upon her-all struck, like
a thousand serpent bites, into her very heart

&amp;:'} Y°  j

bT
OR,
THE WAR-EAGLE OF THE MOHAWKS

1 .4

,,
. .
f
,, ,
C K
S
r, '     ,
, I ,  (.
./  2
a
f
,i
f y:
.  y     s
. J' 1 ,3
' '  '
!       J
q ,J
+'f    i
'   /'1   Ic
d s '
'
'  ' .'   -
r
:
   %' r
}
p' aYb
i     i    r


I

TIAYENDANEGEA, TIE SCOURGE ; OR,

and she pressed one hand there, as if to   and garments for the travel while you do that.
smother the fire, while the other was raised, We have lost half a moon in which to get
and seemed to invoke help from above. To ready. And by no look, word, or sign, betray
add to the striking picture, a lovely girl-a  our mitentions. Keen eyes are upon us--they
year or more riper in age than the boy-came  will stay us with strong arms if they think we
bounding to her side, bearing wreathes of would leare them."
8ow-rs, and followed by a beautiful fawn.   " Why, my mother?"
a What is the matter, mother? Ias Thay-  " At a proper time, Thayendanegea shall
endaneges angered thee? Forgive him, for know-it is not time yet.     Now   to your
ONm.LovA's sake !" and the lovely creature  sports, and leave me to think and to talk to
knelt at her mother's feet, and, drawing away  the Great Spirit! IIrmust guide us, or our
Uie hand from over that aching heart, kissed  path is dark !"
it again and again.                          The young people reverently obeyed, and
The woman did not look down at her strolled along up the batik of the beautiful
daughter: her eye was upon the boy, who, river, hand-in-hand, as they had often done
firm, as if lie had been a statue of bronze, before, while his dog and her fawn gambolled
stood as first he turned.                  ahead of them, as playfully as two kittens in
" Duee it become the son of a brave war- the sun of a June morning
nor, atid the future chief of a nation, to im-
sult the mother who gave him life ?" she said,          CHAPTER     II.
"t last, in a voice so low that it seemed scarcely  Sir William Johnson, king's superintendent
to have left her lips; 'yet it reached his ears of the Six Nations-iti fact, of all the Indians,
--his heart, too. The folded arms were un- under British rule, north of New York-sat in
bent, and the flashing eyes east down; slowly, a front room of his baronial castle-for such
as if all unwilling to yield to his own convie- it really was-situated where still exists and
tions of wrong, the youth turned toward his flourishes the village of Johnstown. on its
mother, ant, in a log', sad tonesaid :     lofty look-out above the Mohawk Valley.
Thavenda-tie-gen has done wrong.   He    history has described him-to that let the
will offend his mother no more. IIe will aket reader turn-and whieti they observe the
hisbow and go far away; and, whenhe has won  powerful sway which lie held over the In-
s warrior's name, he will come back to her !" dians for years, and the havoc which lie corn-
He was moving off, when his mother cried: mitted during our revolutionary struggle, they
Stay !"                               will not wonder at the strange mysteries
And Onalova, her long -treees flying back  destined to be unravelled in this romatce..
from her broad, glossy shoulders, came bound-  Ie sat, as I said, in his easy chair, with his
iing to his side, and, taking his hand, said, in a amber-mouthed pipe between his sensual lips,
tone reproachful, but fond :               looking out on broad lands occupied by his own
"Oh. brother, would you break our moth: tenantry, and possessing, as lie did, the power
sr's heart, and leave Onalova without a pro- of a monarch, if not of a despot, and the sea-
toetor?"                                   suous nature accorded to the Turk, seemed to
"Thavendanegea, you shall have your     enjov himself. But then his fortified house-,
wish !" said the mother, advancing. "When  the arms he constantly wore about his own
the moon is full, we will start for the Valley  portly person, and the vigilant attendance
of the Mohawk, We must wait till then, for which lie required of one or more servants
we will have to travel at night, else will we  whom he trusted implicitly, all tended to
be kept back by those who have been paid to  show that neither his wealth, power, or their
keep us here. And we must prepare for a    attendant luxuries exenipted lhm from care.
march of toil 'and peril. Great mountains    A flush came over the face of Sir William,
must be climbed-deep rivers crossed-ene- as a tall, gray-haired, mnd grim-looking var-
nmies avoided. You have forced it on ne nor was seen rapidly striding over the lawn
sooner thia  I wished ; but I have spoken, and  toward the house. Fully armed, and bearing
we will go !"                             the insignia of a chief, the savage bore an air
"Forgive me, my noble, good mother. I of importance.
have been very wrong !" and now the young    "What new favor can old Aroghyadecka
Indian, wholly softened, knelt at his mother's want now !" muttered Sir Witliam, in a tone
feet, and pressed her hand to his breast.  of discontent. "Presuming on the past, and
"Kneel only when you whisper to the      a fancied hold lie has upon me, he asks too
Great spirit, miy son !" said she, lifting him  much. lie must cease-he has already made
ap. "And now, if you have a warrior's      me do too much !"
cnnning, show  it. Convey, at least a half   tie had hardly closed this soliloquy, when
day's journey to the east, all the dried pro- the tall chieftain stalked into the apartment,
visions which we can carry with ease, and aind, as stiff and erect as a rock-rooted pine'
hide them. It must be done in small parcels, upon the hill-side, stood before him, making
fomn time to time, when you hunt. Oalova  a seiarce'y recognizable sign of respect.
sad myself will make our strong moccasius    Sir William motioned his visitor toward a

TIE WAR. EAGLE OF THE MOHAWKS.                               g
seat, but the latter remained standing  After  " Has my brother no interest in the matter?
waiting a moment to recover breath-for he  Does lie forget I Id a daughter, and that she
had traveled-the Indian spoke.            sleeps in her grave ?"
"I have news for my brother," said he.    "No, Aroghya leeka, I do not; and, if I dig
"It is well. My ears are open--let my you never would let me be long in forgetful-
brother speak !" said Si' William.        nress," cried the baronet, now losing his ten-
"The news comes from    a black cloud !"  per. "But were she a thousand] times vo)
continued the Indian.                      daughter, and had she been a thousand ties
" So does the lightning.  My heart is as beautiful, her price has been paid and o'er-
strong, let may brother speak !" said Sir Wit- paid. Mark you, I have borne for her sake,
ham, smoking calmly, and shiowin an indif. and your feelings, all that I will bear.-A
ference worthy of the Indhian character. which  brave chief was sacrificed to make wy for
he, always emulated, and probably thereby  you; his family were banished. -Evey wish
gained much of his influence,             you have ever spoken to me has been grati-
iWo ears too nany !" said the Indimi, fled; but now I have done. The more I give,
pointing to a servant of Sir William's.   the more you ask. You get no more."
"You can retire,Pontioch, but do not go be-  "My brother gets angry, like a squaw.
yond hearing of my whistle ; and tell Malcom  Let him be careful, or he'll bite his tongue
to be ready forthe huntpf which Ispoke !" said  off."
the baronet, whose last words were precau-   Sir William made no reply ; but, resuming
tionary, and such as lie knew Malcom, the his seat again, lighted his pipe, after refui-
chief of his body-guard, would understand. it, and paid no further attention to the Indian
The truth was, that lie did not like the ex- who stood regarding ~him  with a look of
pressing upon the chieftain's face, and saw that hatred that would have made most men quail.
the latter was much excited, though lie strove After a short pause, lie took a silver whiste
to hide it                                from his vest, and blew a sharp note, in an
When the servant was gone, the Indian, instant the negro servant was by his side.
after looking around, and seeing that no listen-  " Pontioch, bring me one glass, and a bottle
ers were near the windows, turned and said : of brandy," said he.
"A bird tins brought me news from the     The'servant entered the next room, and in
Miamis !"                                 few moments reappeared, bearing a bottle of
The baronet started slightly, but instantly  brandy and a single glass upon a silver salver.
was as calm as before.                       The baronet poured out the sparkling fire-
"My ears are open !" said he.           water, more prized than all else by the red
" Dyagetto and her children are no longer mena of that day-and,.,alas! for there oven in
with the Miamis !" continued the chief, look- this--and diluting it with iced water frm i
ing at the baronet closely, to note the effect of silver pitcher on a table within his reach, le
the news. But the latter, now fully on his drank it off.
guard, exhibited no feeling, even if he had  Ie could not more deeply have insulted or
cause to do so.                           #ounded the Indian chief than by that aet.
"They have come toward the sunrise !"     The latter stood one moment, ane then said:
continued the Indian.                      "The pale-faced chief has drunk his own
Sir William smoked on, as if the matter in  blood ! When the chief of the Mohawks has
no way affected him.                      made his nest secure for his own eagle the
The Indian now   showed signs of impa- he'll come again !"
tience, or rather of annoyance, and said,    As lie said this, lie turned abruptly"on his
quickly:heel,nand left the house
My brother says nothing I""Pontioph, tell Malcom               to come here I"
"I have two ears and but one tongue! said the baronet, calmly, for lie now hid en-
When my brother is done, I will speak !"  tirely regained his composure.
"Does this news Please my brother?"       "lie dare not expose the secret of Ogahtee's
" at is, is! If the Mimis have slept, it death ; and Dyagetto dare not break the oath
has not been with my eyes !" said the baronet, she took when I spared her son. I am safe
"Will my brother let them live if they come but this old reptile must be watched. He
to his fort -                              means to destroy them. ie shall not. That
"I do not murder womek and children."   Dyagetto was a handsome woman when el
"The boy will soon be a warrior. If lie went away. She may not have faded yet."
learns his rights-"  .                      The soliloquy of the baronet was broken
"Your power will be in danger1" added the in by the entrance of the person for whom
baronet, concluding the words the chief had  he sent.
commenced.                                   "Malcom, you saw the Mohawk chief that
"Yes ; but I care not for myself Ilhave a just left the house ?"
son who will be a great brave."              "I did, Sir William."
"Then let him and the son of Dvagetto      "Have a watch kept on all his movemcsg
battle for the place."                     Double our guards at night and ten yo

!
Y
V
Y

,
,
.. ".
t  '
,'  .
,,''
,' '
, ,
'
,"      .:
. .
Yr N
(,   .r
.   ;
y r,,, f(
.
t        t
((   .
i  'L
"i      * t
+
+
f: g'
.      {
. S

t
s
a
3


g                   TIHAYENDANEGEA, TILE SCOURGE; Ol,
self take four or f'ce men, and start, as if on  The schoolmaster evidently was infavor.
h bunting expedition. Cross the river, and  While the servant was gone. ir Wih;m a  .i .
seout up and down, watching him the while,  'Were you to use a little more moral sun-
sc any jarty of Mohawks over the river ; and  sion, and less corporeal punishment, do you
if you fill in with a woman who answers to not think the youingstErs would like you be-
the name of Dyagetto, with two children ter, and learn more ."
with her, bring her to me safely. She speaks  " Divil the bit, asking yer pardon, Sir Wit
Znghrli almost as well as her own tongue : Liam, for the irriverent expression.  Stir
was tauht in my school here."             doesn't the Bible, or some other good book.
The soldier's only reply was the military  say,' Spare the rod, and ruin the child?' No;
salute. lie had hii orders, and departed to like my own countrymen, the more you bate
fslfi1 them. And those men who say little 'em, the more they like you. As to talking'
arc fe very ones who ew     fulfill orders, knowledge into 'em, 'twould be like whisper-
hough a thousand perils stand in the way.  in' leve to a purity girl through a four feet
"Send Mr. O'Whaekem     here, Pontioch. wall, where you couldn't smell the clover of
Tell him to bring his school report with him," her breath. When I lay down the birch
sid the baronet, again starting his pipe into they'll lay down their booiso.i.o.
Tetion.The baronet smile                                      a  this opon ver7
In a short time, an individual appeared, earnestly given by Mr. Flood, and then he
who, as Sir William's schoolmaster, deserves a smiled again, for the brandy was at hand. In
brief description  His small, fiery, gray eye, 'the last ho was assisted by the schoolmaster,
thick lips, and wide mouth, so open that it who seemed quite pleased with the service,
hnstantly revealed a couple of rows of masti- ana took the heavier part of the abor on
Motors, which looked as if capable almost of himself.      and m      John ?" asked
any duty, from the hashing up of boarding-   Where is Guy an    y son
house steak to the shortening of tenpenny the baronet of his servant, after he had dis-
ails, and a nose, heavenward pointing its as. missed the important Mr. O'Wiakemu
stations, at once revealed his derivation. It  "Gone to de Soeeen-dog* a fishin', sali !"
was from the south of Ireland. his forehead  "Very well  When they return, tell thom
.what there was of it-was drawn into per- I would like to see them -
pndicular furrows, he had so long been in "Yes, sah . .
6he habit of wearing a frown of pedantic dig- "And now I do not wish to be disturbed
ity thereon.  Over this, red and bristly, by any visiters-renieiber -
pointing in all directions, rose his short. coarse The negro nodded and left the room, to ra-
air.Aneckcloth, which purported to be main near the door until again called by the
white, but was nearly tan-color, was swathed whistle of his master.
tightly around about three inches length of
neck, which seemed strong enough to support
twenty such heads as his  The tout enscngble
of his head was bull-dogish. his long arms,
lean body, and long legs, his large feet and           CHAPTER HI.
hands, conveyed an idea that he was better
ftted for manual than mental labor ; but in For five weary weeks, traveling mostly at
hose days a teacher generally took plenty of night, and taking a devious course to avoid
aereise, trying the "bottom" of many a pursuit, the noble Dyagetto had led her ehil-
youngster who strove to run out of gear.  dren eastward from  the Ohio.   Onalova,
blow goes your school ?"asked the baronet. though slight in figure, had borne the fatigue
"Much in the ould way, Sir William," re- bravely, and Thayendanegea had improved in
#ied the pedant, with a flourish of his right strength and muscle every day. And it seem-
and-his left was placed on the small of his ed, as he approached the lofty hills which
back, so as to lift the important and lengthy walled in his native valley, as if he grew in
tails'of his brass-huttonec coat out at a digni- stature ; for his elastic form heightened, he
ged distance from that portion of the body held his head more proudly, the respiration
which, through his birchifte  scholars, he came more freely from his full breast.
emed to have an aversion for. " Haythen    There must bp something in our native air
wftil be haythen, and Injuns and pagers will be which ever makes itself known within us,
what they were born, in spite of bating or when we approach our birth-place. As I de-
'losophy. Here is the wakely report, Sir scribe, so have I felt.
illiarr. Some of 'em, yell see, are im-  At last they stood upon the crest of a bill
vin' forward, and others are improving' which overlooked the valley.
ackward."                              "See !" said Dyrgetto, pointing downward
The baronet took the paper, glanced at it, to what seemed a stream of liquid, rushing
en laid it on the table, and called his ser-
* The Sacondaga River, rising in the mountainsi ot
SPontioch, brandy and two glasses."'  Iammiton county anil empt3 ug Into the Hudson-

THE WAR-EAGLE OF TIE MOVAWS.              7

gold, for the red sun was throwing its last lin- murmur of the little spring, the rustling of
gering rays upon it-"The Mohawk--ehildren, the breeze, as it softly passed through the new-
the valley of your birth "               .leaved branehes- And the stars aeemodsssep,
The eyes of Onalova glittered with plea- they lay so quiet in the cloudless sky.
sure as they ran over as beautiful a landscape  Tliayendanegea slept and dreamed-.eaed
as ever charmed the mortal vision-a variety that he was a mighty chief - that the eagle
of hill and dale, and level plain, threaded by coronet of a great brave was on bis head,
hundreds of shining rivulets, all rushing to and that a thousand warriors waited forhis bat-
the arms of the larger stream, which was to tie-cry.  Iis form seemed taplir than the high-
bear them to the oblivious ocean. And this, est of them all, his eye the brightest. And he
too, clad in the lively green and flowery sheen saw his loved mother robed as a Forest Queen
of "leafy June," now softened in the mellow  -his beautiful sister, by hier side, looking more
of the coming sunset, was very lovely,   lovely than ever.
But the eagle eye of Thayendanegea rested  The dream was sweet, but, ai ! too briett
not on these beauties ; it wandered to and  It changed; lie thought that he haJbeen taken
fro restlessly, and lie said at last :    prisoner by a band of enemies, and was des-.
"Can we see none of the villages of my tined for the torture. And he nerved his soul
tribe? Where do the warriors dwell ?"     to meet it, as the son of a warrior should-
"We will seek them when another day be- to sing his death-song and show his tortures.
gins," replied his mother, quietly. "Finds fit that neither soul or body could be eonueerd
camping-place, my son, and we will rest, so until one had sped to the spirit-land, and the
that we may be strong when once more we other had been consumed. ,But his mother
stand among our peo ple. But, remember, you and sister again appeared upon the scene, and
must hint no word of your rights or my    their screams of agony pierced his very heart,
wrongs, until I have consented !"           Heavens I It was no dream -a rough hand
",hayendanegea has promised ." 'replied  touched his form, and he sprung to his feet, to
the youth.                                hear the screams in reality, and to fiud him-
A little way down the hill-side, close by a self in the strong hands of two grim warriors,
gushing stream, there was a mossy spot, con- from whose grasp lie tried in vain to tear him-
pletely overhung by a precipice of white, dry belt. By the light of the dawning day, he
rock. It was fringed around with small bush- could see that his mother and sister, too were
as, and was admirably adapted for a camping- captives. But why, when they were so near
place.                                    their own tribe, was his perplexity, 'BTht
Here the party laid down their packs, which lie asked no question--he waited to be spoken
were not heavy now, for their provisions were to, though his swelling veins and flashing eyes
nearly out. A pheasant flew up as they ap- told what he would do, were he for a moment
proached the spot, and alighting on the limb  free, great as were the odds against him, for
a small birch, some fifty or sixty yards off, the warriors were six in number.
seemed to reconnoiter the proceedings. An   "Why has Dyagetto left the land of the
arrow from Thayendanegea's bow in a mo- Minmis ?" at last asked the grim leader of the
meat put an end to his troubles, and while the  band.                       :
young hunter gathered fuel, and with flint and  "It was not the home of her fathers.--er
steel lighted a fire, his mother prepared the heart was weary of dwelling with the stranger,
bird for supper.                          her eyes ached to look upon her kindred, and
Before the darkness came on, the boy also she chose to come !" replied the womaa,
gathered soft branches for beds, and built up haughtily.
a little screen around his mother and sister's  "Knew you not that birds were swift.
retiring place, and then, with a cheerful fire winged, and would be here before you, to teil
blazing before them, and a nice, broiled par- that your word was broken, and that you
bridge and dried venison, and parched corn, would meet a river you could not cross, a
that lonely family supped as well, and prob- mountain you could not climb?"
ably with a better appetite, than will many a  "That bird is a lying one, and flies only
wealthy reader of this'work after he has per- from your lips!"
used this chapter.               -         "  voman, you hasten your death, if y
Hav g rep enished his fuel, so as to keep the brave me a"
fire up all night, Thayendanegea received   "I know it-I can die but once. You are
the blessing of his mother, and then laid down, used to murder !"
with his feet to the fire, in front of the camp The warmior's eyes gleamed with a fernetty
--his bow by his side, and his tomahawk in his that threatened instant death, as he placed hus
hand, ready to use at a moment's warning. He hand upon his knife, and stepped toward he,
was soon asleep, for he was very weary. They but he restrained himself and turned toward
had marched a long way that day, not resting  her son. For a few momente, he eyed him
from the start, for his mother had hoped to sternly, but a look more haughty tihan his
reach the Mohawk by night,                own met his glance.
And now, all was still except the lulling  "What are you?" he tinaly asked.

.,"1
,

V   5r

;"
r ,
,'
.' ,
r
,
f 'n


THAYENDANEGEA, THE SCOURGE ; OR.

The squaw who creeps upon women and
children when they are sleeping, deserves no
answer from the son of a warrior?" was the
bold reply.
In an instant, the tomahawk of the Mohawk
chief glittered in his hand, and the brave youth
would never have spoken again, had not help
been near.
"Hold on there-if ye'd not have an ounce
of lead in your old carcass !" cried a voice, as
the steel-bearing hand was raised, and at the
same moment Malcom, with six of Sir Wil-
ham's highlanders, appeared on the scene,
well armed and ready for action.
"Why does the pale-face interfere with my
business ?" asked the chief, haughtily.
"Because, in the first place, you were about
doing a most cowardly deed ;'in the next place,
you are interfering with peaceful travelers,
and, thirdly and lastly, as the preacher says,
because I choose to. So take yourself and
your painted gang away from here, or I'll give
you a better reason still for going !"
As he said this, Malcom touched the keen
hanger by his side, and motioned his men to
close up.
"These are my prisoners I" said the chief,
doggedly.
"Then come to Sir William Johnson for
them--lie sent me to bring them to him-let
that youngster go !" and he leveled his gun at
one of the warriors who held the youth.
The Indians started back, for they did not
like the muzzle of a cocked musket so close to
their breasts. The chief saw that lie was
overpowered, and sullenly called his men off.
"Tell the pale-faced chief that there is a
cloud between him and the chief of the Mo-
hawks !" said the bitter, fiercely, as he de-
icendfe the hill-side.
"Keloud of smoke and a quart of whiskey
will drive it out of'sight !" said Malcom, whose
opinion of the -Indian character was by no
means elevated.
He now told Dyagetto that she was safe,
and that Sir William, hearing of her coming,
bad sent him to look for and protect her.
Giving her and her children food from his
own well-stored haversack, after a brief delay,
be started at a rapid pace to recross the river,
sot liking to give the Mohawk chief too good
a chance to rally men and intercept him ; for
Malcom had "served'" on the other side of
the water, and knew that one of the best
qualities of a soldier is caution.
CHAPTER IV.
hir William Johnson was at dinner. On one
hand sat his nephew, Guy Johnson, afterward
his son-in-law; on the other, his son John,
both young men, full of life and adventure, and

as dissipated as young men of rank and means
think it necessary to be.
An Englishman would as soon think of
eating garlic soup as to sit at a table where
there was not a round of roast beef. This
dish was on the baronet's table, but there was
also salmon, trout, wild ducks, geese, turkeys,
partridges, quails, venison, etc., for he was
quite a fastidious gourmand, and beside, his
was an open table, and guests were entertained
every day. There were several on this occa-
sion, but none worthy of particular nota.
Lafferty, his secretary, sat vis-a-vis with Mr.
Flood ; his physician, Daly, an ancestor of Pat
Daly, sat a little further toward the head of
the ioard. Attentive servants were at hand
to supply every want.
The solid part of the repast was finished,
and only Sir William and his son and nephiew
remained over their wine, when Pontioch came
in, and, in a low tone, communicated some-
thing to his master.
"Let them be brought in at once !" said tha
latter. "I will see them here."
The servant withdrew, but soon returned
with Malcom and Dyagetto and.her children.
The mother had carefully arranged their
toilet, as well as her own, so that in their
native comeliness they showed but little of the
stain of travel.
A murmur of pleased wonder broke from
the lips of the younger Johnsons, as they
looked at the magnificent group, their eyes
wandering from the matured beauties of the
mother to those just blossoming in the daugh-
ter, and then to the erect and warrior-form of
young Thayendanegen, whom no presence
seemed to abash, and who seemed everywhere
to feel that he had no superior; that, indeed,
royal blood ran in his veins.
Dyagetto advanced with her children by he?'
side, until within a few feet of Sir William,
and then stopped, waiting to be spoken to. At
first she had looked him boldly in the eye,
but when his too ardent gaze seemed to scan
her form, she dropped her eyes, and the blood
rose to her cheeks and darkened their rich
transparency.
"So, Malcom, you found my friend !" said
the baronet.
"Just in time to save the top-knot of that
young man, Sir William.     Obeying your
orders, I kept trace of the old Mohawk, who
smelt them out before me, and when he
thought he had his game set, I stepped in and
drew the trumps out of his hand !"
"Apd took the 'honors,' my brave fellow.
I'll hear your entire report, by-and-bye, in my
library. I must check the insolence of that
rascal, even if I have to leave a vacancy in the
chieftainship of the tribe !"
"There should be no vacancy while the soa
of Ogahtee lives !" said-Dyagetto, in a tone of
calm dignity, but so low that only he heard it.
"Peace, wvman I" said Sir William, sternly.

1

4

1
C
1
0
I-

;.
a
";
. .
'' 1
.,
e

8

- '


THE WAR-EAGLE OF THE MOIIAWKS.

4

though h~e started, and turned pale when she
uttered the name. "IIe must not be spoken
of, at least for the present!"
"Yet he speaks to e from his bloody
grave, and bids me demand justice for his
son-for my boy l" said the woman, boldly,
and her dark eye flashed, and her form seemed
to swell to a prouder height when she spoke.
"Enough, Dyagetto; no more, until I see
you alone !" saia he, speaking to her in her
own tongue.                          -
She bowed her head and was silent.
"What a noble-looking boy; he seems born
for a warrior !" said Guy Johnson, as he look-
ed at Thayendanegea.
"But how very beautiful is his sister !"
said John Johnsoa, whose admiring eye was
fixed upon her.
And she, too, was gazing upon him, but it
was in wonder, for he was dressed very richly,
withal was handsome, and she never before
had seen a being beside her brother, who
looked so noble as he did. She did not con-
strue his ardent gaze in the manner which one
who knew of the world and its ways would ;
therefore her eyes were not east down, nor did
a blush rise to express emotions of anger or of
mortification.
But Dyagetto saw the look, divined his
thoughts, and quickly said:
" We will retire, my children ; when Sir
William wishes to see me, he can send for me !"
"See to their comfort, Malcom," said the
baronet; "have rooms assigned them, and tell
the steward to see that they are refreshed.
And keep a guard about, not upon them, but
for them! The old Mohawk chief is crafty
and dangerous !"
The soldier's salute was his only reply, as
he turned upon his heel and left the room,
followed by the Indian woman and her chil-
dren.
"That boy steps as proudly as a king,"
said Guy, as Thayendanegea strode away.
"There is kingly blood in his veins !" said
Sir William, but he did not speak of them
again during the course of the meal-
CHAPTER V.
Foiled in his intentions against Dyagetto
and her children, by the opportune arrival
and action of Malcom, the old Mohawk chief
sullenly returned to his village. It was on
the banks of the rushing stream which bore
the name of his tribe, nestled in amid gentle
slopes which were covered with corn, melons,
etc., and few, to look upon the neat houses, the
tasteful enclosures, the well-laden fruit trees,
would have deemed that none but savages
dwelled there. This proved that the red man
could imitate the pate-face in the procurement
of comforts-alas, that he can so readily also

imitate the vices of the white man; for, physi
ally, he is far the noblest of the two.
When lie arrived, lie dismissed the warriors,
who had been with him, with a caution to be
silent about the occurrences of the morning,
and then sent for his son, a warrior almost in
age, if not in action, for he was at least five
years the senior of Thayendanegea. Ie was
tall and powerful in appearance, yet there was
no true nobility in his appearance, for the ex-
pression of his countenance told of a low and
crafty nature, of a disposition lacking open
courage, manliness, and generosity. His dress
redolent of ornament, and his face without a
sear, and ornamented weapons without marks
of use, told as much of his character as I could
describe in half a chapter.  '
" Ipisico," said the old chief, as his son en-
tered his lodge, from which he had sent out
the women previously, " when the Great
Spirit takes me up to the happy hunting-
grounds, who will be a chief in my stead? who
be the head man of the Mohawks ?"
"Why doe    my father ask?" replied the
young Indian.' "Who but Ipisico will then
be chief?"
"Another may claim the place ?"
"But he will have no right. I am thy son!"
"Yet another livis who will claim that his
right is better than that of Ipisico !"
" Tihe Mohawks will not listen to him I"
" If his story, truly told, goes to the Mo-
hawks' ears, they will know him as chief, and
bid Ipisico hide his head S"
"Who is lie? He must die !"
' a isico now speaks like a warrior ! Let
him act as. such! Yes, the boy who would
fill the place of Ipisieo, must die, and Ipisico
must slay him !"
"Yes, where does he sleep!" said Ipisico,
eagerly.
"Would you fear to slay him, were he
awake and standing before you ?' asked the
old chief, with a touch of-sarcasm in his tone
"Oh, no I Ipisico knows no fear !" said the
young Indian, and even as he spoke, he glanced
quickly around, as if he feared some one would
hear his boast. "'Where is this pretende?"
" In the castle of the great pale face, pro.
tested under his wing !" replied the old chief
"Who is lie ?"
" The son of Ogahtee, whose place I fill!"
'"My father dreams. Ogahtee's son died
with his father-so all the tribe know !"
"Not so-a woman's prayer saved his life
He is the tree across thy path!"
"'Which I will cut away 1" said Ipisico. In
a bitter tone, for he had too long and im-
patiently looked for the day when lie should
be chief, to be willing to lose it without a
struggle, coward even 'though he was by
nature.
"Yes, it must be done, and by thy hand
But not yet-it must be a work of time and
care. Yesterday, I quarreled with tle great

ii


12          TIIAYENDANEGEA, THE SCOURGE; OR,

Tale -faced chrief for thee. To-day I must manke
4 Carrel smot lr.for he lis too nlch strength
fo r me, and t etuniung of tie fox  ust meet
tire strength of tire Lear'. I idsico must go with
mrr to tie cutie, for I shall ask the great chief
to take ipiieo wise in his school, ind we will
yet he too wise for hindb
What m    fate r says it good, but I do
not like t he ch  oh of the ;,al'-ace t'
-or vet that of the haner', or the warrior!"
sail the old chief, giowmurrry. " When I wan of
thy ar'e, there were scalps at my he, ard my
frititrs lodge Was frill of game !"
Th' siourrgIndiani riade io reply, hat looked
ullenly down upon the ground, for tre rebuke
% convey  was merited.
T.hefold chief gazed at him  ice arrorert,
id then said
You are my son-my blood is in your
grins-y mi have a strong heart, but it has
been asleep ' Let it wake up, ani you shall
yet e a great brave, ard arrighty chief '"
S Te ears of I ai-iCO  re hper-s eyes
shillsee thIe Iat i iis father marks out for
him. aur his feet shall not eave it ." replied
the voting Inhlinir
It is well!1Make ready to go to the
castle of the pale-faced chief!"
Ch APTER VI.
After hA had dined, and learned that the ne-
essities of )yangetto and her family had been
proe.rly ctterndeh to, Sir Wilhiam sent for rer
to come to his library, for ie wished to con-
verse wtht her alone. But a few moments
liipsel aft e'ie had sent the smumunons before
she appier1, rriucii mo proved, too ; for witr
that mitural., and not btlanmeale, pride whicr
*Oc" "i"irrin 'i"eit part of w. nn-a i-intore, shie
hald taken ihe first opp ortnity to renovate lici'
toilet, ani make herself as ltok-at-able as pos-
sible.  Not from vant yor coquetry on ier
part, shes was above that, but firm ant innate e
sense of decency which her intercourse withr
the wines hwinl increased, rather than lessened.
Sir' Withm, wlnoni history records as a
seisualist tf the' rot inimoderite kind, looked
with an earer eve upon beauties filly matured,
yet noit l-erne oI in her ne, when sir eritened,;
tit her oli anid haiut'ty look chihh tre
words of tdittery which he was about to utter,
ini ihe isurnlq~ hiointed to a chair, amId bade her
be satedi.
.Wi it do s the great chief wish with Dy-
ag-,tt : rhe n-ka, as sie took her seat.
To ask vion   wi yron left tie Miarnis.?
why came ire, where you knew you vould
nrc rt'iui der to ',-ourrscl' it-m1chilrent":,
..itire creu:t chief yofthe pie-faces my
fruit-Icr i mr Vr etmiciiy  '  e   i- at ei
fr  V ii  m e nrr1 Wt. ' do   vonask ?"
I   n k ua-c i         dc is unny friend, he is powerful,
a&amp;nd should fear rno other foes!"

"Not Aroghyadecka, tre Moaawk 0Cdf?"
"Not even' lie, the mu rdcerer of'rmy Ihusbanld
and the usurper of his place, whom, even you,
have protected-vou who have fed in my
husband's wignam, and slept while he watched
over you ! You asked me why I came back
from the Mirnamis ? It was to look once more
upon the grave of my husband, to see tlr
pths which I trod in my childhood-to drinl
of the cool waters of my birth-place ! Te
bring my children here, where you ungiht set
them. and when I laid down beside my Ogah
tee, as soon I shall, that you might'be just
and protect them who were without father o
mother !"
fir William seemed strangely affected winle
the noble Indian woman spoke in a tone ofim.-
passionled earnestness. After some moment.
of agitation, he spoke:
" Dyagetto, you have been deeply wronged--
I have been a party to much of your wrong ;
but policy and circumstances drove me to
much which I would recall, were it possible.
But you have come to me for justice and pro.
tection. The last you shall have, and the first,
so far as it is in may power to render!"
'Shall Thayendanegea fill the place of
his father, ani shall the scalp of that father's
murderer dangle from his lodge-pole ?" asked
the woman, eagerly, asking, mother-like, all
for her son, and nothing for herself.
"In time he shall know that he is chief of
the Mohawks, and the tribe shall know it, and
then, if he becomes the warrior which his looks
now promise-"
lie has the soul of Ogalitee-his heart is
big, and lie is brave !" said the proud mother.
"' Then he shall have my aid to place him
where his brave father stood-ray aid to
avenge Ogahtee's death !"
The haughty pride of the Indian woman
melted in a moment, and tears sparkled in her
great black eyes, while she threw herself upon
her knees before the baronet, and pressed his
hands to her lips.
" Dyagetto thanks the great chief for his
promise !" she said, in broken accents, for she
was sobbing With joy.
Sir' William lifted her up, and bade her be
seated again.
"The time for this has not yet come !" he
continued, " nor must Thayendanegen yet
know who or what he is. I do not yet ab-
solve you from your promise of seeresy, for
Ie must be educated and prepared for his
position. I will confide in Dyagetto, for I
know that sine is good and wisO-she will n't
speak to other ears what I give to her's
alone !"
"A chain is upon Dyagetto's tongue when
the great chief wills it !" replied the woman.
"Then I will speak. The colonies, begin-
ning to feel their strength, are already almost
in open rebellion against our father, the king,
beyond the seas. A war is almost certain, a

li
Y

war in which they will strive; but strive in
vain, for independence. Many will be loyal,
and the king has many warriors whom he
will send over to crush the rebellion, and to
aid those who are loyal. I know that my red
brothers will fight for the king, for he is rich
and great, and will make them many presents ;
anldtie colonies are poor, and cannot do it.
And, in such a war, the chief of the Mohawks,
the first tribe of the Six Nations, will be a
reaut man ! It is my wish that Thayenda-
negea should learn well the language and the
arts of the white man, for a great path is be-
fore him, and I will put his feet upon it! Is
Dvuagetto willing that her children should re-
mamn i my family, and be treated as my own
are treated ?" l
le Indian woman looked him steadily in
the fies for some moments before she replied,
as if she would read the inmost thoughts of
his soul, and then sire said
"Dyagetto is willing--the words of the
great chief are good in her ears !"
"And Dyagetto, too, will make her home
beneath my roof."
" Dyagetto would live with her people, and
be free to go and come as she wills !" replied
the woman.
"'She shall have her wish," said Sir Wil-
liami. "And, now, let Dyagetto go and tell
Thayendanegea to come here, for I would
talk to him, and put hope and wisdom in his
heart."
The Indian woman bowed her head, and
left tire room.
"So far, so good !" said Sir William, when
Ie was alone. "I wish old Aroghyadecka
,    was out of the way. His son is not to be
feared, but rather to be despised. But the
old man is crafty, and has made himself popu-
lar with iris people. If Thayendanegea were
only a few years older, a blow might be struck
by his own hand, which, while it placed him
at the head of his tribe, would at once raise
him to the height of popularity with them."
Tire soliloquy of the baronet was inter-
rupted by the entrance of the young Indian
of whom he spoke.
Advancing proudly, with a step at once
bold and free, a figure erect as a pine deep-
rootel in its ratire soil, and an eye as bright
as that of the untamed eagle. Thayendanegea
was an object calculated to elicit admiration
from any one capable of appreciating manly
beauty in one so young.
"My mother bade me come to the great
-lnet'. I am here !" said the young warrior,
standing in an attitude of respect before the
baronet.
It is well, Thayendanegea," said  Sir
William. "I sent for you to say that, hence-
forward, you are to dw with me, and I will
be to you ars a father "
"A fatlhe-!"said the young Indian, quickly
-" father   Did you know my father ?"

7

"I did; and I hope yet b see his son like
him-a great Warrior."
Who was he ?" asked Thayenddnegea,
abruptly.
"When a pro per time comes, you shall
know ; but, till  en, ask no living being a
question about hni, nor breathe his name.
It is my command."
"I cannot speak his name, for it has been
hidden from me !" said the youth, sadly.
You shall know it, I repeat, at a proper
period," said the baronet. "In the meantime,
be patient and studious, and prepare to be
great in the council and on the war- path,
Remember that a great chief has adopted you
as a son."
"Thayendanegga will not forget," said the
young warrior.
At that instant, the door of Sir William's
room was' opened without a knock, or any
ceremony, and Aroghyadeeka and Ipisico en-
tered.
A frown gathered, like a thunder-cloud,
dark and ominous, upon the brow of the
Englishman, and bitter words were rising to
his lips; but, when he saw that the old Mo-
hawk chief wore a look of deep humility, in-
stead of his usual defiant expression, and bore
a present of very vahable furs, in token of a
wish to make peace--as did his son, also-he
restrained himself, and waited for an explana-
tion of the visit with his usual stoical com-
posure.
But the eyes of young Thayendanegea
almost flashed fire, as he recognized his captor
of that morning and the insulter of his mother,
and it needed a look and sign of caution from
Sir William to make him restrain himself.
The old Mohawk and his son advanced in
silence, and laid their presents at the feet of
Sir Williani, and then retired a few steps, with
their eyes down-east, and their looks expres-
sive of sorrow.
The baronet did not touch the presents,
but, with a stern look, regarding them for a
time in silence, and then said :
"Why is the chief of the Mohawks here
after his words of insult yesterday? Does he
think that I am a woman, whose memory of
wrong can be hushed by a word, or driven
away by a repentant look ?"
" Aroghryadeeka was a fool! He has eaten
his words. His heart is heavy, for he was
wrong. The anger of the great chief is like a
cloud upon his spirit, and he has brought him
presents to ask'him to lift off thi cloud, for it is
very dark in the path of Aroghyadecka ! Ho
has brought his only son, Ipisico, to the great
chief, to be a surety that he will do wrong no
more. Let the great chief put him in his
school, or make him hunt and fish for him
for Ipisico will do his bi hiding " was the i.
hawk's reply.
Sir William was at a" loss to know what
this unusual and unexpected humility meant

TIE WAR-EAGLE OF THE MOHAWKS.

13


THAYENDANEGEA, THE SCOURGE ; OR,

THE WAR-EAGLE OF THE MOHIAWK5.

He knew enough of the Indian character to  getto must be left in peace, and she will be
No aware that it was not real, but was assumed  sIlent. Let her come and go when and where
for some purpose, but for wkat, was beyond  she will, without hindrance, and her tongue
his immediate comprehension. To refuse the  will Ibe still, even though her tears fall, and
presents of the crafty chief, and the offer of her heart is heavy above the grave of Ogahtee.
his son, as a security for his own good be- ( I will let Tlhayendanegea and Ipisico grow
haviour, would have been'to place it beyond ; up together, learn the same lessons, take
his power to detect the intentions of the old  the same exercises, and when you die, if I yet
tascal, and he determined to accept them. live, he who proves the most worthy, shall be
That some evil was meant toward Dyagetto   the next chief of the Mohawks.     I have
and her family he was confident, and the spoken !"
thought occurred to him that it would be all  "The words of my brother, the great chief,
the better if he had! pisico under his own eye, are good,and my ears are opened wide to receive
and in his power. Therefore, after appearing  them, and I have swept away a place in my
to deliberate with serious thought for a time, heart to keep them in. Mybreast shall be
ae said :                                  clean toward my brother, and I thank him that
"I will take away the cloud from before my  he has blown away the cloud of his anger.
red brother, and receive his presents. But The son of Ogahtee will be a great brave-so
my red brother must walk upon a straight will be Ipisico, if lie listens to the teachings
path hereafter, or I will never touch his hand  of my brother. If he will not, let hun be a
again. Ipisico may go and walk with the son  slave, and work with the squaws, for I will
whom   I have adopted, and I will smoke a not know him."
pipe with my brother."   And the baronet     "lie shall have the same opportunities that
pointed to Thayeadanegea, as the son whom are offered to Thiayendanegea!" said Sir
e had adopted,                            William. "If there is good blood in him, he
The eye of the latter flashed, as Ipisico  shall lack no chance to show it -"
turned toward him to obey the direction of   "My    heart is glad  while my brother
the baronet.                               speaks !" said the oldMohawk. "When t1e
"rThe eagle will not mate with the crow !"  Great Spirit calls for inc I am ready to go,
he said, bitterly, and turning upon his heel, he  for my son needs a father now no ni1ore "
left the roiom, nt, however, until he had east " how nany warriors cian you tribe num-
a withering glance of hate upon Aroghya- her, ready for the war-path ." asked Sir
decka anrd hii son.                       William, sudddenly changing the subject.
The latter seemed fairly to quail and shrink The old chief cast his eyes down and seem-
under the piercing glance, but his father's ed to study for a while ; then he replied
snake-like eye emitted a deadly gleam, and   "Count as many years as there are moons
his sinewy frame quivered with an anger, in two seasons. Then for every day of that
which he could scarcely s'ippress.         time, count a warrior ready to take the war-
Every inch a warrior-Ogahtee lives      path!"
again in lrim !" muttered Sir .William. in a  "Between two and three thousand-the
tone rather of admiration than displeasure-  other nations as many more. I can assure the
one, too, which reached the ears of the old  king, then, of at least fifteen thousand faithful
chief, though int intended for them. " The  allies in the coming struggle. !"muttered Sir
boy has a will, which only time and dis- William.
cipliine will check--let Ipisico go to the next  "Are we to fight the French again ?" asked
rom and sit down while we talk !" said the  the old chief, who had caught the last words
baronet to the old chief.                  of the baronet, though not intended for his
And when the young Indian had left, Sir ear.
William  rung for his servant, and ordered    "No ; their power ii America was forever
pipes arid brandy for two.                crushed out in the last war, but there are
After the articles came, a glass of friend- those who would rebel against the good king,
ship drunk, and the pipes were lighted, the  our father, beyond the greatwaters,  n we
baronet said -may have to dig up the hatchet to pmnish
"My brother was rash when lie thought to them. But Aroghryadecka must keep a still
take tire lives of the wife and children of Ogai- mouth upon this -"
tee. 1:l lie murdered them, I would have   "lie will'; yet he will sharpen ris knife, for
hanged him like a dog !'                  he loves to walk the war-path !" replied the
1Iwas a fool and walked in the dark !" re- savage, whose nostrils seemed joyfully to
plied tire chief.                          scent blood, though .far off.
"Beware, and let it not occur again !" said  "You wil exercise your warriors, and fit
t.Le  arorret  " They are under my protee-  them  for war ." continued the baronet, but
tioi  Tiiayendanegen, as yet, knows not of carefully conceal from them tire occasion for
his fathers nrme, or fate, or his own rights-  it, which I have named tb you !"
wih not, unless you attempt to injure him ;  " Tire words of the great chief, my brother,
then he and the tribe shall know alL  Dya- are laws to Aroghyadecka !' said the lirdian.

Sir William now filled a second glass of
brandy, and the reconciliation was complete,
so far as outward appearance indicated. The
Indian soon after took his leave, and then the
baronet sent for his steward, and gave particu-
lar directions regarding the disposition and
treatment of the recent accessions to his family.
He then bade him send Thayendanegea to
him-also Mr. O'Whackem, the schoolmaster.
CHAPTER VI.
The schoolmaster was the first to make
his appearance, perhaps because he scented
brandy, for the baronet never failed to pro-
duce that article when he was in a good
humor, and it is not in the creed of any true
Irishman to refuse a glass of good liquor. -
"I sent for you," said the baronet, when
Mr. O'Whaekem entered, "to instruct you
that you will have three new pupils in the
morning."
"Male or faymale, Sir William ?"
"Both-two young Indians-one, the son
of the Mohawk chief; the other, a boy whom
I have adopted, a regular eagle, who will be
apt to stick his talons into you if you are too
rough 'with him-so I deem it best to warn
you. His sister you will instruct with the
same care and gentleness which you'bestow
upon my own daughters!"
"Your directions shall be duly attinded to,
Sir William !" said the pedagogue, with a
backward scrape of his foot, and a forward
snap of his head, which would have endan-
gered a neck more slin than his.
"Take a glass of brandy-help yourself
from the table there !" said the baronet.
O'Whackemn dutifully obeyed the -order,
without the slightest hesitation. While he
was drinking it off, Thayendanegea entered.
"Why did the son of Dyagetto leave the
room so abruptly, with a cloud on his face, a
little time ago ?" asked the baronet.
"My heart was hot, for I saw an enemy
before me !" replied the boy.
" Thayendanegea must learn to curb his
passion in my presence I" said the baronet,
sternly,
"Will the mountain torrent stop when the
great chief tells it to do so? Will the eagle.
pause in its flight toward the sun when he
calls to it? Can he tell the clouds not to
rain, the winds to cease, and will they obey
him ?"t
"No! But Thayendanegea lb neither the
rushing stream nor the elanless winds !"
"The hot thoughts of his heart are more
free than they !"
"They must be curbed, and Thayendanegea
must learn patience, else he will not be the
great warrior which I would make of him1"

" Thayendanegea will try, but do not ask
him to touch hands with Iis enemy.' his
heart will not hold a lie I"
"I do not require that--but the son of
Dyagetto must make no quarrels in my house.
Ipisico will dwell here, and if you do not like
him, avoid him, but make no quarrel I"
"I care not for him-he is a squaw, and
dare not look me in the eye. But Iis father
spoke bitter words to my mother, and I will
kill him for it yet Y"
"Bide your time, boy, bide your time !"
said the old baronet, who could not help ad-
miring the truthful candor of the   outh.
"You can go now-to-morrow you will com-
mence to study."
Thayendanegea slightly bowed his head,
and turned away.
"What d~o you think of him, O'Whackem?"
asked Sir William, after Thayendanegea had
gone out.
"By my faith, sir, I belave there is a spice
of the divil in him. I nivir saw such an eye
in a human, before-it looks lane through
ye!"
"There is more intelligence expressed in
his face than in that of any Indian whom I
ever saw before. ; I wish his education care-
fully attended to !"
"It shall be dorA, Sir William. Is it the
classics ye'd have me induct him into as well
as the lower branches ?"
"No-the more useful branches ! Learn
him to read and write well, and be particular
in his mathematical knowledge,'for he will
be a great military leader yet, or my judg-
ment is in error !"
"And the other one, Sir William--what
shall I do with him ?"
"The best you can ; but keep a close eye
upon his movements and ways. He isa
snake and a spy, I expect-but let him have
no hint of my suspicions    Take another
lass, and leave me, I have letters to write
before the carrier leaves for Alban !"
"Health and long life to yer honor ! May
the day be far off which opens wid sorrow
for ye, Sir William!" said O'Whackem, as he
tossed off his second bumper, and then strode
out of the room.
"He is indeed a noble boy, and Dyagetto
only uttered truth when she said that Ogah-
tee's spirit seemed renewed in hum 1" solilo-
qui ed Sir William, when he was once more
alone. "He is destined to be a great Tian,
and it is for me to help him up the hill  He
is already an orator--no one, in attitude or
expression, could have excelled him when he
spoke so contemptously of Ipisico, and so
bitterly of his father. Boy that he is, I would
rather have his love than his hate. his is the
true spirit to rule a savage nation, to quell i:i
subordination, or to urge them on to battle.
Thayendantgea is the foundation of a mighty
manah"

I

1

;p
:
"
r
i
(i
t
A
1  1
f)

14#

, .


THAYENDANEGEA, THE SCOURGE, OR,

CHAPTER VIII.
The steward of Sir William introduced On-
alova to his two daughters, and caused the
housekeeper to prepare for her at apartment
near theirs. The Indian girl was not so much
of a curiosity to them, as they were to her,
for, born of a fair and flaxen-haired German
another, they were more white and more behu-
tiful in their style than anything she had ever
dreamed of before. Their dress, though plain,
was very rich to her eye, and far more beauti-
ful than that which she wore; but when Kath.
leen, the youngest, playfully dressed her in
one of her own gowns, and put stockings and
shoes upon her feet, poor Onalova felt as if
she was in chains. Ilcr own garb best suited
the free action of her lithe figure and sym-
metrical liu.bs. And we are fain to say that
no fashion in the world so becomes a faultless
figure as that of an Indian maiden. The
fringed jacket, fitting, but not compressing
the bust and waist; the full skirt descending
to or below the knee; the beaded moccasins,
the mantle of munny hued feathers, the flower-
wrought wreath, over black and flowing
tresses, all adorn beauty far more than hoops
and bustles, flounces and laces, ribbons and
gew-gaws.   This is'may opinion ladies of
fashion, get trad at it if yon like.
The daughters of Sir William, Kathleen
and Leonore, who had been brought up in
great seclusion, were very much delighted at
the thought of having a young companion
whom they were told to treat as kindly as if
she were their sister; and Onalova did not
feel sad or lonely when her mother told her
she was going to visit her tribe and relatives
for a few days, they were so very kind to
her.
All of the afternoon of the first day was
s ent by them in arranging and ornamenting
0nalova's room, according to their ideas of
comfort and taste.
Onalova looked on with astonishment and
wonder, for she was so all unused to luxury
and ornament, other than the flowers and
gems of nature, and the feathers, and furs, and
painted larks which her brother had given
her, that these things seemed to her more
beautiful than would the furniture of a palace
to a peasant girl, fresh from her homely cot.
And, unlike a warrior, or even her brother,
who was a warric.r in embryo, who would let
nothing force an utterance of astonishment
from their lips, her words of surprise and
pleasure were frequent and many. This de-,
lighted the other girls, who literally despoiled
their own rooms and wardrobes to furnish
hers. After all was dose, Kathleen cried :
a Now, Onalo a, dreas me in your style ; I
wish to see how I will look in your dress !"
"The Pale-Rose is very beautiful-I love
her !" said the Indian girl, as she hastened to
perform the desired toilet. "Will she be my
aster ?"

"Yes, and Leonore, also-we will both b
sisters to you. We will learn you to write,
and draw, and play the harpsichord, and you
shall learn us to bead moceasins, and work
porcupine quills on the white fawn-skins, and
make feather wreaths and capes."
Soon Kathleen, who was very beautiful in
face and form, was arrayed in the robes of
Onalova, and they added to rather than de-.
tracted from her natural loveliness. Her full
bust and well-turned limbs were revealed just
enough by the proportions of the dress to
show how exquisitely she was formed, and
her gold-hued ringlets fell down upon her
white neck and shoulders Rs bright as sun-
light upon snow. Leonore, who was ever
the most quiet or the saddest of the two, was
in ecstacies, and declared that she, too, must
have a dress like that of Onalova. But we
will leave them for an instant, for I wish to
keep an eye upon the hero of my story.
When Thayendanegea left the presence of
Sir William the second time, he was met in
the hall by John and GuV Johnson, the son
and nephew before alluded to. Both greeted
him with kindness, and the elder, John, said:
"You must be my brother, Thayendane
gea !
"And mine also !" added Guy.
The young Indian'regarded them both at.-
tentively for a few moments, then he extended
his hand to John, and looking coldly at Guy,
said :
" One brother is enough for me
Guy reddened with mortification, or anger,
perhaps with both ; but John good-naturedly
said :
"If he is my brother, Guy, he is your
cousin still !"
"Be a brother to him !" said Thayenda-
negea, pointing to Ipisico, who, dressed in alA
his tawdry finery, stood near them, but not
looking half so noble as Dyagetto's son, in his
plain garb
" I will, and you may regret the hint'"
muttered Guy, as he went and joined the son
of the old chief.
- Come and look at our horses !" said John
to Thayendanegea. "Do you love to ride ?"
he added, as he led the way to the stables.
"Yes! the wild horses from the plains, that
fly like the wind, arid shake the ground with
their mighty leaps ! Yes, such ones I love
to ride !"
"Then we've got one that will snit you,"
said the young man--" one that no one
dares to back. - He is so fierce and wild,
that the grooms fear to take him from tho
stable !"
"I will ride him!I" said Thayendaneges,
quietly,
"But I tell you he is ungovernable !"
" I will tame him 1"

18

. ,, ',
,
. .
.
.  ,
,t
'
, .
.
+,  r
., :.
r'
I'l  f r?
'      i    ' F  '
'
' }   'Nt
r
r ,+.
6
i
r   '   ,.
P, ,a
# +
"


,' ,_

"Mr father will let none of us mount, or
try to mount hiii! !'
""I w. . ride hint!" said the yonng Indian,
so fiercely, that his companion was for the
me'nct startled.
In a few moments they were at the stables,
where Sii William's magnificent stud of sad-
dIe and carriage horses were kept. There
vere imported hunters, heavy draught horses
from  Flandkrs, and  the stocky lint agile
ponies front Canadha. But the eves of the young
Inlian pissed these over with scarce a glance.
He looked for the tamneless steed which no
one dared to ride. And his dark eyes flashed
proudly lawhen he saw it-a black stallion,
without a spot of white, in form the perfec-
titn of syietry--deep-ehested, thin-faniiked,
with a saill head, a fiery eye, and great nos-
trits, which distended with anger at the ap-
proach of man, as if to speak his hate of those
who held him in bondage. His glossy mane
and tail swept nearly to the ground, and his
slender limhs revealed their sinewy strength
in mnc)le rathei- than in size. IIe was fasten-
ed to the strong posts at the head of the stall
by a halter of chain, for rope would not hold
hin.
"Bring me a bridle !" said Thayendanegen,
while be surveyed the miagniicent animal
with looks of the keenest admiration.
"You rannw! bridle him-all the men about
the stable could not do it!'
Where are your bridles ?" was the only
reply that Thayendanegea condescended to
make.
At the call of the young Englishman, a
groom a proached, vho, in obedience to his
order. brought a bridle; but w hen he was
toll that it. was the intention of the young
Indian to ride the black'stallion, Vesuvius, he
was imirror-strieken.
It is impossible to bridle him, letalone the
ridiiig of him !" said the man.
"You talk, I do !" said Thayendanegea,
snatching the bridle froni his hand, and a
heavy whip, which he carried.    He then
boldly entered the stall.
"(Gol ! the beast will kick his brains out,
or gnaw him up with his teeth !" cried the
gromo, as sonic of the other servants hurried
to the spot
But the young hero did not heed these re-
marks. 1k went boldly to the head of the
horse, which snorted with anger, and quiver-
ed in every limb, as if about to try and burst
fromtthsstrong chain which was strapped to
its glo ssy nbeck. But looking right into its
fiery eye, and laying his haiid learlessly n1
its mae, the brave mad stroked it gently:;
and when it reared up. and tried to plunge
son hn  wit hi its fore feet, lie scarcely
t'otvel, more than to avoid them, and as its
heal catme down, by an adroit movement
shi pled the hit in its mouth, and!. the bridle
upon its heal, tlhro*ing the reins back upon
the neck, ready for use.

I

t

THE WAR-EAGLE OF THE MOIIAWKS

The exclamations of the gi ooms, who wit-
nessed an act which none of them would hav.
the courage to perform, drew still more wit-
nesses to the extraordinary spectacle. but a
moment after all dispersed with a shout of
terror, and sought places of safety, when they
saw Thayendanegea. deliberately cast off the
chain from the neck of the dreaded animal
and lack him, rearing and plunging as he
was, from the stall into the open space o'-ts
side of the stable.
The moment that he was clear of the build,
ing, Thayendanegea leaped upon the back of
the fiery animal, which made one or tw
maddened bounds, and then stood for an in
stant foaming and gnashing its teeth and
trembling with fury before the front of the
mansion, upon the porch of which Sir William
and his family now stood, drawn out by the
cries of the men at the stable.
"Good heavens, the boy is mad ! Vesu-
viis will kill him.!" cried the  baronet, im
alarm for his new protege.
And by the wild plunges which the mad-
dened stallion now made--now leaping wits
all four feet from the ground-then rearing
and whirling in circles around-then lung.
ing forward and kicking its heels high in the
air, it would seem as if no rider could keep a
seat upon its back.
The daughters of Sir William screamed iD
terror, and even Onalova, brave as she nata.
rally was, and used to danger qs well as co.
nisant of, and confident in her brother's ski
held her breath when she saw how terrible
the wild steed struggled to throw him.
Bnt calmer than all, composed and easy
was the hero of the struggle. Seated as firrnly
as if he were a part of the horse, preserving
his balance in all of its movements, heallowea
it to expend its strength and fire without him.
self using a word or a blow. Even when it
laid down and tried to roll him off, he only
put his feet to the ground, and when it rose,
he rose upon its back.
Finding all its efforts to cast such a rider
useless, the horse, now white with sweat
and foam, stood stubbornly still, and made hno
further movement.
Now lhayendanegea began to quietly urge
it to move, talking to it kindly, patting it
gently, and touching its tanks with his heels
But the stubborn animal would not step froze
its sulks. Suddenly, with a wild shrill yelt
striking it as heavy as he could with his
whip, tin youth loosened his rein, and the
horse, as i' terror-stricken, bounded forward
like a deer, close followed by the hounds,
Yelling and striking the horse at every jnmp,
the bold youth sped over the grassy plain at
a frightful rate, circling here and there as hie,
own will and strong arm enabled him to do,
until after a run of twenty or thirty minute%
he found that lie had the horse completely
under control.  Then drawing him  up, he
trotted hii slowly back to the mansion, pute


20

THAYENDANEGEA, THE SCOURGE; OR,

ting him  there through variuus paces, and
show i i comnip de.'te- iauter' over' him.
Sir Willrun,, iwho lurd at first teeii terrified
at the' ha ier to vlichntle tihml ier was cx-
posed, was not only delighted to see hin in
saf tv,  it at his conquest over an animal
whtch every one, himself included, had so
feared, tit hue was considered uterly useless,
anid had only been kept in consequence of his
eaiut .
" rut have mastered Ycsuins, andIhienice-
torward ie shall knvow  1 olier imste r'but
Thnveii irmbme uen--a-he is yours '" cried tl he hato-
net, is the yung Indian drew the noble steed
np iefire bhum.
Yot1prmnised him to me, uncle!" said
Guy. rrrltilav.
If miu could rine him. ndu you never
dared i   hrn to allproieh hrimni in Ihis stall !" said
the I a ruiet, mcruiuihrl lv,
"1  i    nt 1 can ride hint now." said the nephew,
look tarut the apparently quiet animrral.
- ivrt' 'eried Tlaeinidiiegrit. hep11i ig
fron ie hrse, i  ch stood uotionuless while
1he \wrus rimar its henad.
4 )]i, ettr-otiint tGy, let us see how vu look
on hr ms ick ! saui Joli n, iiia sarcastic tonie.
for lie felt hbrood of liis' new  brother, arid
angry at Guys neanness.
Sie II l har.lv risk his precious neck" said
fir William, quietly.
° You shall see,'sir! I can ride as well as
sn -ymetp e-faiced  idiar int  the land ! criedI
the mtir iorunr, tntadrhtrcrh withithe batiten-ilig
tone of his uncle, and seizing the re ins, lie
vaulted u ion the back of the horse.
The latterrwhose e es were fixed spoi his
Indian rirster', set ruing to feel that sotetliig
unrwrorthy of his teuch was on his back, sud-
denly elevated his 1ind legs, and the next in-
tanit Masteitr Guy Johnson found    liiitself
doubled up in a heap on the ground sonic
twentv feet iii front of the horse,
'oiu amount well, but disnionnrt better,
nephew Guy !" ericd the old baronet,
" A qtel ride, and sooi over, cousin Guy !"
.bouted lJohn.
" You ni have my pony and side-saddle
Criedh the rimirry Kathleen---" you'll do better
with th n
Guy made no answer to these sallies, but,
rising. hruped off, cursing as ie wtent, but not
in tones loud enough to reach the ears of lies
"'li'ke your horse. Thayendanegea." said
Sir Watlmuni;-  I doubt whether he wil ever
ackniwi in iany master but vou."
. ('i  ! said the young nuduian, and he cx-
htld luiirnuhihndi toward the horse.
Tie anuirrarl instantiv followed him, even as
if hue nidtlen stood both word and gst ure-fol-
lnwel in to the stabile, where' TInventla-
cegea took the bril he froni himir, t hen in uiibbd
biii down. ind fedhimt with his own hni,
rne ie si rd-u rletennei d thait nuto olier sliild
approach him   now. And the horse, while

he was so eage d, seemed as gene nrid as
fond of him as if he had been itneed nri a
colt by hii.
e    i t i von think of that, OWhnekem ?"
asked Sir WVill ian Johnson of the seholohnas-
ter, who had been a wondering spicrator of
the occurrences we have just related. " )oes
hi riding look like work in the old coun-
try i"
Faith it does, Sir William, only a little'
mire seo. Its well for the led lie isn't dowi
ii Salem.  lird  nhav elmi for a wizard,
there, sure ! Fii t d like himt to tame some
of the rapscallions in my school ! Master
Guy came nighi knocking the brains out of
hiniself---sur if lied struck bMut t ciid down,
'twould have been ithe last of him" h'
" 11e'll know  better next thnie," sari Sir
Wiitnm, and then noiticing for the iirst time
the change of dress in Onil;ra and IEa hreen,
lie looked atitertiviyv at hot h.
\V by. Kate, my rirl, "said lie, y you'd dress
in that war all the time, if you knew  how
wel .iean to father ;(Onalova is going to
make dresses for me anl Leonore!"
I  ishshe'd make one for me,'' said John,
in a lowi'tone, looking wit Ii a glaice of intense
admiration uponth tIndian girl
She d1id not hear his words. but her eves
met his glance, aind a slight blush sirufsed
her face as she turned her eyes away front lii
earnest gaze.
" nt had better go in, girls, the, damp
dews arte falling, and dews are fr less healthy
thai rain to itumrani loers," said the ohl
ruier ohycl. and John went to the stable
to see Thnyendanecea, while the b  ronet in
vitued 0 OViacken in iito take an evening glass
and smoi ike a pipe with him, fir the old
knight was ever amused by the odd eonceit.i
and  exprtssions of Iris schoolmnatrster, who,
despite iis rough and uncouth appearance,
was still an eduented irmanr, for he had eilen
prepared fur the ir'iesthood in Iris native laid,
bit had found such a sperabundnce of this
carnalantd such a lack of the t piriitual in his
corposition, when ie grew up to manhood,
that lie would not don the robes.
CITAPTER TX.
" Whnt a noble-looking brother you have,"
said Leontore to Oialuvat, when they once
more reached the sitting iroomr1, fron1 which
their bred-rooms opened.
"And whnt a rider ! No one but him
could conquer Vesuvius!" cried the lively
IEthleen. -"If I  teer do get mniarrimd, which
the holy saints forbid. you'imust give me youth
brother for as husband, Onsaloval"I

f

TIIE WAR-EAGLE OF THE MOIIAWKS.

"Will my sister give mie her brother for
mine ?" asked the Indian girl, artlessly.
"Oh, yes, you may have .John ; yes, indeed"
"'hen you may have Thayendanegea!"
repliel Onalova.
A bargain, and witnesses thereunto !" cried
a manly voice at the door, and John, who had
app roached noisekssiy, and heard the conver-
sation, now entered the room with Thayenda-
rie"e-.
Kaitlileen  uttered a faint 'scream --she
wouidnt have been in the fashion if she had
not; but Oialova looked as calm and contented
as if she felt that she had neither said or done
anything which was worth a scream era blush.
And, cont lasted with those pale-faced beau-
ties, sel seemed far the loveliest. Their su-
perior in et ture and in elegance of figure, her
comt plexion so transparent that each vein
could be traced beneath the skin, dark though it
was-her large black eyes meltingly soft--her
glossy hair of raven hue, as fine as silk--her
features classical aid perfect-her expression
at once proud, yet gentle and loving in its very
dignity, how could she be other than very,
very beautiful
And so t.htiught the heir to the title and
est ate of Sir William Johnson,.and wild and
impulsive as he had ever been i his nature,
and free from love, if not from passion, he now
knew a feeling which had newer entered his
heart before. le felt as'if lie loved that poor
Indian gihi better than all the world beside.
And his feelings, like those of all in their first
love, were pure ! No sensuality, no selfishness,
no hypocrisy were nixed with them.
le now introduced Thayeidandgea to Lis
sisters as his adopted brother, and after they
had given the young men seats, they did what
they could to amuse them. Leonore, who
drew and painted well, produced her portfolio
and exhhibted her drawings and sketches,
while Kat hileen brought out various eibroid-
cries, im which sie greatly excelled.
The dark eye of' whayendanegeawandered
carelessly-over all the drawins, which were
landscapes and sketches of birds and flowers,
until at last it came to a spirited battle scene,
eolpied by her from some old painting. Then
his eye flashed, and as it noted each figure of
man and horse, the living and the slain, lie
uttered the word:
"Good! .They fight!I"
Poor Kathleen felt not a little mortified
that lie did not speak a word of praise in re-
gard to her work, and she thought it strange
that the young Indian scarcely looked at her
or her sister, and then manifested no acknow-
ledgment "f their beauty-none of the wonder
which Onalova had felt and so freely uttered.
She was deternined to see if he had any feel-
ing, or really was tire stoic which he seemed ;
and thought, and justly too, that music would
he the surest test; for hard is the heart, and
steru the soul, which music will not melt.
She brought outlher harpsichord, andon-

21

meneing  within a low prelude, acconpanied
herself to a sweet song. Her voice was rich
rand full, and as she sung of love, and she
seemed to feel its power, it fairly filled the
room with melody. Ier bosou rose and fell,
and the color deepened on her cheek as she
sung ; but Thayendanegea remained as caln
and passive as a stone, looking more at the
mechanical action of her fingers upon the in-
struient than anything else.
Suddenly she changed the theme, and sung
an ancient var-song. As her voice rose in
this and thrilled out the charge and the bat-
tle's clangor, then the young Indian's eyes
flashed, and his broad chest heaved, and his
nostrils dilated, while his ear seemed to drink
in every note.
Good !" said he, when she, half exhausted,
closed the song.
She had touched the right chord of his na..
tore   No carpet knight was he to list to
pling strains of love, but every inch a war-
rror and a man, though time had not yet ap-
corded unto hum a warrior's place.
Delighted with even that success, Kathleen
only paused to recover breath, and then she
conmenced another song-a song once more
of love.
Suddenly the sound of a drum and fife near
the house was heard.
"What is that ?" asked Thayendanegea,
starting to his feet, and listening to the ma.
tial music, all forgetful that Kathleen was
singing.
"Malcom   is mustering the men for the
night-'uard !" said young Johnson.
"Let us go-I like that music-I want to
see them! Can they fight?"
"They did in the war with the French P'
"I must see them! I love to look at war-
riors ." said Thayendanegea, not appearing to
heed the presenrce of the girls in the slightest
degree.
Young Johnson would gladly have lingered
there longer, so as to have conversed with
Onalova, hut the impatience of her brother
could not be checked, and the two young
men went out to attend the parade of the
guard.
CIIAPTER  X.
Back into a grove in the rear of the man
sion strode Guy Johnson, after his discom-
fiture related at the close of the eighth chapter.
And as he went he bit his lips until the blood
ran from therm, and actually wept from anger
and msrtificatioh. And curses, bitter and deep,
and al too wild for utterance from ips so
young, burst forth as he passed on, until he
reached a mossy bank, beneath the shade'of ,
some tall pines, upon which he east himself.
Then ie heard light foot-steps behind
him, and knew for the first time that he was

I
r
s
r
e 'r
r
r


TIIE WAR-EAGLE OF TIIE MOIIAWKS.

TIIAYENDANEGEA, TIlE SCOURGE ; OR,

followed. Looking back, he found that it was
{pisico.
"M v heart is sad for my brother, and
angry ~with his enemy !" said the youig In-
alan.
Whie is my enemy ?" asked Guy, angerly.
W 'V ho but this Tyencudanegen, who is also
cy enemy-who but he, that comes fro-i no
cne knws where, and is no one knows what?
Who but he '
"True, Ijisico, he is an unknown upstart ;
but I will humble his pride ! I'll take the
starch out of his ruffles ? et !" cried Guy.
" I will kill him for my brother-will watch
him close, and w hen he sleeps my knife shall
drink his blood!'
"  o-tlhat will not do here! My uncle
has taken a fancy to him, and were ias brood
gbed, he would find all out, and hang any one
"oneerned in the deed, even if it were me, his
own brothers son !"
* I will kill the horse which threw my
brother, then'! That will touch the heart of
our enemy, for it will spoil his triumph
" Yes, you nay do that I It will touch him
o the quick. ''he horse should have been
 mine at any rate-anl you may kill the snow-
white peomiy in the stable which belongs to mny
cousin Kathleem, for she, too, dared to taunt
une when I was thrown, I will be revenged
upon all of them. I care not what it costs !"
"My brother is a great brave ! And so am
r. I will help him to crush his enemies ! My
heart is big, and I fear nothing !" said IJpisico,
dwelling up as proudly as a peacock on a
Unniy morning in a clover field.
'  'Ie son of Arog hyadecka lies !" said a
dep, hollow voice in the rear, and both or
the young mn sprang to their feet, and
looked around to see from whence the voice
proceeded.
No one was in sight. Guy turned as pale
as a sheet and trembled with fear, while Ipisi-
co seenwd even more terrified than he.
"What was it ?" asked Guy, in a hoarse
whisper.
"A spirit-let us go from here!'' said Ipisi-
aa, while his teeth clattered together with his
shivering fear.
'-Stay I" said the same voice, in a hollow
tone.
"The Lord save us - what can it be ?"
ped Guy, and he sunk down to the ground
m the very weakness of his abject fear.
Ipisico also cowered down to the earth,
and drew his embroidered blanket over his
head, as if to hide front his view some horri-
ble vision which liis terror painted to his
Mind.
"Who spoke" at last said Guy, gathiering
wurage, because he saw some one npproach-
ng, at a distance, from toward the mansion.
'o this question'he received no reply, and
seeiniz that those who were approaching were
ao other than his uncle and the schoolmaster,
who frequently walked in the grove while

they talked and smoked their evening pipsa1
he said
"Rlouxepip, Ipisico, rouse up, and act like a
man. I'm mict ai'ad .
m'Tis false !t s tithe same hollow voice,
and Guy, even though his uncle was now
c:ose by, started from the spot, niid hurried
away, as if death was in the very atmosphere
of the liace- ..
" W hat the deuce is the matter here ? My
nephew running away like a scared sheep,
and this cub Inian doubled u  in a heap,
with his blanket over his head ." cried air
William, as lee approached the spot.
"Get up, Ipisico. What are you trembling
for ?"
"A spirit, great chief, a spirit ." moaned
the Indian.
"The spirit of the devil !"
Yes, great clef, yes-it spoke to us!-
" Here, you Guy, conic back hIe;e and tell
us what tis means !" shouted Sir John to h.s
nephew, who was yet within call, although
hurrying toward the house.
With a downcast face, anid a shCeepish ex-
pression, the young ian came back and told
Sir Wilhiam that, wlne he and lpisico were
talking, a stratige voice spoke to them, and
not being able to discover any oue, they
were frghleiied, because they believed it to
be a spirit.
"You are both fools and cowards !" said
Sir William, contemptuously, for he was no
believer iii spirits. " Look around among
the trees, O'W hacker, and see if there is any
one about! "
" livil the one, Sir William !" replied the
latter.after making athoroughsearch. "Per-
haps they were a plotting soie kind o' mis-
chief, and 'twas the voice of conscience that
spoke to 'emc. I've heard of the likes o' that
-of voices that wouldn't let the murderer
slape, or the wicked one rest! "
"They had better beware how they plot
any mischief, or attempt to execute it on my
domainn" sail Sir Wilhiam, sternly. "I will
make brief trial and speedy punshment re-
dress all evil here ! Of that, Master Guy, you
and your friend can reniain assured !"
Having said this, lee walked on, and soon
disappeared in the darker recesses of the
grove, with OYWhaekem, while Guy and his
companion hastened to the house, for they
dared not stay there.
They had been gone but a few moments,
when from the thick branches of a short,
stumpy spruce, a iian descended. Ills garb
and features were those of an Indiani, nut his
face was bleached almost to whiteness, as if
by long ilhiess or confinement. his frame
was attenuated, his eyes sunken, and his hair
long and white as snow. IIe looked the very
picture of one Iwho had suffered long, and be-
come old before his tune.
lie said nothing, but shook his clenched
hand threateningly in the direction which had

been taken by the young men, and then
walked away im a route different from that
taken by Sir William, yet one leading into
the densest part of the grove. his steps were
now and feell, for he seemed half famished
and very weak.
ChIAPTER XI-
When Dyagetto tetnrned to the village
from which she had been absent so many
years, at first scarce one of her former acquaint-
ances, or even her relatives, knew her; for
she was young, and exceedingly beautiful,
when she suddenly disappeared from them,with
her two little children--one a babe, and the
other just able to walk. It was on the night
after the body of her husband-brutally mur
dered, and so disfigured that he could only be
recognized by his clothing and weapons-had
been discovered near his wigwam; and many
supposed that, in her frenzy, she had east her-
self and her children into the swift rapids of
the "Little Falls" of the Mohawk, near which
she dwelt at that time. But some there were
who knew of the ambition of one man in the
tribe, and of his emnity to Ogahtee, who had
won Dyagetto, though the first was also a
suitor for her hand, who felt more than a mere
suspicion that he had removed her and the
heir to the chieftainship of Ogahtee, that he
might, through a strange influence which he
held over Sir William Johnson, the king's su-
perintendent, be elevated to the murdered
chieftain's place. And though Arogh yadecka
got the place, and was brave, wise, and politic,
and, by his liberality to his tribe and his own
self-denial, managed to become popular with
most of his peole-althiough, as I said be
fore, sonic there were who regarded him with
dark suspicion; for the murderer of Ogahtec
was never known with certainty, although the
charge was laid to an Onondago Indian, who
disappeared that night from their village,
where he had a squaw, and was never seen
again.
But when Dyagetto told her name, and her
altered features were remembered, great were
the rejoicings of her relatives, and warm was
the welcome which was given to the widow
of the late chief. But when she was ques-
tioned about her absence, where had she been,
and where were her children, she was silent,
on~y telling them that it was not the will of
the Great Spirit that she should then inform
them, but in time they should know all.
They hastily prepared a feast for her, and
all of the head women of the tribe gathered
there to do her honor. With sad dignity she
reeeived and thanked them ; but, while she
begged them to eat and be merry, she refused,
for, said she:
"My heart is very heavy! I remember
Ogabtee, and look back through the darkness,

and the rain of many tears, to the bright time
when lie played the love-wreath upon my
head ! Let me go to his grave and weep, and
then, when my heart is more light, I willd-
come and hear your songs."
They could but assent, and honor he' for
that sorrow which time could not lessen, but
which was still fresh, like the ever-living
spring, or that plant which lives while love
lives, or the opal-gem w:iieh shines until af-
fection dies.
And we will leave her to make that sad pil-
grimage amid moonlight and shadow--for seat-
tered clouds were moving athwart the sky-
while we look elsewhere'to the doings of an-
other of the characters in our life drama.
Down below the Little Falls only a short
distance, upon the southern bank of the river,
was a deep ravine, which appeared--although
no water ran through it then-to have been
deeply cut in the lofty precipice of rock which
overliangs that bank by a stream, for the marks
of the torrent were plainly to be seen in the
gullied, and seamed, and smooth-worn rocks
on either side. It was a dark and gloomy
gorge, too narrow and too rough to invite the
tread of man, and so overhung with thick
evergreens and tangled vines, that aot even
the sun, at mid-day, could pierce its gloom.
Into this gorge, on the night of the same
day when he had left Ipisieo in the care of
Sir William Johnson, at or near the hour, of
midnight, old Aroghyadecka might have been
seen to enter. His step was light aad can-
tious, and ihe frequently looked back to se if
any one had followed him or was watching
his motions. Ie bore in one hand a willow
basket, which contained a quhutity Qf dried
meats ; with the other lie carried 11s gun.
Slowly up the dark ravine, along a path
which nothing but being used to could enable
him to tread, he made his way, pausing, every
little while, to listen. Along thus lie went,
until he reached the face of a rock which
seemed to jut out so as to admit of no further
passage in that direction, and where the ra-
vine narrowed to not more than tea feet at
the bottom, and less at the top. With a light
bound lie erossed to a ledge upon the other
side, turned a projecting corner, and stood in
a small cave or recess, which, at a first glance,
looked as if it had been quarried out by the
hand of man ; yet it was natural.
here he paused, and, taking out flint and
steel, soon struck a light, and ignited a torch
of light-wood, of which there was a small store
piled in the cave. Sticking this in a crevice
of the rock, he took away a heavy square
stone, which lie could barely lift, from the back
part of the small cave, and then it could be
seen that this was really only the mouth of a
large cave beyond, which had been walled up,
for from far vithiin the dark and gloomy apace
beyond could be heard the sound of falling
waters. A buckskin rope appeared to be fas.

-.

I

23           ,

22


24

TIT&amp;YENDANEGEA, TIlE SCOUlGE ;tO,

tend to a wooln peg inside, and, taking hold  would have concealed her, had she so desired,
of it, lie commiiinced pulling it in. After draw- she Cotonf :nted him in his path. and, in a deep
mng ip (enefortyor fifty feet, an empty balk t and bitter tone, while she pointed at Ogahtee'e
appea":rdat its end.                        grasvesaid:
"lie Gveset," muttered the old chief;  he    Well met, well met, ma'trder r  You call
has used utp'iall his food."                yourreif a great breve ! Slay me now. that I
Detaching the empty basket, he fastened to  may sleep there beilde my luslard ! Come,
the rope the one he had brought, and then ihoot, stah, and scalp  'here are no soldiers
lowered it down into the cavern.            here now to hiuder ! Strike, co\vard-I am
"et, log-eat and live !" he cried, as lie  only a woman !'
lowered away the food " Live, and rerucmembr  " Not for a thousand beaver-skins would I
Dy agetta and the revenge of Aroghy:idecka!'" harm a hair of Dyagetto's head!" said the old
1Iliolow and fatr-soudhneg ehoes cane lack  chief, who was trembling with the au-itation
from the deptls below, but no human voice  of this sudden meeting.
mad' reply.                                   "What a change between sunrise and maid-
"II  tniot  e gettmg weak, he does not night!' sihe criel, sneeringly. " This morn-
eurst me, as was lia wont  It is time he died! ing you wanted to kill me and my children !"
I'll bring him food no more, but let hin per-  I have had a dream, and would not harm
ish now ; fir even I am sat'sficd ! lIe shall them now for the world !" said the old chief.
have death, and that is mercy!" said the old  "A  dream  in the day-a dream    without
chief.                                      sleep ?" she sneered.
He now replaced the stone in the aperture,  "It matters not. Their lives are safe. I
and, kicking the Lasket down into a crevice  seek no quarrel with Dyagetto. Let us be at
between the rocks, leaped over to the other peace."
side, and rturnimed the way that he came, ex-  "At peace with the murderer of my hue-
Liuguishing his light before he left the place.  band ?"
"I did not kill you husband!"
--                         " Liar !''
"Dv the Great Spirit, I swear I did not!C
CH APTER .XII                  said tIhe old chief, solnrmly.
When Dy-aut'to left her relatives and friends  "Kneel d wn by his grave, and swear it!"
at the feast, that she might go and weep away  cried the woman, sternly.
the heavisness or her heart, sihe passed up the  "I Iswear that I did not kill your husbandt"
steep hill Ic from thme river to the sacred  reiterated the chief, as he knelt upon the spot
ground wh'r'o, for many years. that villagre of inlieated by her' finger.
the Moh awvk hal laid their dead. It was in  " Nor cause him to be slain ?" she con-
a maple grve, though here and there a pine  tinued.
or spruce lift-d its stately form, towering,  "Nor caused him to be slain!" repeated the
with ever 'en head, far above its more mortal chief, solemnly.
fellows w hielb change with every season.    For a momeritthe woman looked him sternly
And there. among the many mounds, sire found  in *sJie face, as if she would search his heart
one bath the wide-spread branches of a   and soul, and he did not quail, or shrink from
rumarac tr. beide which she kriel t and  her gaze.
sobbed, p .rinmg out the het tears upsen the  " If thy lips have uttered a falsehood, ma
grassy s 0{hke the warm rain of a summirer the Great Spirit blast you with his curse-
shower.                                     make you childless --leny you death , and
"Oalt e, my first love and my last!" she  make life terrible all the while !" she said, at
4rmoaned   " tOce 'ore lesi- lthee. once more  last.
above thee, nooli I will join thee.,. Look down,  "My lips have spoken truth !" he said, as he
oh, spirit of Ogahtee ! look down from  the  rose. "I would be Dyagetto's friend !"
happy hiunting-grounds, and see'who it is that  "When she takes an adder into her bosom
weeps beide thy grave-who it is that prays  and it harms her not-when the hungered
for sleep upo thy bosom !"                 panther spares the helpless doe-when fishes
This, for hours, shte mourned, sobbing until walk on land-when all men speak only truth
she was wearr and siek, when suddenly the  -when blood is white, and fire is cold--ibeD
sound of approaching footsteps fell upon her I will consent to be tire friend of Aroghya-
ear, and she arose and drew close t-p to the  deeka!" said she, bitterly, and she turned
shadow trunk of the tamarack.               lhaughltly asyay, and walked toward the vii-
At that instant "the moon came out from  lage, leaving him  standing upon the spot
behind a cloud "-rno, the cloud passed from  where sire hind intercepted him.
over the face of the moon-and she saw whmo    His face darkened with a scowl of the dead
it was that approached. It was Aroghrva- liest hate, as he watched her receding form.
deeka, returning from his visit to the ravine  "Mv time will come, squaw-my time will
sid eavy---his mysterious midnight expedition. come !" ihe said, bitterly. " You shall weep
Stepping boldJIy out from the shade, which  for mere than a husbairnid! The young eagle

t

.
.-,
t= .
..
-.
..:
w:
,.

I

.
,a .,  .
,,
;,
.    ,.
t  ,
, .

a
4
S


THE WAR-EAGLE OF TILE MOIIAWKS.

that looks so high shall come down, and the
young fiawn of your bosom shall drink muddy
water! Aroghyadecka is not done yet   lie
has not forgotten who scorned his love, and
threw his presents back into his face ! le is
no chill now ; his heart is of stone ; his will is
like the oak-it may bend, but it will not
break ! Ilis revenge y slow, hut sure! Dya-
getto sheds tears of water now, but tears of
blood  hlil coeic ! I have the power, and
will use it. What do I fear ? Nothing! My
heart is big, and my strength --"
A hollow groan-a deep and awful sound,
which seemed to come right up from the
grave beside which he had so lately knelt--
broke upon his ear, and choked his utterance
in in instant. And it so terrified him that lie
fled from the s1ot with a speed which the pur-
suit of a hundred foes would not have got out
of him. Without once looking back, or paus-
ing for an instant, he fled away, nor did he
stop until lie was once more safe beneath the
bark roof of his wiiwam.
Once there, lie began to consider what it
was that had so terrified Jbini. Naturally su-
perstitious, he finally concluded that it must
hace been, what in his terror lhe first believed
it to be, a spirit--the spirit of one from the
grave!
CHAPTER XII.
Weeks rolled on, and to Tha'endanegea
they did not pass unpleasantly. Pleased within
and very attentive to his'studies, he became a
great tvorite with Mr. O'Whaekem, who,
even had he not been, would not have darea
to use the birch upon him as he did upon
some other of his pupils, for he had seen
enough of the young " Eagle" to pay proper
respect to his talons, which were as ieady as
his talents.
And with the rise of the sun each morning,
he led ont his fiery stallion, and, springing
upon his back, bounded away for nues over
 the plains that lay so level on the plategun
above the Mohawk. The horse now seemed
to be as fond of his young master as the let-
ter was of him-would go and come at his
call-kneel for him to mount, and act as gen-
tly as a lady's palfrey, without any one else
attempted to nount, or even approach him.
Not a groom about the stable, or a man upon
the premises, could do so, without his relax-
ing into his former terrible ferocity. Toward
Guy Johnson.ie exhibited a fiercer hatred
than to all the rest, and even Thayendanegea
could scarcely restrain him from plunging
upon him when his eyes fell upon the young
man, who, however, took the best of care to
keep out of his way.
And at night, or rather in the afternoon,
when the sun began to sink ira the west, and
the cool breezes to breathe amid the trees, the
young ladies and their brother John, and Ona-
1ova, all well mounted, would gallop out with

A'

Thavendanegea, and sometimes the old baro
net, niounited upon a sturdy hunter, woul4
join the cavalcade.
At other times, when free from their studies,
Joh instructed Thavenda ne rea in the use  f
the sword. but soon found that his pupil was
his equal if not his master ; and  hean it cane
to the use of the tomahawk, the bow, or even
the rifle, Thayendanegea hand no equal on fa
estate-not one who could even approach to
his skill.
With two exceptions, the young indian haid
not an enemy on the place-not even thr ough
envy, that most potent of eieneiv-nukers.
The men liked him for his skill, his wiling-
ness, good nature, and courage-the women,
for his nirly beauty, combined with these,
though to them lie paid scarcely any atten-
tion.
The exceptions were Guy Johfson and Ipi.
sico. The former lad never foregtiven the first
slight put upon him by Tlhavendanegena, nor
lis~toss from the lack stallion--nor the son
of Aroghvadeeka, that he was looked up inas
a "Crow" and a "squaw " by the dashing ana
fearless young warrior, who never for a moo-
ment, in ay position, attempted to conceal
his contempt for him, or his hatrcd of his
father I
One evening. some four weeks after Thay-
endanegen had become a memriber of Sir' Wil-
liani's family, the cavalcale alluded to above,
incuding Sir William, started upon an even-
ing ride. Kathieen was mounted upon her
pretty white pony-Leonore upon a more
sober hay filly-Onalova npon a icious little
spotted pony, as full of " Old Nick" as herself
when she wanted to be-John upioni a spirited,
blooded animal, imported from England, and
Sir William upon his favorite hunter.  Of
course, Vesuvius and his bold riderled the
van.
The evening was Tather close, and the day
had been hot, and, as it was that season in the
latter part of summer when" sudden thunder-
storms are common, the proposed ride was
not intended to be a long one.
Seated in a shady spot near the house, Guy
andihisinscparableIpisico, with lowering looks,
watched the gay party as they rode oif, for,
though invited by Sir William, they never
could he induced'-to join in these rides.except
by a positive command, which lie wouhl not
give ; for, fowl of enjoyment himself, he would
not mar that of others, by forcing up1 on1 thema
unwilling and disagreeable eomlany.  For
lisagrecable it would have been. Ipisico was
not liked by any of the party, for lie lad
become morose, sullen, and sulky-and Guy
was only liked by one, the gentle Leonore,
who hld been a favorite of his father while lie
lived, and who, at an early age, had, lay the
mutual agreement of the two parent-b.irothers,
been betrothed to Guy, whom she was to
marry when he arrived at his majority.
Ia her woman-heart she pitied 1im when

r
'a
R
1
t       ,

. ,  ,
i   r
i{    .
t.i
1
,r x
" '
.'  ,
1    /'
t
_      F
,   , i
u
~i  r
, .
.M
i ' f ""i
ism
t
"
. .  e
¢  t+
U.

27


28

1IJAYENliDANEC;E A, STIll 8COJR(GE OTT,

ls1 swtat ihf(1rs ) rdislk  him, aid, while
they tnnu;if lied l rinn:: fiauts, hter sympathy
caused t' to os ie k thn eintirely. Sghe
was his frecqiitdeinidir before Sir \Wi\llin,
alit I  i raaiitlv ciedi tho05' \Xse who spike ill of
hi'i, fir sht      i never itit angry,  coi CulId not
s;  :k  rueim  lyt o:tiy  ie.
: Ito  vi r'ui  Vitli  se.+v'ling  looks, Guy
nl sc+,( p-u2"mn regarded the gay party
Ih;lt, ' 'c+ Gty to the othcr. " that
h-l! iriise I to kill that cursed bl:ck
!!inli and the whit.' jonmy for me!
t did sprose, toy brother," reple 1 the
Indian. -''lut I was aifr'.giI of the sj;rit that
hieai irs v wih I 'e 'p 'ke in the woods there."
Aid he pe iii d to the grove where they had
teen so territiedI.
"   h alih  e onlydre'iamed we heard some-
tii-I i' vios'tn forgottei it," replied Gv,
with a shru of his boulders and a ciur of liis
th1 hp.
".It was ai very Io]-l drenm, and I cannot
forget it,'' re..1  teyoung Indidn.
Very well-if von are such a coward, and
cannot keIp your pronuses,-I do not want
youi f uri a brotlher. 1'O  cant go amid play with
the wo!io' i
"I arm no eownrd," st  Tisico, fiercely;
" I will kilt the horses this night!"
)o it. an  I Iwil g ve you a new rifle,"
saim the  outig conspirator. "I am sick of
scm einpI pld ha upy while I am wrutclhe l!
If I iius/ lve in a clou d, tlty shall not have
all siuishinne, if I can help it!"
".My rlit ir speaks wise words! Wletn
he sits iii mi aclod. am not I. too, in the-dark ?
The cold which mak-s him shiver is 'et by
Ip:sico. ie mienies of nmy brother are my
iieumies, amid I w:11 eat their hearts !"
" Bigwor'-h.g words!       Do, and then
I will I" live !viii,'' said Guy.
Look. thire is a great storm  comingg"
said thi  Iidiin. jioiiiting to a huge black
cloud 'cli:e'ml to have risen in nit im-
stit, an   t with w(nlerful mriapidity was over-
s rcanHunirthe shy in thew nortli-west.
SGood---they i get a t horough soaking, if
noting else. ail we, too, if we don't go to the
bouse,''' aid Guy, n lie moved off toward
the tatinion, eeli ngckimi  at the idea that the
party  would be out in the storm.
CIUAPTER XIV.
The air Leing more cool and pleasant as
the evetitig drew on, the rile of Si' Wilham
and ihs arty was extended touch frthei titan
they hail at first intended. Indeed, with free
reins, they lad galloped several miles ahng
the c't'rig e madil toward the Sacandaga, w hici
Sthe baronet had caused to ie made for his
conleiniuce in goig to his favorite resort for
hun.ing water fowl anhd aishing-thie spot

known  then, rarnandn',  ts the 'Fesh  " oue.
and the V/aie's ndjoining.
And riding on so mrrily, with tail trees on
either side of tieim. thev id int notieci the
rising storm  The very tl'irst uinotiomn wh1ic'h
tihey had of it, was thesntlelnm ccs -itioi of the
I freeze lint had ht en rustling tim lerves. -.nd
tie actions of the tirds, that cie i sin,
and lewv, affrtlred, to set k covert :whi  
they uight. 'lhen a starting eti of' thundir
peiled from the gathering lackm ss over'heal.
an- echoed far and wide throih the v:id-
wood.   The liorsis, with the instinct of their
natures, hiuddlcd closely toguethtir aind t etitlhd.
all hut Vesntvis, wIo cnnritied ad rouir likdI
gladly,as if lie 1ked the coming storm, wltih-
was so like his own wild nature.
'Turn and ride fat, girs!I'' exelainned tle
baronet ; "a storm like that whticl thtieaten'
mrs now is better met aintywhere than in the
forest." i ,
'Th'ley} quickly oherl, while the swift-gatiwir-
ing Lankness aibve cast a gloom  ii n all
below, ani heal after peal' of htnd thunder,
preceded by flashes of lurid liglitninimi, rolled
along  the sky, and altbuost caftemed t(hen
And iiigreat drops, at first, then literally in
torrents, the rami poured down, wettio gthet
to the skis ; and then, just as tihy arrived
at a very small clearing-whiebh had blien  imde
by the laborers who made the rend when the'
encamped there or' some time, aid in ettii'g
Jimber for a Ihridge-the fearful frce of a hr-
ricane burst upon them in its terrible might.
It was so string that it drove the heavy rain
along horizontally, in a fine iiiit, sent limbs
and leaves lyiing through the air, nd drtshei'
hundreds of trees in every direction to the
earth.
"iffy father must not ride on-the great
trees will fill and crush him!" said 'I'hayen
danegea to Sir Wiliam, who, in ihis fear ant
eomf'usion of mmid, was trying to spur his
horse past thie oemng, which wtas their only
place of safety from breaking nhms amid fall-
ing trees -and the young Indian genyiv, bit
firmly, seized the bridle of the baronet's tnos.
and led thin imito the centre or the cieaird
space, beckoimng to the others to follow.
This .they didl as best they were able, for
their terrified horses were ahniost unmainmagea-
ble. Yet the black stallion showed to more
sign of fear than his master.
" By ty life, lad, but thy coolness has
saved the hvltke of us !" exclaimed the baro-
net, as he dismounted from his horse, and re-
garded anxiously the falling trees and luge
birancles, which were feehing the force of the
hurticaite. "Dismounrt, childrei-your horses
tmay start, and it would be death, certain
death, to tide along that road now."
All obteyed  butt 'hayendn:ttegea, whose
horse was perfectly manageable and quiet;
and Kathleen, who, ever wilful, aid wislhirng
to apj ear well in the eyes of the youtng brave,
would mot leave her saddle, though the white

[2

TUE WASEAGLE OF TIHE MOHAWKS.

pony was quite as uneasy as any other of the
hoises.
Soon she had cause to regret this reckless-
ness ;for, as a huge old hemlock came crash-
ing to the ground, ut a tfew yards from them,
,      the ponu y took fright, and, iii spite of voice
and rin, hounded down the road, and she
could tot stop hhin.
"IDo not moveI" cried Thayenanegea to
her terrified father and relatives ; I will save
her !'
And-ie gave a loose rein to his noble horse,
mand. with a word urged him forward. In a
monimnt- mnml it was not second too soon--lie
war it lier side, fo r a huge old pine, that had
nunmbered centuries where it stood, reeled an
inst it amid crttnie crashing through the other
trees, right toward time spot where she was.
With a uianut's strength, thme young Indian bent
antd sunched her from the saddle with one
n'm, while lie wheeled his horse with the
other, and struck himii in the fanks with both
heels.  With one mighty bound, the horse
leapd brick clear of the danger, while the
pony,1 fined front its burthen, bounded for-
wrdl, an. escaped being crushed by only a
few feta, mmml the ige tree fi'll exactly where
she would have ihen had it not been for the
arm of    bold young brave.
'l'hiaendimneim a, bearing Kathleen. tenderly
in his ar'ims-for she was now senseless from
terror-"-rode hack to the group itt the clearing,
and resigned her to the care of her father amidt
sister, who, alitost dumb with fear and anx-
iety, had witnessed her peril and her rescue.
Gil's life, la I! vou have done a deed of
which an' knight in Christendom would bue
proud !You have saved my daughter's life
Ask tny gif.t i omy power, and it shall be
thmie ! Speak out, lad, and be not afraid of
any denial!" cried the overjoyed baronet.
"Evetn if it be her hand as thy bride, thou
shalt have it '!"-
" Thayendanegea asks nothing. The Pale-
Rose is safe, and he is contented I" said the
brave youth, even though' lier eyes were
opening upon him nwiithi a look of love and
gr'atitud1, for she had so far recovered as to
he'r and understand her father's words.
She sighed a she heicard his calm reply, and
her bosom rose amndl fell, and the color in her
cheeks weit and came, and two pearly tears
,      came out of her great blue eyes, and stole
silently down ,er cheeks --wherefore, she
scarcely md~lred to ask herself.
''hie storms passed away almost as rapidly
as it hint come m, anid before the hour of the
sun's setting arrived, all was still again, and
not a cloud obscured its golden path when it
went down beieatli the blue-hilled hotrizomi in
time vest.
Thlatyendangeua brought hack the white
pony, wih  haid stopped just beyond  the
great tIllmi pite, too tmuch terror-stricken toJ
run further, tind time party, remounted, now

resumed their way toward 'Johnsonti  Ul,
although they could proceed but slowly it
conseqwece of the many fallen trees ieross
their path, most of which t hey were olblig d
to pass around, for they were so protected by
their chevaux-de-frise of' branelis that to leap
over them' was frequently itpossible.
Night was upon'thembefore they emerged
from  the wood, but the bright 'moon and
countless stars shone from a cloudless sky,
and daikness did not incotmode them  The
atmosphere, made'cool and pume lV the elec-
tricity of the storm, was bracing aind delight-
ful, and the past danger was anitest forgotten
in the pleasure of the present, except hy one,
who, silent and half-tearful, rode as near to
her preserver as she could. 1 need not say
who it was.
When the-party arrived at the uall, Tpisico
and Guy were on the piazza watching them.
"By heaven ! they are a hiback safe !" mut-
tered 'Guy, discontentedly, as th hi-rode up.
The devil wouldn't hear my primer, or iw
of them would have had their nmeks broken I"
"The Great Spirit imust have held his hand
above them!" said the Indian.
"Remember the white pony rtnd the black
stallion, to-night!" said Guy,'as he rise and
went into the house, so as to avoid the neces-
sity of speaking to the party who were dis-
mounting.
I have spoken, and I will d-o that which
my brother wants done !" said the young In-
dian, as he followed.
CIIAPTER XV.
Night, still and calm, lay lightly over the
earth, for the moon and stairs looked softly
down upon it, mirroring their sweet faces in
the lakes, silvering the rippuin streams anld
gemming thecascades auml rushing brooks--
inuking the dew-drops glitter on the spray
and peeping in amid the branches and the
hlowet's, playing hide-and-sreel; with the sha-
dows as the'branches gently waved to nd fro.
It was midnight, or after, when Sir William,
v-who ever slept lightly lie had lived so loig
:mid danger--ims arousedd by tlie most terri-
ble shrieks and outcries in the direction of the
stalhes, also by the wild, shrill neighings of a
horse.
hurriedly he arose. threw on a nightt-wrap-
per*; thrust'his feet into a pair tof sly ers dutd
hurried out to see what was the mtfter  On
his way to the door, he met his son .ohn and
also Tfavendanegea, who lid been aroused by
the same alarm.  Aud as they vent toward
the stbles they found several of the servants
hurying thithierwrl ; but what most asniton-
ished them, vas the sight of two of the
grooms,.who slept in the l-ft over the'stabiies,
dragging forth the body of v'hat setmed to ho
an Indianm, but so horribly crushed and Jii.

E

I'

,' y
-
{
r' .
K


 TAYENDANECEA, TIIE SCOURGE ; OR,

fignr'd ibut the face and body that the hardly
looked lie a hitiiian heing.
"\Who is this, and what is the matter?"
eried the I aroieit. as lie ajppronched the Flpot
where Ithe men, without much care, had ossed'
their loodt bmiurden u0 pon the turned-up but-
toni of an oild sleigh body.
"It is that bloody young Injin that your
honor his beo renting so "well, anl witisoit
lie is ilmii iead. eli hasn't got halt' what lie
descrnes, sir !'' said the groom.
"What. lisico ? What has he been doing ?"
1.e k at the knife still in his hand. sir!
The w hilte poniy which   you   gave twenty
guinas ftr--tie sone that hiss Iatlileen iles
-lies iin the stall with its throat cot-anid the
rel lihound was going to serve the black stal-
lion the smie  iwar, but the biter got fit tin re,
thunk the I ord   The stallion wasn't to be
caught1:1 mtp;iug, and has kicked ie life out
of the smuriideriu  villain, I hope !"
God's life what a wretch !    What can
this iseai ?  Who can have put the youog
fiend ilup to t his work ? Ile surely hiid lio
rsoi   ufor such a dastardly act.  Soic one
munist havei. iintillehd liimii to it !"
" W\Viwire is Guy ?  le must sleep very
souinil niit ti ibe a wakened by all the noise
whic hali Ih-leu iint made !'' said Johi n.
'C Goitel ti dl huimi ! This miiatter must hue
inve-Iit;ted. And call Doctor Dallv: we mut
get life  noug h ints this griunisingdog to find
out w    Ve dl it !" cried Sir Willnti.
Thiauai ualcuegi a. who had I een to the stable
to see if his hoirsc was injured, now returned,
anwd u bil John hurried to fulfill his tathi i's
orde: s. tlie  ong 1urave stood within fsilded
irms an rli  rdted u-u Itlthe wi ithinogs and grimu-
iiugs sfitie iinjired Ipisico with uncoticeaklsd
JuleS .it i
"V Vs-vino hns spoiled the beauty of the
saw-f h-.!'' le eail, as he bikesl at the
eenrcclv d.scerniile features of the young in-
d in, a i  ieni it-elId how  much lie h ni
jprild himself upon the regularity of those
features.
lii a hew moutents, John returned with, the
doctsoir, and i reportedrd that hie hai fiounil
Guy :is ejs ' B uit,' he rdded to Thiaivenuiine-
ga, in a how, tone. " I believe lie was plaving
'possm. for lie never was so hard to wake
I he is a snake, and Ipisico hams beei his
-        tool!   lit hI tire  olis !" replied the young
lbrac-, ini a tutie as low as that used by the
other
" Wilt. ditor, low badly is th log hurt !"
askeiI lit barnuth, after the Iphiyseii m  in
l ieint so ue timn in- iittexam: iii ing the'I iiiin a W ithI
-       trite prf -s-a tiil'eui'thisess.
."        lii a braiiiue ise rich anid sweet that it wotnllh
hmavte de .itd to iufhee-seekiing Scott, sv ii
more ian    is " t he f:i-n accent of the Ger-
uain."I Ii-tir I y):iy  r  tplied:
"Ikda, it's as ?prty a simash-up as ever I
s-

E saw, Sir William ! One arm broken, a shuoul.
dir knockel (fit of j3si!mit, a collar-bone splin.
terel, three iri' foum' iiu staved in, a jav-bone
Cracked, a nose flattelied into nothing, and
half the teeth drp(1e' d out or swallowedi I
Bejahuers, it's as purty a piece of work as I've
seen since I left the ouh coOithry !"
Will the fellow (lie or live't"
"Sore, sir, if he's properly attinzied to, I
don't see why hue should die ; but he'll need
a ehal of menhing to put hini in ntv kind
of shape, and the beauty of the haste, if ever he
hail any, is gone friintm forever. The whole
print of a horse's fut will remain in his ugly
countenance till lie dies nail rots
- So mueh the better ' sid the baronet
" Can lie inwer a question? "
" Not with that broken jaw  of his very
asily, Sir Willaitm ; but wait till I wash the
blood down his throat with a drop o' brandy,
and maybe he'll understand one, and answer
ye by signs."
W \hat is the matter here ?  Why, is this
Ipisico, poor Iisico ?' asked Gny, who niow
cime forward, drowsily, as if just awakened
ftr'mi a sleep as deep as that whieh held Itip
Vin Winkle in hotii.
" You recognize himu more quickly than I
could," said the baronet, casting a suspicious
glance at his nephew.
I knew himby his dress-how did ibe get
hurt?" asked theainnocent Guy, approaching
still closci', and bending over the bleeding
youth.
" Betraym e not, or von die !" lie whsis-
pered, as the young Indian's eyes opinedl upon
him.
But the litter, who could not speak, cx-
hibsite-d i pleasure at seeing hiirn ; but, on the
count rar, th- most violent anger, pushing himu
away with his sound Harm.
-'Who told you to kill the horses ?" asked
Sir William, seeing that the Indian was coli-
sci'uis.
'I'he latter pointed to Guy, and vainly tried
to slp-ak.
" It is an infernal lie-I never did !" shouted
Guy
" An' wt-huat idi von bid him not to hetray
you for. just now,~sir?" asked' the phiysciin,
who had overheard his whispered caution and
threat.,
" l did not !" boldly replied the unblushing
young anmi.
"" You hadn't whisper to him, but i blessed
momienut ago, -Berray me not, err you die!' and
I dil't he'ar you do it'?"
" No !"
Ipisico, ye rel rascal. ye'11 not tall a lie
wheti inavhnip you'h shie iii ian hour. 'Did
M sister CUv there caution or threaten you, or
ist '
'lhe vounrr Tndian, tliouh writhing with
lain. nled his heald afliruiativ-lv.
"It is a  ile lie-you both lie~!" shouted

A

Gny, now livid with rage, at being so fairly;
cornered.
"Master Guy Johnson, you are the nephew
of a baronet, and the son of an Irish jintle-
man, and I'm only a poor followerof the great
Eseulapius, but, b  the powers o' light and
darkness, if you d on't ato those words, and
apologize for them in just one minute, I'll
horsewhip you till you wear all the colors of
the rainbow on your dirty back !" said the
doctor, dropping his instruments and snatch-
ing up a team-whip, which happened to be
lying near at-hand.
"Touch me if you dare, you miserable
devil !" shouted Guy, who was now actually
beside himself with rage, forgetting who was
by.
The doctor waited for no second invitation,
but plied the whip with a heavy and a skill-
ful hand, and with such effect that Guy in an
instant ran yelling to the house, pursued by
his now heated punisher, who gave him a cut
at every leap, and only relinquished the pur-
suit when the young villain had entered the
house.
The doctor now returned to the baronet,
and said :..
"I beg your pardon, Sir William, for using
this weapon in your presence, but I've borne
insult and injury too long from that fellow to
stand more, anJ I'll let no man living call me
a liar to my face, when I'm only spaking truth
before God and man !"
"I do not blame you at all, Daly," said Sir
William ; "lie richly deserved more than you
gave him, and if lie were not the son of my
dead brother, he should not restanotherlhour
beneath my roof!"
"Would you have me patch up this bit o'
disfiguration, Sir William ?" asked the doctor,
much pleased at not incurring blame from his
patron, while he pointed at Ipisico.
" Yes, do the best you can for him. I do
not blame him so much now as I did ; for I see
plainly that Guy has but used him as a tool
in the matter. The Indian knew no better,
and Guy did. Use all your care and skill for
the poor devil-when he gets able to talk he
may tell us all about itI"
Ipisico, whose eyes till now had only flash-
ed anger and hatred, seemed touched by these
words cf the old nobleman, and seizing the
hand of the latter, he pressed it to his heart,
and looked grateful at him, as if to express
thanks for-the one kind expression, when he
so little deserved it.
"Let the men earety him in carefully,
Daly !" said the baronet, "and order any-
thimg from my stores which you deem neces-
sary."
"I'll do all that lays in my power, Sir Wil-
liam !" said the doctor, as the baronet return-
ed to his house and lbed, for the chill night
air did not feel very comfortable to an e orly
man, thinly dressed.

t"I didn't know that you was a master of
two professions before, doctor!" said John
Johnson, after his father had left.
"It bothers the sowl o' me to know what
ye mane, Master John!" said the doctor, with
a puzzled look.
" Why, you're a doctor to begin with, and
,a first-rate dancing-master to boot. I never
sa# any one learn a running hornlpipe quicker
than cousin Guy did, just now, in all my
life ."
"Faith, if lie keeps on as he's begun, he'll
learn, like Dick Turpin, to dance on nothin'
in the end, with a bit o' twisted flax knotted
under his ear! One thing is sure, he'll never
die like a Christian, in his behl or, like a dacet
man, on-the field of honor '"
"Maybe he'll challenge you in the morn-
ing," said John, with a laugh.
" Divil the bit wil lhe. There's no such
good luck in store for Pat Daly as to make
him die a giatale death, with a bit o' lead
snug laid in the right spot. But if he can
hire a red nager-I beg your pardon. Master
Thayendanegea, it's not the likes o' you I
iane, so you needn't look so black at inc---f,
I say, he can hire some one to stick a knife
into me in the night-time, why he'll be just
the one to get that sort o' satisfaction. But
I'll be as like a potato as if I was one-bless-
ed be the esculent forever, for it's the Pain-
disc-apple of my country-eyes all over and
none of 'em aslape !"
"Hardly would lie dare that!" said John.
" The divil trust hifn for all me. The man
that would have the throat of a poor baste cut
to spite a poor, tender-hearted young lady.
wouldn't spase me, I'm sure !" said.thie doctor.
While this conversation was going ; on, the
physician had been busy in preparing lpisico
for removal, and he now bade the men around
to take him up carefully, and carry him to
the neat little hospital which Sir William had
built near his mansion.
ChIAPTER XVI.
Upon the morning after the occurrences
above mentioned, Sir Willit m sent for his
nephew, ordering that he should come to hin
in his library.
After considerable delay, the voung man
made his appearance, looking very much as
one would who had been caught stealing a
sheep, whipping a woman, or in some other
equally despicable action.
"You are very tardy, nephewv Guy, in
obeying my summons, this morning." said
Sir William, not angrily, for he had just taken
his " morning nip," to get up an appetite for
breakfast. " Methiink, if I'd sent Dr. Daly
after you, he would have hurried you up a
little. He is a famous hand at that! I could
but adnire your agility, and his skill, last
night 1"

T IE WAR-EAGLE OF THE MOUAW S          81


32           TIIAYENDANEGEA, TUE SCOURGE; OR,

It shall cost him b   life !" muttered the
youth, angrily.
-- Tuti ii, wir! no such threats in my pres-
once, oryoui will make we angry, and I'll cool
you down w;thi a few weeks on bread and
water. iii a dungeon. Dr. Daly is a gentle-
nitii i i    II nletiot pip1e teseited your
se insult, hist nilit, I bltould have deemed
it my duty ti ptnibh you. He did perfeeUy
right, 'ir. and your legs s:avtd you fromt what
you r:clily mierted, twice as hrd a logging
as h govv you. But it was not that of which
I iateided to speak wVhCn I sent for you. I
nw w:sh to know whv voi hired or per-
uaded I pisico to kill Ka'tliieenis pony, and to
try andkull the horse thatI gave to Thiayen-
daneg.i a "
" Uide, I +id not-"
"'l It, tlt, boy ! you need not deny it ! 1
heard you wiarn the Indimn, as well as did the
doctor. I detest a liar, and falsehood only
lessens you in my eyes. It blackens every
error to Ieiy it. Reply to my question !"
You Ipri used the horse to ite, and then
gave it to that upstart Indian !" replied Guy,
sullenly.
" I wish that you possessed one-twentieth
pirt if the ihnor, cou rage, and true manhood
of that Inlian liy!  But about the horse.
Tou never cobiiI ride imi, nexer even at-
temp tel tai f iltill the conditions upon wlich
lie wa p{riii.-d to you, until he was given
awy:i, a2-l th,-a, wlien you tried, you was off
lke a rottun appile shaken from a tree  But
wyv inIlei a n'snate, did you make him kill
ior katitlein's pony ''
ieciuce she tainted me when I was
thr, ni    miltIered me her powy and side-
iaile to ril '
"  i .ii'h iiilday anid unworthy of notice
rootyou, who, at your age, ought to be a
man"
leside, shie is iin love with this Thaven-
datnea:"sid Guyi.                   ~
" Wliit  tha' to you ? If she is, she only
acknowhICls tie worth of a noble heart, and
I ami elil of it. But. yesterday he saved her
life at tihe p ril of his own. If lie were to
ask her hand1, at a proper age, it should never
be denied to lii ibty me. But of that no
more.. You have lone very wrong, so wrong
that were it it for the memory of your dead
fait hcr, I wou 11not let you rest beneath my
roof anotlier div ! As it is, you must submit
to punismltent which iill teach you better
liereifter !"
Guy was startled at the thought of being
de1riv. of a ioie, for, if his uncle cast him
oil, he was penniless. Moreover, lie loved
Leonore a, muchit as, in his selfish nature, lie
was capable of loviug, nl hoped, when lie
"a2s oCne united to hIr, to lie tade indepen-
'det by the ilowry nthichit ste would receive
froi a find tnl indulgent father. Therefore,
he felt that it was time for him to lower his

colors, and act humble, even if hle ilt-no ha
utility.
Iam very sorry for what I have done, sir,
and will meet the penalty without a mur-
mur !" he said, in a contrite toile.
If your penitence is not lssumed, I atm
glai to see it!" sail the baronet. "Iithierto
your spending allowance has been the same
that I have given to John-five guineas a
month. Half of that I shall holl baek, until
twenty guineas, the price of Kathlken's pony,
is maae up "
You can keep back all, sir-I have no
right to murmur, since it is your generosity
alone which allows me anything
"Not a word, sir ! My judgment in this
matter is iniperative I For your attempted
wrong to Thiaycndanegea, you must apologize
publicly tohiii !"
"Uncle, you surely will not make me so
lower myself as to apologize to hue ?"
" Lower yourself, sir, by an apology to one
as much your superior as day is to night! If
you, who could hire an ignorait savage to do a
dastardly dced iii the night, vlhicli you dared
not do, can lower yourself still further, I
would like to know how it can be done !" cried
the baronet, now thoroughly -m0ry. " Come,
sir, not a word ! There is Thavendanegea,
with John and your cousins, coming in froi
their morning walk. Either go up to him
like a man, and isay you are sorry for what
you have done, and ask his ,atdon, or elsa
leave my house forever ! I wilt have no one f
around me who can deliberately do a base
wrong to another, and refuse torepair it, so
far as he can. You hear me, sir ?"
Guy knew that he could not trifle wi'itli his
uncle then, and that for him all was lost, uin-
less lie obeyed the mandate instantly. There-
fore, he advanced to the approaching party,
an said ;
Thavendanegea, I tried   to have your
horse killed last nightI It was all my fault,
not that of Ipisico. I am  sorry for it -will
you forgive me
The young brave stopped short, and looked
at Guy with., quiet wonder-looked at him
keenly, as if he would read his motive for this
most unnatural act on the part of Guy, so
unlike his general character, but made no
reply.
"Forgive him, Thayendanegea, for my sake,
even as I forgive him for having my poor
pony killed !" said Kathleen, and tears started
from her blue eyes.
"I forgive you, for the sake of the Pale
Rose !" said Thayendanegea, with gentle dig.
nity. " And if you will be a man iow, I will
be your friend !"
And lhe advanced and offered Guy his hand.
The latter could not refuse it, lint a burn-
ing blush overspread his face while he took
it, nitd ie felt indeed that thei lilian whom
lhe affected to despise was his superivr.

,4

0
o
H
H
to
0
0
tit
0'

. s
r     '
'r+
'4,,
I

t


TIIE WAIR-EAGLE OF TIIE MOIIAWKS.

The baronet, who hal closely watched the
actions of both. was struck with the noble
dignity of the young brave, both in his ac-
tions and his words.
 God's life, hut the lad is fit for a throne I"
he sai  to himself.
Th p:rty passed into the house now, for
the' eakfast-hell wis ringing. There were
tears .n the eyes of both Leonore and Kath-
leen, izs they passed along. And they were
not tisrs of grief.
CIIAPTEL XVII.
Moo-lil, with the fire of anger anl of hate
bnrnii d(eep into his heart, Guy Johnson
waled fitr away into the beautiful grove
bank of the mnaision, on the morning when he.
made his forced apology, for he had no appe-
tite for breakfast, and left the table as soon
as he'could do so, without attracting particu-
lar attention.
And when he had got beyond hearing of
those in the house, bitter curses'rose from
his lips, and his angry words were not only
many, but loud. lie did not know that he
was'closely followed--.followed by one whose
hart ached, nob only for his troubles, but
also to hear such terrible language from his
lips. lie did not know hut that he was alone,
until a Lrentle hand w;as laid upon his shoul-
der, and a sweet voice said
"Guy, lear Guy, do not talk so---you are
surely ~raving, arid do not mean what you
eay I
"I do mean every word I utter, Leonore !"
said lie. imputieutly. " What business have
you to follow inc like a spy, and overhear
what I say ?"
Oh! Guy, dear Guy, why do you speak
so to sac ? You will break niy heart" said
the weeping girl.
"Women's hearts are made of leather-
there is no danger of their breaking !"
ller sobs were the only reply to his unUwanly
words.
Everybody hates me and wrongs me !"
he continued.
"Oh, no, no ! I love you, and never wrong-
ed you in thought, word, or deed !" she re-
pli..
"My uncle, because he has taken a liking
to a heathen bear of an Indian, first robs me
.0 please him, and then forces mae to the al-
ternative of either becoming a homeless oit-
east, or of bending my proud neck and knee
to his upstart favorite, humbling myself to
$n Indian dog-for that Thayendaitegea is
hut a dot !"
You wrong him, Guy ; lie is brave, intel-
!:ent, and lhonorable I  But yesterday he
Saved Kathleen's life, when a falling tree
would have crushed her !"=
"Curse him  and her! I wish to God that
it had crushed themr bobh 1" ~

Oh, Guy; Guy, eow    cmian you be
wicked ?"
. "And ?/Ou, too, must take up for this graes
less heathen ! Perhaps you want him for o
husband !" he cried.
"Guy, you do me, a foul wronr, and %lch
words come with an ill, grace from your lip.
to one who has stood by you so often when
she knew you were wrong, and lms so often
dared her father's anger to avert it from your
head !"
"Clear out, then, and leave me alone, i
you don't like my words ! I didn't ask yoe
to follow me !" said he, in the most brutal
tone.
"Guy, dear Guy, even this will I bear, fot
the love I feel for you !"' she cried, weepin,
and attempting to put her arnis around his
neck.
With a bitter curse, he thrust her from
him, with such force that she fell, and bes
head coming in contact with the sharp edge
of  a stone, received a terrible cut. The blood
gushed out in a large stream, for a small ar-
tery in the temple had been divided. But the
poor girl was not sensible of paini-she had
fainted.
When he saw blood, the anger of the hear
less wretch gave way to terror.
"My God, I have'killed her !" lie groaned
" What shall I do ! what shall I do t"
"Go 'get water !" said a stern voice, and
the same white-haired, venerable, and feeble-
looking Indian, whom we have once before
spokeni of, as being seen in that same grove,
stepped forward from amid a clump of small
spruce trees, to the astonishment and increased
terror of the young villain.
What shall I bring it in ?" asked the ter
rifled youth.
* "That," and the Indian touched the glazed
cap on Guy's head.
The latter hurried away to a brook, whose
.distant murmurings could reach the ear,
while the old Indian bent upon his knees, and
raised the head of the poor girl. Her couna-
tenance was as white as the leaf of a litv, and
life seemed almost to have deserted le?.
With a firm hand lie held the parts of the
wound closely together, then taking a scarf
from her neck, bound it so tightly around her
temples that he checked the flow of blood.
And when the water came, he washed away
the blood-stains, bathed her face, and wette
her lips with some of it.
With a deep sigh, she opened her eye,
and exhibited signs of returning conscione-
ness.
"Where am J?   Oh, I remember !" she said;
with a shudder. "Guy was angry, and struck
me !" and she closed her eyes again, as if to
shut out the vision of cruel remembrance.
" Who are you, sir, that are so kind to
me ?" she asked, a moment after, as shn
looked up at the kind and pitying face of the

r
U

ry  +
" l   n
. i  .
'  .
'

,


to                  TIIAYENDANEG EA, TIIE SCOUlY GR; Ort,
Indian, wno supported and still bathed her the stranger, who did not rise it his ap
head with the cool vater.                 proacl.
" A friend, daughter of the pale face-a    "I do ?  What of that ?" said the Indian,
frientl to the good'and the innocent !" he re- abruptly.,
plied.                                       " I tate him, too-wish lie was dead !" said
What is the matter with me? I am hurt; Guy, bit terl'.
. ay head feels pain !" niurmured the poor   " Yet lie'feeds you-gives you ehlothies to
girl.                                      keep you warm-you sleep uidetr his roof!"
" Yes, that squaw-hearted boy cast you   said the Indian, atni nit expression of contempt
against a rock ! Ie is a poor dog to raise flitted over his face, like a shadow upon a gray
his hatnl against a woman, and should be rock.
whipped with rods !"                         " I am his lrothmer's son-lhe ought to do
Guy stood near, with down-cast looks, but it !" sail the latter, evasively. " Iesides, he
said nothit.., for he was not so utterly grace-  wrongs ie-has let a young Indian. upstart'
less but that he could feel ashamed for his supplant ine in his love
Worse th:tn distardly conduct.               " Who is this Indian upstart ?"
" I forgive him--he was blind with anger,  "Thayendanegia, the son of one Dyagetto,
and did iot know  what he did," said the  theswoiain who brought hint and his sister
sweet and gentle girl.                     from the far-off Ohio; but I hear that she
" I at very sorry ; do not tell my uncle of claims to he a Mohawk, for she is with them
i, Leonore,"'said the youMng man. "I never at one of their villages up the river."
will spent: harshly to von again."           If Guy had heeni looking at ihe lindian
Who is his uicle " asked the Indian, ab- when he spoke, lie would hautve been  terrified
rupt!v.                                    at the sudden change in Iiis countenanece-thte
Sir William Johnson ?" replied the fair varied expressions there-when lie mtade his
girl.                                      statements ; but the young man was look-
Ugh ! a bad man-a bad man !" said the   ing back, to see if. he had been watcled or
Indian. :oan a cloud, black as night, overspread  followed, and, when his eyes again iet those
his sallow face.                           of the Iidian, the latter was as calm as lie had
"Ile is my father," said Leonore, gently ; been at first.
"if hei has ever done wrong to you, I am     "And you nsay Sir William tr ats this young
sorry !' 'Indiani ith kindness ?" continued the st ranger.
Thie old Indian sighed, but he said no more.  ''Yes ; lie has adopted hint as a soi, giv en
Guy's eye flashed, and nt expression of satis- him a horse, gus, and many presents. And
faction caine cover his face, when lie heard the  lie has placed his sister, like a laidy, with his
words and saw the look upon the face of the  own slaughters-dressed her as well as thte"ni
strangei lihan.                            " But Dyagetto 'does not stay with her
I will assist my cousin to the house," said  children?"
he, " nd then I will conic back, for I wish  " No ; but she cones often to see them."
to talk vithi you. I may do you good in     The old Indian did not ask any more ques-
return for vour kindness to her !"         'ions, but sat and silently watched Guy, seem'
" No good can conte from  evil !" replied  itig to study his thoughts.r
thie Indiat, sternly ; " but come alone, and I  " You scet oor," said the miter, looking at
will wait!"                               the worn and ragged bhlmket and stained hunt-
The yuing man now helped poor Leonore ing-shirt and leggins of the old Iniaia.
back to the house. where he told a story of  " I am; hut what of that ?" replied the old
her having stumbled and fell against a rock, man, drawing his blanket up proudly over his
which site was too good heart. d to contra- broad chest.
diet, even though ie had been so brutal in  "I can better your fortune."
word intl deed, and now so unblushingly told  "IIow? You have nothing that I wal"
his falso tale.                              " Von do not know that. Can voii shoot 9"
T  heibaronet, deeply alarmed, instantly sent  "Can a fish swim ?" asked the Indiam, in
for his phvsieiamn, while Guvi returned to the contemptuous reply.
grove, ti seek a further interview with the  "Of course 1 know that you can shoot
strange Indian.                           'game ; lint if you had an enemy, could you
shoot him "
CIHAPTER XVIII.                   "If lie was worth killing, yes !"
Seated upon the ro4 which was stained      "'Well, Sir William  Johnson, you say, is
by the pure blood of geitle Leonore, tie old  your enemy. Ire is mine, also! I will guS
Indliiati quietly remained until G uy Johinsont von a mnew rifle, biatel ct amid kinti e, pilet y of
esnme hack.                                piowd'er nd heal, anid new  lankets 'amid
"By the words you used, and the look clothes, if you will lay in wait for him iii
epomi 'your face, when von spoke oif Sir Wil.. the woods. nndh shoot him, the next time he
hiamt il huson, my umnefe. I suppose)5  you late goes to. thte fish-house !"
im ?" said G uy, as lie stopped in~ front of " IIe is your father's brother, ehs 2" asked

/'

TILE WAR-EAGLE OF TIE MOIIAWIS.

the Indian. in a tone and-with a look which
would imply that he was seriously thinking of
the proposition.
" Yes," answered Guy.
And you love his daughter, the lily which
you bruised this morning ?"
"Yes, and when he is dead'I will marry
her-"
"lie brought you up since you was a little
helpless boy, without father and mother, did
he not.?"
"Yes; but Low do you know that? Have
you ever seen me before this day ?"
Yes. yes, a hundred times, when you was
too snill to crawl over a log."
Well, well, it matters not. What is your
answer to 'm proposition ?"
'hat I thank the Great Spirit I am not a
pale-thee! Do your own murders!    I am
not an assassin !" said the old Indian, and,
turning proudly upon his heel, he disappeared
in the thick gloom of the grove, before the
youth had recovered from the surprise into
which the indignant and bitter tone of the
scornful Indian had thrown him.
"By heavens, what a fool I am !" he mutter-
ed, when he found himself alone. "I should
have killed the old wretch, for he possesses
my secret, thought and intent, and if he should
make it known to my uncle, my every hope
would be blasted. I will never venture out
without my gun again, and, if I see him, I
will shoot him as I would a wolf!"
"Shoot him, and I will shoot you?" said
Thayendanegen, quietly, but firmly, as he
stepped lout from behind the trunk of a huge
pine tree within a few feet of him.
"Why? Do you know him?" cried Guy,
turning pale, and trembling from head to
fuot.
"No !" answered the young brave. "But
he is an old man and an Indian-lie is good,
for he would not do a murder at your bidding!
You could not hire him, as you did Ipisico, to
do your wicked-work ! You are less than a
dog-that would never bite the hand which
fed it !"
"Why should you act the spy upon me?"
" Because your heart is blacker than mud !
Yot are bad-too bad to live! I will watch
every step you take, and, if you raise your
hand or evil eve to one thing which I love,
or is helpless,I will kill you as I would a
snake !"
"I suppose you will go and tell my uncle
of this titter !"
"I am no tale--bearer !" proudly relied the
young Indian. "I can watch over him with-
out putting more fear or hatred in his heart.
But you must not cross my path, or study evil'
to him or his, or I will kill you ! I have
spoken, and I cannot speak a lie !"
Thavendanegea said no more, but, with a
'itter look of contempt and scorn, turned upon

his heel and went toward the mansion, leaving
the baffled nephew of the baronet in no env-
able state of mind.
CHAPTER XIX.
It was the custom with Dr. Daly, Mi.
O'Whackem, and Mr. Lafferty, the 'baronet's
secretary, to meet at twelve o'clock eaeh day,
or immediately after the schoolmaster had dis-
missed his pupils to their dianeri, to partake
of a lunch and its spiritual accompaninente,
in a pleasant little refreetory adjoining the
htoslital, for these gentlemen all dined at tiq
haronet's talde at a later hour. And it was
the occasion, generally, for a lively bit of goa.
silp, for, all three being Irishmen, they could
no more get along without talking, than a co-
quette without a string of beaux. Thus they
kept the ir spirits up, while the spirits and the
jokes went dovn.
"IIow does your new patient look this
morning, doctor dear ?" asked O'Whackem of
Daly, as he poured out his glass of brandy, at
lunch time.
"Very much as if a horse had kicked himr,"
replied the doctor, with a smile, as he e.
tended his hi'id for the bottle.
"he'll be apt to prefer sour healing power
to the heeling way of the ould stallion, Pm
after tlhinkini," said Lafferty, reaching in turd
for the brandy.
"lie's divifish impatient for a. patient," said
Daly, as he helped himself to a slice of cold
tongue and a cold potato.
"He'll know better than to be so horse-styk
again !" said Lafferty.
"Och, ye blackguard, ye ought to be'co -
victed, without judge or jury, of murder"
cried O'Whackem.
"Murder o' what, ye old pedagogue ?" r.
1)lied Lafferty, in the best humor pi)ssibile.
"The king's Endish, Misther Quilldivper,"
said the schoolmaster, as he sliced off a bite!
boiled ham.
"It's a pity that Master Guy hadn't got a
touch of punishment from the ktste," said
Lafferty.                           .
"Sure lie got a good enough tasting from
me, I'm a thinking !" said Daly, with a laugh.
"Why, his wasn't so much of an error, after
all," said O'Whackem.    "lie might have
been thinkin' of the neglected harp of $p.or
ould Erin, when he called you 'a blasted 19y'
-d'ye mind the point, now ?"
"Sure the tune lie harped on was a ftmrlg4
den one, as far as I'm concerned," said Daly.
"Pass over the hgrad, Lafferty, if yv're dot
too busy upon the hind shoulder o' that hn."
" D'ye know wlhat you put me in min of
then,doctor?"asked Lafferty.
"No, sure-with,,ut it was that I eonsidexed3
ye better bred thad I, and wanteu to take a
slice of ye "

.4

41t
ut
r'y


p8

TITAYENDANEGEA, TIlE SCOURGE; OR,

"No, sure--it wasn't thint, at all. Ye put
me in mind of the Lord's prayer, blessed be
H~isannmte!''
" Wall, 'tis lucky I did, for it's seldom ye
tink of anything godly ; but, for the life o'
we, I c'n't see how I reminded ye o' what I
know ve're not much acquainted with."
"Di}dn't you ask for daily bread, ould thick-
skull ?"
"lie jabers, I did, and yoi. had me, boy
Pass along the brandy, for I thirst for the
pirit !"
"Tlion ye ought to go and work in the
cern-fi'hl awhile!"
"A nd why should I do that ?"
"Doesn't the good book say 'hoe all ye who
first.' I'd like to know ?"
"Faith, you have me again ! I wish ye'd
ake the fever and ague !"
"For why, ould pill-box?   So ye could
dose me and bleed me a bit?"
#'No; I only want to see ye shook up a
Little ; you're gettin' to be too smart on top,
and too dull below, 'You want aqunalising-
just, you see, as I aqualise this randy by
putting a little drop o' water in it."
And wakening the spirit ! Sure it's not
our advice Ill be after takin', doctor dear."
"his advice is better than his medicine,
E'm thinking' !" said O'Whackem.
"Wait till you try 'em both, before you
pass judgment," saidt the doctor.
SI'd rather see the sexton and gravestone-
uetter first, so as to make all my preparations
lra decent burial!"
"Let me write your epitaph I" cried Laf-
&amp;rty.
'What would it be, Misther Goosequill ?"
ked the schoolmaster.
"The tike o' this," said Lafferty:
"kHere lies ond sc'hoolmster O'Whackern:
A hard nut is he. but Satan wil crack him."
" Faith, he'd throw you down as unsound
a ' not worth the eraekin' I" said the school-
aaater, with a laugh.
Thus these three worthies spiced their lunch,
but it was soon over, and they returned to
their different avocations, quite refreshed in
body and mind.
CH APTER XX.
On the morning succeeding the night when
ice came so near getting his well-merited
sw, of having the life kicked out of hint
ur William sent a runner to Aroghyndecka, to
seuaint'bim that his son had beeti injured
-             and was in serious danger. Though the run
cr, after delivering his message, started in
s*antly upon his return, and was well kntowi
t. be one of the swiftest-of his class, the oh
s ief quickly outstripped him, and lngere hi
" - -         bd even sighted the chimney-tops of "John
si Hall," had passe its threshold, and stood
before the baronet

"Where is my son?-wliere is Jpisico?-
and who has dared to hrt him ?" ae.d the
old Mohawk, with trembling frame and flash.
iag eyes.
"Sit down and calm yourself, and I will teU
you," replied the baronet. "Ie has put his
fingers in the time, anr: burned himself!"
The chief, who knew    the baronet well
enough to be sure he would gain nothiting by
disobeying him, took the sent.
Pontiocht, here ! Bring brandy and glasses
for two-pi pes, also!" cried the baronet to his
favorite servant.
The old chief sat very uneasily-for a won-
der, even the anticipation of brand and to-
bacco did ant quiet his feelings.
It soon came ; and, after each had drank a
glass, the baronet lighted his pipe and coin'
meneed smoking, quietly and in silence. For
a time, the Indian preserved his stoicim, but
finally the feelings of the parent triumphed
over the philosophy-if such it can be termed
--of the Indinn, and le abruptly asked
Where is Ipisie I"
In the hospital," replied  Sir William,
without deigning to give any further explana-
tion.
The Tndaian rose, did not pause to touch his
glass, which the baronet had refilled, but
walked from the oom , without uttering a
word, and took his way hastily to the hos-
pital.
I.esoon after came back, and his face was
dark, very dark, with either gloom or linger.
Ile sat down, and, for a time, reinainc(d silent.
lIe did not touch his brandy, and he had let
the fire in his pipe go out.
Sir William n remained as passive as before,
drinking and smoking with mll the ease imag-
inable, apparently not noticing the looks of
the old chief, yet from under his over-
hanging brows casting many a quick and
searching glance at him. No Indian coukl
ever beat him, either in the study of the
thoughts or another, or in concealing his
owni. For years an official visitor at their
councils-of'ten the sole arbiter of their af.
fairs, the medium  through whom they re-
ceived alh their presents from the English
government-he 11nd so become used to them
that neither their arts, nor any personal dan-
ger to himself, could throw him of' his guard,
a or roh him of his self-possession.
" Whimt or who hurt my son so terribly?
He never vill be a muan again !" at last said
the old chief.
,    "LIe never ought to be !" said Sir William,
- sternly. "If ie had been a man, he would
- not have been hurt !" and lie then detailed
the attempt of Ipisico to kill the horses, find
d its result.
e    The old chief listened in silence, until the
baronet was through. Then lie said
d    "M  sosn ws a fool!. I miam sorry Le was
not killed'! 1 will see him no more! When

THE WAR-EAGLE OF TIE MOIIAWKS.

3D

he can walk, send him away from you, but
not to me, for he shall never enter my
lodge !"
"No--I will be kind to him, and try to
make a good man of him !" said the baronet.
The oil chief made no reply, but drank
his brandy, relighted his pipe, and went
away.
ChIAPTER XX!.
When old Aroghyadeeka left the mansionI
of Sir William, as recorded in our last chap-
ter, he moved quietly on, apparently en-
grossed in thought, for some distance, a half
mile or Inure, until he entered the forest,
which lay westward of the house. Here he
moved on more rapidly, following a trail,
narrow an1 straight, as Indian paths gener-
ally are, which led toward his village. He
had not proceeded fir along this road, when
he was met by an individual, so singular in
looks, dress, and character, that he merits a
particular description at our hands, the more
especially because this is our first introduc-
tion to him.
He was rather tall, lean, and bony in figure,
but his broad shoulders, long arms, and bowed
legs indicated considerabel sinewy strength.
His form was so bent forward, that, coupled
with a short neck, it seemed to give him a
kind of humpbacked appearance. his head,
as large, more red, and full as round as a
Kinderhook cabbage, was surmounted by a
mop of tangled yellow hair; his eyes were of
a glassy gray, generally dull and heavy, yet
bright and flashing, when he was excited.
His nose was very small, and sunken in be-
tween his large, pufty cheeks, like a small
squash between two big pumpkins.     His
wide mouth, ever open, revealed a snaggy set
of teeth, well colored with tobacco juice.
It would be hard to judge of his age--he
had suoh a dried up-look-but he probably
was thirty, perhaps five years ahead of it.
His dress was as odd as his personal ap-
pearance. A very ragged,,old felt lint, minus
the rim, was on 'top of his head, and in its
erown the tail of a racoon served for a plume.
A coarse frock, or hunting shirt, descending
to his knees, and girded to his waist by a
stout rop) , made of twisted thongs of huck-
skin, and as ragged as it well could be and yet
stick together, served to partially coyer the
upper part of his person. Through the rents
of this a butternut-colored flannel undershirt
could be seen. Trowsers, or rather leggins,
of undressed deer-skin, and moccasins of
moose-hide, completed his dress.
A powler-hrn and bullet pouch were slung
over his shoulder, and in his belt lie wore a
knife and hatchet. A long pipe, of red clay,
such as were used by the Dutch of that day,
was also in ri belt. Upon his shoulder lie
carried ov et those heavy, long; bell-muzzled

''a

pieces, brass-mounted and flint-locked, which
were known as the  Queen's Airm," carrying
an ounce and a half ball, or a single handful
of slugs, as the caprice of the loader dictated,
and calculated to do damage at any distance
under half a mile, if properly directed.
With a kind 'of limping, staggering gait,
and a lek-lustre look, whi b seemed rather
that of an idot, than that of a man possessed
of his full senses, this individual met the old
Mohawk hiief in the trail.
The latter started as he saw him, and looked
annoyed, for it is well known that Indians of
every nation hold idiots and insane persons in
reverence and awe, and fear to either harm or
displease them.
It is Hlon Yost," muttered the old chief.
"Why should lie cross my path so often t
Three times 'I have seen him since the sun
come up!"
" Hallo, olt Devil-bug I vere you peen all
the vines, eh? Been a gittin' trunk on uncle
Sir Pill's prandy, eli ?" criedl the stranger, as
he stopped, and brought the butt of his heavy
gun down upon the hard ground, with a far
that made its iron ramrod ring in the socket.
"Why ter tuivel ton't you speak mit me, you
tan red-skin fool !" lie added, in his strong
Dutch accent, as the old chief paused, but did
not at once reply.
"My heart is heavy, and my tongue is slow
for words !" replied the Indian. "Where is
my brother going ?"
"Goin' vere der tuyvel tells me to-vere
there's vitehes and vizards, and prandy and
primstone-dings vot I lives on !" cried Hon
Yost. "Shall I tell you vere you're 'fraid to
go, oldl Devil-bug?"
"Aroghyadecka is not afraid to go any-
where !" said the old chief, sternly. "_is
heart knows no fear."
"Dat's a tam lie, a tam lie !" cried Hon
Yost. "You knows peter as to go to de cave
in do rock, pelow der Little Falls, for fear
you see de spook of'somebody starved to
death !
The Mohawk started and trembled, when
he heard these words.
"TThe Evil Spirit tells Aim everything
muttered he, at last.
"Yaw I What Hon Yost don't know, no-
podaly knows, old Devil-bug S" said the man,
with a wild laugh, and lie re-shouldered. his
gun, and went on, while the old chief moved
aside to let him pass.
For several minutes the chief stood and
watched the receding form of the German,
and his looks, while he did this, betokened
both fear and hatred. But lie said -nothing,
and, when the 'rnn was hidden from his view
by intervening bushes,'the chief resumed his
course.
I-n Yost had not yet reached the clearing
of the Johnson domain, when a low whistle
from a clump of bushes upo his right, caused

.
,:   .
.
. ,''' A
_#c_
.   ,'


40

him to Bomne to a sudden stop. While he         Any  ins nore?
ltil, the " tOo-whoot-too whoo-ah " of    " No., Lo I II n T , that is all. Put be
an owl fell upon is ear from the same direc-  careful not to speak of ie to any nie!"                      -
tion thIt the souind of the whistle had lcome   No! Vot der dervvel eo ull I say ? I
from.                                       ton't know your name, 11(11' nth ingpout you,
"Tam fw fdde1rs where dat owl roots!"   for v}y, you never tells m -pot goot pye,
ali Ion Yi   wtith a coar-e laugh  Come  takes   tot care of  -;::krela p. iin gu!
i't der a: shoV yourself, Mishter .Niglt-  'rhe Gemian now passed onl along the tail,
p'ir 1!"'                                   toward tl he hall, while the Inlian crosd it,
The s-un  mysterious white-haired   and  and took a northerly course through the forest
avneles4 Ii an whomuu we have seen i coni-
rction w:th Guy Johnson a couple of times,                    ---
Sipe I out from a sheltering chunp of bushes,1                                                                             ,
an, approached the spot, looking cautiously             CIIAPTER XXII.
aroun I to   e that no person was near to make  Thavendanegea and John uhaVing finished
vservation'                                their reitatiunu before Ma. O'\Whzackemn,                                     ;   /4 wtro
WWh.!t :.t-ran-1d, is it you ? how you   takiu  a bout with the foils, for their own
Lk( ter o)eni air, eh ? You git moure strong ubentit an(d the anuemetnt of Sir William, in
in 'd-y!i,'ht d:n in dark?" cried the German.  front of the maunsion, a short timen alter the
" Th        " f  ir i givin mel strength, good  baronet hal b(eeni believedd by the departure of
HoI  Yst, an I I will never forget that you  the old Mohawk chief.
hloipedI meO to myin freedom. But I shlall never  Dui'ring a pause, or brnath'ing spell, the                                   -,
b.a    i what I once was. My sinews are     quick eye of John caught silht of the ad-
dried up, my eve-sight is dim. my hones ache, vancing form of IIon Yost, wll cane toward                                                                          h
ard my muuieles are weak !" replied Ithe In-li:an. the louse in his usual shaimlin way.                                     "
" Nver you mind dat yet a vile, gran-dad !  "'There crmes that fool, IIon Yost Schuyler,                                      I'
I loen't uiuvot vuteoum has peen, for vq/, you'll father!" said he to the banronet.,iiii'                                      4
not telh miue, lnt I  uliiks dere is a coot deal of  f ite is less a fool than some who deei him
le nui htleft in yot '. und 1 n1man touring it such. Thee is  good deal, of knavish wito       ~
out; far Vy yo suoC vty pehongs to ne, p- abt uLhiim " said the baronet, in repIy. "But
caus-e I find you out vei you was vst almost on with your play-let not his ayr):oaeh dis-
t .a I gon- !  An I dat tan nDevil-bug chief turbi you. Tmhayundmlanre gea is better in his      . -
dinks now Iat lie hias starve von to teth; for  guard than yourself; lok out that he doeE
vyl he sten take uMeat to de cave lis some  not become your teacher, though you have         p' -
t.:ne! I Tv'unst met him, uind scare him aoat, hl years to his days of pinelice !"
younr sp ilk.  lie links I'm a fuool, tund is 'fraid  The yonnmie11 ume11, thuis turgel al encouraged,
of moo hk- a t am ftuo!. h'! But now, gran-dal, agnaii took position iin a er.icefl mnd earnest
I'm a g.:i' downi to see Iall, to see old uncle  style,u ndwere soon actively cigaged. Carte,
Sir Pm  t Jouhnnsmn, 1un Im n'n goin' to peg a new  tierceu, scnde, prime, thiro.t  ndi parry,
rifle- tin of hini, und some plankets, mind dat longentuid ciunMter, every point of the parad,   p        J       --..
, und yolu keep dis gnu uund1 pouwder undI I advanucimng aind retreatimig, was carriel through                                                          7/
Ikal till v  uni see 1me in der old shaty oop in with a grace ini clumrity which frequently
der hillI-fUt' you umust huint iul  t ap a bit elicited a word of coraxmndation frome the old
afoe de viinter coom?, yonu know. Y1ou) say  baronet, who was himself mmore t-mh's an ordli-
you ton't vant nopudly to see yon yet a vil-s  nary swordsman. At last the imultuosity of
vot unighut kminw yun, so you stay dere till I John rather threw  hiun off is gu-.Iar, aul
coones to you !"                            missing a beautiful pass of eart- over the arm,
" My br ither's words are good! I will go  at his antgonist, who merelv swerved his
to thesalunty !" said the Indian, without lhesi-  hody to one side and let the foil puss him, he
tatioin, aceeping the arms proffered to liium.  I lost his balance, and nearly 111 forward.,                   t
"Am1 I w.ll be dere to-night--tke my    Then, as he strove to reo'over hinelf, the
knife as1 hatchet, und cut some poughs from  forte of Thayeudanegea's blade struck underIj
hemlock for our ped, unl if you see a teer or the feeble of his foil, and, with a light turn of
mooseiiyust sphieakto him wit olt I)uldezclap  the wrist, the weapon was thrown high in
dere, und ask him to stay mit us for supper!' the air behind the young Ind:an, aid caught1-
--My brother shall find food at the shaity in its descent by lion Yost, who, with ashoat,
when lie gets there!" said the Indiu'. " And  cried :
now, wheu ny brother goes to the great chief  "\Well done, Thayeunanegea! Well dene,                                       -:-
of the piale-faces-"                        my prnave boy!"I
"Yotneat tuncle Sjr Pill Johnson ?"       "how canti you to know his name?   You
" Yes-when you go there, find out a young  never saw him  before ?' said the harounL
Indiaitnmedl Thtayendnumegea. It is said he ° You hivei't been about here for three
has aloptedl him as a son. Look at him, get months before !"/-
him to talk, and when you come back tell ie   I knows dat, uncle Sir Pill Johnsonu-I                                         yIni
what he is like t"                          knows dat ! Pve been down mit a lot of demr2M 4                                         ki'm

i
"
r
,
a
r                                               .
,
1
,
ai (' Y

TIIA i ENDAN1 CEA, T       i  SCmJ !iC is t lei i


I

THE WAR-EAGLE OF TIIE MOIAWKS.

rascally St, Regis Indians, and dey got me
trunk, and den dey stole toy musket gun, and
my knife and hatchet, and allhbut mine slunoke
pipe !"
"You mrean,that you old them for rum, I
think !" sail the baronet.
" Got in hinnel. no I Uncle Sir Pill, I takes
mine oat upon de pig pook mit a erosh on
him, dat ter tam Injun cot my musket-gun,
olt Dunderelap, vot I kill dat last moose vith,
dat I gine you der hind quarters of in der vin-
ter! You remember dat, eh, uncle S'i'- Pill ?"L
"Yes, andt how much brandy, and tobacco.
and powder and lead I gave you in return !"
said the baronet, in reply.
"Yaw-und if you'll gif me a new rifle-
gun, uini some powder und lead, umnd a knife
und hatchet, mind a planket for der night-time,
I'll go und kill you some more moose umd
teers, for I see blenty of track only a leetle
ways pack in der hills 1"
"Well, tell me how you knew that this
young lad's name was Thayendanegea, and I'll
think gbout it !''
" Well, uncle Sir Pill, you see I'm a fool,
und fools know everyding !"         °
"I'd be a fool if I believed your answer !"
"Then you'd be wiser than you be now, for
if you was a fool like me, you'd know what
you want to know !"
" Corme, coie, no more fooling with me,
Hon Yost. Answer my question !"
"Vel, den, uncle -Sir Pill, I met dat olt
Devil-bug, Aroghyadecka, und ie tolt me dat,
you lhad 'dopt a young Indian for son, und dat
his name wa Thayendanegea-good strong
name dat, ca ;t break it no more dan a bundle
of sticks-da'a de vay I learn his name !"
" Airy fool could have learned it that way !"
said the baronet, with a laugh. "I expected
you'd have a tale of mystery to unfold !"
"Not apout dat, unole Sir Pill, but I knows
more dan one mystery,und I knows enough
to keep my mouth shut und my ears open !"
"An excellent quality,, Hon Yost.- I wish
that all my surroundings possessed it!t What
do you think of Thayenudanegea ? I see that
you regard him very intently. Let us hear,
for they say a fool's opinion is worth some-
thing, sometimes !"
"lie has de eye of an eagle, de spring of a
panther, do strength of an ox, de speed of a
deer, de patience of a beaver, de wisdom of a
fox, und do heart of a man! He .will be a
great chief when you are dead und like de
fallen tree, rotting in de cold ground'!" said
lion Yost, in a tone as serious ard earnest, and
language and style as lofty, as if he had been
an inspired prophet.
"Very complimentary to him !" said the
baronet, in a pleasant tone.
"fDat's more dan de truth-is to everybody !"
said lion Yost.
"What wiUt I be, Roa ?" asked John, in a'
careless way.

43

"Yust what der coot Cot blenses, und yoav.
can't hlip yourself!" reOliek the Gerinan.
- Am i to bse a soldier,'a priest, or a farier 1'
")at is bard to tell. You're too lazy to
bray, und so you won't be a briest; you're
too proud to work, so you won't be a farmer,
naybe you'll be a soldier, und if you're too
lazy to run, den you'll make a very coot one e'
"You needn't call him' a fool, after that,
Master John !" said the baronet, laughing.
" It is my opinion that he is up to your ranrk,
and you had better replenish his tobacco-box,
and ask 'no more questions !"
"fUnd den apout de rifle-gun, und der teers
uind moose dat I shall shoot mit it, uncle Sir
Pill?"
Oh, you shall have them, Hon Yost  You
are not much of a beggar, and are very goot
pay when you can pay !"
"Und a couple of plankets, uncle Sir Pill!"
"Two blankets---Why is not one stleicient?"
" Yaw, for me ; but den I dinks about gittin'
one fran-Dere's Petsy Yroonan, der fat gal
vot lives on der flats, I drinks her und me
shall couple togedder 'fore long !"
" Well, you shall have the two blankets,
and a calico dress for her beside, but you must
let me kiss the bride !"
"Yaw ; but den I shall yustmcharge a pottle
of praundy for de privilege !"
The baronet did not reply, but led the way
to his store-room, where he kept a vast variety
of airs, munitions, and such cheap goods/as
were needed by the class of Indinus, fron-
tiersmrren, and settlers around himr. Here he
fitted lion Yost out with the arms which lie
had solicited, and the blankets and calico
promised ; also giving him some snuff and
tobacco for his mother, an old gipsy of a
woman whom the baronet had long known.
Antd amused as ie ever was by the drolleries
of hor Yost, he plied him pretty well with
liquor, and, when ie finally tired of him, sent
him away with a bottle full, telling him to be
sure and bring him some venison on the next
day, which the German faithfully promised
to do.
CHAPTER     XXIII.
I have gazed, in foreign lands, upon many a
lofty palace-upon many a uarble tower-
many a galmt looking castle! And at home
have seen Art's choicest works of triumph I
Monuments-wherq tire architect, tihe sculptor,
tie painter, had lavished all their skill ! Yet,
in the deep, still shadows of the mighty trees
of the forest, beneath the broad-spread, ever-
green branches of pine, and spruce, and hem-
lock, I have seen the shanty of bark, rough
outside, but vlhte inside as driven snow, and
smooth as marble, impervious to the wind, or
rain, or snow, whieh seemed to me more coin.

i

." l'a

-   !

i

.:
,; r
.'
.
..+ .
"  .


44            TIUAYENDANEGEA, TIIE SCOUlRE, OR,

fortable, aye, and prettier than any gaudy
a:lice, ayi tinilted boudoir that ever human -
2ein stauoi within.
Atil. 0  1pon iy couch of spruce or hemlock
bougrhs. or on my yielding bed of sweet-fern,
eaci gi'. ing up their 'ljeasanit fragrance, I
li.nt e im:l yi ebase-weared form, and slept
deieodly.  Sweeter dreams caue to iie
then- tlhai ever blessed mee cl-ewlhere. Lulled
by the rt.ic e of t he leaves, or by some tour-
turin .wat rfill, to slutber, 1 have reposel
in a feai Ies, happy quiet, which a king night
env\y.
Io a dense grove of pines, some tour or five
miles iomrti of the trail where he parted w ithi
1on V-t Sclhntyueri", the whit-haired Indian
stood b fire a neat, bairk thniity. It was
situatt .1 iii a little glen, thorough wlicli rushed
a Li idht aini merry stream, and so hildein by
the r io   sib-s of the glen, Ind1 the tliek
growth arnd1, that no one could see it unil)
they wtie i  e upon it. And before this
shinit0v. fr it Was now night, a bright atidl
cheeroil tire lured, nld upon the ehlpped
brioche. of a bich tree. which stood neur
the fruat of the shanty, hiungiiR tie neatly-
dressed and divi :ed quarters of a flue tat
buck.   Ah 0settral partrilges, which had
been siarel by the  kuihul land of the in-
dian.  \Vthut, the leapedt-up  laughs of
sprce .ul leniock looked mavi;nillgly. And
in one  cr:1 r st  ithe ready gun and huing
the tomii han k anl knife, till eveadle  by the
bighit if the coop-ire.
lhe iahnii, iiwho had already broiled and
eaten liinire thmii iie sliCe of the fresh and de-
beiloi-a veln-it, listened iintenutly for every
Sound whiea ibetokteied the pli-'eh:t of lieun
Yos st  wim. friiim  i:ting  been iiiearly  atll his
life nti a1   ithie h i ans, lad adopt-d thari
htii  oil Ca-i ani, :iii 11was m)ore at buoliae il
the wool'ain ih.o a house  Thecrefore, it wsa
not to be eX1lee'e i that lie would ether naiss
his  w1 a, ar n.:::ke  ttuiuchi  oise int hi  a1proch,
ScarCe t ble-U' of a htlen leaf. or tite crack-
iini. if a dI  twig l.eig lirdall w lel an In-
-          dtent,ii:t+ 1tt  ltt1+_:it   tt(in pp o ch g  u e  r  nen m , lm m e ts
thrlhii.hi  freltIts  t  iut on this oCcaiion the
liquor of S  WiVa ili:uim halolupset the btwhl-of
Cuiiiiin, ii i liii Vst \uas hdc:il at a con.
t°der ubhl'  -  e ce,  Ilutttlertint r ough iyl the
nil Ci laruhi like a wvounled m11oOe, nildi smng-
i gintenais of oil Dutch sengs, a ie Cem
f    lo ii
L cb I .a Yit  has been getting weak
Oilelii- '   a.+ it ner-'-Il scae hiuiin !' said the
\ii in .lit iiil a bereit steaaiihy  oif forl sie-
Ia i.1 i te diretion iii which the Ger-
im    deii mii a eaneh a mis..
i   elt.e ' lue liMon Yist was witlhiiii about
a aun .ir iU  ar il 1the cinltahire, allh could
n:t+e' la:,;aeiringt light of the bhda.'., as
it ut a I)ihatel  po a11ithe upper branches ift
_ te e . ie sIhril, uinearthily yell of a piami-
ather fh l pion his ear, elose to hut.

" Cot in himrnel! dere ishs ploody painter,
und  I forgot  to, hadi ine  rile- nt  t a'cried
1101t Vest, alrtiost  obtred by the statltug
event, calculated to leighiten e  en a sober
mani.-.
Another startling and fearful yell, and a
rustle in the bushes close to hiin, as if the
annual *s about to sirin: upon11 hiin, mish-
ed the business, alnd1 lion Yost, with a tell of
terror almost as loud, threw the lottie in his
hand at the spot where he supposed the aimi-
undl was, and bounded off to gain the camp
by a circutous route, for the pantlie seemed
to he between hun and the fire
The llian, quickly snatching the bottle
from the ground, ran with all speed to the
fire, and when lion Yost got there, the carter
was seated by the entrance to the shanty, very
quietly smokig his pipe.
"in't yoU hear dat pi paiter, gran-
dad :'' asked ion Yost, breathlessly, and all
in a tremor, as Ie came up
I did not hear a panther!" said the In-
dian, quietly. " Do you think I am a fool,
or so poor a hunter, that I cannot tell the cry
of a panther from that of a nml
"  it this was a painter, by tam  Tousanud
duyvels.didn'tI see its eye-palls, yust like two
coals  of fire  '"
Von have been drinking the Great Chiefs
fire-water," said the Indian, quietly.
Y Yaw, und threw a whole pottle of goot
rln i at dier painter's head ." said l0in Yost,
in a regretful tonie.
Was it better than this ?" siid the Indan,
producing the identical bottle, which lIon
1 ost instantly knew, because it was tied up
inmin old cotton hand kerchief of his.
lien lost appeared completely nonpdused.
The old Indian suddenly gave another yell, so
natural that the German sprung lack full
three or four yards.
( Got hiiimel ! Vel, if I am an oft fool
nod a tam co'. aid skunk, nopoldy iuit you
knows it.  Take a trmik froni the potde,
granlad,.and den w 'll have sonie soipr.
No ftre-water can passmv lips.' replied
the lta lian.  It makes imecn weak in the head
weak in the legs, and weak all over 1'
More truth dere den atiydinhg else." niut
tered lion Yost, and for once lie put own the
bottle utntasted, and cutting ott a slice of
venison, broiled and ate it, and then went to
the brook to quench his thirst.
llavmg sIped1, he proceeded to unfold his
presents to the view of the Indian.d nirst le
showed the two blnkets to the Indin, and,
tossing him one, bade him keep it. t'lien he
gave ltim bread, salt, and pepper, also tobacco
ald pipes. 'l'hei he handed lortnt m  new
rile, hatchet, knife, and a nunition, saying.
You keep dese, grandad--lil take  ack
old l)underclapfor vy, I ;eleeve de old gun
knows mie, unil de coot Got knows at   wktao
it.  'lae morning we must have a bunt, oi

THE WAR-EAGLE OF TIE MOIIAWKS.

I bromise ohl uncle Sir Pill, to kill-him some
teers-and moose, for al! dese dings-!"
"My brother's promse shall be kept. Be-
fore tes sun is up, I will have game ready for.
him to carry in. :I am strong now. I have
eaten frish-killed meat, and with a gun in my
hana, andi a knife and hatchet in my belt,
feel like a man again !"
"Dunder, put it makes me feel goot, to
hear you talk dat vay !' said lion Yost.
And then he took out the handsome piece
of calico vhich Sir William had given to
him.              '
"here's someding vot you can make you
shirts mit! I told uncle Sir Pill I wanted it
for a wouan -,put dat vas a tarn lie !" said he,
as he exhibited this article.
I want no clothes but those I make from
deer skin !" said the Indian, quietly. Then,
while he was still looking' at the calico, he
said :" lon Yost was at the upper village,
to-day, was lie not ?"
" Yaw-two times have I peen dere
"Did you see a woman named I)yagetto ?"
No, put I hear dem- talk apout-a squaw
mit dat name, for vy, I remember, dey say
she comie from a long travels in de west!"
"It my brother will hang this, in the night-
time, with some venison, at the door of her
lodge, I will each day kill him plenty of game,
and I will make hinm  pretty dresses and
pouches from   hawn-skins and   porcupine
quills, which he can sell for money !" said
the indian
"iDat's a pargain; but for vy do you care
for dat wnuimui? Is she an old sweetheart of
yours, gratdaad?"
I will sometime tell you why I wish to
make her presents, and kill ganre for her, that
she may not be hungry. But she must not
know from whience these thiings come to her !
Did you see the young 'I'hayendanegea;?"
Yaw, und I tell you dat ie is de shmart-
est po' at runs on two legs. lie has an eye
like t, eagle, unid peits all dat is apout himt.
I diks uncle Sir Pill knew vat he vas apout
ven lie take himmt for a poy-son !"
It is good! May the Great Spirit bless
him !" sud the obl indian, and then, drawing
his new blanket around him, he retired with-
in the shanty, and laid down to sleep.
IIin Yost smoked his pipe out, replenished
the fuel on the fire, and then followed his ex-
iuiple. .
CIIAPTEI XXIV.
The sun was not more than two or three
hours high, on the next morning, when the
barouet belie hilion Yost approalhiing, bend -
iii iunlbr a heavy burthen. Upon his back
he carried a huge saddle of venison, with the
fit full two inCites thick upon the hesunich, and
strung to his belt wtse a dozen or more of
hue partridges, while a his left hand he car-

ried a string of brtsk trout, and ur.- hie
right to steady the game on lls shoulders, for
lie had left his gun behind him.
"Why, lion Yost; you are wonderfully
prompting making your payieunts, this time "
cried the baronet, as ire loMked'withi the adiir-
ling eye of a sportsmau upon the splenid lot
of game which the German laid down upon
the poirch before him.
"Yaw--maype I vants more trust, py-and-
py-den, if I pay goot now, you trust inc
more!" replied ion Yost.
"A very good reason, with a spice of sel-
fishness ; but how could you get together so
much game in so short a tune ? It wts dark,
or very nearly so iwhen you left here, lat
night!"
You know dat it is de olt saying, uncle
Sir Pill, 'a fool for.luck, undja rich man for
chiltren!'
"'A fool for luck, and a poor man for chil-
dren,' is the adage, lion Yost !"
"Den it's half truth, und de odder half a
tam lie'!" replied the Geriian.
"how so " asked the baronet.
"For v, lIm a afool, und I.have de goot
luck-you're rich, und you have more clil-
tren, red and vite, dan ea Icnount in a week I
I sees little Sir Plhs everysere I goes "
Thi baronet laughed at this huame-thrust,
for it was a fact which he could not deiny, an I
said:
You deserve a drop of brandy for that,
IIon Yost ! Conic and get it !
Yaw, I'll go dat, uncle Sir Pill - but den
I vants a couple of men, miit horses, to go
001) le mud ereek, about a couple of im.les.
I left a young pull-moose deie, a vile ago,
mit his tro t cut, und a lead pullet through
his heart!t"
- " What! also killed a mouse, this morn-
ing?"
" Yaw, uncle Sir Pill, I got up afore de sun
did, uand before I went five minutes from my
caip, up juiiped a fit puck--und dere is hs
saddle. I yust have yerked oIf' his hide, und
dress him for you, vei crrash I hear some-
dings peaking through d push, sud I look
sharp mtit mine eyes, undh vot shall I see put
a tine, fat, two year old pull-moose. I look
at hitm over mine rile-gun, umd it speak to
hiit. und he lay down nd vat hom tuto cut
his trqat. Und dat I do, und I dress hn, unnd
hang him up, vile I prings dese gauies, nd I
diiks yoused me two itets, mtit horses, for
dei' nicet. It is a coot dea--vil veigh like a
ton of hay, most !"
" V ery~well, lion Yost, the meoat will be
welcome in the settlemietnt, for the lidians
have brought in but little-litely !'
"Dey 're a lazy set of togs. Give 'en vot
they can eat and trimk, iud den dey'l sleep
till dey're hungry agam !"
'Thiayenidauegea aid the baronet's son now
approached, and examiund the ganie.

2

,   ,
.
t,
.
r'
.
.   '
;
y
.f
1


46

TUAYENDANEGEA, TIE SCOURGE ; OR,

"I should like to hutt-it is iiore manly  yards of his encampment, and themn the shrill,
than study I" said Tlhayeiidanegea.           wild cry of a wounded amiimal, the shout or
-- You can 'ho ioth, at proper seasons, my  yell, al as fierce, of a huairin beiig, and
Ild," sid Sir Willamn. 4 If MlonY lost stays  sinunds as of a inighty Ieaji and a struggle be-
about here, you mmay go' and hunt with hun  tweeni some objects.
sometimes. ior he is a good hunter, and knows   It was but aiminstiant beforele was bound-
the rang.es of the game1"                  inig toward the spot whence the sounds eima-
Yaw-lie may hunt mit ne-he has a       minted, withr his loaded rile in one hand and
git eye !" said time (ernman, as he followed  his hatchet im the other.
bir Willi;ama, to get the promised brandy.  A mommeit later, anid he saw in a small open
'lis hivinig beeun done, he started o  with  space animomg the trees, a huge pinthr' and a
a couple of nmen,'     i send m his mouse-mieat., m.nm clothed im the garb of an Indon, rolling
over nid over in a terrible straggle for the
. mastery. 'Ihere was a hot paniung of muaa
and beast; but both were st quick in their
CIIAPTER XXV.                     emotions, that the old nmam lifted his rie in
Reader, are there not days, sometimes      vain-lie could not fire without endangering
weeks, aye, eveinmonths of your life, so dull the life of the nian as much as that of the
and mnonotoniou, so utterly devoid of miterest,  beast.
or of' real meneit to yourself, thit you wish  lie rushed forward, and, casting down his
you had slept away the time,i passed it nmmid  rile, imitended to enter the coibat withhis
pleasant drearims, rather than   in  wakeful hmtchet ; but at the very moment that he rais-
sloth mad carelessness?                     ed it to strike the anima, which was on top
Arid so it is with the life-times of characters  of the mian, time former gave a widd yell-a
in a story. and were I to follow out the dull dyimg cry, and, relaxing its hold, fell over
details,  ou would call the story tame aad   dead ulion the ground, with the !Ilood streaim-
"       r'"sv   1 Ir fer to avoid that. and to do it mug frouim its heart, while the victor in the
best, close to skip a whole year of events. dreadful struggle leaped to his feet, with his
-      not suficiently star thung to require any re- lonmg andii bloody kmite im his hand, and pealed
cord.                                         out a shout of triumph.
It was about a year later than the time       Although ie wias covered with blood, and
which emimb raced time nIrucidenits of ourlst chup-  his stout garnemts were rent almost to tatters
ter-thie t wntyv-fourth vwinter-with its clrim-  by time claws and teeth of the feireious beist,
iugI blasts, maI come anmd passed-time mpiile, ie was comparatiively unmharimel in body, a
the tammarac. time elmu, aid ash, and beech  mal  tw  deep seratthes only beiig the extent of
lost their last year's dress,  unt spring hid  his damage.
 given the mate mnI, aid suunnmer hadi loit oin ' \\ ho are you ?" cried the oNd  Inliami,
f'ur therm a new ome. But stern and undying, looking with admairation upon thie youthful,
like mmonm iments of patience and of hoipe, time  vigorous tramie of time cmnqiu'ror.
lofty 1immnes. the great rough-barked henmimocks.  " They call me 'ilhayendaegea!t' replied
amid the mumiouth and guakerly sprueecs, mbii thie young Indian, as he s)mmrued the yet
born, w iti rmuanmy sights, the bremath of time  qjmverimg carcass of the slami panther with
rude vintter sturmis, and the snowy pall which  his foot. " Who are you ?'
had bmeen r mlid so co l uponm themi.       " Whim you stand m your proper place as
13efore time hark shanty, now blackenedi m-  chief of the Mohawks, andli h eadlchief of the
side ronid oh i niti time imohe of many tires, sat Six Nations, then I well tell you.t' replied the
our old friendmm. thie w bite-loaired Irmmii min, bimi'y  old Ilii m.
making soime of those curious amd ieautufil  " My rightful place ? What do you know
haskets amid biiixes of birch bark, eminbridiilerel about it  ' smid time mewiileired youth.
"  Wi tihe  moili qmiltIs of the pirempine, for  " \Yes, your rightful place.  I know  all
wlhich tihe Mdohawks amnd Oneidas were so     about it, and ini time will lace you there ;
famous.                                     but, by the unenoiry of your lather', I charge
It was a still andi quiet day, cool in the  you not to speak of that or of this intervieW
shade, but hot where tie sum's rays had free  until I give you pieimrnssion'
scope.   beSarcely amy wind was abroad to          Did you know my father' ?"
rume time leaves, buit the gentle muirumuri' of  "Y es, well !"
S      t   mitrit le brsk fell cmoohigly iupon the ear mis  " Who was he ?  Tell me ! Clear up time
-      it trav eld amnway. f-animing ani glitterimg over mystery which shrouds mv birth'
ia lugii-wornii, rocky pathi toward the Mo-   " Inm the hour of you' triumm ph I wiil I
hawk in time valley.                         Uniti then, let the sont of I)) ngetto lie what
mSelyici , whiii ec the old nman was busy at lie lhas ehire:--good, brave, stiioius, ihoniora-
S.      hs war k. me hieairi the cry wieh the p:n.ter ble. Do not leave Sir Willim, limt keep isi
aften  ivems whmci it scents prey close at aii. his favor, for tie day is inot firm' distant wlieu
An iasum4i aniler hue heard thie sharp craek of vi uw ii need his lpi i' ! Deport yourso.t as
a rde, uppartnuitmy within one or two hundred ilthe son. of a great cluef, and when the tagle

TIHE WAR-EAGLE O
erown eneircles your head, you will be pow-
erful !"
"You know my mother also ?"
"No one knows her better. But not even
to her must you speak of this meeting. And
now, come to my camp ; but, first, we will.
take the skin of the panther, and then you can
wash away the blood from your form, and I
will dress your scratches. It was a brave
fight, and I am glad that you killed the beast
without my help. But your aim was bad.
You fired ytoo low. A panther's heart is
small. You should have put your ball be-
tween his eyes !"
In a short time the hunter's proudest
trophy, the skin of the tiger of the north, was
taken off, and then Thayendanegea followed
the old Indian to his camp.
The eyes of Thayendandgea looked with
surprise at the comfortable shanty, and he
asked : "how long have you lived here ?"
"More than twelve moons !" replied the'old
man.
"And have not been to the Hall, which is
only three or four miles away ?"
"No ; I am known there,"but do not wish
to go there until the time set by the Great
Spirit. I have watched over you and Ona-
lova and Dyagetto, your mother, when you
all were sleeping! hear these words, but
repeat them not There is a cloud over you
now, b)ut the Great Spirit will blow it away !"
" Thayendanegea believes your words !
And he will obey !" said the young Indian,
thoughtfully and with respect.
Tlien, as his eye fell upon the work upon
which the old Indian had been engaged, lie
said :
" You must know lion Yost, for he brings
such things as those to the hall to sell
"Yes; lion Yost is a good man, and is
here very often!"
"Talk of der duyvel, and he is pound sure
te yunmp up right afore ye!" cried our old Ger-
man friend, who, hearing voices at the camp,
had approached noiselessly.  "Vy, here is
iThayendanegea h" he added. "Got in him-
mel,'vot have you peen about? All plood and
dirt--dunder--did you kill dat painter peast?"
"Ile killed it alone, singlehanded, with his
knife, after he had wounded it with his rifle !"
said the old Indian, and his keen black-eyes
washed with pride and satisfaction, as he gazed
after the young man, who proceeded to the
brook to wa-h away the stains of his battle,
while lion Yost stretched out and examined
the huge skin of the panther.
Dunder, vot a pig painte'!" exclaimed the
German. "1 tell you vot, grandad, dat poy
is pound to pe a great man von of dese days!"
"Yes ; lie will be a great chief!" replied
the ohl Indian. "I shall see that, and then I
shall die! I can go, then, to the happy
hunting-grounds above, in peace !"
Thmayendanegea, having washed at ~the

F THE MOIIAWKS.                        47
brook, now returned, and the old Indian made
him accept of a new suit of elegantly-worked
hunting clothes, bidding him say at the Hall
that they were a present from lion Yost,
whom ie had met in the forest,
"May I come to see you again ?" asked the
young ndian, after he had exchanged his old
clothes for the new.
"Yes, if you come alone! And keep my
words ; for no one beside you and IIon Yost
must know that I am here ! Come, and I will
tell you of the deeds of your fathers-tell you
of the brave works of your race, and show
you how to tread the path before you !"
"I will come !" said the young Indian, and
he took up the panther-skin and his rifle, and
went away.
CIIAPTER XXVI.
Another wild, wide bound over the desert
of Time, with its wrecks and sleepy years,
lay behind us ; for in them there is nothing
that claims more than a passing glance at our
hands.
And what a change those years have
wrought among our characters! In, stature,
as in age, Thayendanegea has become roan--
in deed and fame, a warrior. lhe beard has
stolen out upon the face of John Johnson, and
the careless laugh of the boy has given place
to the stern demeanor of the man.    Guy
Johnson, still mean. envious, full of treachery
and guile, progresses with the rest along
Time's pathway. lHe yet remains beneath the
roof of Sir William, whose white hairs, nore
than any bodily infirmity, tell, too, that heis
growing older.  And Mr. O'Whaekem    still
lives, the birchifying terror of the rising
generation, and the "oracle" of the' neigh-
borhood The ltdies-I mean the young
ones-have "spread'" considerably, not ihoopa-
tively; but a truce to all of this re-descriptive-
ness. Imagine every one of my characters
five or six years ahead of where we left them
in the chapters preceding this, andi so far as
human progression goes you have them ready
for the parts they have to play in the continua-
tion of the tale.
It was spring, leafy, balmy June, in 1774.
And those who now dwell in the valley of the
Mohawk can tell you how bright and beauti-
ful, how very pleasant is that month there
after the long, cold winter has passed utterly
away, and the late spring frosts peculiar to
the region have vanished, and the young,
green leaves and the bright flowers have
come to life--to life and beauty.
It was a night for love, for the stars were
looking from a cloudless sky, and the new
moon showed its silvery crescent among
them.
And there was love-making, or wooing,
going on at that time in the vicinity of

I

4  '{{,
.
'.tY
r
i
t i


TIAYENDANEGEA, TIIE SCOURGE ; OR,

Johnson ail. In one part of that grove,
back of the Hall, v herein several of our
Scenes lace taken place. Guy Johnson was
seated with the foir and   gentle  Leonore,
ir in- ter to a speedy union-for he hal of
tl fal n iuch in ihis uncle's esteem--and he
wahili{I to s cure her and her prospective for-
tone, before orne new evil would blot out his
chances fever.
But sle, ever timid and gentle, though de-
voti y fun lofn him. was averse to a haste
wichmi-ht lferid her father, whose health
lhal htrlyl  I een but poor and his temper
none of the Ist.
In aiithier part of that grove, John Johnson
was love-it krnz to Unalovn, the Siste' of
'lhavenintio  tea,'ir his own imx petnons w av,
fo  e wa   n n rI(More iuilk1115iei in his noW-
fol eba:netii' than even his father Lad.
bLen in leisiiOi' (lays
And Thady udanegea, too, was abroad on
that I ahlly evenmrg., int for the purpose of
loy e-rnakinr, lut lIii forth by the wiLful mid
now  very lovely hath ken, who hand very
often10 shown a p1 ference fir the iobl--looking
and edinted brave, scarcely becoming in a
maiden, yet well in accordance with all, ex-
cept Leoionore, of her father's liood. And a
pale-faee woutd  iubted ly have been flat-
tered iv such a preference from the favorite
child of the w-althy Laronct; yet 'ihayen-
danegea, ivhile lie lintened to her flatteries
anid words that were even more than merely
kind, was cold as ice  lie had nobler views
alit al than tliat of dallying in love affairs-a
warrior, stern in his-lintuore, and only enthu-
siastic win lie thought of the nobler path of
fame which be lhid marked out for himiself,
and nirmt. witli all a warror's zeal, to follow.
And not such a warrior-farmxe as is generally.
accredited to the red wnrn, cruelty ind guiic
markii- his footsteps with the blooa of the
hep jiesss,l ut oiineiwhicli would leave for himt
a annie untarnished.
S\Where is your heart, Thinendanegea ?"
asked  Kathleen, as they   walked through
the grove.
"troing within my breast, like the heart
of the oak !'' wais his reply.
" Arid will love never enter it?" she asked.
"Love is for women to talk about !" was
his answer. " A warrior, whose eye is upon
the war-path, hafs oilier things to think of."
" But there is no war now ! Why should
you ie forever thinking of that?"
"Because it will come, and soon.  Your
father says so, and truth is on his lips, lie
never spoke to me with a forked tongue !"
" Well, it will come, and soon pass awny,
like the dreadful storm so long ago, which
neser can forget; for there you saved my life.
But I would rather see no wear; for if it comes,
then you may fall, as Iwell as others whio are
dear to mne-myc father an mily brother!1"
"Your father will not tread the war-path.

ie is too old; but I will strike for him!  I
I fall, it will be as a brave should fall, anda no
one will weep for me
"how wrong and how cruel to ay that!"
Tears stole out fror her blue eyesrand down.
her fair cheeks, as she added :  If I weep at
the thought, how  much the   onre will I
weep at the fact, should it ever occur. And
Dvagetto, your giod mother, ai   Onalova.
your sister, will grieve all as much, I ari
sure!"
"The mother and sister of a Mohawk will
never weep for his death, in battle, if his face
is turned toward the foe !" hereplied, as they
passed from the grove toward the house,
" Will Onalova be my bride !" said John
Johnson to the Indian gir. as he passed his
arm  around her waist, while they walked
through the shadowy grove.
Onalova has given her heart to you. She
will never change while water iliws down the
hill-side, or the trees grow !'' replied the girl.
"Iiut while my fa lier lives he will refuse
to let the heir to his title marry the daughter
of the Mohawk."
"TIe is a fool, then, for the child of the red
man is as good as the sdn of the ale face. I
it is not so, why do you say that you love
me ?"
"You are as good, my proud girl. lie vill
look higher for me !"
If he looks too high, he will not see the
path that he walks upon, and fll !" said the
girl, proudly.
"That is true ; but Onalova can be my
lbrile in secret, without his knowledge, and
when lie lasss to the spirit-land, I can tell
all the world lhat she is mine !"
TThe girl looked at hu ket nly and hesitated
to reply. He noticed this and said
"if iOnalova's heart is mine she will not
pause to answer
"THer heart is yours, and she will not fear
to trust you !" said the trusting girl, and,
thouglg  colder in her nature, prhaps, na most
of her race, than the pale-faces, sire did not
turn from his kisses, nor fear to listen to his
plain for their secret marriage.
And at that very hour Guy Johnson had
succeeded in gaining a reluctant consent from
Leonore to take a similar step.
CHAPTER XXVII.
Old Aroghryadecka paced to and fro, with a
lowerig brow, in the sitting-room  of Sir
Wilflan Johnson. Ihis fiery eve never had
gleamed more fiercely on the battle-field than
it did then and there, and every quivering
muscle showed the agitat ion of his mind-
that there was a tempest in his breast. But,
canrr and imp'rturballe as ever, Sir William
sat with a package of dispatches before him,

E1"
to

' R

i8


TUE WAR-EAGLE (
which he had 3ust, received from Boston, an-
pouncing the nil-important fact that hostilities
had actually broken out between the colonists
and the English government ; that a revolu-
tion. likely to be long and bloody, had com-
inenced. As a titled officer of King George,
from whom lie had received many a favor,
besides the lucrative post which he held, of
course there was but one side which he could
be expected to take in the coming struggle.
And having so large a body of tenantry under
his control, mostly Scotch and Irish, whom he
had himself imported and placed upon his
domains, and also a sere control of all the
Indians except Oneida's, between him  and
Canada, in which province lie also had great
influence, his services were at once called for,
not only to crush rebellion, as it was termed,
should it rise in the thickly-settled valley of
the Mohawk, but also to organize and excite
the Indians to take part in the merciless var-
fare so soon to be commenced in that section,
down the valley of the hudson, and in the
region of the Delaware and Schoharie.
And these were the instructions which ac-
conipanied the dispatches, telling of patriot
and British blood having been already shied
at Boston, of the determination of the king
and his servants to crush the rebellion at all
hazards and at all costs. And old as he was,
leternminel to take the field in person, for the
safety of his immense possessions depended
on his beating back the patriots, whom lie
knew, led on by a Herkimer and a Willet,
would not long be idle when the war-cry was
raised in the valley.
The cause of the anger of the old Mohawk
chief ennr better be discovered by the words
of their conversation, than in any other way.
" Vhy must I, who have led my people to
battle so often, be made to yield to that boy,
whose flce is like that of a squaw?" he asked,
at last.
"For three reasons," replied Sir William.
"First, it is his right, too long delayed. ;Next,
he is a brave warrior, young as lie is, and
though his rights are yet unknown to him or
his tribe, no man so popular there as he.
Lastly, it is my will! You are old-need rest
rather than to travel on the war-path 1"
"The great chief has counted as niany sum-
mers as I have, and the snows of as many
Winters are upon his hairs !" said the oho
thief, not so angrily as whenlie asked his
question, for, knowingas he did that the baro-
miet. was iii no humor to be trified with, he
deemed caution to be his best policy.
"'True, but I have a son and a nephew,
rep"d as soldiers, -to .lead ny:-warriors to
battle, and Thayendanegea mst and shall
kad the M11 ohawks-nae, and the Six Nations,
if I witl it! None of the chiief of the Sene-
ens,' or Uiontdagos, or Cayugasiwil offer, like
)ou, to oppose-rmy will !"
" The great chief has spoken, and Aroghya-

)F THE MOUAW      S,             '     51
decka will now be silet.t, Let the will of my
brother be done," said the wily ehief, bat
there was treachery in hije look as he
spoke.  "I will call a -eouncil, and myself
name Thayendanegea as my successor, for I
anm old, and, like a rotten tree, scarce fit to be
cut down, but ready to fall with the firs
blast that comes. It is winter with me-I
will fold my arms, and sit down in my wig-
warn to die, while the young braves follow
the path I first led them on !"
The sad tone of the old Indian, more than
aught else, led the old baronet to believe in
his sincerity. And there was a tone of sym-
pathy in his voice, and a look of pity in his
face, as he said :
"Let Aroghyadecka be cheerful--he retires
to rest, and live in comfort now. lie shat)
never lack for food or blankets while I or my
children live.  And when his braves come
back to dance the scalp-dance, his 'will be the
seat of honor at the council-fire, for they will
,remember his great deeds when he waa young,
and we fought the French side by side, and
will make his heart glad with their praises!"
And then he went to get brandy himself, for
he had reasons for wishing to have this inter-
view uninterrupted, even by a servant, for he
knew the vital importance of keeping the
news utterly secret which he had received,
Iad he seen the wily and devilish look
of hatred which followed him from the eli
Indian's eyes, he would have been more upon
his guard, and had lie seen the old villain
take from his pouch some of the deadly bee-
ries of the ground-hemlock, and squeeze theris
into the goblet of silver from which the old
general always drank, his life would have been
longer spared, and his death less shrouded in
mystery than it was.     a
Scarce had Aroghyadecka, with a skill
which would have made him immortal in the
days of Lucretia Borgia, paced the deadliest
portion known to the aborigines of the Nortl
in the goblet, when Sir William returned, and
pouring out a glass of liquor for the Mohawk,
also put a hearty draught in his own goblet,
and raising it to his lips, said :
"We will drink to King George and oii
future friendship, Aroghyadecka, and then
we will smoke a peaee-pipe together, as we
have often done before, and sweep away alb
clouds from between us."
ie drank, and almost upon the instant b
gan to feel the effects of the poison.
"Dog! you have slain me" he gasped, a
he strove to reach the door.
"You first, Thayendanegea next !" said'the
°old murderer, as be pushed the already tot.
tering baronet back in his, chair, where he
gasped for only a few moments, and then
stiffened in death.
. Then hastening away, he met Guy Johnson
first, to whom lie said :
" The great chief is siek--maybe he'll diel*

s

I

F1
rte.-,
*T1 4 .
R      sR


TJIAYENDANEGEA, TiE SCOURGE; OR,

THE WAR-EAGLE OF TILE MOHAWKS.

A gleam of pleasure, rather than of pain,
shot from the eyes of the hieart!ess nephew,,
when he heard ius news, but le could not
avoil alarming the family, and himself has-
-tning to the baronet's room.
All was now excitement .and mourning
through the mansion, and all the settlement.
'Weeping 'and wailing was seen and beard
'               Iupon every hand, for, as a master and a
friend, as a husband and a father, no one was
*ver more loved than he.
The physician, who had so long known
every symptom of his ailings, and every fault
of hise anstitution, decided that the baronet
had d.ed of apoplexy, for lie knew nothing of'
the nature of the poison which he had taken,
sid the ap pearance of the deceased was such
is left by an apoplectic fit. None, for a
moment, thought how he had perished, for
he had been in usual health until a few mo-
ments of the time when lie perished.
Johni, who at once became a baronet, as the
ntly son ind nearest heir of his either, though
-                 convulsed with grief-tfr lie was an affection-
ate son, no matter what his other faults were-
at once took possession of his papers, and his
last diepatches, and secured them, for he saw
their importance,
AAmong the many who hurried to the room
where the corpse laid, was our old friend, Hon
Yost Sc/ yler.
iHe had ever an idle way of peering about,
and searching into things whieb dl not much
concern him, aund upon this occasion he took
ttp the goblet from which the poisoned draught
-                had been swallowed, and smelled its contents,
if any there were in it, perchance to see if
there wagany of his favorite beverage, liquor,
left in it.
The moment that lie did so, lie started,
tun"e pie, and set the goblet down.
" Duiler and blixen, I wonder if der oit
man is a pigger fool dan me, and has  iade
himself avay mit a suicideP l' e muttered, in
a low tone, unheard by those who were
weeping around, and then he went and smell-
ed of the other glass, which still contained
some liquor, and this he did not set down
with such haste and tremor as the other.
And as now, Aroghyadecka was telling his
tale, which was that the late baronet had sent
a runner to him to bid him epme and see
*.               him, that lie did so, and, while talking, Sir
Wtlliam sudilenly fell back in his chair in a
dying state-lon Yost listened to the story
with a 1 atttention.
A'ain he shook his head, as lie stood back
betn the rest, and muttered to himiself
,s" '  semeting tam pack in this matter.
Okd Mohawk know all apout dat poison.
-s                De baronet, uncle Sir Pill, didn't know it.
Something plack, and if I don't find it out, den
im a piggur fool dan sonei folks take me to
Neither his words or actions were over-

heard or noticed, for the company in th, room
were too much engaged in looking upon the
corpse, and hearing the narration of the only
witness to the baronet's illness.
/
CIIAPTER   XXVIIT.
It was a few hours later, and nght had
spread its cloak of darkness over the earth.
The Mohawk chief, lat f drunk with liquor,
obtained from  Mr. O'Whackem   and others,
wol) had wished to hear his tale of the bare.
net's sudden iilliens and doith, was reeling
along toward his village, when he suddenly
came upon a camp by the side of the trail r
path, and saw lion Yost sitting by the fire,
smoking as usual, for it w as indeed unusual
to see him without that appendage t here.
"hallo, olt Tuyvethug, stop hero a minute
or two !c ried Ilon Yost, as he saw Aroghy.
adecka appronehing.  " I Want a word nuit
you ! S'pose you take a trink m it mo now,
like you did nmt Uncle Sir l'til to-daiy .!I
won t put no cround-heimloek ii m  putt k.
Drunk as the old Indian was, tihe i a ting
words of the Dutchman seemed to sober hin
in an instant.
" What does my pale-faced brother mean?"
he said, first pausing a moment, and then ad-
vancing slowly toward the fire.
Yust vot I says-I toi't put cround-hem.
lock in my pottle ven I tricks mit noiiieself !"
said the Dutchman, and, as if to prove liii
words, he raised a bottle to his lips and drank
of its contents.
"What does my brother' know of hem-
lock ?' asked the \vilv Indian, approaching
still closer to ion Yost.
4 Dat it kills in less time dan  onu can cut
a deer's triat ." replied lion Yost.  And
more dan dat-to-day dere died mit hemlock
he pest tr:end yOu Inijnil redskins everi bad-
Uncle Sir Pill Yonsoni-und I peiieves dat
you Toyvelbug was de one dat kill him nit
it !"
"You'll never say so much to other earl
dog of a pale-face e" cried the Indian, nd at
a bound lie sprang upon11lon Yost with his
hatchet raised for a death-blow.
But the Dutchman was .-too much used
to Indians and their ways to, be entirely
unprepared for the assault, skkn as it wias,
Stooping suddenly, albnost to the ground
he evaded the blow of the hatchet, and catch-
ing hini by thte egs, fairly toppled him ovrr,
anal pitched him headlong into tihe fire. With
a wild yell of race as well as ptin, the No-
hawk sprung through the bbize, nud scai
about to -renew struggle, whIjc he knitt
would be of-death to one .or the other-_iuid
he feared tth divulging of tie 'secret gaied
byH a re'Y  more than he did death, for t
shameful death he knew it voenidmrie
him. Au Indian -would sooner' endue a$IUj

totare than perish by the gallows--for it
tes a belief with every tribe which I have
known, that the spirit of an Indian who has
been hanged, can never enter the happy hunt-
in-.rounds above-their heaven-but must
wander forevermore in a place of woe and
darkness. And well it were if whites thought
the same-they would be more careful how
th  deserved hanging.
uInt ILion Yost had reached his rifle before
the Indian could make his second leap, and,
with it cocked and full-levelled at the breast
of the miaddened chief, he cried
"If ever you pray, you, olt heathen tog,
do it quick now, for a tead Isijun I'll make
mit yomu ymst so sure as I live!I"
A roshydecka hesitated  moment, but the
fire of desperation was in his eye, and he 
would have bounded forward to- meet his
death-for the aim of ion Yost never failed--
but at this moment the white-haired and
mysterious Indian, whom we have seen so
few times, stepped from the dark gloom of
the wood. 'within the circle of fire-light right
between lion Yost and his- intended victim.
Ugh! Ogahtee's spirit comes to curse
me!" veied Aroghvadecka, wildly,and drop.
ping his uplifted H~atehet, hie turned and feed
madly awvuyinito the woods.
" Cot il 'htirnunel, you spoiled the best shot
I could have made dis ten years !" growled
Ilon Yost, as lie lowered tis gun, sulkily.
and took up his bottle from the ground,
only to find tiat its contents hnd been lasted
in the struggle, because the cork wvas omit
" Dunder unl 'blixen, und    mv prandy-
ines gonte to tr tuyve i eWorer and
mote vorse, I's'pose next mitue setmoke-pipe
iseh proke to smash-no, dere it islh !" he
growled, a little mollified to find that at least
one comfort was loft to him. "Vy for you
not let tme shoot dat Tuyvelpug Injun ?" lie
continued.
"his time has not come, and it is not by
your hand that he must die !" said Ogahtee,
'quietly.
" VA, den, de Tuyvelbug shall hang, for I
vih go and tell Yon Yonson who give his
fader de cround-hemlock dat make him die l"
"No; the Great Spirit has given him to
me. For many a weary moon-niany a long
year--I have suffered at his hands. For him
my wife and chikren were sent far from me
toward the sunset, and lie must fall by my
hand. It was as well, too, that the iale-aticed
chief died at his hands, for both were linked
in the treachery which made my hairs white
as winter's snow, while yet Iwas young and
strong as the oak. For a squatv I was sold
from sunlight to darkness-a warrior killed to
make my tribe think I was slain, and those I
loved senit fuir away !"
"bovd Ucle Sir Pill did all die to you, Mr,
Vite-Hnired Iujun-alt die, ed for a voman
s'jtw ."

" Yes ; I have spoken-and my tongue is
not forked !"
"Dat is so ; I know dat for true for dis li
time. I have hunt mit you, eat mit you, and
smoke mit you. Butyou bromise tue dis long
times to tell vot I may call your names, und
vy me kill dears nd oiler game for Dyagetto,
mid vy you knows all apout verypodies, end
dey knows nothing apout you !"
"The time has come, my brother. I am
Ogaitee, the true chief of the Mohawks-
Dyagetto is my wife-Thayer danegea rmy
son !"
"Dunder und blitzen, you vos tead so long
ago, as ven I vos a poy, und now you comes
back to life!"
"You brought me back to life when yeu
helped me from the cave. I have waited log
for revenge. One is gone-the other foe shaU
follow before another sun sinks from the aky
down to rest !"
" Dat is coot, put I must see der fun I"
"You shall be with my tribe when I sltdw
them my boy, and prove who and what I atm.
But I must see him soon; he must know, t&amp;,
who I am, and know that hue has rights lo
long kept in darkness from his eyes !"
"Dat, too, is coot ; Und for you I will go
ad send hii to our old lodge !"
"It is well-go I I will be there before the
light shines in the morning. Now I go to
see Dyagetto, and she shall no longer mourn
for me, and think that the Spirits of the Night
take food to her !"
All is coot den, und I shall be so glad as
never vos wen I sees de fun mit old Tuyvet-
bug to-morrow!'       '
Tetwo now parted, the one going toward
Johnson IHall, the other toward the Mohawk
village, both following the trail even in the
darkness, with that certainty which only long
practice in the forest can give to man.
CHAPTER XXIX.
Within a lodge, which bore the signs ofthe
smoke and the weather of many season ;sat
Dyagetto, the noble mother of Thayenda-
negea-sat there alone, working upon some
of the choice and beautiful embroidery peon-
liar to her nation-probably upon sote gaw-
ment or ornament for her beloved chdldreA,
for never mother loved children with deeper
love than she. And why. one would ask, did
She prefer thus jto dwell so far away from
them in that hone lodge?
For two reasons, and both compatible ith
the natural, proud nobility, and the unciAng
itig faithfuntess of her character.
First, though'for'the sake of the care and
advancement of her children, she was willing
that tey should dwell beneath the roof of
Jotinstn hatt, for herselfahie would acept no"
favor at. the Inainds-of the lordly and wealthy

L.
!"-


THE WAR-E4GLE OF TIIE MOHAWKS.

owner ; for she knew but too well what he har
done to gain the loveliest maiden of the Mo
hawk trite, whom lier fatter, Aroghtyadeeka
would part with upon no terms, as she had
been led to believe, but the death of her
loved hiusbiand, and the perpetual banishment
of herself and ebildren ; while he, bold ani
wily villain that lie was, was, through Sii
William's boundless influence, raised to the
position of chief-of the Mohawks, which, by
right of hterittige, as well as valor, belonged
to the nolie-Ogahtee, her husband. Broken-
hearted, and too proud to bear her shame, the
bartered maiden-Aroghyadecka's daughter-
died; and then the baronet felt keenly the
price of his wrong to Ogahtee, supposing, as
al diii, that the brave chief had fallen by the
hand of an assassin-for a body, clad in his
jrnents, but unrecognizably mutilated, had
en found and buried as Ogahtee, with all
se honors of his tribe, in their ancient burial
und. But as we have seen, it was not he,
but one who, belonging to another tribe, and
having disappeared suddenly, was supposed
to have been the assassin who had done the
base deed, while, by the merciless cruelty of
Aroghyadecka, Ogahtee was buried in the
deep recesses of a cave, wherefrom no egress
could be bad, save by help from  without,
there to hear the taunts of his fiendish
enemy, who only fed him that he might live
and suffer.
Thesecond reason why Dyagetto dwelt there
alone was, that the lodge where first she had
dwelt as a happy bride, was near Ogahtee's
grave, or the grave where she thought he
y, and to it she could make her daily pit-
grinages, an'd upor out a sorrow which,
with her, could know no end-a sorrow for
the loss of her first and only love.
Is there a heroism of love?   Ah! more
0 aree than angels' visits now, is it ! These
Cristian women, or many of them, who laugh
or shudder at the terrible fidelity-for it should
know no other name-which causes the Hin-
o. widow voluntarily to mingle her ashes
with those of her dead husband, upon his
funeral pyre, rather than survive him-will
themselves weep over the tomb of a husband
for a few days, and then, forgetting all past
love and sacred vows, seek and win and take
another to their widowed breasts-east off
their mourning weeds of mockery, and be
smiling brides again. Is not this true?
And how few do we see in this heartless,
modern world. which I so much despise, who
will, like Dyagetto, love and mourn their
d through a long, dark life-time-how
w.Z few?
ain I asy that the heroism of love, in
kart. which despise the heathen, is more
Narce than honesty in Wall street, or patriot-
ism in a politician-two things utterly un-
known, ana out of data.
But back, wild, wandering mind, back from

d  the field of reflective truth to th' pathway of
my story.
Dyagetto sat there alone, a quiet. sorrow
I resting upon her noble face, like a shadow
r upon an unrufefld hake. But. a tootStepc near
t her door aroused her from her pensive at',
- 'tude, and she listened. as if fear of annova
r was in her breast, and pushed back the .n.
dian lamp of fish oil, which had s:it upon the
table before her, and shadowed it with her
hand.
" Is it that accursed Aroghyadecka, who
comes again to torment me, -s he threatened,
. or the good Spirits of the Night, who so long
have brought the widow food, though she
was forbidden to look upon then ?" she said,
She paused and listened, for the footsteps
had ceased, and all was for a moment still.
Then a voice, low and gentle, like one which
she had heard in tones of love, longz years be.
fore-and who can e'er forget that voice of
lore ?-eame softly uponl her ear, from the
front of the lodge.
"Can Dyagetto make her heart brave, so
that she catn look upon the Spirit of the Night,
and feel no fear?"
For a moment the woman trembled and
paused, for brave, indeed, were she, who
could be calm in such circumstances. Then
gathering back her brave thoughts, site re.
plied;,
" Dyagetto will pray to the Great Spirik
and then her heart will know no fear."
And for a moment her heart looked up to
God, and asked for strength ; and who will say
that He would be deaf to such a "heathen s"
prayer?
Then she said calmly, and without fear
" The heart of Dyagetto is clean, her eves
are open, and she is not afraid to gaze upon
the Spirit of the.Night !"
" Even if it comes in the shape of the lost
Ogahtee?" continued a voice.
"More glad were Dyagetto to see the shape
of her lost Ogahtee thatn to look upon tall
the glories of the happy hunting-ground !"
Softly the door opened, and the white.
haired Indian-the fdlher of her children, the
husband of her louth-stood before heer. his
tall frame quivering with a life-emotion too
powerful for other utterance.
Oh, how piercing are the eyes of true love 1
No bandaged Cupid let me see ! Love is
not blind ! Though sorrow and suffering
had bleached the hair she last had looked
upon when jetty was its hue-though the
once smooth brow was now furrowed by many
a deep line of care and woe, and though the
manly forr, was wasted by long suffering,
her eye, like her heart, could not be deceived,
and she bounded with a wild cry to his arms,
even as a lost child would l-ap to meet t
motlhr, and cried
"it is Ogabtee's self! blest Spini of the
Night I"

And for a time no sound was heard, save
the beating of two hearts, one against the
other, and the heavy breathing from lips which
could not speak.
Then tears came from the heavenly portals
of joy, then low words of gladness were heard,
and a tale of suffering and woe, on either
part, was told, so mingled with the happi-
ness of the present that it hardly could seem
sad, even like the shower that comes when
the sun is shining.
"have you seen our noble Thayendanegea?"
asked Dyagetto, after the first explanations
were over.
"My eyes have watched over hirn for many
moons, even as the eagle looks eldsely after
its young t" replied Ogabtee.  "And," he
added, "lhe is fit to rule the Mohawks now,
and lead them on to battle, And to-morrow,
when Aroghya-deeka goes down to darkness,
black as his own heart, Thayendanegea shall
stand before them as their chief. But to him
we now must go, for he must know his father.
The time has come."       /
Bearing with her an embroidered belt and
huntin-shirt, which she had made for him,
Dyagetto hastened with her husband to meet
aer son. All was yet night without; but there
was no darkness within the hearts of those
who went forth in it-all was light there.
Not many minutes had the old lodge been
 empty, before the stealthy steps of two persons
approached, and soon the forms of two of our
cliaracters made their appearance at the door,
which in love's forgetfulness had been left
open, as well as the light burning by Ogahtee
and his wife, when they went out.
First the hateful face of Aroghyadecka, none
the more improved by the fiery ordeal through
which ion Yost had so lately passed him,
peered in through the open'door, and then
over his slulder looked the scarred visige of
his son Ipisico, of whom we have lost sight for
a long time, but who had in some way regain-
ed his father's favor, perebance for his very
ugliness and natural deviltry.
"She is not there ; she has heard our steps,
and fled like the frightened doe from its nest,
when it hears the hunter conic " said the old
Indian.
"If we hide, she will come back to her
nest," said the son.
"We cannot wait. We -must be ready for
the council, to-morrow ; for soon our warriors
must tread the war-path'!" replied Aroghva-
decka and he turned away, followed by Ipisieo
CHAPTER XXX.
"Well, we are here. Where is he who sent
for me ?" said Thayendanegea, impatiently,
jat at.the day's dawn, as he stood with lion
ost before the lodge in the ravine, where
Ogahtee had dwelt so long.

"lIe said he vould he here mit de daylight.
und he always speaks for true l' replied IHoa
Yost.
"Yes-my tongue is not forked-I am
here !" said Oaahtee, as he stepped fromnthe
lodge, with Dyagetto by his side, his aria
upon her neck, and her's around his waist.
And nobly now did he look, for he wore the
rich garb of a chief, and a loftv look of joy and
pride, such as Tlhavendanegea tad never seen
him wear before, though often the young in.
dan had sought him there to hear words of
advising wisdom from his lips, little knowing
'who it' was that spoke them.
- The young Indian looked at both and their
position with suspicious astoniisnment; but
did not speak, for he knew not what to say or
ask.
"Does Thayendanegea remember-the land of
the Minmis ?" asked Dyagetto.
"lie has not forgotten the dogs that live to-
ward the setting sun 1" repliedl Thayendane-
gea.
"And does he remember that there his
mother promised that the time 'should come
when he should know who his brave father
was?"
" Thayendanegea remembers that we came
to seek his grave !"
"That grave had not been filled I Behold
Ogabtee, the true chief of the Mohawks, and
yoeir fi/ther !" cried the proud mother
"ANy mind is dark-make it more light,"
said Thayendanegea, still with distrust,
And then to him the tale of worider was
told, so strange and yet so true, and be learn-
ed for the first time who and what lie was, and
why he: had been so much inclined to ever.
ence the white-hAired man, whom now he
knew as father. and embraced with the flial
love of a son. Hard were it to describe the
feelings of those so long separated, but now
united, to part only when death should send
his messenger unto them.
It is only just to say, that Hon Yost danced
a Dutch hornpipe for very glee, broke his
"smoke-pipe," aid kicked over and shattered
his beloved "prandy pottle." in honor of the
occasion, and never grumbled at his'loss.
Bt while this was going on as a "solo" upon
his part, or rather as a "voluntary," Ogahitee
and his spn were arranging their plan for pre-
senting themselves -before the Council 'of the
Mohawks, which they knew hail beenordered
to assemble on that day.
What those plans were, another chapter and
their result must show.
CHAPTER XXXl
Perhaps no scene in the world would ro.
mind one of the potent gravity of those great
sages 'and traters, who once gave laws to,
Greece and Rome, when they Were powerful

:,
.,   .
_
;.
k
." ,
,,
i".
.#
-.  "'~
r
.
#t
"
,+ .
4
°.
. !
i . ii
s
i

THAYENDANEGEA, TIIE SCOURGE; OR,

14

,


TIIAYENDANEGEA, TIlE SCOURGE; OR,

as republics, and first among the known na-
tions in art and civiliation--of the wisdom of
those old senators who listened to a Demos-
-nben, and a Cicero, in grave silence, and
dosght of what they heard, than the sight of
an Indian council in full assemblage, upon an
" -        irnplortaRntoccasion.
i I have een present at more than- one, and
as I saw them seated around their coneil fire,
the oldest w rriors and the chiefs within, and
the younger braves without the circle, first in
solemn silence passing around the pipe which
als mst. whiff, and then in a quiet, still as the
_k         tomb, listing to each warrior who rose in
turn to speak, I have contrasted the scene
with the noisy debates, the lack of dignity,
Lid respect each for the other exhibited by
: ,our senators and representatives, whiel "I
have witnessed m our national councils at
Washington, and felt, that the savages were
by tar the most respectable in their demeanor
The Mohawks were in eonnci   their fire
lighted in the huge wigwam devoted to that
purpose ; the sentinels posted like tylers with-
out, to keep back any curious listener or
eavesdropper who might approach the sacred
building ;for no Christian holds his church
more sacred--nay, apparently not half soinuch
so-ina the red men do their council house;.
The pipe of friendship had passed from lip
to lip, aol all was still but the slight crack-
lhng of the tire that formed the centre of the
circle.
Aroghyadeeka arose, his crimes as yet all
unknown to his tribe, and while he held a
black belt in his hand, he spoke
SBrothers: it is already known to you. that
the great ehief of the pale-faces--our father,
fir William J4hnson-has gone up to the land
of spirits. Ilis children are crying. And we
weep with them   Their hearts are under a
eloud--its shadow also rests upon us. But an-
other chief will fill his plnce as our friend, from
the Great Father, King George, beyond the
big salt waters !"
e Is paused a moment, and taking a red
.belt from his nearest attendant, Ipisico, con-
tinned :
"Yet while our hearts are sorrowful for the
loss of our great friend, I have news to tell
that will make you glid. Before he passed
away, lie bade me cal ltlsis council, and to tell
you that lie wished you to sharpen your
knives and hatchets, and to be ready to tread
the war-path.   The men of Boston have
Sbrkse. faith with their Great Father, and
many more pale-faces through the land mean
to do the same. Our Great Father has dug
up the hatchet to punish them. He calls upon
his red children, the Mohawks, to help him do
tids work. lie will give us many guns, much
powder and land, and fire-water, and feed our
wives nud children, while we are far away
- a his war-path. I told our friend and
father that for myse  I was a friend to Iiug
'  ,        George. I wo      gup the hathet, paint

my face. and fight for hin  1'om you ;t is
to say-wilt you go where Aroglhvidieka
leads ?"
A murmur of approval followed ; then all
was still, and Thayendnegea, the most popu-
lar of all the younger braves, arose and said
Brothers and fathers ! I have not lived
so manry winters as inay of you, but I know
that your ears will be open to my words, and
I will speak. Brothers ! I am glad that the
hatchet is to be dug np and that we are again
to walk View ar-path, for I am tired of doing
'notlhing.n My heart is hungry for action.
But I ni;.st tell you a story brought to me by
a bird. It is about a brave chief who loved
his people and was beloved by thema-for he
was first upon the war-path, and his wigwam
was ever open to the hungry and the naked.
But there was a snake in his tribe. And he
wound himself around the neck of the brave
chief, and dragged himt away to a cave, and
hid him, and his people mourned for him as
dead I And the snake, who worked in the
dark, and was more cunning than the fox,
came out among the people, and made him-
self great.
"Brother, I am ready to tread with you the
war-path, but first behold the snake, and look
upon mry father, Ogahtee, your rightful and
long-lost chief!"
And as the young brave uttered these
words, he pointed with1 one hand at'Aroghya'
decka, and with the other at his father, who,
at that moment, walked into the council-house,
clad in the most regal of savage garbs.
In an instant Aroghyaleeka sprung to his
feet with a look of defiance on his face, but
when his eye met that of Ogabtee, he sunk
down to the ground again, and, while he utter-
ed amlow groan, he drew hris blanket over liii
head,* for he knew that he was in !-tIe In.
dians had recognised their chief.
And then and there was seen that stoie and
sage-like gravity, of which I spoke at thie
opening of this chapter. The whole circle
knew their chief, but remained silent for him
to tell his story, and make the explanation,
which they knew he would give.
He advanced within the circle, and in quiet
dignity told all, even to the poisoning of Sir
Williamir Johnson, by the traitor, who cowered
in their midst.-
When he was done, an aged warrior arose
and said
"Brother, Father, and Chief! ewe welcome
you as one who has come back from the api-
nit-land to 'is ! Our hearts, which long bled
for your loss, are made whole again I We
will make a feast, and our people will all re-
joice. Aid w en the hatchet is dug up, none
but Ogahtee shluil lead the Mohawks on the
war-path! I have spoken !"
* 'when an Indian's crime, meriting death, _is dig'
covered by ris brethren, ie is never or scarcely ev
known to try to escape, but covering hia heat In dn
pair from view, suienl awaits his trial a1 bladoe

Ogah  , who had sat down, rose to his feet
again and said
'"My ears were open to my brother's words !
But I mi old and my limbs are stiff, though
my heart is warm and strong for my people.
Thayendamriegea is amy only son. Yiou know
that he is brave. Let hiimlead the Mohawks
to the field. I have done "
A single word, and that of approval from
all the council, except. Ipisico and his doomed
father, told how well the proposition was re-
ceived. Thnvendanegea was their leader
Anot her warrior now arose and demanded
that the "snake" should be sentenced to his
deserved doom. But Ogahtee rose and said:
Brothers, it is not for us to defile our
hands with his blood, lie has murdered a
pale-face, let him meet his trial and his doom
at their hands. Send him to the great castle,
aid there let him te given up to those whom
ie last wrnged. . For myself I forgive hin--
I cannot trend upon a fallen foe !"
Ai-olvadecka moaned in agony when he
heard these words, for he would rather have-
had every hatchet there used in chopping him
limb from limb than meet the fate which nhe
knew would he in store for him wien bis
treachc(ry was knowth at Johnson iall.
A  guard of young braves instantly aroseI
and bore the wretched criminal away, while
his shamed son slunk away from the'council.
Then, with all formuality, the pipe was once
more passed around and the council-fire put
out.
The council was over, and could not again
be called but by order of the chief. Then,
for the first time, glad shouts rent the air--
gins were fired amnd a feast was quickly pre-
lamed to show how gladly the Mohawks wei-
comed Ogalitee bacJ--how they could best
do hini iono'.
CIIAPTER XXXII.
Slowly and saly the funeral cortege which
lad huried all that was mortal of Sir Wil-
liam Johnsoni was returning to the hall. And
at the same time, more rapidly, a large body
of gailti-dressed Indians were approachinrg
from the direction of the Mohawk village.
Proudly, upon his coal-black steed, yet as
fiery as when he first bestrode it, yet as all-
obedient, rode Tlhayendannegea at their head,
and hv his side, on either hand, rode Ogahtee
and his noble mother, Dvagetto. And back
in the centre, close boumid amid guarded, was
Aroghryadecka, nolv so far back into the In-
dian nood that slowed neither fear or contri-
tion, but glared hatred and defiance upon -all
around hun-
The Indians moved more slowly as the sad
array of mourners met their view, arnd it was
not until mll Of the females had passed into
the l.all, that Thayendanegen rode .up to the
porch where Sir John Johnson and others,

males, of the household waited to know the
m wining of this visitation.,
Why were you, of all the rest, away from
t re funeral of my father, to whom you surely
owed sonic duty ind respect ?" said Sir John,
wit i stern sadness, to Tiharveridanegea.
. I owed a duty and respect to my ow
father. Ogahteethe Chief of the Mkewks !"
Stil TIayendaniegea, proudly. as he pmuiited to
his nohte-looking father. " An a datij I have
done to you and yotfr fathers meniory, for I
bring his murderer here for au to deal with!"
lls murderer--my fatherasnnrdered!" cried
Sir John. as he hookernt Arighvadeccka, who
hiad been brought forward at a ,sign from\
Thavendrnergea
"Yes, I'kiiled him ;re would haverobbed
me ofimy rights-I have lost nll now ; kill re
if yon are not a coward !" cried Aroghva-s
decka, who hoped, by exciting an instat re-
venge, yet to escape the doom he most dread-
ed !"'                i
Madness-he was not slain, no mark of
violence was upon him!t" eried Sir John.
"Indian poison leaves no mark !" said the
old Mohawk, With a sardonic smile.
Who else can prove this, for sure!y the
masn must he insane to thus counuit himself
to a deed for which he shall hang so sure as it
is truet"
"Me--ion Yost--knows dat he did it, Sir
Yohrn Yohuson," cried our old Dutch friend,
pushing through the crowd which had gath,
ered near. "i shmelt der erounrd-hemilrek in
der silver bowl vot your fader drink his
prandy mint-den I go und meet der 1i jun on
dier trail and share him nut it, un, tint in
hinmnel, der olt Toyvel-bug tried to inake
avay mit rme! Dat's .der truth, so help rue-
mine Cot !"
Put the red villain in the gua3rd-house
under a strong guard-shoot    - inif he tries
to escape. A short shrift arid a stout rope
shall be hisdoom after a propereXiii ninition !"
cried Sir John, now reddlenrirng with exeite-
ment, for Ire began to feel iat, indeed, ied his
father perished by meniis= most base and aun-
natural.
Then he bade- Thayendaneger arid iris friend.
to alight and enter the house, that ie iu girt
hear the history which they hal to reveal.
It was near the sunset of arnthrir day, and
in the grove back of Johnson 11,1 ia f ur dif-
ferent seene was about to be eaumeled tin aes
yet been my lt, in this work,'to desm-ihe.
A rude gallows had been 'erected, so far
back that the sight could not be seenm by those
whose sex should ever keep therm hackin ior-
ror fromn a scene of violent death, thoruugh
blessed angels oft are they when, they stand
by the bedside of'the surfferer, to soothel him
or her in the agonies of dissolution, and, with
sympathetic teeariad gentle han, to close the
eye just ghzed by the frost of dcatlr.
Around this gaflowa was formed a detaoh. .

d,

THE WAR-EAGLE OF TGIF M OIJAWKS.

57


68            TITAYENDANEGEA, TUE'SCOURGE; OR,

TILE WAR-EAGLE OF TilE MOHAWKS.

ment of the armed Highlanders under Me-
Donald, in which the late baronet had taken
such delight, and their stern visages and re-
vengeful eves boded no good will to the con-
demned prisoner, who stood upon its platform
above their bayonets, ready to meet the fate
to which he had been sentenced by stern and
relentless judges.
Around, also, as close as they could get,
were the ninnytenants and retainers of the
estate, prominent amongst whom were our
friends Daly-not the Patrick-but the doctor,
secretary Lafferty, Mr. O'Whackem, etc. But
not a single Indian was in view .It was a
sight which thfel more than all men on earth
dread to see.
Upon the scaffold beside Arozhyadecka
Stood lion Yost, for he had asked the privi-
lege of ianing "Old Tuyvelbug," to whom
he had always felt an antipathy, but increased
by the Indian's late attenipt upon his life.
The rope was already around the Indian's
neck, and but a touch of the tipping board,
which served for a drop, was required to
"launch him into eternity," as the reporters
say.  But, by the looks occasionally cast
around, it would seem  that Same one was
waited for before the execution could be con-
eluded.
Many were the remarks made by the by-
standers, but not one which exlitoited any
feeling for the criminal, who stood like a
bronze statue of defiant hate-a scowl upon
his brow, a flashing pair of eyes, lips close
drawn, and a form more firm than the stout
post by his side.
Faith, it's a stiff dance he'll make when
he threads upon nothin'!" said Lafferty to
O'Whackem. "There's never a quiver to lip,
leg, or eye-lash !"
"It's because we haven't any music for
him, poor dog, If we had, he might give us
$ semi-gainer at any rate !"
OcI, boys, lie's no subject to be joking
at I" said Doctor Daly.
"Be asy now, doctor clear, an' jist think
what you said at dinner 1" cried the school-
master. "You were sayin' what a capital
subject, he'd make for di section. Oeh, it's
yourself will be cutting worse jokes on him
directly, I'm a thinkin'!"
This battle of words was now cut short by
the appearance of those by whom he had
been tried, who, with Sir John Johnson
among them, approached, according to custom,
to see their sentence executed.
Now all was silence in the crowd ; for they
felt what all must feel, no matter how vile the
criminal, an inward thrill of horror at the
approach of the very moment when a human
being is to be coolly cast from life into the
jaws of death, before theii- very eyes. Men,
who glory in the sanguinary excitement of
the battle-field, will shudder at such a mo-
mnent.
At this distance, when the signal was about

to be given, the prisone, whose hands haa
apparent'v been securely I on nd, raised both
hands, whie. iii some way he had slipped
from the cords which bound them, and, with
the gickness of thought, slipped the noose
from his neck, while Hon Yost stood aghast,
and, with a wild yell of triumph, cast himself
upon the tripple hedge of lifted bayonets
below, meeting an almost instant death, and
at last escaping the doom which lie niost
dreaded !
"Dnder! Mine Cot, vot a yump !" cried
lon Yost, as he bent over the scafloldI, and
looked upon the quivering body which the
blood-hespotted soldiers were trying to disen-
gage fLoin their bayonets.
'The crowd uttered a groan of disappoint-
mnent and turned awav; for tler knew that all
was over with the poisoner of Sir William
Johnson.
"What d'ye think o' your subject now, doc-
tor dear ?" asked O'Whaekem, as lie and his
friends started homeward.
"'T'hat he's like yourself, O'Whackem--a
divilish had subject, and not worth the cut
tin' up! " replied the doctor.
"I'll he a subject if you'll stand trate, doe-
tor !" said Lafferty.
"I'm your man for that, my boy ; but what
kind of a subject will you be !"
"Faith, a dry one, ould saw-bones !"
Thus joking, as the sons of Erin ever are,
whether it be at a funeral or elsewhere, our
friends " professional" passed on. and all was
still and quiet, where the mangled body of
Aroghryadeeka lay, for no one had touched it
after the bayonets were withdrawn.
It was an hour later, and gloom seemed to
hang heavy in the sky, for dark arid lowering
clouds were there. And all was still in tie
grove, for no wind stirred the braneles of the
gloomy pines. It seemed as if the spirits of
tire air felt that the spot where the dead mur-
derer lay was accursed, and while they hung
tire heavy pail of gloom far, far above, below
they would not come!
But one cones shuddering amid creeping
through the chill darkness-one who, though
a coward. feared not to seek, perchance, his
last friend upon earth-for the world hold-
back in horror even from the son of a murs
derer-and this was Ipisico, come to weep and
moan above the mangled corpse of his father,
whose brave leap from life to death he had
witnessed from a tree-top, not very far away;
but in which he had lain concealed until 'he
felt certain io one was near tire body
Oh, tell Inc not there is'a heart so bad in
all this wide, wide world, in which there is
not one good drop of blood. Inlrunman, as
ignorant, is the humanity which would utter
it.
Here, in tire gloom of night, we see one of
the worst of our characters-one who is cow-

ardly,,treacherous, malicious, and false-with
enough of filial love to seek his degraded pa-
rent's corpse, perchanee to give it burial, nor
leave it to the dogs or wolves, as better men
would do-at least, to shed the tear of hor-
row there.
He finds all that is left of Aroghydtdecka,
hose j'itts forgetting, we can half afford to
pity, and easts himself upon it, with a low,
wild moan, which speaks like the voice of a
breaking heart.
But, hark ! Quick, loud, and fearfuh another
voice is heard. It is the voice of the storm
which has been gathering in black silence
overhead. The bursting thunder shakes the
earth ! The red lightning leaps along the
sky, stoops down to earth, shattering every-
thing it meets, scattering only when its fiery
work is done.
Aht! see, a red bolt strikes the gallows tree
--down it speeds on him who can feel but
heeds not, on the senseless corpse as well-
and Ipisico is beyond the reach of hate and
acorn-his freed spirt speeds on wings of ire
to look for that of his father in the hunting-
grounds abbe !
CIIAPTER    XXXIII.
Once more, reader, leap with me over a
lapse of time, which, though full of thrilling
incidents, all closely linked with the struggle
cf out' bravo forefathers for freedom, still may
not be embh'raced within the narrow limits of
a novelette, as this only professes to be.
This much I will say: Guy Johnson, after
becoming the king's superintendent of Indian
affairs, through a manoeuvre characteristic of
. Iimsclf-and'you already know him-married
Leoniore public, though she long had been
his wife; and Onalova became the bride of
Sir John Johnson, against the will of Ogahtee
and Dyagetto, who, proud of their blood,
would not that one of their race should link
withia pale face ; and Sir John, having iro-
ken his parole to the American cause, had
been long driven front his immense and fair do-
mains, whieh were confiscated to the patriot
cause, and ie, made a general in the British
eause, haid raised a large body of Canadians
and tries called tire "Johnson Greens," and,
with all the confederacy of the Six Nations,
except the brave 'and true Oinedias, to aid
him, with-Thray entdriegea at their head-he,
who'now was known as tine " Scourge of the
Pale-Faces, and the War--Ed^e of the Mo-
hawks "-ie, Sir John, wvith Guy Johnson :tiid
the ever-iifamols Butlers, Wakter and John,
was sweeping our the flair Vrlley of the Mo-
hawk, down upon tie Delaware, the Susque-
hanna, the Unadilla, and the Schroharie, to
the error atnd lestruetion of all that caea in
the way, of life and property.
So mueh for a bird's-eye glance at some of
our characters, which could  not ,well be

avoided ; and, now, back to our story, and let
incidents work their way once more.
Come with me to ~the lovely "alley of the
Unadilla. It is night, and, in a forest dense
and lofty, behold a hundred gleaming fires,
and around them   grouped five hundretl
b Bronzed  anid well-a'rmed  Indian  warriors.
Who is this, tall and nobly formed, yet
silent and stern, that stands iv a line fire,
all solitary and apart from the rest? It is the
great War-Eagle--it is Thav'endnnegra--and
these are not a tithe of the 'ed warriors who
look to him as their master-sidrit and their
leader. Why stands he there so proud andn al
alone?. He feels hims.If a very king, anid
though his throne is the heaf-strewed ground,
his canopy the star gemined sky, his sceptre
the rifle in his hand,Iris truncheon the hatchet
in his helt, his crown the eagle plumes a'ov
his lofty brow, few monarchs more potent in
their realm than he.
Ai! there comes a pale-face, all as fully
armed, threading his way along among the
warriors and 'their fires to that of Thayen-
daneea.
"Well, lion Yost, what news ?" asks the
ehief, haughtily.
"Vel, Mister Var-Eagle, de news is yust
dis," said our old Duteh friend:  " Yeneral
Ierkimer has come to Unradilla all de var fur
to see yos. Dat I finds out vile I plays de
fool in his camp."
"lie shall see me, if he be not blind. IIow
many men has he ?"
"Ymlst apout four hundreds, I dinks."
"Were they four thousand, irnstea   of fmnr
hundred, still he should see mne. Thaenlan-
egea turns his backupon no man-least of fill,
a foe!"
"Und I dinks he means to send a commit-
tee, or somedinks of. dat kind, mnit a vite flag
in der morning. I listen by der general's pig
tent, and hear dem talk that way."
"No committee of rebels shill visit my
camp!" said the chief  "Yet w"'ill I see him.
ie was onrce my neighbor and my friend'l ! lie
has joined the wron- side, and, if we meet in
battle, he must pay the cost I"
The chief then called a subordinate to his
side, tind bade hin place pickets far. in ad.
vance of his lines, to prevent any intrusion
into his eauImp,.anmd to guard against surprise.
Then, turning to Hon Yost, lie said
.' Go back to the camp of the piale-faces,
beware of their fire-water,:and gather more
news. Let me see you in the morning !"
"I vil go, Mister Var-Eagte, but yu'st blease
let me have a dollar of two, to make mine
fun with."
The chief drew the money from his pouch
aid east it haughtily upon the ground, at tha
fees of the spy, saying:
"Take it-go-but beware ot1 the fire.
water! You know me !'t

I

;  .
,e
.

_"
*
"
a  b
+r
4ea r
e

i
r
t
t


TIIAYENDANEGEA, TIE SCOURGE; 011,

TIIE WAR-EAGLE OF TIIE NOIIAWKS.

"If I didn't, den does no pody, yen I seen
you: since a poy !" muttered IIon Yost, as he
jicked up the money and hastened away
upon his errand.
The chief now drew his blanket closer
around  hin, and cast, himself upon  the
F  round, to sleep as securely as an enueror
in his palace.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
-       It was morniiniand the sun rose upon a
lovely sceine. Out beyond a forest, dense and
dark,~that wherein lay Thavendniegea and
iPis shan, was a lovely plain, and it was d0t-
ted with the white tents of the little but well-
appointed army of the brave IIerkiner. There
the music of muteving men, turning out for
guard-miounting, could be heard, and bright
arms gittered in the rays of the just-risen sun.
And white pillars of smoke rose from their
many eamnp-tires and vanished away in the
blue ether above.
But from that forest of dark green, ro
smoke cloud rose to tell where the army of
the forest king was encamped, or what his
numbers were. lie was too wary for that.
It was enough for him to assure his pale-
faced opponent of the presence of Indians
there, lv sending out small pickets of red-
skiued 'varrwirs, who, in their bright blan-
kets ntid eagle plumes, strode to and fro in
front of the edge of the forest, often vanishing
back into its shadows, then coming out again
A little later, and. with a bugle sounding at
their he-n 1 nl a white flag borne by one of
the numler, a land of gaily-dressed officers
gallop from the Continental camp upon their
dashngru. chargers toward the forest.  And
then, advanring to meet them, on foot, but
slowly, and with haughty steps, a band of the
red men coei forth from their overt of green.
-     They bear an answering flag of truce.
The parties meet and halt.
" What do the pale-faces want?" asked the
leader of the body of red men.
" I wish to see Thayeradanegea I" said
'  General Ierkimer himself.
"Wait till lie comes," was the reply given
by that subordinate chief, fbr such he only
was, in a tone as haughty as if ie were talk-
ing only to a slave. And then he uttered a veil
imore loud and shrill than any clarion blast
that ever rairt the air.
An answeringc r ywas heard from the leafy
shrales bond, anm soon,.more plainly cladI,
'?      lir hbittr armed than any warrior of that
little lanir , a tingle Indian came forth from
tie for t, atl strode with a stately s'ep to-
ward tinr. his eagle eye, his tall form, his
; roid step.hut too plainly told that it was
thmavrndaeneg&amp;ea who came. As ie advanced,
Iis warriors drew up in a half circle, antd,upon
the ro;lter side, the whites did the sate, bay.
dinag 'hirrmunrted from their horses.

Th'ayendanegea stopped within the circle
3 so formed ; and. as General llerkntirte stepped
forward, the chieft ian stood with fobl-led rmis
across his breast, not deigning to see the ex-
tending hand which the general meant to
offer him, and said
"Why have you come here so near to my
camp1 '-
'Upon a friendly visit!" was the general's
reply; " we are. old neighbors and friends,
and must not war together ! "
"Have all those pale-faces come upon a
friendly visit, too ?" asked the chief.  " All
want to see us poor Indians?    It is vcry
kind I"
An'd the curl of his proud lip, and the flash
of his dark eve, told what ie felt and meant -
while, as he -spoke, he pointed to the distant
tents, and the men gathered there in crowds
to look at the interview.
" I would like to visit yosin your camp !"
said the general, wishing still to preserve a
friendly bearing with the haughty ehiet-
My camp is too small for so big a chief
as you.   You are near enough !" was the
reply.
--"Why do yrur people make war uion our
people it the Valley of the Mohawk !" now
asked the old general, corning at once to the
object of his visit.
"Because you war upon King George, who
is our friend. his belts we wear-we are his
men !" was the calm reply.
"But you are wrong. Our forces are strong,
like the trees of the forest ; in number, like
the leaves upon the trees  We can sweep
away all our foes, as the fire burns the dry
grass in the fall!"
Thayendanegea laughed scornfully, and ut,-
tered a shrill yell. In a moment, more than
five hundred painted  and  nrmed warriors
burst from the forest with deafening whoops,
discharged their guns ; then, at a wave of
'rhayenidnanegea's hand, fell back in silence out
of view.
'Coant these an hundred times, and yet more
warriors cn I bring into the field !" cried
''hayendanegea, haughtily.  "Go back, and
tell those so who sent you here !  You are in
my power; but we have been neighbors and
friends, and I will do you no harm !"
Tfie chief said, nor would ie hear any
more, but strode back as Ie came, full as
proudly as a king with millions.at his back.
And the pale-faces dared not follow him,
for the advantages upon his side were far too
great for threm to risk a battle.
CHAPTER XXXV.
A lofty luill, rock-ribbed but tree-crowned,
is that which overlooks from its southern
hank the Mohawk at its Little Falls , And
from this lofty height the eye cart stretch far

away along the. thread of silvery water from
mast to west, and gaze with pleasure down
upon the rushing, foaming, flashing torreints
hat dashes by below.
Upon this height, some time after Thayen-
danegea had met the fearless IIerkimer at
Ulnadilla, stood two women.   One, whose
hairs beginning to speck with threads of gray,
proves that age is coming fast upon her, or
that care is dongt the work of time, is our old
friend Dyagetto, the mother of the Eagle of
be Mohawks. Still stern and commanding,
till beautiful, still every inch a forest queen,
but yet looking far more sadly than when we
saw her last-for then she was all radiant
with joy in the recovery of a long-lost hus-
band-min the triumph of her noble boy.
But yho is this by her side? An Indian
maideni; yet for such, how peerlessly beauti-
ful ! Tall, of exquisite form, so well revealed
by her forestngarb,'with eyes large, black as
starless night, yet so piercing that they seem
at times to look you through, and then
again to melt into your very soul with their
liquid light-features which can express- the
haughty pride of a chrainless will, or yet the
tender thoughts of a heart which can love in
spite of the pride which bids it own no rns-
ter.    . .  .   .
The picture is drawn; but who-wro is she
that tams breaks, in majestic beauty, in upon
the ivil i panorama of our story ? Let the se-
quel tell.
They stand upon tie very verge of tie
cliff which overtops the stream below, look-
ing with strung eyes up the river, as if from
thence a visit was expected.
. Baek from them, in a lovely grove of cedar,
is a single wigwam, and the small fire before
it shows that it is their camp. And but a
little way to the left is a iound of newly-
heaped-up ground. Can it-be that, " dust re-
turned to dus' is reposing there, and'that
death has laid another of -his countless vie-
tims there ?.
"Your eyes, so 'young and bright; loan,
niust surely see a speck far up ite iver !"
said .ya etto to the maiden a~ lier side.
"IHis runner srid thatirewould be here when
the sun was s+ high that i4 ease n) shadow
from upright _tree, and Thtayendanegea
never spoke false words '  -
" I see nothtingt; but- aidtek upon the river's.
breast !'' saidthe nniden. ." Anti it is not yet
his time; tr, see, our shadows fill yet toward
the west !"..
"I'.ona does not love, else she would not be
so patient. Time is stnail, it only ertawls!",
- low can I lvoa him, whom my eyes,
have not looked .upon ?" said the makfen,
cahnly.
his nsante-his fame-le is chief of all
the Nations of the Norah -lie is my Son !"
aid 1)ya. ett, imipetuonsly.
-lie Irmay rutiu anll tine warrior; of the North,

and yet not hold control of one proud heart !"
said the maiden, with a flashing eye, while
she pressed her hand over her heart, to indi-
cate her meaning.   Then she adied, more
calmly : " When I look upon him, if he is
what I have seen in my dreams, I shall love
him, and if I love him, he must love me, and
I 'viii win him or I will die !"
"Surely now I see something far up the
river !" said Dyagetto.  -
" Yes !" said Iona; "it is the flash of a
paddle, dipping up water in the sun-rays!"
After a short pause, she said :
"It is a Canoe, and there are t-wo in'it; and
one is a warrior, tie other is a worhan. IIe
said he would come alone !"
And already, though she sail she loved not,
the maiden's eyes flashed, and a fierce look
told that she fancied a rival ere she had found
a love. In some hearts jealousyy is natural,
intuitive, and in such hearts to love is to ho
forever miserable I
Swiftly down the rapid stream, more swift-
ly as they drew nearer to the falls, canoe the
canoe, and both the wovnen watceld its mo
tions without a word, for though Dvrgetto's
face expressed surprise, not uminnxed with
anger when the keen eyes of lona saw, andn
her lips announced, that there was a woman
in the canoe with the warrior, sine spoke not
the thoughts which gathered in her brain.
The canoe, coming down the centre of the
stream to take advantage.of the eur-knnt, shot
along almost to tie falls; then ''havendanegea,
with a powerful arm, turned its irw v'toward
the shiore, and in a tnornent more was there.
'-A'pale-faced wonhan, lerhiaps a prisoner!"
muttered Dyagetto.
If Thay endanegea is so gentle to a pri-
soner, vhat woald- he be to a wife ?' said
Ionn, as' she saw him carefully lift the lale-
faced maiden Un the 'ockv bank. The sar-
easm in tire tone of"Iona was rot lost on Dy-
agetto, who replied
"Thayendanegea brings no pale-faced wife
to my wigwam.     One of nrv chnildrInns
been linked with a pale-ace; the other 'never
shall 1"
Carefully up t he roecky'height the War-
Eagle helped the maiden whom- he brought,
now clinging to a bush4 then passing at a
-bound soie deep rnavine, cut in the hill-side
by a -rain-torrent, lifting her with a single
aitm, while he held histrusts rifle in the other
:hand.  And soon he reached the hill-crest,
land stood before his mother, wio, in the
pale-faced girA,- though she was wanr and
wasted, as if by ea'e or prinatintr, she at once
reeignised hKathleerr Johdnsont.
Cold 'was hnr look, nd'ieutder still her
'words, when sihe bade her Son welconte, ani
she looked with a fierce nl bitter eye upon
poor Katleen, as she led the way to'tine wig-
wa".
"lie isimy idr fxt" mutteted lona, as" ash

L

_4
-

G0o

61

e


TITATENDAXEGEA, TIE SCOURGE; ii,

, .      gazed upon the tall and kingly form of Thay-
- .      eindamegea ; then her eye flashed wildly, as
she looked upon Kathleen and muttred-
"What does she here? --a snake in my
path !"
"Where is my father ?" asked the War-
* "   Eagle, as he stood before the wigwam, and
saw him not wmtiti.
"There !" and Dyagetto pointed to the new-
made nouind.    ,,
"It is well! lie has made a long journey,
and is at rest !" said the son,,eahnmly. as he
looked at the grave of his father. 'T'hen,
turning to his mother, lie said: " We are huni-
gry-get us food " l     -
" Why is thit pale-face here ?" asked Dya-
getto, without heeimg his demand.
becausee 1, Thayendanegea, chose to bring
her! 1 siam not used to answer questions, but
to ask them !' he replied, haughtily ; then, he
added : "You are amy mother-I will say no
more !"
"Is she your wife ?" asked Dragetto.
"No-here is my wife !" thundered the
War-Eagle, touching his rifle. "Will you get
i food, or shall I seek it elsewhere?"
"1 will get it!" said Dyagetto, now in a
-     momment as e:ilhn in comparison as she before
had beemm angry,.
'Thavenlanegea said no more to her, but,
pointig to a couch of skins, said to pot
Katihleme, vhio, hale and tearful, had stood
terrified, before the wigwam:
"You are ired-go rest!"
Thiena, without so much as casting a glance
at lona, wine, still as a statue, haIl leenlwatch-
iug this scene, lie seated himself upoi the
gromnid, ani, with his rifle across his lap,
waited for the coming repast.
The Iaihun girl still stood and looked upon
him, as it her eyes were riveted there by somei
magic eril.  ler hosomi rose and fell, but
her breath seemsied almost to sleep below her
lips ; at last. however, a heavy sigh came
frum hesr bsonm-slhe turned away, and, with
noiseless steps, passed out of sight, atuonig the
shadow eedar. -
The tod-savory fish from the stream be-
low, meat niod bread from pounded corn-
was soon reay, and placed before Kathleen
amd 'lIahayeniohimegea, amid Dyagetto watched
by theta it sikuece while they ate.

_    r* ;
.
#   .
a i
}    ^
i '
$
sg  t
f _    ,
t
44.
_
"'
, '
e  .
. T
; ,

CHAPTER XXXVI.
Aftir Thayae-hmeiaamge-n and Kathicen had
fiunished-l. Da.:etto arose from her sitting la,s--
ture atlte tlzle{ ain. a sheni, for the first tinae,-
$eeitm-t] to  t ice m h alsoice of  stn tn
'W\Vhere' is lon " alw asked, as if she
thounghint that Thqyj-endagea knew fer.
hae !  I k unow her not!l" sailthe chief.
"Was she not the 1ovi laias maiden

whom I saw when we came here ?" asked
Kathleen, timidly, of Dyagetto.
" Yes. I will go seek her," said Dyagetto,
speaking more kindly, perhaps, for toe uncon-
scious compliment paid to her favorite by the
por girl.
The woman departed, taking the path
which Imoa had chosen. She soon returned
with the Indian mtiden, whose eyes indicated
by their looks that she, proud as she was, had
beei weeping.
"This is lONA, the daughter of a chief of
the Sonceas, who fell in battle by the side of
the brave IIendrick !" said Dvagetto, as she
proudly led her protegee forward. " And,"
she added, " 1 have taken ieres my da-ughter,
tor I have lost Onalova, who choe a pale.
fac-, and took herself out from her mother's
heart
And Dfyagetto, as she uttered these words,
so full of meaning. looked at Thnayendanegea,
to see the effect of them.
But his eyes were fixed upon Ione, who
stood with eyes downcast before him.
"She is too big for a woman---she should
have been a warrior, like her father!" said
Thayendanegea.
"It I aim a woman, I have a Warrior's
heart in my bosom !" said loon, and nmow her
raised eves flashed back a 'light as proud as
that of his own.
"Good ! You shall be my sister, like this
poor lily of the pale-faces. whom  1 found far
from  the wigwams of her friends, and have
taken to be my sister !" said Thayendateega,
and be took Kathleen by the had and led her
forward. " Be sisters," he added, "aand I
will see that neither of you go hungry or
meet with harm !"
loon drew up haughtily, and would have
refused the ready hand ot' at hleen, had shine
not caught the warning look of the crafty
Dyagetto, which told her not to do so, anl
she took it, and said:
"What the great War-Etagle of the Mo-
hawks speaks must he good. I will lie hcs
sister, and, for hisoake, will try to love the
lily of the iale aces !"
" I sun far froni all other sisters, and will
love you veryda'rly !" said Kathklen, as she
took the hand'of Jona ; but she almost shud-
dered at its icy coldness.    :
Dyagetto, who seemed to wish t' avoid a
formal recognition of Kathlien as a daughter
iN the Intdimino form,u'ow found sudden occasion
to busy herself elsewhere.
Th-yeindanegen, now leaving the two maid-
ens together, went to converse with his no
th -.
The War-Engle is a great brave !" said
Iona, looking Kathleen keenly in the face. for
she mentlt then and there to seaieh the maide
end's heat.
" Yes," said lIathleen, with a sigh.

G2

wiltig oii L uInot~ u u stun.  v, iuvu  C

5;
S

;.
' x
k.' ''
s"a"F    #

THE WAR-EAGLE OF TIlE MOIIAWKS..63
N Has my sister known him long ?" con- gathering in almost utter silence in thisldark
tinued Iona.'                             forest, which orders, wih its semi-cierular
" Oh, Ves, very lonr.-for years!" saiL Kath- hedge, a road passing through a deep ravine
leen, emirestly.  "Ue lived in my father's -a road causewayed over a swamp-a road
house, and once he saved my life!"         narrow, and darkened by the shadows of the
"Then my sister loves the \War-Engle ?"  forest on either hand ? Stealing on in silence,
$ Why s1hu1 1I not? He is good, he is one by once, the red men come, those who
brave, atnd I owe him a life!" continued Kath- .know no leadership hut him with the eagle
leen, artlessly.                           plume, the tall, stern chief who points to every
And does the War-Eade love the lily of man his station, but utters not a word-the
the pale-faces in return ?" continued the ai-tful dreaded War-Eagle of the-Mtehawks.
cross-questioier, 0now preserving a calitniess  lie has come from the siege of Fort Schuy-
almost unnatural to one of her passionate Icr, to intercept his old friend and, peighbor,.
nature.                                    the gallant lHerkimner, who,with the brave boys,
"Alas! no-he has no love but for war !" of Tryon county, is hastening to the relief of
sighed poor Kathleen.                      Colonel Gansevoort, in the fort,who is environ-
'- Why, then, did my sister leave the wig- ed by the tory "Greens" of Sir John Johnson,
wain of her friends to seek the War-Eagle ?" the mercenaries of Barry St. Leger and hosts
f'I could not lice away from him !" said  of the savage allies of merciful King George'l
Kathleen, while a tear stole down her pale   Behind each raggedtree-runki they stand ;
cheek. - I cane weary miles to seek hin, they crouch beneath every bush; they lay be-
and now he leaves me again tQ go to, the bat. hind every rock; yet all is done without a
tie-field !-'.                             word, all still as 'oon will be those who are
" Then my sister will stay here with us about to sleep min death. The war-Engle
until he returns "    -                    moves from man to man, sees that all is right,
"Yes-he so wills it!  I prayed him to let then takes his place from whence the warning
me live near him in, the camp,'but he would  cry roust come
not let inc. I am to stay here !" sighed Kath-  The ambuscade is formed !
leen,
"Mv heart is glad toheat' your words.     And now we change the scene. Behold
You shall be taken good care of !" said Iona. with me, one thousand men,, not trained sol-
Hlad Katliten's eyes been keenly looking in .diery, used to the arts of war. but who have
those of lon, then, she would have shuddered snatched their guns front the corners of .their
at their expression. But she was looking to- homes, left the, sickle in the field, and the
ward the spot w hereThayendanegea was tailk- shaf unbound, to rush to the aid of the  be-
ing with his mother, and only replied:    league and 'distressed countrymen. officered
I will he of no trouble to you, and will y men of their own choosing, mostly young,
try to make you and his mother love me very  rash, and impetuons, as ther are brave.
much !"                                      But a gray-haired veteran sits upon his
The return of Thayendanegeanwith his mo- horse in the centre of a group of officers at
ther put ant end to this conversation.     the head of-this gallant but undisciplined lit9
Taking up his rifle. the chief said :    tie force. It is Herkitner, brave as a lion, but
" I utist Snow goe baek to my men  for a cool and prudent, wiahing to lead his men to
battle is at hand. No one will harm you here, a glorious victory, but not  villhirg to risk an
arnd you will not be hungry, for vuo  have  inilosious deteat.
stores, and my hunters aire near. The signal  rlie officers around are nrgin 1him to move
of my mother will call help when it is     on ; but he, cooj and warv, wished to wait
needed."                                  for re:nforcemsents which were gatherin g for
Without another word of farewell. he moved  lie knew that a large disciplined force-was in
away anid ileiended the hill. Ttars rolled  his front ; besides, e hivkno  siot how many of
dows the e-ks of Kathleen, as she watched  the irealed folloveers of Thavendanegen.
him spring  into his canoe and go up the    But rash mnca would not listen to cool counr
river ; limt bona, who stood really by  e  ls.
side, only said :                            " Sir! none but a onward and a tory would
"lie is a great brave-he is my dream.! delaywhen our friends are in danger before
We meet cooi again !"                     us,"~aid iColonel Cox.
What a difference of ehacacter. What a differ-  "Yes ; if you do not give the order for us to
ence in the e xpression of the feelingrs of each : move on, we will go at any rate," said Cole-
yet both felt the same passiosm-that a)8sson, nel Paris.
which, with its opposite, Hate, rules the world.  "Gentlemeth, you are young, and I forgive
-your language. I am no coward, but, mark
CHAPTER XXXVII.                 me, nor you,* nor 1, nor half of the brave lads
Another picture. It is a murky morning in *ox waskitedat the fratfrre of the enemy; Paris
August. The air is close, and the leaves 1"y taken prisoner and torturec to death by the enemy ;

Gener al HerK mer ntt41 ,vueu

r
1


f4           THAYENDANEGEA, THE SCOURGE ; OR,

S

with us, will ever live even to regret this
rashness ! I accede to your wishes, not moy
judgm ent-M aRCH ON I"
And forward, in such order as a raw militia
generaliy asuimes, they moved on, led by the
brave ohl general, his cheek burning and his
blood boinig, at the base and false imputation
of his cowardice.
Again we ciaige'the scene. We look along
that narrow road by which General ierki-
mer intends to pass.  We only see a drunk-
en (?) )utchman staggering along, who sings
as he goes, in a tone loud enough to be heard
for two or three hundred yards, no more, these
words:
"Mit a shmoke-pipe in minehand,
m'nu a tattle py mine site.
I cares not iV one te wand iens
Should close peh ia me ride.
'i I dinks I'd give 'em all de slip
Because +ley're half asleep
Un scattered hre und mare
Yusi like a ful&amp; of sheep."

Good. IIon Yost, for an impromptni-didn't
know you corn make poetry before - but
your work is dori--Thayendnegea has heard
your words, the warning is given, he knows
the nunmer of the reni behind, and the order
in which they conw.    Stagger quickly on,
good spy, an'd gvt out of harm's way, for
death wnuts s -oe here.
Wliile bit Yo t passed up that road, an
observer ever so sharp-eyed   might have
looked into tie close greenwood on either
han:id, and le would not have seen a leaf or
bush move, or heard a stick erack, or thought
for an instant that, like tigers crouching for
their pri'ey, lie mlmrered  warriors lay within
an hundred feet of him
One moment forward and then back, to,
witness what will chill the heart to think of.
lon Yost hurried on about a quarter of a
mile, and then was brought to a sudden halt
by ant officer, sitting on his horse at the head
of a large hody ofh men in.green uniforms-
evidently disciplined awl well armed men.
" Welh, lion Yost, your report, and quick-
ly f" cried the officer, with impatience.
" (Oue toiusaund iterns.n, mittemnerral lerkimer
at der heat, some nut rile-guns, some nit.
nunsket-Lrtnirs. iud sonic nit shot-guns, for kill
-         ehip birds rit-uo cannon-guns at all!" said
the -pv    -
Very well." said the officer, a' lie tossed
him  a piece of gold. " how far are they off?"
"A pout one mule iow, I dinks, Yeneral Sir
You, und de comes scattered all :napout like
. de gals vent ie 1ys pihiys plind-fold ini der
Chris'tuas times I"
"Thieni stet out of harm's way-we can't
afford to lose you !"
Cot in himmnhel. no more can I afford to
lose myself," said the spy, as he passed to the
a.

-
-
s_
.
_-3
=
_£
._
- .
=
L
_
-
_

rear, whsileGeneralJohnson drew his" Greet."
up in order for action.
Reader, hover with me rover a battle-field,
the battle-field of ORISxaNY.
Thie air is close, yet clear, though rising
clouds in the far east betokened a'storm to be
near. We look down, and all is still i-n the
forest ; but we hear the clatter of horses' feet,
the tramp of armed men, the hurried word of
command.    Ah, see, they come, under the
flag of the United Coloies-old men, nil
middle aged, apd young-some in uniform,
and some in none, but a soldier, every one
ready to battle, and, if need be, to die for their
country's cause. On, with the veteran Herki-
mer in command-on-on they march. Now
they are in the'ravine, along carelessly over
the treacherous swamp and causeway-on,
until they are within the crescent of that
thick forest---on, until the head of the line is
anost insight of the sp6t where Johnson and
his tories are waiting to aid in the work of
death.°
hark! A yell-loud, long, more fearful than
that of the hungered leuther on a track.
None lint the great War-Eagle of the Mo-
hawks could give that signal cry  The pa-
triots halt, would form, but it is all too late.
.-From behind every tree, and roek, and htish,
comes the leaden messengers of deatl. Yell
as of fiends are heard on every hand. Cox,
with all his bravado, is down. Davis, Vaa
liuyek, and fifty more bite the dust.
Where now is the coward Ilerkiner?  At
the head of his men his voice is heard, cheer.
ing and trying to rally all who falter. le
marks, a better ground in the forest, charges
for and gains it with scarce one-third his men,
But now, alas! he falls-not . slain, but his
death-wound is given.
Place my bac'k against yonde' tree "
cries' the hero. "Now'fight-ight for God
ard for Freedom!"
And there, as calm as if the ;fe-blood was
not flowing from his wound, he sits and gives
his orders. Johnson's horde of tories eame
sweeping down with the red nuieni ; but IIcr-
kiner's voice is heard as loud almost as the
resounding yell of Thay'endanegea -" Fight,
men-tight for life or death ; ask no quarter
fronm the fiends!"
But hark! IIeaven's artillery opens as if it
wouldI hid mortals cease their iunv strife and
witness its dread power.  The clouds that
have darkened fast above, open and shoot out
their red lightning and then sen4 down such
floods of rain that for a time the battle nmust
cease--th noblinding shower hides foe front tfoe.
Where is the coward lerk.mer, new ? IIe
liglhta his pipe as he sits under te shelterikg
houghs of tn huge pine, and gives such or.
iers as are best calculated to save his mi u and
punish the enemy when the shower is over.
lie orders them to form in circles, places twO

men to a tree, and then quietly waits for the.
storm to' br-eak, for hie kno:vs nearly how
strrsr.r the toe -are, anil the struggle wuittllab
fearful.  Where are they 'who called im
c'ovard now ? Some dead-some prisoners ;
but nore, like base Colonel Vischer, the Arnold:
of the day, tied to lift the bitve .win or lose'
the victory.
The storm of heaven breaks ; but thiestormH
of mortal strife is renewed, and now it'-is tar
more deadly. Closing up hand to hand, man
neets nun.   Bayonote are crossed-swords.
ehishi against swords:-the tomrahnk and'
knife are at work !
,8ee yon tall Indian in the foremost of 'the,
strife ; no plumes are on his bloody brow.-
they have been stricken off--but by his 4iger'
bonolds. his farful blows, his wild, rallyng'
cry, all may know that it 'is T/ayendaneger-!.
By his side, even in the thickest of the- tray,
bounds a young Indian, who thrice this day
has saved his life!-
Oh! how terrible-it is useless to describe
all we see. Old neighbors meet ; 'patriot
and tory clutch each other by the tairoats,
plunge tihe cold-steel into eaeh other's hearts,
and go linked in hate to death.
But, ai ! a sound fror the west-a firing
from the fort, Cheer up, brave patriots, help
is coming, perchance ; at least, your present
foes have other work to do.
The famed " Greens" falter, and fall back.
" Oonah !" is time cry heard now front Indian{
lips-it is the word of retreat
Herkirner smiles grimly. He says :
"Boys, the day is ours ; I am ready to
The day, indeed, was theirs; but, ah, such a
day !  Weeping and wailing for that day ran
flst and loud along the Mo'irawk Valley ! One
half the patriot army had left their homes to
return no miore !
CHAPTER XXXVIII.-
'.ou are young, but a great bravea! I own
a lire to you---three, if I had so niny t" said
Thayendarregea, as be stood before iris wig-
warn at the Indian quarters near Fort Schuy-
kr, on the night after his retreat from the
fearful fight at Oriskany, in whclh his Mo-
hawks arid Senecas had suffered so fearfully.
IIe spoke to a warrior who certainly did
Y t seem  over, eighteen. it so much; yet he
was of powerul build, so far as eould ibe
judged-though his caped hunting-shirt, fast-
eiet to the neck, did not expose what seemed
to be a frill amd brawny Chest so mnch as the
open and careless garb, or no garbm, of other
warriors; and his wide leggins, extending to
his ankles, concealed limbs, which should have
ben muscular. But, whatever his build, in
that day's fight Ie had shown himself inferior
k* skijl and valor to none but the great War-

Eagle himself, and thrice, at the rik, of his
own, had saved the chieft:in's hie:
He wore his war-paint so tidekly, and a
heavy turban so shaded his brow, that of his
loIeks we can say'but little, except that hisfaoe
seemed boyish ;;but. his eye--it spoke a heart
wilder, fiercer than that in the tameless eagle.
or the merciless tiger of the nrth.
Are yoi a-Moh-wk?'continued the gross
chief.
"I wish I   are,'that the great War-Rtado
could call me brother; that I could fi;ht for-
ever by his side, sleep only at his fire mint
only for him, and be his guard at all time,:by
night and by' day-; but I am a Seneca by
birth !" said 4he yottng Indian, modestly, 'but
not without enthusiasau.
" You shall have your, wist! Before ail
the nation s I adopt you as my brother I" Aaidf
Thamyendanegea.
4And by the Great Spirit, you wll nt
drive ine from your side      ,      '
" By the Great' Spirit, I will, not !" anid
Thayendanegea, pleased with tie earnest en-
thus.asi of his 'newly-adopted brother.
."Theni I am contat-ias lifa--in death'--I
will be as I was to-day !" said the yong nL-
dian, and his form sceeied to grow more tall.
and his eye more-bright, and his breast to ex-
paul withhappiness as he spoke.
What wonder? No higher honor could -b
given to a warrior iui the 3ix Nations'thaihe
had received--he was to he thenceforth the
brother and lifergaard of the great head. of
the confederacy.
.  Where is'1hayemdanegea?" asked a shirp,
imperative'voioe near them at that moment
"I am here. Waat does 'Walter Buler want
of me?' asked the chief,' haughtily, and ens.
phasisimg the name which he uttered, as it
he, did not like the man, or rater the jpoet
who asked for him.
' General St. Leger has ordered moe p iion
secret mission of great imaportauce-I ari to
take fifteen men and you the same. Hon Yost,
whom you know, is to be our guide !"
"Where is the order? I an iny mn ci a
tired!' said Thayendanegea.
"Is not; my word suffieient;?"asked Butler,
impatiently.
"I will take the ford of no pale-face, belhe
friend or foe. Let the _general send his or-
der!" said Thayendanegea.
Butler turned away, and went for the order,
for he dared not triflo with 'the man who bad
hut to speak to have his scalp stripped feom
his head.
Not even didSt Leger dare to thwart the
proud Mohawk in hi ,ways.
Butler soon returned, and he bore a polite
note from General St. Leger, in which the la+.
ter requested -Thayendanegen, the great chief
of the Six Nations, to accompany Lieutenant
Walter Butler upon an expedition of'groat
importance to the cause.

TI-II VAI- EAGLE OF TIIF MO}L WI 9.


I

6

THAYENDANEGEA, TIE SCOURGE; OR,

Thavendanegea read the note, and, turning
to the bearer, said :
"I will go ! Bring your men and guide
here-i-nine will be readyy"
Butler bit his lip, and a frown was on his
brow ; for,,aristocratie and tyrannical himself,;
he eould nt bear a master, but he turned and
went for his rren.
The first of the patty who made his appear.
anee was Hon Yost, evidently having a good
m'ad of the "ardent" on boursd, and carrying
a bottle of the same in his han/..
"=Got niclt, great Mister Var-Eagle." Vil
ea ave a trink mit me? Ve are goin' on a
Istse vailk for de olt general r'
S"Yes! I will take it all'* said Thayendan-
egea, as he took the extended bottle and dash-
ed it against a roel near by.
lion}Yost for a moment stood 'aghast. He
looked first at the fragments of the bottle, aml
thid at the chief, paused a moment, and then,
handing him his pipe, said :
' Yust p.reak mine slhmoke-pipe, too, if you
pleae Mister Var Eagle I".
Your heal, too, if you want it done !" said
the ohief, as he dashed the pipe alongside of
else bottle.
-a         "Nu, N no-$liste' Var-Eagle, you have
-          g f   peak mine heart ven you preaks mineprandy
te nal mine smoke pipe--I vil keep mine
bead for anodder time !"
Tlayendanegea now gave a low call, nail
a suiordinate chief appeared, whom he di-
s'eded to pick out fifteen men, true and trusty,
for the expedition.
zAm I to go as one 1" asked the newly-
ad.pted brother.
" We are but one, and I name you Niscayu-
!as " said Thayendanegea, nai, as he armed
bimself for the expedition, ie threw over
Nissayuna's shoulder a belt of the royal wam-
pnm, such only as was worn by himself, and
Shaded hira a tomahawk precisely like his
5.      On.
He examined Niseayugra's rifle, and said:
"This is not sure--there is a better !" and
anded lhim one like his own, with'its aceou-
trements.
Butler now made his appearance with his
men, and, as IlIon Yost was quite -sobered
with lias loss, the- party started.
~4-
x4                    CHAPTER XXXIX.
About two miles above Fort Dayton, stood
one of those old-fashioned Dutch houses-of
which few specimens are now to be seen in
the Mohawk Valley-large gabled structures,
as full of windows as an ancient village maid-
en is of gab-no offence venerable virgins, but
I must Cr:ve a comparison, even if it is at your
expense-nnd, at the time of which I write,
it was pretty well filled with a party of stories,
or of those who, sedueod by the specious pro-

clamations of General St. Leger, a..i the feat
that their property would be destroyed by the
advancing foe, wese'being inehned to bke the
side of King-Geerge,
.They were a higglepiggled set, Scotch,
Dutch, but,-to-their credit be it said-in that
day there were'very few Irish disinelined to
our patriot cause. Tie proprietor of this
mnrision was a- regtular-built, ,fill-ri:tged, old
tory hessian, by birth and nature. his name
was-Diedrich Schoomaker, yet so careful had
he beep to conceal his sentinments, th:t the
Tryon County Committee had not shipped him
off, or looked to his nodious aufhcietly tQ de-
teet him'in his'evil deeds. his house, being
back from the main-road and in an out-of-the-
was situation, suited the tories eceeently for
a r'ndc:vous, and ,as such it had bern used
8siree the commnencement of the war.
It was fall niidnight, and the great kitchen
and dinner-room--both being   one in such
houses-was pretty ubarly crammed with men
of the class which I have named. Diedrich
Schooraker was in his glory, for he presided
over a puncheon of rum in one corner, from
which he measured half-pints as tast as they
were called for, and that was about as fast as
they could be drawn by him.
" The health of.King George," was the only
toast allowed to be drunk, an- "success to his
cause" waste general ad  ition after the drink-
er had recovered his breath.
- Though most of those present seemed very
well contented with their cheer and their eon.
p:any, some there, were who exhibited great
impatience, and cursed more than a lit.le--
somewhat as the army is said to have done in
Flanders-because some person or persons cx-
pected did not make his or their appearance.
It was, perhaps, an half hour after mid-
night, when a person hastily entered from
without, and immediately one of the loudest
of tIe grumblers cried out:
"Gentlemen. come to order and make room,
for the deputation from the camp pf General
St. Leger has just arrived, and will enter the
room in one moment 1"
"Yes! and yust make room from pefore
mine rum parcel, for dey'll Ipe sure to be dry,"
cried the hospitable and most loyal Diedrich
A moment later, and.Thavendanegen, who
allowed no man to precede him, either in
war or peace, strode into the room, followed
by fourteen of his fierce-looking warriors,
Niscayuna being close by his side. Walter
Butler, headed by Ion Yost, and followed ;y.
fourteen of his men, came next.
There was no need to say make room. When
the people glanced at the great War-Eagle
ard his followers, they fell hack like sheep be.
fore a pauk of ,wolves, and he moved to the
upper end of the room, near where Diedrich
Schoornaker was, through a broad avenue.
"Crest Mr. Injun, vi~ you rind your mena
have a trink r' cried Died-ieh, wishing at creeo

THE WAR-EAGLE OF TIHE MOTIAWKS.

to make favor with that party, and he ad-
vanced with a gallon measure of rum in his
hand.
" Curse your fire-water-Mohawks are not
beasts !" said Thayendanege:a, indignantly, as
he struck the measure from the astonished
Diedrich's hand, and spilled its contents upon
the floor, which needed washing with rome
kind of liquid.
"Mein Cot in himmels, vat a       aste !'
groaned Ilon Yost, who was, as if by scent,
finding his way to the rum-puncheon with all
haste.
"'It is late, and this meeting will at- once
Crme to order, to hear the proclamation
which I have the honor to offer inthe name of
General Parry" St. Leger," said Lieutenant
Baitier. mounting a very appropriate stand for
a spirited address, it being the head of Died-
rich's rum barrel. " But before I read the
proclamation, copies of which I have for gen-
eral distribution, I will say," continued the
lieutenant, "that, in the troops of both classes
which I have brought here, not as a guard, but
as a specimen, you see only a few outof thou-
sands just like them who must-"
" Surrender to the arms of the Continental
Congress !" shouted an officer, at the door,
who was dressed in the uniform of the Ameri-
can army. "You are surrounded-resistance is
useless-he dies who tries to escape t"
With  a wild bound, and Niscaryuna by his
side, Thayendanegea sprung through the pas-
sage by which he had entered. His warriors
would have followed, but the terrified crowd
closed in, and cut thers off from their leader.
All was terror, shouts, confusion I
-eatla, nota second, and the War-Eagle,
ndiching his tomahawk in his hand and ut-
tering his terrible yell, which was known but
too well, was at the door-out of it, upon the
soldiers who were placed before it: 'Iwo fell
before his blows, another dropped beneath
Niscaynna's hand, and they were clear ; for
the line was broken, and tley were speeding
off like deer in the gloom beyond pursuit. A
few scattering shots were fired after them, but
they were far tide of their mark. Soon the
forest was gained, and then Thayendanegea
paused, and said
"My brave brother, we are safe!I"
"Tire Great Spirit protects the brave and
.the good I" said Niscayuna, as he pressed the
hand of the War-Eagle.
They were safe ; but where were their late
companions? Let us go back and see.
Scarcely had Thayendanegea and Niscayu-
ns escaped from the room, when, from every
evenu-, Con neutal soldiers entered with fixed
bayonets ; at every window  glittering steel
_     was seen.  Those within saw but too plainly
bow mad aand useless it would be to resist.
Even the Indians were panic-strieken, and
stood quiet and waited for the result.
"   aSurrender, sir !" said an officer, approach-
ig Walter Butler.

60

" To whom r' said Butler, turning pale, for
he knew tihe doom generally awarded to a spy,
or an pnemy who sought to incite people to
rebellion.
'Colonel Weston, ,of the    Continental
army !" ciied the officer, reaching lrii hand for
Butler's sword, which was delivered
" Cot in himmels, I surrender, too 1" said
Hon Yost, as he bent down before DiedricWe
rum pnneheon, and surrendered himself to fuli
a pint of its contents.
The soldiers and Indians were all speedily
disarmed; such of the persons present as we
known tories were secured, while the rest were -
dismissed, with the information that Genera)
Arnold, with a powerful force, was at Fort
Dayton, and would not onlysweep the enemy
from the land, but severely punish all who
'were recreant to the cause. And as the young
hero, then, of St. Johns, Montreal, the pasgetge
of the Kenaiebee and Chandierre, was iii the
zenith of his fame, and known to be as severe
as he was brave, the cheek of Butler paisd;
for he knew that of all others, he would, be
one who, from rhis position, past and preset,
it would be desirable to make an example  f,
The   prisoners, properly secured, were
soon marched off to Fort Dayton;,and, as might
have been supposed from what Arnold awas
then, an immediate court-mirtial was ordered.
Its result must be the subject of another '
chapter, while we turn off for a brief spacedo
a scene, which it were a mortal sin in me:to
fail to describe.
CHAPTER LX.
After the fatal victory of Oriskany, General
Herkimer was conveyed upon a litter to his
residence, which still stands upon the lovely
banli    the Mohawk, about two or hree -
mi s bel w the now beautiful and thriving
vi lage o -Little Falls, modernized in some
pa 'ts, ye in the room where he died, anti
am her avorite room of hiss left nnehanged
le iore without * groan the exquisite pain
conseqa ent upon his removal with a limb so
dreadful   shattered ; his only thoughts of
agony be ig for the loss of so many brave
friends and neighbors, among whom were  e
Bellingers, Seebers.Saumens, Davis,HIelne "s,
Petries, Deggerts, Snells, and many other.
Upon his arrival at home, had Iris old m "i.
cal adviser Doctor °Patrie been left to hisFogn
judgment, there is no doubt in the ,minds of
all cognisant of the case.that the old- heroni'aie
might have been saved for years, at least. °4
a young French surgeon inGenerrl ArnolA's
army-pity it is that we have not his uasre.,o
hand down, to the realms of .'blasted non ,"
insisted that amputation was necessary.. _
old general bore t$e operation as he hp..adl
other pain, without a mnrmnr : but the opera-
tor--most accounts say that he was intoxicated
-did Ihis work unskilifully; the arteries were
nut propery taken up, asd (roms t hatIoeur  .


TIE WAR-EAGLE OF THE MOHAWKS.          69

hero knew he had to face again that grim
Xsaster who exacts obedience from all
It is not hard--searely does it require any
heroism to die upon the battle-field-one
searcely feels the pain of a wound there, amid
As wild excitement, and the spirit leaps from
its shattered tenement almost exultingly, seem-
tng to think that it has plenty of company in
is way to the other world. But it does re-
quire bravery to calmly face the hour when
ee must leave all that he loves, and all thsat
6e knows of, to step into that world which
n only be seen dimly by the eye of faith,
r  d front whence no traveler has ever return-
"d to give us a chart to steer by--to die so, in
*quiet, only disturbed by the sobs of weeping
rends, an to bid them be still and see how
- man can die, does require true courage-.
-Whendeath was very near, the heroic Her-
"kimer, who had calmly arranged his affairs,
ade his friends bring him the Bminax. He
was done with the swons. He was familiar
with the only two weapons necessary to sus-
-in American freedom. Reading aloud, the
tarty-eig h t Psalm, so that all about his bed
mght heap it, he continued until the rapid loss
Ot blood so weakened his voice that it died
sefay into a whisper.
Oh. look with re at that bed-side-be still,
Isr Deat4 stands at the door. Look upon
those gragt hairs clustering around that pale,
but.massive brow-look at that eye which
laely shone so bright in the lurid glare and
sulphurons smoke of the battle-field--see
those lips slowly growing cold and blue, from
whence came the words: "March on, I will
face the foe"-thsoe lips last blessed with the
words of sacred ins piration-look at the frost
of dissolution slow lywhitening over those
manly features-those white hands so lately
sawvrd-cluthing, now crossed in peace upon
- his broad breast-look--bnt stop, he breathes
ash--me is gone! The unseen spirit has pass-
ed invisitljfrom our eyes, fled away from the
power of eath, who now coldly sits upon
what was only mortal of hi(vietimC CC
More than seventy, or nearly seventyyears
ago-I am not to a year or two certain of the
date-Congress passed a resolutiorI req testing
the governor and council of New York to
" preet a monumetnt, at Ahe expense of the
fiited . tates to cost five hundred dollars, to
the memory of General Nicholas Herkimer.
Has it been dine? Go, pilgrim, to the
shrine ofL departed heroism, and see the plain
*tr above his grave-a grave now in the
hands of the stranger I Go, you, whose duty
trwas long since to have fulfilled the will of
-ngress, which can be done at any time
'ken politicians at Albany have time to turn
their minds from corruption to right, and
bumoppression to justice, and weep tears of
shame above the neglected grave!
OITIzzNs or HERKIMIEa COUNTY, to you, I
'  i  Shame these recreants, and erect the

monument yourselves! ilaise itnot above his
grave, but place it on the brow of the loftiest
hill which overlooks the silverM Nohawk,
which he so loved, and tell the world. this
have we of Herkimer done, in honor of our
GRSuTsvssAN D BST CITIZEN-
A QcuIs AND A llxao!
CHAPTER XLI.
The court-martial was over. Walter But-
her, Hon Yost Schuyler, and others, were
found guilty as spies and sentenced to death !
Butler'founm friends. Even then as mnw, ar-
istocratic associations, money and family had
influence, and, at the intercession of so many
persons as these attributes could bring to
bear, Arnold was persuaded to reprieve But-
ler and send him to Albany, frorn whence he
soon made Iis escape-to become the most dia-
holical scourge the Mohawk county ever
knew. Even then Arnold seemed to begin to
feel a sympathy for villany !
But poor Hon Yost had no friends-no
money-but little sense-it would do to have
him dangle in the air, and to say a spy. had
been hung I Oh, yes! as even now, so jus-
tice was then. A starving begear steals a
loaf of bread, off-off to prison with him!
A bank president or the treasurer of n Philadel.
phia Sunday School Union, may rob the peo-
hle of a hundred thousand dollars or half a mil-
lion, and it is only a moral delusion--a slight
turpitude, excuse the fault, sprinkle a little
perfume upon their garments, and sweet So-
ciety draw them back to thy spotless bosom I
A poor lost girl may be found wandering in
the streets. to jail with her, while her wealthy
seducer seeks another victim!
Hon Yost was condemned to die. The gal-
lows was erected. The rope was ready. The
hour was named. Troops were ordered out
to guard the proceedings.
I said that he had no friends. Ah, wh:lo
she lives there is one friend who never will
desert us ; in peril, in crime, in tribulation a
mother will cling to her son!
Arnold, having given all ttie necessary or-
ders for the execution 0t the unapphy Dtutch-
man, had gone into the house, with some offi.
cers, to wash down any qualms which he
might have had with a few glasses of wine
The glass was at His lips when an aged wo-
man, wild and gipsy-like in look and dress,
rushed into the room and knelt at his feet,
crying for mercy, in the name of God, for
poor lion Yost. It was his mother who
plead. Her furrowed face, brown and care-
worn-her streaming gray hairs, tears pou r-
ing out in floods, her sobs and moans should
have tonlehitd a heart of stone.
But Arnold would not hear or heed her.
Another pleatver came ; a man with more
heart and sener than the other, and he even
offered to suffer im sis stead, " for," said he,
"lion Yost is my in other, and he is itr ore than

ha'f. an idiot. Ie has lived with the Indians
and the Johnson clan alt his life, and they
have influenced him. I am a mhn ad know
what I am about. Hang mc in his stead, and
spare himli .1"
E m to this appeal the then less than man
and after traitor closed his ears.
But now another influence was brought to
bear. Colonel Willett whispered a word in
Arnold's ear.
The latter listened to the suggestions offer-
ed. lie ordered every officer out of the room
but Colonel Willett, bidding the mother and
brother of lion Yost to remain. lie thea
gave orders to have lion Yost brought before
The latter was led in, closely bound and
guarded by a file of soldiers. They were or-
dered out, and then Arnold harshly addressed
the poor, pale, trembling creature, who, how-
ever brave lie might have been elsewhere,
was now dreadIfully terrified.
" Villsn," said the greater villain of the
two, "I am about to have you hung; but
you nay say good-bye to your mother and
brother here !"-
"Oh. mine Cot, Mister Yeneral, ton't hang
poor lion Yost !" cried the nihappy fellow,
dropping on his knees.
"What will you do for me if I intercede for
your life ?" asked Colonel Willett.
- Any dog--any dig vot is possible or im-
, possible, Mister Kurnel Villett !' .moaned the
poor fellow.
"Will you go, after I have had your clothes
fixed for it, and alarm the Indians and all the
camp of St. Leger with the idea that General
Arnold is close at hand, andi will attack and
eut theme to pieces in a few hours with an in-
mense army?  Tell them you escaped while
you were heing led to execution ?"
"Yes, Nister Kurnel Villett, I vill do dat,
und scare dem all same as one flock of sheep. "
"how can I trust you ?"
Both the mother and brother instantly
offered to become security for the fattlhful per-
forrmance of the promise, and lion Yost was
solemnly assured that they would be hung if
lie failed, and hlie meet the same fate if ever he
was eaurht. lie again rene ved the promise.
saw them bound as he had been, and then,
after his clothes had been perforated in seve-
pal places with bullets, end his hat alo, as
if he had bee' rhct- at chile running, he was
allowed to depart. T'a result of the plan
will be tie '.euei of t'ae next chapter.
CJIAPTER XLI.
It is night-we are in the mitt cf the im-
mense Indian encampment of the beleaguering
force around Fort Schuyler. Why do we see

THAI' D.   I.C I:A, THE SCOURGE; OR,

these hundreds of Indians gailu'ved in silence
around this one wigwam, from which lproceedE
the monotonous tun, turn, turn, of the liden
drum, and a low tong to the Manitou,or Greal
Spirit? Iissatisfied with the result of the-dem
feat at Oriskany, miournin over the loss of so
ninn of their chiefs aid braves, and angry,
too, at the deceits put upon them by the Brz
ish leaders, the Indians are holding a solend
pow-wow to ask the Manitou, through one off
their prophets, if they shall hot abandon the
expedition, and return home.
And not alone are they discontented. Theei
pale-faced allies, especially the Causdians all
Hessians, who, unlike the stories, had no hate ta
influence them, but fought for ten cents a day
were sickened with the toils of a siege, so far
only a losing game on their.part. Andeven the
leaders ha  passed high words. Sir John
Johnson and Barry St. Leger, each probably
jealous of the other, had fallen out. But togo
back to the pow-wow.
Except the sound of tlje prophet's drum in-
side the sacred wiigwam  reeted for the ocea-
sion, all was still in that vast assemblage.
Each moment they expected to hear the Mai'
ton, to whom 'their prophet was prayi ,
speak through his lips:
But something comes to-break the stillness
A man, with rent garments, pallid and terror-
stricken face, sweating and gasping from fa-
tigue, rushes in among them.
It is Hon Yost, whom they all know an1
hold;in awe, for they deem him one whose
brain has been touched by tlhe finger of the
Great Spirit. lie fearsf'not, heeds 'not the
pow-wow-he tells them the fate he has e-
caped-that an army is close at hand, which
will sweep themdway as.the gale bears off the
dry leaves in autumn ! 'rhey ask him, ho#
many .-he points to the trees of the forest, anI
says, "More yet than they."
hark ! How the pow-wow prophet comes
sweating and steaming from his lodge. Ihi&amp;
face, too, wears a look of mystery. Through
him the Manitou is to speak.
"The Great Spirit, is angry with a! W
must go home and give feast to 4A in our owl
villages !"
The Manitou had spoken-no need for i me
other words from Ion Yost there.
Generals St. Leger and Johnson soon off
served the general stampede which the Indiani
are making, and hear the rumors which,
through lion Yost and the Indians, are flying
through the English camp.
ion Yost is sent for into their presence.
"What means this, ydu dog of a spy, this
report that the American army is so close at
hand ?" cried St. Leger, livid with rage ; for,
almost sure of the surrender of the fort by
morning, he was maddened at the thought '.
a failure which would tear to pieces theisnure
wreath, which he believed to be already e y
twined for his brow.


y;I                  THAYENDANEGEA, TIE          COU1GL: ;OR,
"'Mine cot, general, it means de truth ! it not irreverenly--a look of purity that i
Look at mine hat, mine clothes, all mit pul- above the earthly.
Let holes iu 'em! Mist r Putler is hang u  py  There, with her fair hair floating off from
da neck pefore now, and Hon Yost would have her white neck, like ringlets of sunlight, she
been hung, too, if I not preak loose from de stands supporting herself by a small Cedar
tam Yankees, and run like der duyvel ! Gen- trunk, against which she leans like some flower
'          ral Arnold mit more as ten thousand mens is blown there by the wind, and her eyes are
Coming fast as he can, mit cannon-guns and  looking far, far up the river where last she
,dder guns, and I'm going' to Canada just so saw him.
mon as der coot cot und you, general, will let  Dyagetto sits moodily upon a rock near
me!"her, her face expressing no care or love for the
"Go, you lying wretch, go I" said St. Leger, poor girl, and far less anxiety for the return
but if you breathe another word of this in  of Thayendanegea.
gap, I will hang you higher than Haman was  "Good Dyagetto, do you not see something
hung.                                      like a canoe far away up the river ?"
Hon Yost rushed out, and at the same in-   "My eyes are the eyes of an owl--they are,
stad t an Oneida Indian was brought in by an  old and dim," replied Dyagetto. " Yours are
officer, who verified the statement of fon  the eyes of a young bird, and can see-look
g st, whom he had seen before he reached the  for yourself."
cahimp .                                    The sound of a footstep behind her-light,
Tius means something, GeneralSt.Leger!" it is true, yet still loud enough for her ear,
said Sir John.                            caused Kathleen to turn around, and, with
I care not what it means, General Johnson. a wild shriek of joy, she sprung forward, faint.
I ask you to go and keep your Indians here-- ing, and would have fallen to the ground, had
never will abandon a post so nearly won ! she not been caught in Thayendanegea arms.
Not a man of my force -stall stir. If Arnold  "Poor Lily of the Pale-faces, how you hiave
ones, he shall find me inside of the fort to  wilted !" said the noble warrior, in a pitying
-        meet him -"                               tone, as he lifted her easily as if she had been
A tumult outside, so loud as nearly to drown  a feather, and carried her up to a mossy bank
kis angry voice, was heard.                beneath a spreading maple, and laid her gently
"They're coming ! they're coming !" was down upon it.
Uie loudest cry of all.                      When her eyes unclosed, she saw that Thay-.
"By Heavens, it must be true, and I'm off endanegea was sitting beside her, and a yenag
before I get my neck into a noose!1" said Sir warrior, richly dressed, standing leaning upon
John; and away he went to prepare, not for a his rifle, near. And she closed her eyes again
retreat, but afhght.                     to see if she were in a dream or not, for she'
"General St. Leger, all of the men are fly- wished to hear his voice, if it was a reality.
ing, leaving arms and all behind them !" cried  " Niscayuna, this is my sister," said Thay-
ape of the general's aids, coming in at this in- endanegea, to the young Indian.
eant.-                                       "has my brother no other sisters ?" asked
"God of heaven! Then all is lost, and I Niseavuna.
gm a ruined man ! At least, tr to retain an "Y'es, there was one ; I only saw her once,
escort for me in my retreat," sail St. Leger, as and had forgotten her," said 'l'hayendanegea
he snatched up his sword, and left the tent.  carelessly. Then he asked of his mother-.
IBy this time, leaving guns, baggage, ammu- "Where is Iona ?"
cation and all, the whole army of investment  " Gone ! Perhaps to the land of spirits !
-trsiege was in full flight. Never was a siege  You brought the pale-face here, anel he would
raised by means more simple-nor, perhaps, not stay," was the reply, given withi no kind
eyer done so rapidly. Ilon Yost was the sole look to poor Kathleen.
general and army of the occasion. IIe had    "Let her go! She was a fool ! The Lily
fulfilled his,pledge, and Villctt's, not Arnold's, of the Pale-faces was gentle as a dove, and
-' rie had sue eeded-                      would not tread upon a flower. Poor Lily,
---how wilted you are !" said Thayendanegea,
gently, as he spoke thedast words, and he took
CHAPTER XLII                 up one of her thiii hands in his.
Upon that high cliff overhanging the Little  Why with a quivering frame, and a face e.
Falls of the Mohawk, where last we saw her pressive of every passion but love, did Niseay-
tearfully watching the departure of Thayenda-  un turn away and walk into the grove of e..
-       akgea, we will once more look upon our dar ? Did he wish that he, too, had a sister to
Katleen.   She is altered, very much so, pity?
r she is still more thin, more pale, more sor-  Kathleen this time heard the kind words of
wtflthan when we last looked upon her. Thayendanegea: and, with a wild ry of glad-
S        -ethwr great blue eyeslook largerand brighter ns, she raised her arms, threw f hem around
in the white face, and her expression of settled  his brawny neck, an, bursting into tears, hid
sorrow gives her anr almost holy look--I mean her face upon his bosom.'

THE WAR-EAGLE OF TIIE MOIIAWKS.      71

"The rain will do the'flower good," he said,
tenderly, 'and lie did not offer'to remove her
from her resting-place.
With a look of the bitterest anger, Dyagetto
regarded the scene for a moment, and then she
said, in the Indian tongue, which she knew
Kathleen did not understand :
'"A snake is upony our breast ! Cast it off!"
-t is a dove, and I will protect it !" replied
Thayeinlanegea, in the same language.
"I will be the eagle to tear thy dove asun-
der," said the mother, bitterly.
"You may talk, you are my mother," said
Thayendanegea, quietly,
Niscayuna now returned perfectly calm, and
Kathleen, having wept away her first burst of
feeling, modestly, and with blushes upon her
soft cheek, withdrew her white arms from the
War-Eagle's neck, and sat down on the moss
by his side. liut she no longer looked sorrow-
ful. 11er face was radiant with the beauty of
joy.                               .,
"Niscayuna, how do you lile my sister?-
as you are my brother, she too is your sis-
ter"-asked Thayendianegen.
"I like the Lify of the Pale-faces," said Nis-
cavuna. "She is more beautiful than the stars
at'night, or the flowers which follow the going
off of the snow
Kathleen looked up at Niseayuna as lie stood
before her and said this, but a slight shudder
passed through her frame, and she dropped her
glance, for his eyes seemed to pierce her, and
she felt an unknown fear of him-felt that lie
was her enemy. And she clung closer to Thay-
endanegea, as if she felt, dove as she was, she
could say to the great War-Eagle: t" I dare
trust thee !"
"When do we go upon the war-path again,
my Brother ?" asked Niseayuna, whose keen
.    eye had' noticed that averted look, and even
that slight shudder.
" Soon--we must not be idle while the ene-
mies of King George are so busy," said Thay-
endanegea ; and then, when Kathleen clung to
him and looked up imploringly in his face, he
read her thoughts in her looks, and said :
"Do not tremble, my dove, no harm shall
come to the Lily, and when this war is over,
there shall be flowers for you to walk upon !"
-"1 do not fear for m-self. but for yon !"
she said, softly. "If I die-it is'hut a drop
falling into the sea, but if you were to die-I
-I-" she could not finish the sentence in-.
tended, but lnirst into a flood of tears again,;
and once more his bosom was a resting-place
for her heal.
While Thavendanegea was engaged in sooth-
ing this new'burst of grief, with a tenderness
unusual to his stern nature, and new indeed to
himself, Dvagetto caught the glance of Nis-
cayuna, and with a look, called him to follow
her. Whither they went, or what they paid,
being to me a mystery, must remain so to the
reader.

"If yon will go again, oh, takie me' with yoi
I can bear fItigue. I fear no danger, only let
nm live and die by your side !" murmtfed
poor Kathleen, when she became more corn
posed.
"Sweet dove, it cannot be. Thay-endanegea
could not fight with one eye and all his heart
upon you. lit his eye looks upon your ter.
ro, and now he knows its cause. You shall
no longer be left alone with her who would not
have me wed a pal-face. I will place a guard
of braves around you, who with their lives
shall answer for the safety of the dove that
has built her, iest in my heart ! And when
again I come back, I will take the dove to i
bosom, and it shall rest there forever I"
And probably for the first time in his life,
did the lips of Thayendanegba touch those of
woman,'for now he bent his noble head down
and pressed his lips to hers.
She wept no more. A lofty feeling seemed
to enter her heart. She said, and she looked up
proudly : "lam the betrothed wife of Thayen.
danegea ; I will be strong, and fit myself to ba4
warrior's wife !"
"The Great Spirit tells me that you will
Be strong, and Thayendanegea will not be so
careless of a life which inow belongs to the
dove of his bosom !"
Once more he kissed her, and then they
arose and walked toward the wigwam. They
had but just passed out of sight of thespot
where they had been seated, when Dyagetto
and Niscaynna stepped from a covert neat
enough for them to have seen and heard all
that had passed. They made no reinarks, but
by different routes followed Thayendanegea
slowly to the wigwam.
CIIAPTER XLIII.
Another wild forest scene, and once more
we are among old acquaintances. Upon tie
banks of the swift Tioga, amid a forest of the
loftiest hemlocks, was formed an encampmen,
mnch such as we have described before, whea'
the ill-fated IIerkiner met Thayendanegea at
Unadilla. IHere, as there, more than an hun-
dred cheerful fires blazed up in the gloom of
the night-here, as there, five hundred red
warriors moved about them, roasted their beef
or their venison ; but there was now a greater
show, for this was Thayendanegen's great war-
party returning from a sweep through a vast.
portion of the country east and south, where
he had gone almost at will, subsisting his men,
of course, upon the phmnder of those whom he
deemed to be his fors ; yet more merciful than
Ibritish or tories, slaying none but those whom
he met in arms against him. Tents, provisions,
stores of various kinds wise plenty, and also
horses to carry them. And this was his choedi
band of braves, the veterans of the war, i a
"old guard" of the Napoleon of the forest.
EE


2                 TIIAYENDANEGEA, TIE SCOIJRI:W; OR,
T       re night had bt just set in, but the camp  who, by his unif rm as well as actions, seemed
waa fuly ormdtheseninds otthe war- to be chief of thec group.
 nors mostly at their suppers, and enjoying as     " When Thayendanegea knows Walter But,.
much comfort in their way-and, I eonfess, in. ler to be his friend, he may give him a we.
my way, for the forest is a home to nie-as come," id the chief, coldly.
an lordling would in his sumptuous palace.  " All who hate the foes of King George and
In the centre of the encampment, which was hear his commissions should be friends! Be-
t .     Laid out in true military style-for Thayenda- sides, when we last parted we were on one corn.
aegea had lost nothing, but learned much since mission !"
the commencement of the war-stood a mar-    " Yes, but not one of honor. I left you in
quse or tent, of the largest size.        your company, and chose better for myself.u I
The largest fire of all blazed before this tent, was led into danger by you, an'd  -y thank
apd various persons were engaged here in  myself for getting out oi' it !"
roasting and boiling meats, etc.            " Danger is a word *hieh I have heard that
Before the tent, reclining upon a bear-skin, the Great War-Eagle loves !" said the wily
with his ready rifle as usual by his side, and  Butler, hoping to flatter the chief.
his tomahawk in his belt, his coronet of eagle  "Ie loves honor better, but believes that
plumes upon his head, was our hero, Thayen- Walter Butler knows but little of either !"
danegea. And near him, as he ever had been  said the chief, bluntly. "If you have busi-
since the battle of the Oriskan , was Nisca- ness with me, let me know it.-if youhave
ynna, looking a trifle older an firmer than  not, you can depart !"
when we-saw him last, but quite natural.    "'1'hen to the point, captain Thayendane
-           When the repast of the chief was prepared, gea, for I know that such is your commission
only himself and Nisecayuna partook of it, --here is a letter from my father Colonel
though many of the sub-chiefs stood around. John Butler, your superior ,,
'Thayendanegen was as lordly in his style as  "Liar!" thundered Thayendaneea"Io
some of his more civilized regal brothers. The no superior on earth !" '
-      repast fuiishied, the War-Engle again east him-  "I only mean in rank in the armyof Kin
self upon his furry couch, and for, a time  George !" said Butler, trembling n si
seemed lost in thought.                   himself.
"My brother is sad to-night," said Nisca-  " Well, go on with your mission, but talk
yuan. "Where do his thoughts wander that carefully with your tongue, or you may lose it!"
they are gloomy ?"                          "Let the letter speak for itself!" said Bat-
"To the lone dove that waits the coming of lcr, nt. daring to risk more words with one
her mate," said Thayendanegea.            whom he knew it was useless to try to eon-
Niseayuna said no more, for that was a sub- ciliate.
jeet upon which he never talked.            Thayandanegea read it by the light of the
But the silence that now began to reign in fire, then threw himself down upon his bear-
the forest did not remain long unbroken, for skin, and pondered over its contents for a long
suddenly a warning cry was heart) from the time, leaving his visitors to stand or sit as
sentinels upon the trail they ha that day they thought proper. At last he rose, ave a
made                                      clear cry, and in an instant, as if by magie,
In an instant Thayendanegcn was upon his his warriors c me in from the glooaf , and
feet ; and when the cries were repented, one ranged themselves in such military order be.
was heard from his lips which brought every fore his tent, their front at a distance of twen-
warrior to his feet. At another cry, the war- ty paces, as elicited remarks of surprise from
riors gathered to his side, and all, almost as those who accompanied Butler.
quickly as thought, disappeared in the gloom  " Why do you want to go to Cherry Val-
heyoi the fires ; so that if foes approached, ley ?" asked the chief abruptly of Butler.
they could he seen by the Mohawks, while the  "I want to fight the enemies of King
latter were hidilden in the darkness.     George !" said Butler. "There are two hun-
Not long in this canopy of gloom did Thay. dred and fifty continetal troops there, with
endanegea hay  to remain in suspense as to  plenty of arms and ammunition r"
by whom or what the alarm was caused.       "1 ow many men have you ?"
Ten of his sentinels caine on to his marque,  "Two hundred, all told"!"
and with them several British officers in uni-  "You had better go home! I can take half
form, and 'ne pale-face, clad in a hunter's garb. my men and whip them !"
They halted at the tent and uttered a pecu-  "These are my-father's orders  - said li
1am' ery. Upon bearing this, Thyendanege  ler pleading the only ercuse he dared to oiler
.      bidding his chiefs remain with their men in si- 'Thaveydanege; although his real reason was
knee in their places. witls onyi Niscnyuna by  his ven aetoerevenge his recenteapture, sea-
is side, stepped boldly out of the gloom and  tence, amd the in  isonmet at A   fro
-      walked back to his tent.                  which he had esc.opem.
a Thayendanegea gives his friends rather a  " Your tories are worse than my Indiais;
- okW welcome this chilly night," said the officer they will butcher women and children, and

r TIIE WAIR-EAGLE OF TU E MOiIA WKS.

then lay it to, my men, whom I can and do
snati o.". .
"We will fight only the soldiers; when they
are whip)ed we'll collect the spoj, and de-
"4m p !"'
"Walter Butler, you are a bad man, and
tarry a forked tongue. Your heart is made
of mud ! But when I took my commission, I
swore to fight for King George-and your
father, who is no better than you are, hotds a
higher Conission than I do. I would rather
go with the devil than you, for he is the best
man. But I will go ! I have spoken !"
Thayendanegen uttered these words with a
-careless seor, which no pen could describe,
no pe'1ec fully delineate.
"My tops are beyond your line of senti-
nels, resting upon their arms in the darkness
and cold !" continued Butler.  ,
Thayednuegea made no reply, but gave an
order tor his chiefs, and his own men instantly
dispersed to their dil'erent camp-fires, to seek
the repose from which they had been aroused,
while 'T bayendanegea cast himself down upon
his bear-skin, and lighting his pipe, went to
smoking, as if no one lives but himself.
"If you have no respect for me, you might
have for the gentlemen with me t" said But-
ler, now piqued beysmd forbearance.
"I know you, Walter Butler, and I judge
strangers by the company they keep !" said
Tiayenlanegea.  " If .your men are in the
cold and dirk, you had better go and pitch a
camp for them, if you know how-if yo9
don-t, I'll lend you a savage to show you i"
Butler knew his man too well to trifle with
him -further, and he departed with his suite
-or all but one, and he wore no uniform.
lie remained standing a moment in the
shade of thet tent, until Butler and his party
were out of hearing, and then stepped for-
ward.-
- " Creat Mister Var-Eagle, blease for let
poor lion Yost live mit you and your mens-
I can't live mit such tam sehoundrels as Cap
tami Putler-I hunt mit you when you was a
p    - lease let me live nit you !" said this
m ividual.
"Yes; you are a rascal, but too good for
his company. There is meat, eat. There is
a blanket, take it and sleep !" was the brief,
but to the =poor Dutchman most satisfactory
reply.
Thayendanegea now spoke a word to Nis-
caynna, who brought him a blanket, which he
wrapped around his form, and scorning the
shelter of a tent, raised more for form than
necessity, in such weather, lay down to sleep.
Nisca'r ua, wrapping a blanket aro:md him-
self, sat" down by his chieftain and  "zther's
heal, and there sat quietly watching  y him,
until, at lasI his eyes became weany, and
with his rile beneath his head, he went also
to sheep.      -         -    -
lon Yost, after eating as, if he had fasted;
for a week, picked a blanket from a pile, to

73

which th   e-hief had posted, and followed
suit.
CHAPTER XLIV.
One night more, and another camp. Who
would believe it? the united forces t' Butler
and 'TChayendanegea, of which, by his British
commission, the former is in command, are
encamped upon a lofty hill, evergreen covered,
within one mile of the village and fort which
they intend to attack. And this, although
the colonel in command, Alden, has been in-
formed of the intended attack. But, like
Braddock in the French war, aid. still later,
my poor friend .Dade, in the Florida war, ho
held Indin cnning as well as courage at too
light a weight, and was sunk by it in conse-
quenee.
And here, too, guided by the knowledge and
skill of Thayendanegea, they had been led, in
broad daylight; so that before they hid down
in their blankets for the night-as they did
without fires-they could count the soldiers in
the garrison, see every house in the 'village,
and even notice every spot where a sentinel
was posted.
That might,-before he made dispositions in
regard to-his own movements in the morning
(and history proves it), Thiayendanggea, much
as he hated Butler, held an interview with him
in regard to the sparing of fanniies in the
place -telling him that friends of General
Johnson and his own fattier dwelt there.
But I cannot pause. A painful task is be-
fore me; and the sooner it is over, the better.
Iaving marked the position of every senti-
nel the night before-leaving Dutier tochoose
his own point of attack--Thayendmmnegea, at
or before dawn, while snow-lakes were falling
thick and fast in the air, moved down the hill
with his men. Butler' with his "1 Iaingers "--
alias murderous tories-taking t heir route.
But before they reached the vilinge, a set-
tler, going in on horseback, crossed their path.
lIe was fired upon; but, in te darkness and
mist of the morning, he escaped. TIhe alarm
was given-gunms tired ; and all was now ex-
citement and confusion. Butler anl his han-
gers, without oven approaching the garrison,
sprung to a work of general desolation and
carnage. Thayendanege&amp;s heart, saviage (:') as
it was, thrilled with horror when he found how
he had been betrayed by the iend Butler.
One of his chiefs lie sent to protect the vener-
able minister of tme place - others he sent
elsewhere ; but he hastened to one family, of
which he had spoken particubirly to the hated
tory. lie was too late when he arrived at the
house of Judge Wells: the family were slain I
Ihe hurried in pursuit of Butler, who, mad
with excitement, sword inmhanl, was rushmig
from house to house, killing and ordering to
kill.
lie found him in the act of causing a woma3
and ehifd to be'slain in bed.

I


p  d
x  .
Y
..     d
i*x x
ti gt  '
s b
s yF [
at
Y    _4
J
4
*     K
C_
y 4
yR

TJIAYENTLAiEGE A, 'I IJESCOURiGE; OR.

"Back, murdering dog, or you die !" cried
I'hayendanegu a. " The child nor woman are
enemies to the king! Go check your devils!-
they are not mn n !"
'fhius rebuked, Butler turned away-not in
shame, for he had none ; and Thayendanegea
went on, to save.
From the moment the garrison was alarmed
and the fort secured, he knew how useless it was
to try its strength wlhout artillery. his wish
was iunpossihIe; and now, sickened and dis-
gusted, he regretted that even the oath, by
which he held his commission in a cause
which lie had been reared to believe right, had
beeii kept-
Morn of horror ! let not thy sun rise higher
to my view ;or oh ! it is red-red with blood !
Reader, go to impartial history for a recital
of the horrors of November 10th, 1778, in
Cherry Vailey-where yet the name of Btr. ri:
is used to Lighten wicked children into si-
lence
CIIAPTER XLV.
Sill another camp-fire, and one more mel-
ancholy than any yet ; it is at a half-day's
marehfrom Ciecry Valley, toward Niagara,
whither Thayenlanegea, with some imlporLanit
prisoners-'eeded to effect "exchanges'-is
bound.lMelancholy, because these poor pri-
oners have been suddenly wrenched from their
desolated homes ; some have left living rela-
tives behind ; others have left those whom they
best loved on earth, dead and stark upon the
ground.
The camp is in a beautiful and romantic
spot-it is in a dense ravine, where a broad
glale of autumn-dried grass spreads out a soft
carpet for the fort. Through its centre, winds
a rippling stream, on its *n  to the Susque-
hanna.   Upon either hn , seemingly  all
around, rise muountains,. crowned with ever-
green, so steep that they almost seem to topple
over the iama below.
Here in this dul, hitherto so lone and still,
where few human feet have ever trod, liut where
the red leer has rejoiced to feel and play, rest
all of Thavendanaegen 's band-for he has not
lost a man--and their prisoners.
Butler, with his tory iugers,.and a few mer-
cenary Indians, with whom l'hayendanegea s
band have no connection, have taken another
route.
Bold in his conscious strength and fearless
nature, the W\ar-Eagle has caused his camp-
tires to be lighted as usual ; for he knows that
no force beh.id wil be strong enough to follow
him and if thieydid, he would almost, or quit:.,
rejoice at the ebaice of a fair i ght--so sickened
and hisgusted was he at the butchery of the
morning, so dissonant with his own character.
It was after nil tie canip was still, and suh
o. the lr:soners as would eat had been fed, tiat
Tlaveninuiea went to his own camp-fire,
where ll n Yost lay sleeping, and Niscayuna
sat on witeh

ie approached the fire, cast hini~&amp;!f down
on his blanket, and I sr a time remained in
thought--sad thought, for more thun once a
sigh rose from his breast. At last, he said :
" Niscayuna, from the day we fought at
Oriskanyuntil now, you have clung to me as
the vine clings to the oak. You are my bro-
ther. There is a stone in my heart to-night,
and I cannot east it out. There is a cloud be-
fore my eyes ; it is very dark, but in its centre,
I see the Lily of the Pale-faces-the White,
Dove of my bosom. The path of my feet is to
Niagara, but my heart wants to walk to the
wigwam on the Mohawk !"
Niscayuna listened in silence--he did not
even ruse his eyes from the ground, upon
which he was gazing.
"I must send a messenger to the White
Dove-will my brother go to her ?" continued
Tluayendatiegea.
'fThe frame of Niscayuna shook as shakes the
aspen leaf, when the winds are breathing
quickly ; but lie made no reply.
"The White Dove is in a net! She calls
upon the Eagle to save her !" continued Thay.
endanegen. And his strong frame shook with
an agitation which it had never known be-
fore.
siMy brother only dreams a bad dream !"
said \iscayuna, at last, in a low and tremulous
voice. But yet he did not raise his eyes from
the ground.
It is no dream, for I cannot sleep !" said
Thayendanegea. "Ther low voice moans in my
ear all the time-the Dove calls 1or her Eagle,
and says: Come to me, or I lerish !"
" Mv brother's ears are filled with the sounds
he heard this .morning-pf the doves which
then were cruelly sent to the spirit-land !" con-
tinued Niscavuna.
" No-my heart bled for them; there is only
one voice now in my heart-it is the voice of
the Lily.' of the Pale-faces-of the Dove of my
bosom! "
" Let my brother, the Great War-Eagle be a
man, and not weak, like a woman. Let him
sleep, and rest will drive away bad thoughts !"
" I will listen to the words of nv brother-I
will try !" said 'i'hayendanegea. Al lie drew lis
blanket around him, and covering his head,
tried to sleep.
And   iscayuna, upon'whose face an hun-
dred thoughts seemed to be painting them-
selves, as it below, iii his heart, many passions
vre at war, looked at the form of the reclining
warrior ; but he did not try to sleep. And at
titans low murmurs would rise to his lips-the
thought of his heart trymg to get out Iromn
their prison.-
" l)agetto,-has kept her pledge !" he mur-
nired. "The War-Eagle never shall be wed-
ed'to a cursed pale-face!"
"Who spoke ?" cried Thayendanegea ; and
he half arose from the ground.
"Ihe wi+d was groaning imeong the caverns
of the hills I" said  iscayuna. "All else is still,

f

but the singing of the water as it goes to dance
with its sisters in the Crooked River !',
"I cannot sleep-the. voice that is in my
teart is too loud .'
Ie rose, anl for a long time walked to and
fro before the fire ; his agitation not decreasing
in all this time, but rather becoming more
violent. At last he addressed Niscayuna otee
more
" Will my brother be my messenger to the
White-Dove. I dare no trust another. My
brother loves me. lie has proved his love.
I have proved it as the strong man proves the
bow !   Will my brother go to the White
Dove ?"
"Will my brother let his memory go back
to the night after the fight at Oriskany ?"
asked Niscayuna.
"I lose my eyes, and it flies back swiftly !"
replied lhayemdanegen.
"Then itsees the hour when the Great War-
Eagle bade Niscayuna call him brother before
all the Nations l" continued IN iseayuna.
"it looks upon that hour, and the eye is not
dim which sees it," said Thayendanegea.
"Has that memory an ear, as well as an
eye ?" continued Niseayuna.
" Only one ear : so that which goes in at the
one, has no other to flee out of."
"Then it hears Thayendanegea swear by the
Great Spirit, that 1iscayuna shall nevcr be
driven from his side !" cried the young war-
rior ; and a look of triumph sat upon .his
features.
"it hears the oath, and Thayendanegea will
not break it !" said the warrior; but there was
a deep sadness in his tone. -
lie spoke no more ; but sat all the night
long by the fire, evidently revolving some
lplas in Isis mind ; for the great veims is is
temples were failing and rising, as if fhse
thoughts were coming and going from the
heart-to the'brain.

It wus morning. The war-party was afoot
while yet the gray dawn hung upon the
track  of departing  night. The   morning
food was cooked and eaten; the prisoners pre-
pared for the days journey ; and all was ready
or departure.
Then Thayendanegea called his sub-chiefs to
him, and upon a piece of white'bark he
marked out for them their course, and the dis-
.ance they must make upon each day's jour-
Icy. This done, he told them to go on, and he
;vould overtake them upon the route. IIe had
another work to do, and must go and do it.
The bird with its sorrowing train moved
on, and hut three remained : Thayendanegea,
Nisca vuna, and IIon Yost.
"Why do you not go with them ?" asked
Thaayenlanegea, sternly, of lion Yost ; and he
pointed to the departing party.
The name Susquehanna, in the Indian language,
Mans thme Crooed &amp;rssr.-

7)

"I have had a tream ;, and must go na rder
Xar-Eagle to der Aloawks ' said hion Yost,
quietly.
uie Greit Spirit has spoken-who else
could have told him  where TIhayendanegea
was gedng'?" muttered the chief to hiniself
Ties i-e added aloud:- " You shall go I hasten
to cook food. We sleep not-pause not-till
we get to the Mohaw.k!I"
Niseayua said nothing; but if the chief-
taitis heart had seemed very heav ythme night
before,hi heart seemed i tnsmes hiehvier o1.
On the contrary, new life seemed to have
come back to the spirit of 'rliavetidanegea
from the moment that he had forced his do-
termination.
"          CHAPTER XLVI.
Before the new and elegant wigwam which
Thayendanegea had caused to be built for
Kathleen, before he last went upon the wvar-
p)ath, were gathered the Indians whom he had
left to guard her with their hives. Upo their
faces, both grief and surprise vere visible; for
their young queen, as they had lea ined to re-
gtrd her, was nowhere to be found. Sihe had
won upon their respect and love, by dressing
as the Indian mnaidetns dressed ; ana her new
hopes had so improved her looks, that r. her
new garb she was wondrously eae f.d, and
seemed more to them like an aigel f '"m the
spirit-Lmnd than a being of niortal me ord. Iet
eye expressing but a wish, it was ace :oplislied,
'l he choicest game from the forest, the finest
fish fr-om the waters, the swctst b irds that
beat the air with feathery iiion-all were
laid before her. She wished to make a gala
suit of clothing for Thayendategea, to show
him on his return that site could do as hIdian
maidens did.   They taught her how, and
brought her the materials; for Dyagetto, who
remained spitefully in her old wigwan, would
show lies-nothing.
Mute atid sorrow-stricken, they stood before
the wigwam ; for this was the second . day since
she had been missed, and far and wide had they
sought for her, arqd found no sign. Whe' they
had asked Dya retto about her, she b ghed
scornfally, and  id :
" I suppose you slept upon your goril, and'
she stole away from you. The pal Bees are
treacherous, and do not like the re n!"
But- these warriors knew hio diShe loved
Thayendanegea, and how she tre.1 ad in them;
for she never would move fl-rA the wigwam
except when they went to g   i 'her. Some
suggested thit she had b ec  Efted up to the
spirit-land; but all shook te, heads, an mur-
mured -
" What wi.'l Thaijendane te' say ?"
While thus standing, a distant and a cheer-
ful cry was heard. Oh, boa well they knew
that shout i It was the "return call" of Thay-
endan" ge" .
They stood still, looked one at time other,

U

74

' -
--,

THE WAIL-EAGLE OF TIlE MOIIAWKS.


_  ,
_
,
.
,
.
_  :
. -  ,
_,
°n r
_
=..-
-
,-.
. .
.
. -
:  o
.
r
.
_f
_
4    '
t^
qt
a

and trembled. And Dyagetto, too, came now;
for she hid heard the far-oif cry, and with a
singular E:iie upoli her face, she caine to wel-
tome her toin to his wigwam.
Soon he eame bounding on, as light as a
buck. which, when the morning air is fresh,
hears the hottne13 afar off, anl despising them,
sprigs the earth beneath his feet. In a moment
he was at the wigwam-door, beside which hung
the beatiful dress which she had made for
him. Ils eve rested uon it a pleased second
--he .n n w i was her wor k-then supposing ihat
maiden mioE stykept her within, lie entered
the w;n.npi jut. as lion Yost and Niseavuna
arrived, loth almost breathless ; for it were a
fast runner who could keep up with the love-
lace of the \Var-Eagte as he neared the nest
where he hai1 h ft his flower.
lpyng tto and Niseayuna exchanged one look
of intel ligence, and then seemed no more to see
or know ci other.
In a Fomenit, Thayendanegea re-appeared,
wonder upjons face, but as yet no other ex-
pressio1.
'    rWhi ne is my White-Dove?  Where is the
Lily of V heart ?  Does she hide from Thay-
endang":i, that she maytense him ?"
No rpv ws made but by looks.   lie saw
that s: thn     was wrong, and his face
changed like the sun when a cloud sweeps
acro  it.
" e is the Lily ?" he thundered.
The wariirs trenibled ; but not one of them
dared be die irat to speak. But Dyagetto, in
a sarca-t a,: tome, sai:
"A hi:-d told me, that while your warriors
slept, ie stole away, to find a pale-faced
lover."
"Wionim, you lie! The bird that threat-
ened to tear myc dove to pieces is the only bird
you k now ! Where is my dove?     SRpeak !''
thumlernl Tlhiyenlanegea ; and with every
vein swclbrn- as if it would burst, his form
distemino  as if he was about to spring upon
her, he awaited her answer.
"Ask th r-von left her with them !" she
said, and 1ojitel to the guard.
For an mitiat, mastering lis passion with a
m:ghty eurt, the chief turned to them, and
asked ini expilin:tion of the manner of her dis-
jparnie.
'Ilie on whom lie haid placed as captain over
all ti he r  inow told 'lhavemanegen all about
it: how tIe .lii loved and reverenced -her-
how she ha i waited the return of the War-
Eaighl-:d p o'el to her work to show what
had been lie r hionghts and employment in his
absetee. 'l'iev thn said, that on the eight
before, she hatnd went sininYg into her wigwam.
as was Ii, r wont-tIat the guard was placed
as usual ;ibt a &amp;n range drowsiness came over
thiem-thi sie1pt without the power to avoid
at; an.d when morning came, she was gone.
Calnn y, to a; pe:rance, Thayeudamteg' a heard
all this ; -bit wh ihe warrior had finished, it
.ouid be seen that the most fearful storm of

lis terrible nature was rising: and wo to that
one on whom its lightnings fill
lint now lion Y8st. whose evs, from the
beginniiing, had been wandering frem Dyngetto
to ieeavni. touched Thayemulanegeni upon the
arm, and sud
"One 1ird tells me sometings too, Mister
Var-Eagle. Come mit inc. lion Yost tream
dat lie finds yoir Lily !"
'alnilanegea looked at lion Yost a mo-
ment as if he would read hini through ; then
said:  .    ,,
" I will go !"
Ion Yost led the way, at once, to a path
which wound along a ravine down to the small
level upon the bank of the foaming river, lie
was followed closely by 'hayenianegea; next
by the warriors ; and last of all caine Dy a-
getto and  iscaynai.in.
Without a moment's hesitation or faltering,
lIon Yost led the way to the same ravine
where, in times long back, we traced the
Wicked Aroghiyadecka ; and paused not until
he reached the very spot where, [or years, the
noble Ogahtee had suffered. l'ushmg aside
the small stone in the mouth of the cave, he
said :
"Call to your gird, Var-Eagle. I dinks
you find her here !"
" I this care ?" asked Thavendanegea.
lie needed no other call. his voice had
heen heard ; for a clear, sweet cry came up
from the gloom below :
" 'Fitnycndancgea-'linAYEmDNEr.A I Ihbnew
you would come -"
It was Kathleen!
With a cry of mixed anger and delight,
'Ia vendhanegen would have tried to force his
way through the narrow aperture; but Ilon
Yost restrained him, and only said
" Come mit me-comeinut roe. Var-Eagle!"
Ie then leaped around the ngmle of the rock'
to a spot whre only two could stand. From
a ledge overheard, placed where no one would
see it liut one who knew it was there, he drew
n stout lever of wood. lie insertel this be-
hind, or in ihe crevice of what nppeiared to be
an imninensie rock. With but very little effort,'
it yielded to the leverage ; and opening,
showed that it was. but a door to the cavern,
but si constructed that it could not be opened
from the inside.
"Call your pird, Var-Engle .' sid lion
Yost, proudly ; for he had now won a victory
to him greater than that at Fort Sehuiyler.
No need, even now, had Thmny-ulnmegea to
call her; for Kathleen hailseen the light-had
rcotgnired his form ; and now, with a delirious
shrwik of pleasure - of joy unutteraile by
1wrds-she sprunmg from  the gloom unto lue
outstretched arms.
A nd then the warrior, to whom Death was
but a plavmalte-whose heart was supposed to
be ha rdhen, a thousand t.mes, than the linit in
his gun-knelt down ; and while he kissed hey
again and again, wept like a very child-wept

TIDE WAR-EAGLE OF TIIE MOIIAWKS.

and sobbed until she tried to dry his tears with
ier many kisses, and almost chidingly asked
if he was not glad to see lier.
" Oh, so glad---so glad-nmy heart will break
out from my breast!I-it is too big!--let the
water run from it" he said, in \ones so low
and soft you could not have believed that they
came from a warrior's tongue.
In a little while, he was more calm; and
holding her in his arms, he followed lon Yost,
who-with a delicacy which men accredited of
sense might not have exhibited-had gone on,
and permitted that noble burst of feeling in'a
biave heart to go unwitnessed.
When Thayendanegea appeared to his de-
lighted warriors with their loved young queen
in his arms, they rent the air with their shouts
of joy, and led the way out to the river-bank,
where the glad sun was shining -makitig the
river and the wild foaming cataract look like
a mixed flood of silver and of gold.
Dyagetto and Nisoayuna had disappeared ;
but, in the general joy, no one seemed to no-
tice or think of that. Once upon the firm
shore, Thayendanegen released his precious
burden from his arms ; and putting her down,
stood and'}looked at her, in her beautiful
forest garb, and in the renewed loveliness
which love and hope had given her, with the
same intense admiration which some soul-
enwrapped artist bestows upon a work just
finished - which, for him, has been the toil,
the study, the sole ideal for years upon
years.
Amid then, all heedless-of the presence of his
warriors, he caught her up to his breast, and
kissed her again and again, until, in a whisper,
she reminded him that they were not alone,
while she blushed a treble beauty at the
thought.
"True, my own one !" he said, gently.
Then, turning to his warriors, he bade them
go up to the wi wam and prepare a feast, while
he and the Whnte-Dove walked by the water-
side and talked.
All obedient, and now doubly swift for the
happiness which they felt, they hurried to do
so, while Thayendanegea, as he became more
calm, clasping the hand of his loved Kathleen,'
walked up along the brink of the foaming tor-
rent, and sought to so still his emotions that
he could ask her how she was placed in the
cave-for he feared his own anger, and Wtished
to master it while he could. -
.Reachinu a spot just above the cataract,
that where first he nad landed with her, he
sat down upon a log close by the fringe of
bushes at the foot of the clill, and directly
beneath that lofty look-out, where she had
stood so many patient hours watching for him,
and placed her by his side.
Now more calm, he asked hr the questions
which he wished. And she told him a long

77

tale of the ill-treatment which she had received
before lie placed a guard to protect her, and
then how Dy agetto had ii vain tried to gel
the guard to destroy her; -,and how, at last,
after she had- retire to her rest, feding very
sleepy after she had supped, she awoke in the
cave, and heard the taunting voice of Dyagetto
cry:
"My son shall never wed a-pale-face! You
shall dse !"
A warning cry was heard from the crest of
the cliff at this instant ; but, U  God of
Heaven! it was all too late to save ; for as
Thayendanegea started   at the sound, his
mother, leaping like a tigress from the covert
close behind, sprung upon poor kathlneen
seized her in her arms, and at a single bouni
was buried in the rushing waters !  or a mi
ment paralyzed, Thayendanegea stood, and
then would have leaped after those who were
now buried far amid the rocks below, hiad not
Niscayuna caught and held him back-or tried
to do so, for the chief struggled terribly. In
the struggle he would have succeeded, had not
some of the warriors from above, who had ut-
tered the warning-cry, reached them just as
both were on the water's brink, and drew
them back.
And now the garments, rent from the boson
of Niscavuna, disclosed the fact that a woman
stood before them !
Thayendanegea, faint from exertion and ex-
citement, gazed one moment, and uttered the
name :
"IONA!"
With beaded head, and blushes darkening
her face, she drew the rent galrments over her
bosom, and threw herself weeiiig and terra
fled at his feet ; for in his look she read that h
had in a moment divined her agency in this
matter, and her motive for putting on male at-
tire, and following him every where !
With folded arms, he stood and grew calm,
fearfully calm; for there is a cairn of determine
action which is fearful! Iis warriors stood by
in silence. They looked upon him, and did
not dare to speak ! The scene was too full of
suspense--it was maddening !
At last she rose and looked at him--oh! s.
h art-brokenly !       -
"Go seek her you have torn from my bo.
som I" he said, sternly.
One look at him-one heavy sigh which told
that her heart had burst-and she obeyed ! The
dark waters closed over her, the white waters
received her, and her spirit fld after those
which had gone before !
The Mohawk braves trembled and breathed
quick breaths ; but Thnayendanegea, without a
quiver on his lip, like a moving statue of
bronze, turned and said, in a tone lioarse and
deep, but strong :
"BACK To TS WAB-PATH 1"

THIAY £:DANEGEA, TI: SCOURGE ; OR,

4
y
s
6     '  i
i
1
itY
#!
s

,I

7v


S :                    STELLA                       DELORME;
.ole,                        $     /
:;Txc                                    xwdg'            te~u.
CHAPTER L                   their head chief, sprang from hi  1-   with
The great cahim) of the Comanches was his pennoned lance in his hand    a J,(lance
p itched in a wild and picturesque gorge of the whereon were more scalp-notch 't", taan
Sierras Ciharrate, where the waters of the Rio could be counted on the weapon o t e oldest
-          pecos bounded, all glittering, from their rocky brave in the tribe.
source. The ornamented lodges of tanned    lie was tall,, formed like an Apollo, with
bu.falo skin rose thick--like the houses of a noble features, and eyes wherein shone the fire
large vili-ge--in a small basin esrpeted with of a true warrior.  'the war-eagle feathers
grass and il-wers, which had bien hollowed were twined in his scalp-loe, and more than
out by Nature's hand between t1e lofty mouna- one sear upon his broad breast told that he
tains i;an-i the smoke of the dtch-fires rose had not passed unscathed through the storm
like mist pillaors in the still air.  The moon of battle. But there were zlo scars on his
was at it fall; and thoughthe hour Of sunrise back.
was not yet coue, all around seemed clear as  "What is the matter? rWhy has Lagona
laylight-- trainsparent wap the atmosphere, sounded the war-whoop?" asked Nemahaha,
so elou less the sky.  -his father, as he stood fythe side of his son,
To an I fro, in front of the narrow entrance whose whole frame was quivering with excite-
to the gorge, whe re their eves could sean the ment.
va-t ext-:t of prairie to the east, rode the  "The Great Spirit has spoken to me in a
sentinels of the camp; arind within, picketed so dream !" said the youngbrave, growing more
a- to be ready for instant use, in ease of alarm, calm. "Let the warriors go back to their
were the will steeds of the Indian braves.  lodges ! I will t11 my father- that which I
It would have been a steady for a painter, dreamed, and Iwill tike counsel of him, for
that camp! High on either hand rose the there is wisdom n his heart!"
great d irk eliss, with vines and shrubs cling-  The wonder' g warriors obeyed, for the will
ing here and there to their precipitous sides; -of Lagona wa law to Lhem. By his deeds of
down timn ru-lied silvery cascades-sometimes daring lie h d wqn .their love and respect,
leaping oT into a cloud of-spray, again trick- And again  was quiet in the camp.
ling in light Lom-draps down into the mossy  "'What d the Great Spirit show to Lagona
beds below. 'Then that picturesque amphi- in the l d of dreams ?" asked Nemahaha,
theatre at the foot of the rocks, now tented when t  two were aqne.
over for a foreground, would complete the    "A maiden of the, pale-faces, more beauti-
picture.                                  ful than all the flowers of the earth, about to
It wi l  yet the hour of dawn, when a be sacrificed by thj Liphns. And the Great
wield, shm-i!t vell was heard from the large con- Spirit told Lagonag to mount and rescue the
trail lle of the camp. It was the war-whoop, maiden, and take her to his own bosom !"
and searce had its fearful echoes rung from  The old warriorphook his head and seemed
eliff to eliff of the pass. when full two hundred annoyed, when hid-son uttered these words.
warriors bondnIei out into the open air, armed  " The dream is not good!" said he. ' The
with genet lances, bows, shields, and war- Chief of the Cowanche must never defile his
chutb.                                   bloo1 by mixing it with the mud of tire pale-
n.\ndk wit h the shrill war-cry still quivering faces. The eves of my son were-in a fog--he
b"'     oe his lips, young Lagona, the brave son of did not see right!'
f*f-
'  t
T tt :U


                                         
             
         
       
   
