
    ----CITATION----
        Gay, Mary Ann Harris, (b. 1827). The Pastor's Story and Other Pieces, or, Prose and Poetry .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6511
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The pastor's story and other pieces, or, Prose and poetry
             
                THE PASTOR'S STORY AND OTHER PIECES; OR, BY M. "A. H. GAY. ISt "- SEVENTH EDITION. MEMPHS, TENN. : PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR BY GOODWIYN & CO. 1871.     ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the Office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of DeKalb county, Georgia, 27th day of August, 1860.   TO W82 gia r it f (jf jprgia, THS LITTLE- VOLUME IS MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATE1D BY A NATIVE GEORGIAN.       Local attachments ....  ....................  .................................  The little grave .......................... ...... ...,.. .. 18 To my love...........................  .............................. ............ 20 Charity ..............  ........................ .22 My valley home   ............. .  .................. .. 26 The dew-drop .......... ..          ...................., 27 Is this, then, life ....  ............ ......................0.. ....... 29 The pastor's story ................ ... ........................... 35 Lines to a young lady .................... ... ........................... 78 The robin............ . .. ..   ................................................... 80 Full many a flower ............... ........................................... 82 To Mary .................................... ......... .......... ........ ... 90 An elegy on the death of a young lady................................ 92 Happiness    ....... ................. ............................... 94 Forget thee ..... .. ...................................................... 956 Lines ...     . . .. ... ..... ............................. ,. ... 96 The  Sabbath......... ................................................. . 98 The unfortunate.. .  .... ................. .......... ...... 99 Temperane address .................*.... ......     101 My childhood's home......................................................... 109 rallahassee Falls ................... .. ... .... .................................. 1" The ancient languages  ................. ..... .. .... .... 114 Farewell, Alabama ..... ....... .... ...... .................................... .  118 My heart to-night      ......... ... ....... ......................................... 120 I went to the place...... ..........?.............. ...... 124 v     vi.          CONTENTS. The power of trifles ....... ............................,... 126 To Mary        ..... ..     a .  to... to 136 Lines to my sister ............ ...... ............ ..........,  .137 Sing  gently....,...,. ,,,.., , .,.. g  * ,.......... .......,............ 140 Religion ........, ..., .,.......;..... ........... *.... .. 142 Don't cry, my btady. .. .... a........ . ........ . ... ,., o...f,. ., ,,. 144 The S bbath .... 49 The Sabbat................................., .......................... 149 Oothcalooga       . ......................................................  154 The salvation of the soul ...... ..  ....... ............. 1-56 The busy-body ............. ................. .... ... ....... 182 To Ann....... .... .... ......... ..V.......*............. . a .. ............ 184 Song        ..  .. .. oo oa......  .. .. .a... ....... 185 Willie to M o llie. ......... .............  ... .. .... ..... . 1 87 A vision .......   ...... .  O 4 .......    189- I'll love thee ...... .... .................. .......................... 195 Song.-,i--.,---g4 .......  O ... ......, .e , ,.  ..***  .... 4..0 ....0,0 196 To Maria . ....Iaa laI..... ..... ..... ,.ea a. oa.*  198 A leaflet from life's book.. ....,.  ...;... ....... 200 the nineteenth century......... .........      205 To God all trusts belong ................... ..............., 223 Fragment.   ...... .... O,..   ., -    ...  225 An undevout astronomer is mad ..................... 227 The dream  of love., .. ........... .................................... 234 My  spirit groom.'. .............a ., .....,..........................V. .... 238 n  oasis .. ............................................... ........ 241 My  bir rd ............ O a ........  4 ......... ........... .a. a- -' * .O . 245 Verses to a beiiautiful thiough very sad-looking young lady the -writer siaw in Southwestern Georgia .............................. 247 In  th graveyar............... ......................... 250 Memory ....... o s;         a a   ......  257 A- :rtgment ........,......     .  ..   ... 259 The Zephyr ....... . . ...;.....  .. . ........................ .............. 262 spring aa... ,;.::.'..,. f . ......:-  , ...; ..O .... .'.:... ...*-  . . ... 264   THE PASTOR'S STORY. 1      PROSE AND POETRY. "OCAL ATTACHMENTS. THERE is no principle of the human heart more deeply planted, or more difficult to eradicate, than that of local attachments. Every nation on the globe, despite the disadvan- tages of its government or geographical position, clings to its native land with intense devotion. The Icelander, surrounded as he is by eternal snow, and liable at any moment to be engulfed in the fiery floods of some volcanic eruption, yet ex- claims with heartfelt emotion, ' Iceland is the best land the sun shines upon!" The Switzer, far from home, bears upon his heart the image of his own cloud-capped Alps, and the blue lakes sleeping at their base. The Scotsman loves his heather hills; and the German never fails to speak the praises of his "fatherland." 1'              (9)     10     PROSY AND POETRY. Even the poor son of Erin, driven from his own green isle to seek in the land of the free an asylum from want and British tyranny, can yet look back with "swelling heart and a tear-stained cheek" upon the receding clifts of the Emerald Isle. In that degraded but lovely land his childhood was spent; and there in the quiet churchyard sleeps his young wife-she who when perishing from hunger could still smile for his sake. The emigrant ship glides swiftly over the waves, bearing him on to that land where there is "work for all, and: bread enough to spare;" but who can blame him for vowing, "I'll ne'er forget old Ire- land!"And as he thinks of the magnificent forests of the New World, he exclaims: "Often in those grand old woods I'll sit and shut my eyes, And my heart will wander back again To the spot where Mary lies." But while love of country is a universal prin- ciple, existing alike in millions of human. hearts, at the same time each has his own particular home, which none can love so well as himself. Home-! What heart does not thrill at the sound of that word? It is closely connected with all that is dear on earth, whether past, present, or prospective. Within its well-remembered walls our first childish   "OCAL ATTACHMENTS.        " accents were heard; and there the early buddings of intellect were watered and trained by a mother's guiding hand. By its fireside, impressions were made which ambition and worldly cares may dim but cannot obliterate. The traveller may visit the palaces of kings and princes, and be a welcome guest at the hearth- stones of a foreign land, but he still yearns for home and the loved ones there. He engages passage on a homeward-bound vessel, and at last, after many wanderings by sea and by land, he is nearing the goal for which he has sighed. He has but to cross the little bridge, surmount the brow of the hill, and the old farm-house bursts upon his anxious vision, surrounded by the same beautiful lilacs and clus- tering vines. With trembling hand he lifts the gate-latch; creeping on tiptoe he enters the porch, and with straining eye peeps in upon the family group, all unconscious of his approach. With grateful heart he finds that not one is missing from that loved circle; his heart swells with uncon- trollable emotion, and in the very fulness of grati- tude he exclaims: "Be it ever so humble; There's no place like home." The sailor may look with admriring wonder on     12     PrOSEs AN D POETRY. the beauties, the majesty of the great deep, when its waves are sleeping beneath the silvery moon- beams, or when ( The foam-wreath glows with its phosphor light, Like a crown on a sea-nymph's brow." He may gaze on these same waves when lashed in fury by the tempest's wrath, but yet, "oft in the stilly night" he weeps as there steal over his soul the loved visions of home. The tottering steps of the aged pilgrim are near- ing the verge of Jordan. He has but little recol- lection of the scenes through which he has but recently passed, but speak to him of the home of his early youth, and the dim eye will brighten, and the faltering tongue grow eloquent, as it discourses of the days of yore. All else may be forgotten, but the home of childhood, never. Who does not cherish a strong attachment for the old schoolhouse, where first they learned to say A, B, C, etc., the elements of all subsequent attain- ments? It may be an humble building of logs, but we love it for all that. As years roll on, we may enter a more dignified structure, but whether it be academy, seminary, or college, our attach- ment for the place where our schooldays were spent is still the same. Each room has its own   "OCAL ATTACHMENTS.        13 peculiar associations, not the less dear because sometimes sad. They must be callous indeed who do not love the very spot where, day by day, the powers of the soul are consciously' expanded, its glorious attributes developed, while listening to the sublime truths of physical science, or the philoso- phy of the mind, expounded by a gifted and beloved teacher. Among "'the pictures- that hang on memory's wall," is one of a little church, situated on a gently rising knoll, and almost surrounded by a group of forest trees, untouched by the woodman's axe. Apart from the world, there is nothing to disturb its sacred silence, save the soft hymn of a bird, heard at intervals amid its leafy shades. At the sunset hour, how sweet it is to linger about this lovely, this consecrated spot, and meditate upon the solemn events which have here transpired! How vividly we recall the lineaments of the faithful pastor, who for years has ministered to the people wont to assemble here! How often from the sacred desk have the unsearchable riches of Christ's dying love been proclaimed, the thoughtless aroused, and the heavy-laden soul relieved of its burden as it was brought to the foot of the cross, and pointed to the crown of immortality! Just in sight, on yonder hill-side, gleam the white marble pillars which     -14     PROSE AND POETRY. serve to mark the last resting-place of fallen human- ity. There many a worn soldier of the cross, with "feet torn and bleeding by the way," lays him down in peace to sleep till the last trump shall awake him to the resurrection of the just. There are little hillocks, too, beneath whose green sod lies many a household pet. In every part of the grounds, paths are seen leading to the graves of the loved and lost, proving that some at least love even the city of the dead. It may be my lot to sit beneath the dome of some lofty cathedral or magnificent church, where ele- gance meets the eye and fills the mind with ad- miration, and the pealing notes of the full-toned organ seem borrowed from angel harps; but yet amid rall this splendor my heart would wander back again to its own loved village church. It may- be my lot to roam through the beautiful cemeteries of the opulent, where the hand of art has done much to-rob the place of its wonted solemnity, and ' The sculptor's art exhaust the pomp of woe, And storied urns record who rests below ;" but yet amid all this mockery my heart would wander back again to its own loved village grave- yard, boasting no sacrilegious pomp. Local attachments: but fortthis principle, many   "O C.AL AT:TAACHMENTS.       15 wise purposes had been defeated; man would not have remained in one place sufficientl-y long to have made those improvements which -so greatly contri- bute to the comfort and enjoyment of the human race; convenient and beautiful homes would never have been erected, nor stately cities built. In pro- portion as civilization advances, local attachments increase. The nomadic tribes of ancient-Britain, and other countries, had no fixed habitations, but wandered from place to place in quest of pasturage for their flocks and herds. Now the homes of England show that these -aborigines have been suc- ceeded by a nobler race, created for a higher des- tiny:  "The Saxon, in his pride of high descent, And Gaul, with spirit harp of finer strings," have reared ancestral homes, which will be loved and honored throughout all succeeding generations. Some there may be who have no local attach- ments. Such we -do not envy, for surely their hearts must be as- hard as the nether millstone. Great and good men have always loved native land and native home. List to the beautiful author of the Course of Time: "Nor do I of earthly sort remember- If partial feeling to my native place Lead not my lyre. atray--of fairer view,     16      PROSE AND PObT'RY. And comelier walk, than the blue mountain paths And snowy cliffs of Albion renowned. Nor do I of that isle remember aught Of prospect more sublime and beautiful, Than Scotia's northern battlement of hills, Which I from my father's house beheld, At dawn of life; beloved in memory still." An anecdote illustrating Daniel Webster's love of home is -doubtless familiar to many. He was born in a log-cabin, raised among the snow-drifts of New Hampshire. Years after, when his un- rivalled eloquence and statesmanship had made him a nation's idol, he still paid, an annual visit to the remains of this rural home. His own words are: "I love to dwell on the tender recollections', the kindred ties, the early affections and narrations and incidents, which mingle with all I know of this primitive family abode, and I weep to. think that none who then inhabited it are now among the living." To local attachments may be ascribed the high position which America occupies among the na- tions of the earth. It was the love of country and the love of home that nerved our forefathers for -the great revolutionary struggle, and we, their posterity, are this day the witnesses of the glorious result-the recipients of the inestimable benefits. But notwithstanding   the many  good  effects   "OCAL ATTACHMENTS.        17 which have resulted from this principle, still it ought not to be allowed to fasten our affections too closely about this perishing earth-it ought not to be allowed to entwine the tendrils of our hearts too closely around perishing objects. This beautiful world, with all its lovely scenes, must pass away. There is but one locality which we can safely love with all the heart, and dread not its loss! That place is heaven. We need not fear that we can ever have too strong an attach- ment for that bright abode. When once sheltered within its pearly gates, we will go no more out for ever; for there no parting is known, and there "no farewell tear is shed." no e     1V     PROS1 AN D POETRY. THE LITTLE GRAVE. THERE is a little grave to memory dear,  In a field 'tis situate-a river near. No marble slab marks that consecrated spot: Though neglected, by me 'twill ne'er be forgot. A lovely little rosebud lies withered there, Its beauty and fragrance for this earth too fair; Death, the archer, pierced it--transformed it to clay, But Heaven snatched the spirit and bore it away To realms full of bliss, of purity, and love, To join the sweet choir of blest children above: Sing, angel sister, I am glad thou art gone From this world full of troubles and hearts forlorn. I am glad thou hast escaped the tempter's snares; I am glad thou never breathed the sinner's prayers; I am glad thou art with Christ' whilst tender and young, For surely by such his praises should be sung!                  .\   ITHE LITTLE GRAVE.      19 Thou art with our father, who before thee went, And an angel, it may be, after thee sent! And with our grandparents-aged saints are they, Basking in the light of God's eternal day! Thou art a sparkling diamond in Jehovah's crown, Borne high over earth's woes, and secure from its frown! Thou art a bright star in the courts of heaven, Shining with lustre to thee by God given! Thou art a rich-toned organ, whose softest peal Would fill the whole, earth, and its- saddest heart heal! Thou art sister to Jesus! to him very dear- The relationship made by God, who is near! Sing on, happy spirit! in realms of bliss sing; Shine on, bright star! in the courts of heaven shine! Peal on, sweet-toned organ! angels are list'nng To the sister of Jesus-the sister of mine I     20     PROSE AND POETRt Y TO MY LOVE. DOST thou think of me, loved one? O dost thou think of me? When far from thy side I'm gone, Who then doth cherish thee? Dost think of me at morn's sweet hour, When holy thoughts have sway, And as the sun in kingly power Sends forth his farewell ray? Dost think of me in silent prayer, When purest spirits nigh, To near the humble strain up there, To Jesus Christ on high? If I were sure that through the day, At morn and evening's hour, And when thou kneel'st to God to pray In closet or in bower,   TO MY LOVE.         21 That thcu, loved one, of me dost think, With soft affection's thrill, % Though I were standing on death's brink, My soul with joy 'twould fill.     /     22       PtROSE AND POETRY. CHARITY. "Pure in her aims, and in her temper mild, Her wisdom seems the wisdom of a child. She makes excuses, when she might condemn. Reviled by those who hate her, prays for them; Suspicion lurks not in her artless breast-- The worst suggested, she believes the best; Not soon provoked, however stung and teased, And, if perchance made angry, soon appeased; She rather waives than will dispute her right, And, injured, makes forgiveness a delight." COWPER IN this age of ostentation and selfishness, charity has almost lost its sweet meaning. Instead of the pure, spontaneous offering of the heart, owing all value to sentiment, it has become a humiliating insult, resorted to by the rich to remind the poor of their inferiority and dependence. Sometimes people who have more than they know how to ap- propriate, magnanimously (?) bestow generous dona- tions on those possessing but little.   But is that charity?' Nor is great attention to public manifestations any evidence that true charity exists.    The most   CHARITY.          23 selfish, heartless being on earth, governed alone by the rule of self-interest, regardless of the responsi- Dility devolving on every individual to contribute to the comfort of the indigent, to, "clothe the naked and feed the hungry," can converse as scientifically of relieving distress as though it were the fragrant breathing of a benevolent heart. We are not, however, considering superficial or affected charity, but that which had its birth in heaven: that which suffereth long; envieth not; vaunteth not itself; seeketh not its own; thinketh no evil; and rejoiceth not in iniquity: that which beareth all things; believeth all good things; hopeth all good things; and endureth all things. Charity is the sister of Humility, and they re- ciprocally strengthen each other; subduing all malice, all hypocrisy, and all evil-speaking; spon- taneously suggesting all that is forgiving, candid, and compassionate; striving always to think others better than themselves; never severe on the frailties of others, because all are frail; declaiming not on a mote in another's eye, because none are exempt. Genuine charity leads its possessor to scenes of poverty, misery, and crime; gives simplicity to the character; levels the differences of the mind and situation; facilitates a mutual flow of affection; and teaches the important truth, that the efficacy     24     PROSE AND POETRY. of means of usefulness depends not on their imposing and expensive character, but, on their skilful and earnest application. Shall we who have acquired the epithets of "guardian angels," and "angels of mercy," per- mit pride and selfishness to deprive us of the privi- lege of being recognized in heaven as the instru- ments of past alleviation? The most favored of us should consider our own helplessness and inutility, unaided by Divine power, and let friendship, love, and truth influence our every act. As an elevated standard gives elevation to the mind, let us compare our principles, motives, and obligations with what our Saviour has done for us and commanded us to do. And those who are luxuriating in opulence should remember they have an important trust to fill: to whom much is given, of them much will be required. They are impera- tively commanded to search out and relieve distress; and to consider their "mightiest efforts as a drop of heavenly dew falling on the great salt waters."   MY VALLEY HOMB.       26 MY VALLEY HOME. I LOVE my cottage by the moor, With woodbine running o'er the door; A green grass covering spread around, With blossoms to adorn the ground. I love that place, though 'tis no dome, But, sweeter far, it is my home! I love the sun that shines for me Upon my cottage light and free: It stirs again my bee's wild hum, And brightens up my valley home. I love that place, though 'tis no dome, But, sweeter far, it is my home! I love the moon that shines so bright, I love the stars with their mild light; They seem to linger near the spot, They seem to smile upon the cot. I love that place, though 'tis no dome, But, sweeter far, it is my home. 2     26     PROSE AND POETRY, All things around that place I love, The earth beneath, the heavens above. When time on earth with me is o'er, O, lay me by that cottage door! There let me wait till God doth come, To take me to my heavenly home.   THE DBW-DROP.        27 THE DEW-DROP. "It serves as morning bev'rage, We drink it when we sup; In ev'ry place we fiid it, Except the drunkard's cup." No, you may search well from the bottom up, No dew-drop you'll find in the drunkard's cup; But a Bohon Upas there you will find, Which, after the body, destroys the mind. Destroys the comfort of the father dear, Whose head bears the frost of many a year; Destroys the peace of a fond mother's heart, Who never in pleasure again takes part. Destroys faith fraternal, in which there's love, Caught from the angels in heaven above; Destroys affection too profound to tell, Which a sister's bosom full long doth swell.     28     PROSB AND POETRY. Destroys the happiness of her whose hand Forms the brightest linklet in Hymen's band; 'Destroys the golden hopes of children young, Whose joyous song of mirth too soon was sung. Destroys the last fear of that Being great Who created man for a high estate, Who alone hath power the soul to save, And rob of its victory the cold, dark grave! O! you may search well from the bottom up, No dew-drop you'll find in the drunkard's cup; But a Bohon Upas there you will find, Which, after the body, destroys the mind.   IS THS,  THEN,   LIFE?       29 IS THS, THEN, LIFE? Is this, then, life? O! was I born for this-- To follow phantoms that elude the grasp? Or whatsoe'er secured, within my clasp To withering lie? as if an earthly kiss Were doomed death's shuddering touch alone to greet t O life! hast thou reserved no cup of bliss? Must the unattained allure my feet? The unattained with yearnings fill my breast, That rob for aye the spirit of its rest? Yes, this-is life, and everywhere I meet Not victor's crowns, but wailings of defeat! I falter not, for I have a test That shall incite me onward, upward still; The present cannot sate, my soul it shall not fill. FROM  the cradle to the grave it is the lot of humanity   "to  follow phantoms   that elude the grasp."  The little child catches at the sunbeams gilding the floor; he opens his tiny hand, expect- ing to behold a bright treasure, but it is not there. He learns only by repeated    disappointment that those glittering rays have no tangible form! How ambitious, how confident is youth! Its boast- ful language is, "Others may have been defeated     8Ca    PROSE AND POETRY. in the battle of life, but, struggling it may be, with a mighty army, I shall vanquish every foe. I shall trample under my feet every obstacle, and at last stand foremost in the rank-stand highest on the mount. of earthly glory. A laurel wreath of unfading green awaits my brow. And when, full of honors, I shall have descended to the tomb, I will leave behind me (footprints upon the sands of time,' which the tempestuous storms of the world's commotion can never blot out!"Pause, ambitious youth, and contemplate the career of one who, like thyself, sought to win a brighter fame than even a Cesar or an Alexander! -Earthly glory was his idol. To this he devoted his time, his talents, his best affections; for this he was content to sever the fond ties that bound a loving heart to hi s! On the altar of earthly fame he recklessly sacri- ficed his immortal soul. He became the most power- ful potentate of Europe. Kings and Pontiffs trem- bled at his name. But, alas! how uncertain the duration of earthly honor-of earthly greatness! The hero of so many battles is at length subdued. His conquerors decree that he shall be banished to a lone isle of the ocean. There he spends a few years in ignominious exile and sorrow; and there, 'far from his native land, far from her to whom he was dearer than the vital principle which   IS THS, THEN, LIFE?      81 sustained her own unhappy life, he falls a victim to death, the last great conqueror! The howling blast, the roaring billows, and the pealing thunder, chant his requiem! The nations rejoice that he sleeps his last sleep, and will lead against them his conquering forces no more. Such will ever be the fate of those who seek merely for earthly fame-"of all the phantoms fleeting in the mist of time, the most unsubstan- tial, unessential shade." In the common walks of life, with what delight- ful emotions does the youthful mind look forward to some' anticipated scene of festivity! Imagin- ation is busy sketching rose-tinted pictures of joy. In fancy, the voluptuous votary of fashion sees herself amid the festive throng, " the observed of all observers." Her graceful form, arrayed in snowy robes, is whirling through the mazes of the joyous dance; her eye is brightest, her step is lightest in the gay assembly. In such delicious fancies time quickly glides by, and the welcome hour arrives for her entrance into the elysian world, of which she has had such bright dreams. How fairy-like does every thing appear to her enchanted vision! each new scene is more charming than the last. But after a while     32     PROSE AND POETRY. she fnds that beneath this goodly exterior, all is vanity: the flattery which once charmed her soul, now grates harshly upon 'her ear; the ball- room has lost its charms; and with Wasted health and imbittered heart, she turns away with the conviction that earthly pleasures cannot satisfy the longings of the soul  Mark the care-worn countenance of him who has wasted the best portion of life in the acquisition of wealth; not that he might be enabled to relieve the wants of the destitute and afflicted, but that he might be powerful, and leave a rich legacy for his children when he is gone. Does his wealth secure happiness? Ah, no! He has exhausted his energies in accumulating a fortune, and re- ceived naught but vexation of spirit in return. He has sought for gold, and found but dross. Such are life's scenes! Change and disappoint- ment are written upon every leaf of Time's book. The present seems cheerless, oftentimes sad, and we look forward to the future for a ' reserved cup of bliss;" the future comes, and we find the cup empty, or sadly adulterated. Our dearest joys, how fleeting they are! Our brightest, most beguiling hours, How oft embellished by earth's flowers! We place our affections upon some cherished   IS THs, THEN, LIFE?       33 friend, arnd that friend is taken from us by death; we bestow all the wealth of our affections upon some idolized object, and that devotion is unre- quited-perhaps held up in derision. Life, however, has some sunny spots, but they who seek happiness only from the world, find but few of them. The gifted Byron, possessed of rank and talents by which he swayed at will the human heart, and at the waking of whose "harp nations heard entranced," was most un- happy - "A wandering, weary, worn, and wretched thing, Scorched and desolate and blasted soul, A gloomy wilderness of dying thought- Repined and groaned and withered from the earth." The desire felt by every one for bliss which cannot be realized on earth, is a sure proof of the soul's immortality; it is vain to endeavor to sate its yearnings with terrene pleasures, riches, or honors. There is but one thing that can satisfy the soul, and that is, the restoration of the innocence it originally possessed. The purity and consequent enjoyment of the soul were lost when man sinned against God; to restore that lost purity and conse- quent enjoyment, Christ died on the cross, and if it is made a partaker of salvation, it has many fore- 2*     84     PROSE AND POETRY. tastes of the bliss which awaits it in eternity. And, though bowed down by the sorrows of earth, the time will come when the ransomed soul, perfectly free from care and earth's changes, shall be full of happiness in the presence of the Lord. That consoling assurance, O life! is the cup of bliss reserved to allure my feet heaven- ward; to fill my yearning breast with heavenly aspirations! In the celestial home there will be no sadness, for God himself shall wipe away all tears from the eyes of his saints. The wailings of despair will thpre be changed to the triumphant songs of praise. All will strike their golden harps to notes of sweetest melody;' all will be clothed in spotless garments; all will bear the conquer- ing palm, all wear a victor's crown. TI erefore, "I falter not, for I have a test That shall incite me onward, upward still; The present cannot sate, my soul it shall not filL"   THE  PASTOR'S STORY.       86 THE PASTOR'S STORY. "He patient showed us the wise course to steer, A candid censor and a friend sincere; He taught us bow to live; and (O! too high The price of knowledge) taught us how to die." IN a retired yet delightful location, about-- miles from Charleston, reside Thomas Daniel and his amiable wife Edith, in the full enjoyment of that serene bliss which the ostentatious scenes of the world can never bestow. He is the faithful, zealous pastor of an intel- ligent and affectionate congregation, to whom he ministers every week, in a neat little granite church, almost imbedded in fragrant shrubbery. It would seemri that some pious genii had adapted the spot to the purpose, and constituted its occupant the pre- siding divinity--so appropriate is it, and so efficient is he. Each  member of .its attendance, too, seems imbued with a spirit of Christian piety, imparted by the same mystic agency, as unobtrusive as their place of worship, and as unpretending as     86-    PROSE AND POETRY. their humble pastor. He is one of those high- toned beings with whom we but rarely meet, who wants not pretension to give him influence and position;, and who wants not wealth, though he has it in abundance, to give him preeminence in society. He is one of those rare mortals, who, by unremitting perseverance in works, has grown in grace until invested with a heavenly sublimity apparent to every beholder. Gifted with extraordinary oratorical powers, listening senates might have hung entranced upon the eloquence of his tongue, and conferred upon him their highest meeds of honor. But he chose the better part, which will stay with him when the statesman and the orator shall have been stilled in death, and -when their influence shall, like them, have passed away: he chose to serve even as a laborer in his Master's vineyard. And Edith. Have you seen the full-blown rose in its beauty and fragrance; the most delicate hues, the most refined shades trembling on its bosom; the gentlest perfume floating around it, as it seemed the spirit of loveliness basking in the effulgent -rays of eternal sunshine? Then you have seen that which is emblematical of her. Matured in womanhood, charitable and hopeful in disposition, refined in manners and elevated in   THE PASTOR'S STORY.       87 intellect, the most delicate thoughts and impulses animate her beautiful features; whilst she moves about the embodiment of loveliness, gently but surely exerting an influence conducive to her husband's great work; an influence which will shine with undiminished brightness when the glory of the sun shall have been dimmed. A fit companion she for such a man! We endeavored to learn the history of this happy couple-these golden threads in the tissue of society, these step-stones to heaven-and found it invested with much of romantic interest, as well -as with religious efficacy. We give it as it was given to us: Edith Baxter was bequeathed as a dying legacy to her maternal grandparents by their beloved daughter, bearing the same name; and never was infancy more tenderly cared for, nor childhood more judiciously managed. At an early age Edith developed traits of char- acter gratifying to the fondest wishes of these her dearest friends, and which secured for her the love and admiration of all with whom she was associated. Her father, who, subsequently to the death of her mother, had resided much of his time in foreign countries, especially in England, sojourned, ,ig when in America, in the metropolis of his native     88     PROBB AND POETRY. State; and, on every return from a European tour, hastened to spend a week, at least, with his little daughter in the country. Each returning visit more fondly attached the parent to his child, and increased the conviction that the duration of the absent periods must become shorter. As her years increased, so did her resemblance to her sainted mother,; to whom he was undyingly at- tached; and every look and every gesture which reminded him of her, but strengthened the tie which bound him to the home of his conjugal felicity. On one of these joyful occasions, Edith learned that her fiather had brought with him a little English boy, an orphan, consigned by his widowed and expiring father to the guardianship of his most intimate friend, Major Baxter. The magnanimous Carolinian at once determined to adopt the unfortunate boy, and give him ad- vantages equal to those of his own child. And during his first happy interview with his little girl, he communicated to her his intentions, begging that she would consider him her brother. Edith's affectionate heart responded to the call, and she unhesitatingly received the juvenile foreigner as one entitled to her kindest regards and most affectionate sympathy,     THB PASTOR'S STORY.        39 Much as moralizing is denounced when occurring 'n stories, we can but remark what a source of gratification to the father must have been this happy compliance on the part of his child with his benevolent wishes. Had she, jealous of her rights, manifested an unwillingness to receive him, how pained and embarrassed would he have been; and how soon, perhaps,* have regretted, yea, have abandoned the generous design! With no other resource or protection, how mortified, too, would have been the dependent though noble young Englishman! If there is any thing on earth which angels contemplate with pleased satisfaction, it is the operations of a sympathetic heart, prompting its possessor to deeds of philanthropy and love. Were there many such, this world would be a paradise, this life a summer day, where no cloud enthralled the sky, no Bohon Upas exhaled its poisonous odor. Such a world and such a life we shall have when the spirits of Faith, Hope, and Charity have scattered from their urns the incense of pure and holy aspiration. With a heart as fresh as the atmosphere of his own native clime, and a mind as clear as its skies, Thomas was sensible to every act of kind. ess by his stranger friends, and grateful and iD     40     PROSE AND POETRY. enthusiastic in his new attachments, loving his kind benefactor with more, if possible, than filial devotion, and his little sister with fraternal ten. derness. No effort which a refined and grateful mind could suggest was spared to promote their enjoyment, or to evince to them his readiness to be guided by their wishes. No wonder that these children, brought together under circumstances bearing to each other such remarkable similarity, should become warmly attached. The son of Albion, on the 'elegant estate of Edith's grandfather, equally privileged, enjoying, with the companion of his affections, the ap- propriate pastimes of childhood, unattended by solicitude and apprehension, ceased to remember his own classic Avon; or, if remembering, with not more fondness than for the lovely Edisto, along whose banks he often wandered in delighted admiration. Together with joyous steps the young friends brush the crystal dews of morning; together engage in the important studies of the day; together raise their silvery voices in evening orisons to the Father of mercies. When Edith had reached her twelfth and Thomas his fifteenth year, they were placed at boarding- schools situated in the sane city, where they were   2        ?- IBTHE PASTOR' S STO Y. 41 soon distinguished for their application and rapid progress: Edith excelling in the course of educa- tion usually marked out for woman, and in the concomitant accomplishments indispensable to ease in the circle for which she was destined; Thomas exhibiting characteristics of that genius and intel- lectual superiority which in after-life gave him so influential a position. Diligent during school months, these youthful students hailed with glad buoyancy of spirit the liberties of vacation; and returned to the loved scenes of home with renewed affection and de- light. Time, as it rolled by in its rapid car, drew in closer connection the souls of these passengers to eternity; and they knew no dearer tie in nature than the one which united their souls together. Alas that so dear a connection, so strong a tie, should ever be severed! The period at length came when these friends, so unselfish in their every principle-these bona fide lovers-were to be separated. General Daniel, having passed many years in the Indies, possessed of the handsome sum of five hundred thousand dollars, returned to Eng- land-the home of his fathers. Not finding an only brother, whom he left in --, and of whom     42     PROSE AND P OETfY. he had heard nothing for a great while, he imme- diately instituted a search for him. That brother was deceased, but his only child- survived. This child-the young Thomas-had crossed the "Atlantic's blue waves" with Major Baxter, and found a home and friends amid the rural. scenes of the New World. The wealthy Englishman having ascertained his address, dispatched a letter to Major Baxter; en- closing one to his nephew. These letters repre- sented himself a disappointed adventurer, who had spent his life in the vain effort to amass a fortune; and now, almost destitute of means, and a con- firmed invalid, returned to his native city, from which, as a prodigal son, he had wandered in the hopeful days of early manhood. He implored Thomas, as he valued his proud- name-a name humbled but by the reverses incident to life-to hasten to his relief: to come with a heart prepared for any emergency-nerved for any con- flict; as he would be to a great extent dependent upon his youthful exertions for support. This intelligence was received during a visit the now betrothed couple, in company with Major Baxter, were making in Charleston.. And, though it very naturally cast a gloom over the minds of the devoted trio, each, including himself, felt it   THE PASTOR'S STORY.      43 the duty of Thomas to immediately comply with thes what would have appeared to others, selfish requisition, "Go," said the self- sacrificing Edith, "and minister to the very utmost of your ability to the requirements of your afflicted relative, Whilst he lives, think not of returning to your adopted home; but when he shall have yielded to the inexorable power of disease, and the grasp of death has set his spirit free, come-O, come back to us who love you as our own lives, and who will ever cherish your image in our hearts enshrined." "Go, my son," said Major B., "the calls of humanity are imperative; especially when coming from those claiming near consanguinity. Go, and by your generous sympathy strew with flowers the pathway to the tomb; and when the cypress shall have waved its melancholy blossoms over the grave, delay not your return to America-the home of your youth-the nativity of your first, and Heaven grant, while Edith lives, your only love." "Go," said a still small* voice, which spoke. from the inner man, and seldom erred in its dic- Sates, "go, and however long the term of trial and personal sacrifice, however onerous the tasks im. posed, faint not in well-doing." Thus directed and sustained, Thomas deter.     s4   PROSE AND POETRY. mined to leave at once for the distant shores of his native land. Preparatory to which he desired to bid farewell to the aged friends who so kindly welcomed him to their hospitable abode, and by the tenderest attentions taught him to regard them as indeed his grandparents. On the hill-top of innocent expectation of most brilliant entertain- mqnt, the party entered the city-a new world to them, glittering with coruscations of bliss too exquisite for realization, too bright for mortal vision. With saddened though resigned feelings, they departed for the old homestead. It has been said that misfortunes and sorrow never come singly. Truly, indeed, was the say- ing verified in this instance. IA few miles from Charleston, the chastened travellers espied a horse- man in full speed. Approaching nearer, they recog- nized the groom of the estate. Apprehension simultaneously prepared them for the melancholy tidings, thus almost winged to them, of the dan- gerous illness of the dear grandmother whom they had so recently left in the full prospect of many more years of health and usefulness. Alas for earthly hopes and prospects! One rude blast may destroy the superstructure of years; one mighty cloud overshadow the brightest sky; one bitter frost chill the heart for life.   THE PASTOR'S STORY.      45 Facilitating their movements, each hoped to arrive at home in time to receive her dying ilessing, but in this too they were disappointed. Unable distinctly to articulate, she breathed her last farewell to him who had been for many years the companion of her life, just a short while before they reached home. Upon Major Baxter devolved the sad duties of the funeral, and in their faithful performance, as in every transaction of life-as in the discharge of every duty, either public or private, either joyous or sad-he showed himself a gentleman of the most refined sensibility. Edith sorrowed deeply at this her second great bereavement, but not as one without hope. The pale, expressive face and tearful eyes of Thomas plainly told the deep emotion within. It would be sacrilege to speak of the deep though almost sublime grief of the aged and bereaved husband-it was too peculiar, too profound for description. The day after the interment, Thomas, impelled by a sense of duty, ventured to appoint the next for his departure. His friends, as endeared as he was to them, and much as they regretted the cir- cumstances which rendered his going necessary, were too considerate to seek in any way to detain     "    PXROSE AND POETRY. him, or to imbitter the parting moments by an unavailing demonstration of grief. "Walk with me, Thomas, to the church grounds," said Major B. to his adopted son, the last afternoon before his departure for Eng. land; C"I have a message to communicate to and a gift to bestow on you, invested with sacred. interest; and there is no place on earth more suitable to witness the deed, than that afforded by that consecrated enclosure." Seated upon the stone steps of that little sanctuary, with Thomas in anxious, hopeful suspense by his side, he com- menced thus: "I should know of no excuse sufficiently deprecatory to exculpate me from the charge of unkindness, in so long withholding from you the revelation I am about to make, but for a promise 'I made your father--" "A promise made my father!" gasped, rather than repeated, the overwhelmed young man. " 0 can it be that he left any message for me? Any gift, however small, which may possess talismanic virtue to avert the ills of life, which now seem pending; and which, notwithstanding the prin- ciples of Christian philosophy instilled, I hope, into my very being, by the venerable rastor of this church, hang over me as a dark cloud, threat. ening to crush me by their fall."   ITIE PASTOR'S STORY.     47 Major B. roemoved the envelopes one by one from a little ivory box, which enclosed one of the richest of jewel vases. On opening this case, imagine, if you can, Thomas's astonishment and delight, not, however, without trepidation, at beholding a letter bearing his own address, "Care of Major Baxter, South Carolina." He hurriedly opened it, and eagerly glanced at the signature. His own father's name, traced with a feeble hand, met his eye, and filled him with melancholy joy. Long and steadily he gazed upon the name, entwined with his very existence, and hallowed by the innocent memories of his childhood, as if to learn of it the import of that to which it was subscribed. At length turning to the beginning, he slowly perused the 'following letter: "MAT, 18-. "MY DEAR SON:--When this letter shall have been given you by the hand of friendship and affection, the one which traced it will long since have mouldered in the dust, and been numbered among the dead. You will doubtless ask, why the only memorial of your father has so long been withheld from you? If living, provided you receive it be:ore you attain your majority, M3tjor *A          .      48     PROSE AND POETRY. Baxter will answer: 'Because it was your father's request: but for this stipulated contingency, had I given it to you a day soon'er, I had violated a sacred trust.' "For this request, I will myself account. In order to appropriately address you, I must, in fancy, transport myself through the dark valley of-death to the bright mountains of the redeemed, and converse with you as from the spirit-land.' "In consigning your childhood and youth to the care of one in every respect entitled to my confidence and esteem, I felt that any directions to him with regard to his subsequent management of you were unnecessary. A high-toned, honor- able man never proves recreant to a trust--never deceives friend or foe. I gave you to him in the full confidence that you would be brought up in the ways of irue and peace, and I doubt not that such has bee his endeavor. "To- you, my dear son, I simply said: Thomas, I bequeathe you to Major Baxter. Extend to him the obedience and affection which would have been due me had I lived; and be grateful and tender to him in his declining years. To one of your pright principles, I knew this to be sufficient to insure the most scrupulous perform ance of duty. ,   THE PASTOR'S STORY.      49 "With regard to myself I have but little to narrate: suffice it that I am the son of highly re- spected parents, a descendant of one of the oldest and best families in England. My father designed and educated me for the ministry of the gospel, but not considering myself worthy so high' a calling, I disappointed his desire, and chose the vocation of law. Established in a lucrative pro- fession, and winning golden opinions every day, although poor, I aspired to the hand and heart of a beautiful lady of immense wealth and of illustrious birth. She encouraged my advances, and, at her suggestion, we were clandestinely married. According to her apprehensions, from ,that hour her kindred abandoned and disowned her. What mattered that, however? We were all in all to each other; and by my untiring exertions and her frugality, we were soon independent of their notice. "By and by, you, my son, were given unto us. And O, what a blessed world this then was! The very stars shone brighter, and the atmosphere was redolent of joy, as I gazed upon the baby face of my darling boy-my miniature self! But mysterious indeed is the hand of Providence! The same hour that brought you to my enraptured vision, entertained the grim monster Death; and gave him as fair a lily as ever opened its pure 3     50     PROSE AND POETRY. petals to light, to feed upon until swallowed up in his insatiate jaws. Day by day I witnessed the expansion of the hectic rose, as it bloomed in maockery upon her beautiful face, without the power to pluck and dash it far away. "One long year of intense suffering and patient endurance added another conquest to the relentless tyrant's power, and another to the catalogue of the bereaved. "With her head upon my bosom, her emaciated hand clasped within mine, I saw her die. I felt the death-throe! In an agony of despair, I besought God to manifest compassion on me by permitting me to die too. I called upon the earth to swallow, the rocks to cover me! In the delirium of my grief, I forgot there was a remaining link connect- ing me to earth. I forgot you, my son! The recollection of youy of your helpless and dependent infancy, came like a sunbeam to my soul, reconcil- ing it to its earthly imprisonment, reconciling it to the then sad duties of life. In the course of time my grief, though never subdued, became less poignant, and I often ex- perienced the most grateful rapture in contem- plating the physical and mental developments of the only pledge of the dearest period of my existence. For you, my son-I had not learned    , THS PASTOR'S STORY.      51 even yet the fallacy of earthly honor-all the ambition of my nature was revived. I anticipated the time when an admiring world should have culled the brightest flowers in the garden of fame, and offered them as an oblation at your feet. With the eye of affection I beheld your brow enwreathed by a garland of rose-buds, destined to expand and bloom in heaven with unrivalled splendor and sweetness. "But the presumption and temerity of man seldom go unpunished even in this world. His most cherished hopes and objects are those soonest destroyed or disappointed. Constitutionally deli- cate, the care, which I would not permit shared by others, during the affliction of your dear mother, laid a sure foundation upon which con- sumption again reared its funeral pile. Flattering as the disease is, and struggle as I would against the conviction, I knew that the work of death was going on: I knew that I must soon leave you, my noble boy, an orphan in the world. But a merciful Father raised up a friend to supply my place; that friend you know to be Major Baxter, and I repeat that I hope that he has ever had and will ever retain the place in your affec- tions which would have been mine. "In conclusion, there is another duty I would     62     PROSE AND POETRY. impress upon you: you have an uncle, my only brother. Than his, a more noble, generous heart never throbbed. Too confiding, however, he learned, when too late, that all were not, like him- self, to be trusted. By the duplicity of others having been greatly reduced in a pecuniary point, he embarked for the Indies in the hope of making up his losses. For several years we maintained a regular correspondence, but at length he became, if living, too much engaged in the pursuit of wealth to devote to absent friends, or his letters miscarried. On this account I fear he has been unsuccessful, and chooses to exile himself rather than to return to his native land without the means of sustaining the position to which he was once accustomed. Should you ever hear that he needs assistance, go directly to him and do all in your power to relieve his wants. God will reward you. "True it is, that 'brevity is the soul of wit,' but it is not the soul of affection. In this, my last communication to you, I could have written volumes-I could have muliplied endearing epithets mountain high, but want of time forbade. "Before, however, finishing this already prolix epistle, I could not forbear telling you, my beloved son, that a change came over the spirit of my   :!       TTHE PASTOR'S STORY.      58 ambition. I would still have had you great, but only in a moral and religious sense; still have had you win a name, but only such as Heaven would approve. In the spirit of Wesley, Newton, and Edwards, seek to make the world better by having lived in it; this being done, you will have achieved a victory for which Napoleon would have re- linquished his blood-stained honors. This being done, recording angels will have inscribed your name in imperishable characters in the highest courts of the New Jerusalem. 'Now. my dear son, a long and tender farewell. May the- Father of the orphan watch over and shield you from the ills of life, is the prayer of your dying father, "WILLIAM DANIEL. "P. S.--In the same box containing this letter, you have your mother's bridal present from me. Attached is her written desire with regard to its destination.  Affectionately,   W. -D." The contents of this letter filled the mind of Thomas with a pleasing sadness, and gave to it a fixed purpose in life, which will be fully realized only in eternity. As though he deemed himself unworthy to touch an article sanctified by his     54     PROSE AND POETRY. mother's wear, Thomas hesitated in opening the case in which it was concealed. Major B., per. ceiving the hesitation, and divining the cause, kindly opened the case, and drew forth a neck- lace of diamonds of the purest water. Full and complete it was save one missing jewel. Turning it over, he discovered in small but unmistakable characters the initials of his mother's name. - And upon a tiny sheet of embossed note-paper, neatly secured to the valuable relic, were these words: "To my dear son I bequeathe this memento of the fondest affection, with the desire that he will never part with it until he shall have found one dearer to him than all the world beside. He then will be at liberty to clasp it around her neck, a symbol of that love which gently encircles the whole. His affectionate mother,  MARY DANIEL." After reading it, Thomas enclosed his mother's note in his father's letter, and placed them next his heart. To overpowered for conversation, he and his friend silently retraced their footsteps home. He sought an early opportunity to hand the letter to Edith, with a request that she would read it and-then meet him in the verandah. The meeting of these lovers on this memorable occasion, we forbear to describe; suffice it, that it was long and tender And before they separated,   H-ag    TTHE PASTOR'S S4TORY.     55 Thomas clasped the necklace, but now, as it were, the gift of his mother, round the neck of Edith. She fully understood the import so delicately Implied; yea, more, she understood the refined nature which appreciated a look far more than the most enthusiastic expressions, and forebore the utterance of thanks. Her beautiful face, radiant with love and gratitude, plainly evinced that which language were impotent to convey. The parting struggle was experienced that night. And a resignation to duty so calm and so unim- passioned succeeded, that he who looks merely at the surface of things, would never have -suspected 'the mighty conflict beneath. Or, rather, he who is incapable of such moral triumphs over the passions and sensibilities of his nature, would have thought them too stoical for lovers. At a very early hour next morning, Thomas, accompanied by Edith and her father, was on his way to Charleston, whence he expected to embark the succeeding day for England. In an eloquence intelligible only to the soul, the farewell was expressed, and Thomas went aboard an elegant vessel bound for Albion's shores.. With a disposition which could adapt itself to circum- stances, and conform with composure to the re* quirements of occasions, he soon appeared one of     56 -    PROSE AND POETRY. the most contented passengers, and did much to contribute to the entertainment of the voyage. I  Day after day, and night after night, as the magnificent ship moved on its way, Thomas paced the deck wrapped in devout meditation. His whole being was filled with love and admiration for Iim who, in the omnipotence of his power, holds the winds in his fists, and the seas in the hollow of his hands; and, without any positive religious ex- perience, he would fall upon his knees and pour out his soul in supplication to Him who " walked on the waters." Thomas's lofty soul aspired to communion with this great Being, and he deter- mined to hesitate no longer in making known his wants. Many beautiful passages of the Holy Scriptures suggested the way, and encouraged him to seek after that higher good, that purer joy, that loftier love for which his religious instincts kept longing. As a little child he cried, Lord, save, or I perish! This was the way and the only way to be healed pith that balm which grew by the pure waters cf Gilead. A beautiful evangelical faith filled his heart with praise and thanksgiving to the dear Sa iour, who had often extended to him a sustainiLg influence. Thomas was a Christian! O how he longed to tell Editi of this great work in his heart! O how   ,:, (THE PASTOR'S STORY.          57 he longed that the world might be encompassed by this wondrous love! After an auspicious and delightful voyage, the vessel anchored at- With a heart fortified by manly resolve and Christian purpose, Thomas stepped ashore. The clear depths of his dark 'eyes betrayed to every beholder this resolve-this purpose. And none -: could look, even casually, into his earnest, thought- ful face, without being impressed with the superi- ority of the indwelling spirit. Inclination, as well as a sense of duty, urged him to delay no time in going to the city of his uncle's abode. Arrived there, he at once went in search of him. Aided by the directions enclosed in the letter received in America, he soon found the humble dwelling.  With a 'composed and determined step he approached the door. Gently rapping, he received as response an invitation to "come in."  Thomas's feelings and emotions, upon entering that poor and unfinished apartment, were better imagined than described. Upon a scaffold bedstead, upon which was only a thin mattress, lay the once proud form of Gen- eral Daniel. A moment sufficed to establish in the mind of the nephew the identity of the uncle. The resemblance to his father, whom he remem. IU   3*     68     PROSE AND POETRY. bered well, was too apparent to be imaginary. He was overwhelmed -by a thousand thoughts, and in a moment of uncontrolled feelings he rushed to his side and clasped his astonished uncle in his arms. "My uncle!" "My nephew!" were the proud exclamations of these stranger relatives. Though apparently reduced to penury, Thomas saw in the eye, and curve of the thin lip, unmlis- takable indications of the soul's nobility. And but for a certain undefinable something in his manner, which he could not reconcile to this nobility, he would have gloried to call him uncle- gloried to minister to his adverse situation. Were it prudent, time would not allow us to repeat the affectionate conversation which ensued; before it ended, however, General D. was satisfied that his brother's son was not ashamed of the relation- ship, and that his highest pleasure would be to serve him. Though too much interested to think of dinner on his own account, Thomas knew that his uncle needed refreshment, and he was anxious to pro- cure it I Owing to the generout supply his Ameri- can friend, Major B., had slipped into his hand as he bade him farewell, he yet had ample means for many weeks' support. But how to go about providing for the present occasion, especially   THE PASTOR'S STORY.       59 when so refined a person was the object of it, he was at a loss to devise. Apprehending the cause of embarrassment, Gen- eral D. asked his nephew to place the little table which stood in the corner, by his bedside. Hav- ing complied, his uncle removed a coarse but snow-white covering, and, to his gratification, he beheld, if not the most choice articles of food for an invalid, those which were quite suitable. Perceiving there was an abundance, he did not hesi- tate to share the humble meal. Humble as it was, the host, however, went through with all the for- malities of a courtly entertainment, and before they had finished the repast, his nephew was convinced in his own mind that he was either a monomaniac, or a proud man of the world, who rebelled against the decrees of Providence. In  the course of the afternoon, General D. informed Thomas that he had some important business to which he wished him to immediately attend, as the delay of even a few hours might be attended with disadvantage.  Ready to perform any duty, and anxious to obtain if possible a clue to his uncle's state of mind, he received a bundle of papers, with verbal instructions as to the locality of those with whom the business apper- tained.     80     PROSE AND POETRY. "This being accomplished," said General D., 4' the afternoon will be nearly spent; but however late, I then want you to go a little way up the river and call at the elegant mansion of General Daniel, and deliver into his own hands this letter. Do not ask directions-you cannot fail to find the place." Thomas complied with his uncle's desires to- the letter. Having finished arrangements with the attorneys, he proceeded to the elegant mansion on the borders of the Avon. To the servant who an- swered his ring he handed his card, with a request to see the master immediately on urgent business. The servant soon returned with a kind invitation to him to go to the chamber of the General, as he was too indisposed to see him elsewhere. Ushered into one of the most princely apart- ments, imagine the surprise of Thomas as he beheld, clad in purple and fine linen, the very same uncle whom he had but so recently left in one of the most obscure domiciles in the city. He cotild scarcely credit his own senses, so mysterious did every thing appear. General D., feeling that it would be unkind to keep him longer in suspense, extended to him his hand, with but these words, "My nephew!"  Words which sent a thrill of joy to his heart but that very morning, now fell upon   THE PASTOR'S STORY.       61 his ears without inspiring a single emotion of plea- sure. Quick as thought he comprehended all. His uncle was very rich, and had resorted to this expedient to force him from his friends in Ame- rica-to recall him to England. He was disap- pointed, almost vexed. General Daniel, perceiv- ing this, rendered satisfactory reasons for the "innocent hoax."  Returning to his native home with wealth that would have satisfied the most avaricious, and having no heir upon whom to be- stow it, he resolved to adopt his only nephew, whom  he had never seen, to inherit his magni- ficent estates. In order to convince himself that this nephew was deserving his generosity, he con- ceived the plot to deceive him, and see how he yielded compliance to his requests. In one respect he did not deceive: he was indeed -in rapidly de- clining health. And, as a dutiful and affectionate relative, Thomas ministered to the comfort and enjoyment of his last days. A  few months of unremitting suffering com- pleted its work; and he who had spent his life in the acquisition of wealth and worldly honors, dis- covered, when too late, that they could avail no- thing in the hour of death. Notwithstanding the prayers and entreaties of his pious nephew, this man of the world died as he had lived, unmindful of his soul's salvation.     -62    PROSE AND POETRY. When Thomas had discharged the last sad duties to his only uncle and known relative, he fully realized that he was a stranger among stran- gers; and his heart instinctively turned with all its yearnings to his home and friends in America. He immediately wrote to Major Baxter and to Edith, informing them of the melancholy though expected event, and for the first time made known to them the "hoax." Judging them by the majority of persons, he had erroneously supposed that upon discovering that his uncle needed not his assistance, they would think he ought to return to his adopted home, and he had avoided alluding to his situation; and had even retained, with the warmest expression of thanks, several considerable sums of money, remitted to him by his dear friend "across the waters." Strange, unaccountably strange, to Thomas, month after month elapsed, and no answer came to either of these letters. He never for a moment questioned the fidelity of his friends. O no! he knew them too well for that. In the agony of sus- pense, he determined to sail without delay for America. But, then, although sole heir, his deceased uncle's business had to be adjusted ac- cording to law, and it was indispensable that he should give it his personal attention. Besides this important reasonl for remaining   THE PASTOR'S STORY.      63 awhile in England, there was yet another, which, though he himself could scarcely explain, was even more controlling. While yet in doubt with regard to the cause of his not receiving answers from his Carolina friends, an impression, border- ing on certainty, existed in his mind that some- thing stranger, more gratifying perhaps than any thing preceding it, awaited him, and prevented him from carrying out his premature determination to leave. Many a starlit evening he wandered alone on the classic shores of the grand old river winding by his beautiful home, absorbed in earnest thought or religious meditation: thought inspired by the enchanting solitude and mystic melodies of the majestic old trees, standing like sentinels to guard ancestral inheritance, around the princely mansion; and the peculiar plaintive song of the boatmen, as it told its tale of love. Memory, too, was often at work, and by its magic power he lived over again the loved season spent with Edith in a distant land. Each glance of her ceru- lean eyes beamed upon him with the same tender fervor; each softened intonation of her musical voice was borne on the fragrant zephyrs, and vibrated upon the harp-strings of his soul. He saw her point to heaven, and bid him hope. And o     "    PROSE AND POETRY. that same beautiful faith, which sprang up in his soul on his voyage hither, dispelled all depressing forebodings, and inspired his tongue with songs of praise and rejoicing. In one of his solitary rambles, Thomas observed at a distance a stately form, which at once riveted his eye. Advancing nearer, he beheld the com- manding figure of an aged gentleman, whose appearance united the nobility of nature with the aristocrat of society. Admiration and reverence at once took possession of him, and he involuntarily raised his hat until he passed him. The interest was mutual. There is something truly inexplicable in the affinity which kindred spirits bear to each other. Thomas felt that he had seen his own prototype, and with a sort of enthusiastic impatience he wanted to see more of it. Day after day he wandered in the same direction, with no other (that was enough) motive than that of meeting this mysterious personage. He had a sort of vague, superstitious idea, despite his better know- ledge, that there was something more than human- ity associated with him, and that there was an invisible link connecting their beings, and he longed most ardently for its discovery. Each recurrence of these meetings more fully   THE PASTOR'S STORY.      65 established in the minds of each of these persons that there was a magnetizing principle implanted within which could not resist its kindred influence. On an early occasion they met. Through the eye their souls went forth, and in one long embrace united never more to separate-Thomas's and hi. grandfather's. With thanksgiving, such as the angel bands of heaven might stoop to hear, these rejoicing spirits made the woods resound. "Praise God, O my soul! for this happy day, this glorious privilege! .0, my daughter! whose sacred name I am not worthy to call! thou whom I so un- justly discarded from all the loved endearments of mother and home! look down from thy bright habitation in heaven, and see how entirely my heart bows -in humble supplication to thee for forgiveness! And hear my solemn vow to atone, to the very extent of my ability, to the son for the mother's wrongs." Such, and the like, were the contrite exclama- tions of that once inexorable old gentleman, who had in earlier life made all the tender impulses of the heart but secondary considerations; who had made every principle of his nature-and there were many of an excellent character-subserve the arbi- trary conventionalities of the sphere in which he  was born and brought up. Thomas's rejoicing     "    PROSE AND POETRY. was similar to that of his grandfather, varied only by years and circumstances. By the earliest mail he dispatched other letters to Edith and her father, containing a full account of this happy interview. He implored her to  delay not an answer, as every thing earthly was as nothing compared with his all-absorbing love for her. He, told her that without the hope of her pious example through life, without her gehtle guidance through the dangerous vortex of wealth, he feared he would be engulfed in its dark waters. He told her how he had already conceived the idea of endowing a religious and literary institu. tion, and begged her advice and cooperation. Again months passed, and no reply rewarded his fidelity. Again he determined to embark foi America. To his aged grandfather he confided the history of his love, and his reasons for desiring to leave England at this important crisis; and, to his gratification, the old gentleman approved his course. The afternoon preceding his contemplated de- parture, as strolling pensively, he scarcely knew whither, he came in the vicinity of an establish- ment of choice jewelry. As if grateful to that chance which had directed his steps hither, he entered, determined to make a selection of a plain To   THE PASTOR'S STORY.      67 but valuable ring which he intended presenting to Edith. Having made the selection, Thomas had turned to leave, when the salesman, anxious to secure the patronage of one evidently able to afford it, begged that he would examine a case of antique though magnificent diamonds. Leisure allowing, courtesy prompted him to grant the request. Ad- miringly he examined several articles, which, from their antiquated style, appeared relics indeed. But, O heavens! what was his consternation when he beheld the very same necklace he had clasped round Edith's neck the night preceding his depart- ure from America! He could not be mistaken; there it was, with one diamond missing, and his mother's initials! His frame shook as in an ague fit; his head reeled as if intoxicated, and he was obliged to cling to a column near by for support. But a few moments were lost in this way: he seized the necklace, and peremptorily demanded its price and the manner in which it was obtained. The polite and gentlemanly salesman, understanding the heart- workings which had thus thrown his noble visitor off his guard, gave him a correct account of his purchase of the article hallowed by the strongest ties in nature. The account, however, furnished Thomas no clue to the real state of affairs, but          .     68    PROSE AND POETRY. rather supplied grounds for the most heart-rending  suspicion. That Edith was in England he doubted not; but under what circumstances, conjecture failed to furnish one that was satisfactory. He resolved to lose no time in efforts of discovery. Every hotel and boarding-house in the city he daily visited; every place of public amusement and entertain- ment he attended, in hope of seeing the idol'of his affections. Just as hope had well-nigh ceased to animate his exertions, an incident of a most thrilling char- acter occurred in the near vicinity of his residence; an incident which enlisted his sympathy and interest, and again stimulated him to action. An aged man, who, though in very indigent circumstances, had by numerous little offices of kindness and accommodation endeared himself to a large circle of acquaintances, was, in the still- ness of darkness, broken in upon by several of a banditti which had for months infested the country with defiant boldness, and gagged and bound so as to be unable to oppose them. Whilst the father was thus incapacitated, these men of sin noiselessly proceeded to the room occupied by his two daughters. Sleeping until too late for effective resistance, these unoffending females,   THE PASTOR'S STORY.      69 who, save on errands of usefulness, seldom went beyond their father's humble enclosure, were securely fettered and also gagged; then forced from the house and placed each upon an elegant horse, destined, by the sad perversion of the use- ful, to carry two persons as unlike as midnight and noonday-an ambassador of darkness and a spirit of light. So it is with life: the vile and the - pure how often, alas! closely drawn together. Thus mounted, these terrified maidens, the younger of whom was just verging into woman- hood, were hurried they knew not whither. Just as day-a day that brought no light to them--was dawning, they were mockingly ushered into a capacious but unfurnished drawing-room of what appeared to them an untenanted old castle, and begged in the same mocking manner to feel per- fectly at ease in their new abode, notwithstanding the contrast to the one from which they came. In a few moments they were conducted with much ceremony to a private apartment, which already contained as pure an occupant as ever graced courtly hall or princely saloon, and bade to hold themselves in readiness for further orders. Brought together under circumstances so mysterious and humiliating, these unfortunate girls were not long in learning each other's history; and, notwith.     70     PROSE A'ND POETRY. standing the uncertainty of their own fate, the sisters seemed to forget their situation, so great was their commiseration for the gentle creature who had previously been abducted and forced into this rendezvous of iniquity. As "the darkest day has gleams of light," so even this dark place was not without its aperture through which feebly gleamed a ray of hope. Unacquainted with the world, and allured by-the most plausible and seductive promises, a young man of some very excellent qualities, with his little patrimony in his pocket, had been induced to unite his interest with that of these s'specu- lators," many of whom mingled as gentlemen in a respectable (?) class of the community; and not until too late to rescue his all from their nefarious covetousness, did he discover the nature of their "speculations:" how, with a long catalogue of the most fearful transgressions, they combined that of abducting innocent females and retaining them in captivity until rewards satisfying their cupidity were offred. Then some of the band, who, disguised in the garb of gentlemen, walked the streets every day, eager to obtain the prize, soon, despite "opposition," and oftentimes "bloodshed, bore the captives in triumph to their rejoicing friends. All this he discovered, and he resolved,   THE PASTOR'S STORY.       71 though his life should pay the forfeit, to expose the villainy; in order to do which, and to safely effect his escape, he had to seem as one of them, taking care not to participate in actual crime. Just as he had matured plans by which to prosecute his intentions, the first of these fair captives was brought hither. He then abandoned all thought, of leaving as long as she remained in this gloomy imprisonment; and to mitigate her sufferings, to screen her as much as possible from insult, and to inspire her with hope and cheerful- ness, was his constant care. Without the certainty of her release, too, freedom, even from this odious place, could not have been given him. To add to his solicitude and care, the other two were brought and likewise confined. Decision wavered no longer. Advising the, girls of his plans, ani1 begging them to feign entire ignorance of him should they be interrogated, he went to those of the conspirators who were there, and told then that their "Captain" had left orders with him to be at - precisely at one o'clock that night. So ingeniously did this young man fabricate his story, that even these bad men yielded ready credence. and offered no objection to the proposed excursion. Mounting one of their fleetest horses, he put oil !     72     PROSE AND POETRY. at a rapid rate in the direction designated; but as goon as out of sight, he, by a circuitous way, reversed his course, and lost no time in getting to --. A few miies from the town,by the light of a brilliant moon, he perceived at a considerable distance a man on horseback. Deeming caution the best policy, he immediately slackened his pace, with the view of passing the stranger in a com- posed and unsuspicious manner. The gentleman advancing chanced to be none other than our young friend, Thomas: impelled by a restless anxiety and an unaccountable foreboding that something would soon transpire which would lead to the discovery of Edith's whereabouts, he had gone forth this memorable night. The strangers were about passing in silence, but a mutual gaze, as inquiring as intent, caused each to halt. By a polite salutation, which at once inspired confidence, our young hero broke the silence. A tew moments of almost whispered con- versation ensued, in which Thomas was brought acquainted with the young man's object, and he at once enlisted his services. Together they sped to the town, and cautiously making known their wants, but a snort time sufficed to raise a little army of wetl-equipped men, ready to spill their life's-blood in a just cause.   THE PASTOR'S STOR Y.      73 On, on they sped until within hearing distance of the old castle, destined soon to be the scene both of bloodshed and joy. Dismounting, they secured their horses, and on foot cautiously pro- ceeded to the old building. The "Captain" having prematurely returned, had heard the story of the young man's departure, and, filled with torturing apprehensions known only to the guilty, had already given orders for a speedy removal. The bloody conflict which ensued we would not describe; enough that those in the right tri- umphed. Thomas's heart now throbbed with joy, as the thought ,occurred to him that two of the young ladies here imprisoned might be the two so cruelly torn from their father in his own city. To one as sanguine as he, the hope amounted to certainty; and he wondered that he had not thought of it before. He preceded rather than followed his brave young conductor to the apart- ment of the almost frantic girls. In the very agony of fear, lest he who had imperilled his life that theirs might be rescued had fallen in the contest, they had suffered as much mentally as those who had physically suffered. On opening the door, Thomas, almost paralyzed 4     74     PROSE AND POETRY. with amazement, beheld a face the dearest on earth! He had never seen but one like it-he could never see another. Was it an apparition that he saw? No! it was flesh and blood! It    -a was his own loved Edith!             i From a description of the scene which followed I our pen would shrink indeed; before it ended, however, Thomas had again clasped his mother's necklace round the neck of the astonished and happy Edith, with a vow never to leave her ex-- posed. The morning's dawn found the heterogeneous party on their way home. The gratitude of the old man upon the restoration  of his daughters was indescribable. And the heroic young man, so instrumental in the release of these young ladies, sought and won the hand and heart of the younger sister. At as early a  period as practicable, Edith and Thomas were -united in the indissoluble bonds of wedlock. O, what a  noble spirit was his! No suspicions of the propriety of her course caused him to delay the fulfilment of a sacred promise;  ; to elucidation of mysteries was necessary.  She loved him;   had followed him across the briny  I deep; and not until the solemn  vows had been    THE PASTOR S STORY.       75 breathed, did he learn from his loving wife the full extent of her trials and troubles. How, after the deaths of her grandfather and father, she had resolved to go to England, for the purpose of learning, if possible, the reasons for his unexpected course: both his and her letters had been intercepted by a bribed postmaster. How, accompanying some friends who were going there, she arrived at --; and, had she been guided by the impulses of her own fond attachment, and acquainted him through the mail of her arrival in his city, she might have been spared the humiliating ordeal through which she had passed. How her friends, not knowing as she did the magnanimity of his nature, fearing he had forgotten his love for her, and was even then, perhaps, the husband of some more fortunate lady, opposed this course. How she, in the hope of discovering something cons cerning him, had gone forth .alone when her friends thought her -safe within her own room. How, in one of these solitary rambles, she was seized by a ruffian's hand and drawn into a build- ing of good appearance; then violently robbed of her necklace; and then retained in the closest custody until that period most loved by those whose deeds are evil, when she was hurried by     76     PROSE AND POETRY. the same conscienceless person to the retreat where she was so happily found. With something more than earthly interest Thomas regarded his beautiful young wife, as she recounted the troubles and sufferings which her love for him had occasioned. And he ;felt just as such a man as he could feel, that a life's devotion were incompetent to repay such heaven- born fidelity. In reviewing the history of his life, he read in characters too legible to be mistaken, the hand- writing of God; and with a heart surcharged with love and thankfulness, he bowed, he and his Chris- tian wife, in one long, heartfelt prayer to the Great Author of so many blessings. Thomas told Edith that he was solemnly im- pressed with the conviction that it was his duty to preach the gospel: to preach Christ and him crucified to a dying people; and in order to do which, so as not to bring reproach upon the cause, he must pursue a theological course of study. This was the fondest desire of her soul, and she did all she could to facilitate this great and responsible undertaking. Three years after entering one of the best theological institutes in Europe, Thomas was an   THB   PASTOr'S STORY.        W ordained minister of the gospel.   The field he chose for his labors was the home of his youth, The church he supplied with a pastor was the neat little granite edifice, almost imbedded in fragrant shrubbery, about    miles from Charles- ton.                        t     78      PROSE AND POETRY, "NES TO A YOUNG LADY. Affectionately addressed to a young lady on the receipt of a beautiful souvenir-a rich purse, wrought by her hands, and pre- sented to the writer. THANKS for the beauteous gift, sweet girl, thy tasteful skill hath twined, And brilliant though its meshes be as brightly there enshrined; Through future years will memories dwell of these our happy hours, As the fled summer's glory lives in one rich wreath of flowers. And as thy love-lit years glide on, be each glad hour enwreathed Into a tissue sparkling bright as this thy hand hath weaved:   "NES TO   A  YOUNG   LADY.      79 Like to  that dial florists frame,* still may    the laughing hours B .marked by thee but by the bloom    of joy's fresh op'ning flowers. Linnmsus formed a dial of flowers, whose successive openings and closings marked the hours.           t     .     8G.    PPROSE AND POETRY. TEHE ROBIN. I HEARD a soft and sweet-toned note, Which rose and swelled from distant tree: A robin from his magic throat, There perched and sung his song for me. "The cold winds came, and where went he? Away, where summer wings did rove; Where buds were fresh, and ev'ry tree Was vocal with the notes of love." Now green shrubs edge our forest walks, And blushing are our sweet-wood flowers; Snowhalls hang on their slender stalks, Kissed by dew in softest showers. Come are Spring's bright sunny bowers, Come Spring's encircling, tender vines; And Winter, with his dismal hours, On Kenesaw no longer pines.   THE ROBIN.        81 Then come, O come, to this mild sky, So fresh the blooms that scent the air; The vernal winds are passing by, And scatt'ring buds and leaves so fair. Yes, come again, my own dear bird, To this warm clime; haste-speed thy flight! Kiss with the sun the evening's cheek, And stay with me the long, long night. Warble that wildwood note again, And I will read and list the while; Its tones will soon my soul enchain, And all my pensive hours beguile. 4*     82     PROSE AND POETRY. FULL MANY A FLOWER. "Full many a gem of purest ray serene, The dark, unfathomed caves of ocean bear; Full many a flower is born to blush unseen, And waste its sweetness on the desert air." GRAY'S ELEGY. PRESUMPTUOUS as it may appear as an introduc- tion to the remarks I have to inflict upon the hearing of those who honor this occasion by their presence, I have stolen the diamond from a string of pearls, strung by one whose heart, " once preg- nant with celestial fire," felt as few men have ever felt; and who from one of the highest summits of that Pisgah which overlooks the fair Canaan of poesy, plucked flowerets pendant from Heaven's festoons, and received inspiration from ethereal- ized spirits, which enabled him " to wield the -elements," and to sound the depths of the human heart, raising and stilling its passions at his bid- ding; and I humbly hope that a gleam   of its effulgent lustre may illuminate my otherwise dull and uninteresting composition.   PULL MANY A   FLOWER.      83 5We are not informed that when God created the world, he did not decorate every portion of it alike beautiful; but we are authorized by his word to believe, that if any spot received his peculiar consideration, that spot was the Garden of Eden. There luxuriated in rich variety all the beauties of nature, which have elicited the admiration and engaged the attention of all succeeding ages. There the rose, acknowledged queen of flowers, and the lily, fit emblem of maiden purity, grew spontaneous, independent of mortal culture. There the lowly violet and the humble little forget-me-not commanded the same attention as did the proud and majestic magnolia, loftily waving its ex- pansive foliage in the pure atmosphere of heaven. But when we turn from that consecrated enclosure, that favored spot of Divine love, all is conjecture and supposition. Whether the Creator of the universe, and all pertaining to it, distributed alike over the surface of the earth these beautiful manifestations of his generosity; or whether it was reserved for man, after his dispersion, and "the fowls of the air" on their migratory tours, to transplant them in other climes, has often been a subject of specu- lation.     84     PROSE AND POETRY. The happiest conclusion is, that when God said, "Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit-tree yielding fruit," no section of the world was more propitiously regarded than another. Doubtless, the most sequestered nooks and the most obscure places were then beautified and embellished by the prettiest of flowers; and who will dare to think that those flowers were "Born to blush unseen, And waste their sweetness on the desert air?" Have not the angels eyes? And did not they look down from their happy homes in heaven, and unite in anthems of praise for what the Great Dis- penser of all good had done for them? Did not the golden stars and the silvery moon lend rays of effulgence to their variegated petals; and the sun, the king of light, reflect their rain- bow tints? God was glorified where the foot of man had never trod! Go now, who will, to the rich conservatories of the opulent, where affluence and science, two all- powerful agencies, conspire to change even the order of nature; where, by congregating exotics the very antipodes of each other, anomalies are produced which seem very like burlesques on the   FULL MANY A FLOWER.       85 original design; pluck from their offerings the most choice flower, carry it to the gay saloons of pleasure, and bid the votaries of fashion go into ecstasies over its beauty and fragrance! Yes, bid them! For it sends no voluntary thrill of delight to the heart-arouses no dormant emotions of love and gratitude, which irresistibly elicit an out- burst of unaffected joy and admiration! Hand in hand with Flora, I will hie to the mountain's brow, or to the valley's bosom, and cull a bouquet of the sweetest blossoms, unadulterated by the hand of culture, and take them to the bed- side of the sick, or the room of the oppressed! Mark that smile-sweet though melancholy! And that teardrop! Whence does it flow? From a heart whose fondest recollections cluster around the past; and whose hopes for the future nestle at the foot of Calvary! That little offering of friendship, that simple nosegay of the wildwood, has awakened thoughts of childhood's days; parents and friends long incar- cerated in the house of silence are resuscitated by their magic influence, and are gently hovering round, tenderly discharging the offices of friend- ship and love. Attachments of more mature years are revived, and exist again in all the fer- vency of affectionate regard! The heart, disap-     86     PROSE AND POETRY. pointed in its earthly calculations, turns to heaven, that mighty emporium of happiness, where parents and children are reunited, and friends found in whom there is no decay or shadow of change! Hafe those sweet wildwood flowers wasted their sweethess on the desert air? Methinks I see a courageous adventurer wend- ing his way through a narrow defile of the Rocky Mountains. He endeavors to banish all thoughts of home, lest perchance they should restrain his enterprising footsteps! With forced cheerfulness he whistles a merry air, which fell upon his ear in the joyous parterre, or in the hilarious hall of the voluptuous and rich. He avoids such as Home, Sweet Home: it may be that he fears their plaintive melody will shake the determination to pursue his journey. Look! what a change! That self-defying man is ashy pale! even on his cheek the teardrop glistens! Ah! his eyes, in constant search of the beautiful, have fallen on an humble little flower, the same il appearance that she, the object of his early love, the plighted partner of his earthly destiny, had given him as emblematical of her devotion and fidelity. All the tender though slumbering emotions of man's mighty heart are aroused and operated upon. A Fremont is again locked in the   FULL MANY A FLOWER.       87 fond embrace of affectionate regard; wife and children cluster about, and, vinelike, twine their arms round him, the oak of that little grove! Will he refuse to shelter them from the scorch- ing rays of summer, or from the chilling winds of winter? Will he neglect propping those frail twigs, dependent in a measure upon him for the impress the tree shall bear? He has done so! A spirit of adventure, an ambition for worldly renown, has induced him to consign that precious little group to the care of those comparatively disinterested; and to relinquish all the fond endearments of wife, home, and friends! Hence he weeps on seeing that mountain flower-that memento of happier times! Hlas that flower wasted its sweetness upon the desert air? I will now ascend from Flora's kingdom to that which embraces man, and endeavor to exhibit the beautiful analogy. So much depends upon mental culture in the development of moral and intellectual flowers, that no pains or expense should be spared to promote its general diffusion. Lamentable in- deed is the reflection that in many a "neglected spot" exist all the "Elements to sway an empire Or wake to ecstasy the living lyre."     88     PROSE AND POETRY. "But knowledge to their eyes her ample page, Rich with the spoils of Time, has ne'er unrolled; Penury represses their noble rage, And freezes the genial bent of the soul." There are some flowers, however, belonging to this kingdom not indigenous to any clime, nor are they entirely dependent on culture for develop- ment.  Those are the flowers of the heart-an amiable and gentle disposition7 a kind and forgiv- ing spirit. Such offerings are infinitely more acceptable to God than the dazzling treasures of Golconda's mines, or the intellectual oblations from the hill of science!' Humble though they be, no spot, however obscure, can conceal such excellence! A mother on whose brow "the traces of sorrow may be found," or a father whose "footsteps are now feeble and slow," may feel their heavenly influ- ence, and thank their merciful Father for such angel gifts. Is such sweetness wasted on the desert air? He who, though gifted with all that renders life attractive-parents who watched with tender soli- citude over the period of helpless infancy, and whose affection diminisheth not in later years; brothers and sisters who shared alike each joy and each woe, and around the same knee learned to lisp, "Our Father, who art in heaven"-impressed   PULL MANY A FLOWER.       89 by the powerful obligation he is under to "work the work of Him that sent him while it is day, for the night cometh, wherein no man can work," and leaves the valued associations of childhood, youth, and early manhood, and devotes himself phy- sically and mentally to leading out of Egyptian darkness the poor benighted heathen, seems to bury his talents-seems to waste his sweetness upon the desert air. But when his head shall have re- ceived "a crown of righteousness, brightened by the acclamations of praise, which shall reddund to his Saviour's glory, from heathens saved through his instrumentality from eternal woe," it will be discovered that his talents were wisely employed. Such flowers emit a fragrance inhaled by angels, and will be transplanted in heaven, there to bloom in their native element, through all eternity! X     "    PROSE AND POETRY. TO MARY. IN love, dear girl, thy friend now twines A garland for thy youthful brow- A texture of the golden lines, Of hopes and joys that glad thee now. Though gilded now by rays of hope, Fraught with changes thy life may bee To shade thy radiant horoscope, Dark clouds may linger near to thee. c? Deceitful ones thy path may throng, While Spring doth last and flowers bloom; But soon as Winter's winds arise, Sycophants shun the coming gloom. Then from the crowd, my friend, select, To be companions chosen here, Those pure and true-of God elect-- To virtue and religion dear.   TO MARt         .91 Like Christians aft' their terrene close, Still living on, though 'bove our view, Thy Saviour's love no changing knows- Though ills betide, 'tis ever true. Then treasure well his sacred Word; 'Twill faith unto thy spirit give, And waft it up to joys unheard, Prepared with Christ for e'er to live.     22     PROSE AND POETRY. AN ELEGY ON THE DEATH OF A YOUNGe LADY. No more shall I behold her, No more these arms enfold her: To a land of deepest shade She is gone. Like the flower nipped by frost, Ere its early bloom was lost, So died the lovely maid Who is gone. O, do not weep or mourn, Or desire her return; To the mansions of the blest She is gone. From envy and from strife, From all the ills of life, -Where the weary are at rest, She is gone.   AN EL E- Y.        93 There, free from toil and pain, She for ever will remain; Her sorrows are all o'er; She is gone To that bright throng in heaven, The host of the forgiven; Then let us grieve no more, She is gone,     "    PROSE AND POETRY. HAPPINESS. HAPPINESS! thou glittering thltg, That which we all desire; Thou art for ever on the wing, And if pursued, retire! How many mortals toil through life, 'Mid scenes of danger, care and strife, And in the end do find That all their work has been in vain- They sought what none on earth obtain, A perfect peace of mind. Then stop, vain man, and follow not This ignisfatuus bright, But be contented with your lot; Trust not its flattering light. It still will fly when you pursue, And keep receding from your view- 'Tis but a fruitless chase; And when your race of life is run, This rainbow, glistening in the sun, Is in another place.   FOROET THBEiE       .95 FORGET THEE. FORGET THEE! no, thy image dear Is with the chords of life entwining; Thy noble form is ever near, And like a light before me shining. Whether in slumber or awake, In solitude, or converse sweet, My constant thoughts of thee partake, And whisper we again shall meet. To me thou art a beacon bright, My pathway o'er rough seas to guide; To me thou art a star of night, Far brighter than all else beside. That star relumes my darkened way, And cheers my sad, desponding soul With light of more than heavenly ray, Yet more remote than distant pole. Forget thee! no, I try in vain, To banish every thought of thee: When this lorn heart is closed to pain Thou 't be my sweetest memory.     96  LINES TO LITTLE MNNIE. "NES TO LITTLE MNNIE. As fades the bud without decay, Plucked off by ruthless hand, So passed thy lovely charms ,away, To holier, happier land. No racking pain, sweet one, by day, Left on thy brow its trace, Nor night of anguish stol'd away, The bloom from thy angelic face. Thy coral lip lost not its hue, Thy eye its winsome light  Thy bosom ne'er by earth's cold dew Had felt a chilling blight. O, lovely Minnie! pretty dove, Dropt for an hour below To fill our hearts with joy and love,- And charm away our woe.   "NES TO LITTLE MNNIE.      97 Too soon thy little song was sung; Too soon thy smile has fled; Too soon, alas! thy lute unstrung; Too soon thy icy head. Thy death bed was a scene of joy To thee, sweet one! alone, For thou did'st change earth's gross alloy For praise 'neath God's high throne. We laid thee in the cold, dark grave, With prayers, and sigis, and tears; But oh! we know that thou wilt have Holier, happier spheres. And tho' our hearts may bleed and break, We would not have thee here; We'll "pray the Lord our souls to take,' And meet in that bright sphere. 5 \     98      PROSE AND IOETRY. THE SABBATH "And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it:' because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made."-GEN. ii. 3. HAIL, holy day! sweet day of rest, Both blessed and sanctified; In which the poor and the oppressed Are free and satisfied! The poor, who toil from day to day Beneath a burning sun, With gratitude and joy will say, Our six days' work is done. They see the Sabbath day appear, To Heaven their prayers arise; They hope to end their labor here, And rest above the skies.   THE U N FORTUNATE.      99 THE UNFORTUNATE. SHE never said she loved him," But I saw it in her eye, The blush that mantled her fair cheek, Whenever he was nigh; The sigh that heaved her tender breast, When, rising to depart, He kissed away the falling tear, And pressed her to his heart. I knew that he was wealthy, She poor, but virtuous too; I thought to spoil her loveliness Was all he had in view; That, like some sweet but fragile flower, Torn frbm its parent tree, She'd please his fancy for an hour, And then forgotten be. I told her not to trust him, He 'd ruin her fair fame; Rob her of innocence and life, All but a guilty name;     100    PROSE AND POETRf. But she believed his promises- With a seducer fled, And now, deserted by the wretch, She toils for her child's bread. '    -TEMPERANCE ADDRESS.      101 TEMPERANCE ADDRESS. AFTER my respects and compliments to the ladies of- S-- and vicinity, allow me to apologize for assuming my present position: a position which commands the inestimable opportunity of tendering to this Division of the Sons of Temper- ance a small manifestation of admiration and esteem; a privilege to which you, an'd you only, are legitimately entitled, and of which, I doubt not, you would ultimately have availed yourselves. Knowing, however, the kind and forgiving nature of woman, I feel a confident assurance of pardon. Worthy Patriarch and gentlemen of the Order of the Sons of Temperance, the laudable design in contemplation is the only consideration which could have induced me thus to transcend the con- ventional barriers of feminine delicacy, and to occupy a position so conspicuous. Should I prove, as I apprehend, unable to advance any thing deserving your attention, I shall not attempt supplying the deficiency'by     102S    PROSE AND POETRY. rhetorical garlands, which please only the super- ficial, and are, though sometimes indulged, repu- diated by the more intelligent and discriminating. As a representative of the female sex, I appear before you to mingle the voice of condemnation against the deleterious draught you have wisely renounced; and to express heartfelt gratitude to a philanthropic fraternity, destined to revolutionize the moral world; to dilapidate the strongholds of Satan; to dethrone the most abandoned sovereign that ever swayed sceptre; to create an earthly paradise where thorns and thistles were wont to luxuriate. When the benign constellation of Temperance had become almost extinct in the moral galaxy; when the whole world, as it were, was writhing under the withering influence and diabolical tyranny of King Alcohol; when the feeble voice of remonstrance and expostulation had well-nigh yielded to the desponding groans of despair; when solicitude, deep and- heartfelt, had almost exhausted her ingenuity, and the dove of hope had plumed her wing the last time in pursuit of the olive branch, then, then it was that a little though determined band of brothers, with hearts ignited by philanthropic zeal, unfurled the banner of Temperance, proclaiming in the thunder's voice   TEMPER A NCE ADDRESS.       103 rebellion against this hydra-headed monster-this sworn friend of Pluto. Nor has the banner been unfurled in vain: every breeze that passes by wafts tidings of victory. High on the hill-top, or low in the vale, wherever its bright folds are seen, there, too, is a moral reformation visible. The pernicious-pernicious is a word too feeble to convey the idea-the damning effects of intox- icating liquors are too obvious to require delinea- tion, too revolting for refined contemplation. The concentrated art of sin and wickedness could not manufacture a beverage more demoralizing in its effects, more destructive in its operations. Man, high-hoping man, created in the image of a Divine Maker; superior to all animated nature; endowed with the capabilities of a god; an aspirant for heaven, and communion with Christ his intercessor, while under its influence is the most corrupt, the most terrible. Yet, strangely deluded, strangely infatuated, in opposition to his better judgment, in defiance of God's awful denunciations against the drunkard, he delib- erately and unequivocally administers the suicidal dose of Bohon Upas, which poisons his mind; unfits him for the enjoyment of the refined pleasures of existence; introduces contention and discord where love and harmony were wont to     104     PROSE AND POETRY. dwell; desecrates the sacred privileges of every Divine ordinance; in a word, robs him of the man, and constitutes him a brute, a byword, and a reproach; finally consigning him to a premature grave, there to wait the death-knell of his soul: "Depart from me, ye cursed. Ye knew your duty, but ye did it not." Ages of unutterable woe shall have passed, and the agonizing shrieks of the lost are reverberating through the fiery vaults of hell: "Tell me, ye' companions of iniquity, how long shall I endure this indescribable torture?" Eternity! eternity! "Tell me, thou spirit of my sainted mother; thou whose prayers, fervent and anxious, I disregarded, whose counsels I rejected, how long, O how long shall I suffer this dreadful punishment? always consuming but never consumed; always dying but never to die!" Eternity! eternity! eternity! Millions of years shall again have inflicted their allotted portion of misery, and the wailings of despair and supplication are yet reverberating: "Tell me, O God! whose love I spurned, whose wrath I wilfully enkindled, is there no mercy in heaven? All, all I ask is spiritual annihilation, and that I beg for mercy's sake!" Ye knew your duty, but ye did it not!" is the awful though just response of Him who has promulgated to the   TEMPERANCE ADDRESS.        105 world, "The wages of sin is eternal death!" a re- sponse echoed through the celestial courts of heaven. Gentlemen, this is no fancy sketch, conceived by an enthusiastic imagination, and delivered in the delirium of excitement. Would to Heaven it were! If there is a single individual present over whom a fate so awful is impending, let me beseech him to pause and reflect; to dash far from him ^ the fatal cup, instrumental in producing such consummated wretchedness, such endless punish ment. "Will he whose soul is lighted With wisdom from on high, To spirits so benighted The lamp of life deny?" Freedom! O, how   sweet the sound! With out freedom   life were a cheerless boon, a dreary waste! Give me liberty or give me death, is the sentiment of every enlightened mind-- of every mind bearing the impress of its Divine origin. Whenever the national flag is unfurled to the- breeze, every patriotic bosom thrills with courage and valor! 1No hesitation to investigate causes- enough for man to know- that his country has been invaded, his privileges as a freeman exs 5*     106    PROSE AND POETRY. posed to danger. With heart nerved for battle, with heart ready to be immolated upon the shrine of liberty, he is ambitious to -be foremost in the contest, and never shouts more triumphantly than when elevating the standard of victory! If such is man's courage when his tempora' rights are assailed, what should be the extent of his courage when the eternal interest of his immortal soul is involved?  Surely it sliould employ the most vigilant exertions, the most un- relenting opposition! What should be the extent of his zeal when the banner of Temperance, the ensign of moral greatness, is hoisted? It should acknowledge no restraint within the limits of reason! Were I a man, I, for one at least, would rally around it, defending it with my latest breath! Yes, I would unite with this wise little army, which already has- accomplished much, and is destined to achieve a greater victory than an Alexander or a Napoleon! Is there no Caesar present who will take the lead in this glorious warfare? TheRubicon being crossed, the battle is won. A little moral courage, and the victory is gainud. Let the feeble voice of woman inspire that courage-! In no way can you conduce more to   TEMPERANCE ADDRESS.       107 human happiness, or more enhance your own; in no way more assuredly procure for yourselves an approving conscience, or more effectually secure the approbation of the ladies; in no way sooner establish peace on earth and good will towards men, or contribute more to the cause of Chris- tianity. In conclusion, allow me, gentlemen, to present to you this banner.  Take it --guard it well! During its execution a thousand emotions have revolved in my mind. Hope and fear have alter- nately prevailed! Hope that, in after years, I may have the happy gratification of learning that its pure folds and bright colors have been shielded from  the assaults of the enemy. Fear, lest one of your little number, recreant to duty, recreant to -honor, should, by a violation of his sacred trust, reflect dishonor upon it, and upon the Division to which it is given. - But, as a summer cloud before the noonday suni every uncharitable re- flection has vanished, leaving no vestige of fear behind. An  organization having  Love, Parity, and Fidelity for its foundation, is obliged' to stand. The rain' may descend, the floods come, and' the winds blow and beat upon it, and it will not fall;     108    PROSE AND POETRY. for it is founded upon a rock. Yea, it is destined to survive the wreck of the universe, and be per- petuated in heaven, where all- will be immaculate members of the Sons of Temperance.   MY CHLDHOOD'S HOME.      109 M CHLDHOOD'S HOME. MY childhood's home! My childhood's home! Of thee with rapture I will sing; For thy dear joys to me do come, As brightest sunshine Spring can bring. My childhood's home, and mother dear, Together linked by strongest tie In this fond heart till death is near, To waft my soul beyond the sky. My childhood's home! and father brave! Blessings sure, by Heaven's decree, To lead my thoughts beyond the grave, To things Divine--O God, to thee! My childhood's home! and sisters too, Are golden links of that bright chain, In mercy formed for me to view; Then draw my soul to Him again.     "O     PROSE AND POETRY, My childhood's home, and brother's love! Their tendrils, round my heart entwined, Are growing still--will live above, With saints and angels e'er enshrined. --(   fALLASSEE FALLS.       1Il TALLASSEE FALLS. TALLASSEE! humble, obscure Tallassee! Thy modest grandeur hath aroused dormant Fancy; and the bright beams celestial, Which from thy crested bosom dart, wake once More the slumbering flame of wild poetic Fire, which, in the days of youthful ardor, Inspired my happy heart! Yet hard! O, hard the task to tell thy wonders! Language, rich and copious, the tongue-rebukes, And bids it silence keep, nor vainly prove Its impotence.! Imagination filled, Inebriated with amazement, in vain Essays to grasp thy warring sublimities! Though I may feebly tell the sweet and sacred Thoughts which crowd my brain, as on the rock I Stand, and gaze upon thy fearful chasm! Thoughts which the love-toned harp of Zion woke, Thy discord calleth forth again!     "2    PROSE AND POETRY. I gaze Upon thy turbid waters, as they rush From rock to rock, in angry mood, till, vast And vehement, thy warring torrent, like A "lake long pent up amid the mountains," Leaps forth in the gulf below; and as I Gaze, I think upon the awful flood of wrath Due to the sins of vile, apostate man, Which gushed upon the meek and lowly One, and wrung the bitter cry: "My God! My God! O, why dost Thou forsake me?" I behold the mysterious bow of heaven, And read a language in its silent spell! Tellest thou, bright arch, of that beauteous bow Of peace and love which spanned Mount Calvary When Jesus died! The eye of Christian faith Turns from scenes of earth, and sees, O, love Divine! the wondrous words inscribed by God's Own hands upon that bow, Peace, peace on earth, Since Christ the Saviour died! I stand upon the rock! here am I safe. Thus may I ever stand on him, the Rock Of everlasting ages! Secure from harm, As on the rock I contemplate that mighty Cataract of wrath which on my Saviour Poured to rescue mem-to rescue all-thus     I: I I q f     MY HEART TO-NIGHT.      121 My enraptured, happy soul, Free as the proud eagle's wing, Free from physical control, Soars to worlds where angels sing; To-worlds where there-is no noise, No contention nor vain strife, I-   But celestial peace and joys Reign throughout immortal life. O, it is the sweetest joy Thus in thought to rise aloft, Where no sins of earth alloy, Where words of love are heard oft. Stay aloft, O spirit mine, Disdain this cold, selfish world; Much purer joys can be thine Than on earth were e'er unfurled. Look abroad upon each rtar! Though it but a beacon seems, To guide mariners from afar, A bright world of glory beams! "Whose suns and skies are e'er clear, Without one single hour of gloom; And the gently rolling year Ne'er puts off its youthful bloom. 6   VIi ir r  "i! I?      122     PROSE AND POETRY. "Where looks of brightness never know, Through time's lapse, one sadd'ning shade; Nor the forced smile strive to throw Over hopes in ruin laid." Where age comes not with chilling touch, Bringing symbols of decay; But forms of beauty are such Through eternity's long day. Where grim death can never wring The heart's strong and sacred ties; For they in love do only cling To heaven's immortalities. "And friends love without the thought That forces oft the bitter tear, That a few years may leave naught, Perhaps, of all held most dear." But hark, my soul! dost forget The sweet visions pure and bright, That but now around thee met, With rich feasts of sweet delight? Ye are welcome, dear loved guests,  Though ye come in mystic form; I will list to your behests, They with pleasure I'll perform.   MY HEART TO-NIGHT.      128 What's your mission; what's your will, That ye come in silent night? If some dewdrop to distil, Shed it ere the sun give light. If some kind monition brought, Speak at once, and I will list; If with sorrow ye are fraught, I can bear that too, I wist. "Yes, a dewdrop we do bring, And a kind monition too; 'Angels now are on the wing,' May their songs be heard by you; By their gentle hands be led Through the strait and narrow way; When the grave enwraps thy head, Thy soul will guide to endless day." i' 3ii     }.4    PROSE AND POETRY. I WENT TO THE PLACE. I went to the place of my birth, and said: "The friends of my youth: where arethey?"And echo answered: "Wherearethey?" I WENT to the place of my birth, and said: "The friends of my childhood, O where are they fled?" And echo replied, in a deathke tone, "There remaineth not one-all, all are gone!" Like the dewdrop, that glittered on the spray, Or the morning mist, they vanished away: Some went to the east, and some to the west, And some in the house of silence to rest. The cot where my father and mother dwelt, Even that the general doom had felt: It was gone; and also the old oak tree Beneath which I played in infancy.    I WENT TO THE PLACE.      125 There nothing remained of the days gone by, "To claim a tear or to merit a sigh," But the eternal hills and mountains high, And the ever-enduring calm blue sky. And thus, I exclaimed, it happens to all- Our friends like the leaves of autumn fall; They noiselessly go, and are seen no more On life's eventful and changing shore. But Hope lifts my heart to that world above; O there may I meet each friend that I love; There never again from them shall I sever, But O, blessed thought, dwell with them for ever!     126     PRO0E AND POETRY. rHE POWER OF TRIFLES. "Springing from the faintest causes, Grand results have often shown That there is a power in trifles." A FAINT rustle is heard amid the sere leaves of autumn: a tiny acorn has fallen to the ground. Weeks, months elapse, and at the very spot where lay the acorn, a slender stem, surrounded by a few delicate leaves, appears in its stead. The rain, the gentle dew, and the sunsehne, each in its turn contributes to its growth and development. In a few years the fragile plant, which an infant's foot might have crushed, has become a sturdy oak, the hundred-armed Briareus of the forest, whose roots the storms of winter but serve to fix more deeply; in whose branches the birds of the air build their nests; and beneath whose wide-spread- ing umbrage both man and beast find shelter and repose. Down deep in old ocean's bed, myriads of   THE POWER OF TRIFLES.      127 insects, so small as to be scarcely perceptible, are rearing monuments of themselves which bid defi- ance to the roaring winds and the raging waves. Many a green island of the sea, where grows the feathery cocoa and the graceful palm, and upon whose shores the dusky son of the tropics erects his home, is the production of these tiny though industrious insects. In that portion of the United States bordering on the Rocky Mountains, is a little lirpid lake, from which flows a small stream only a few inches deep. Merrily it dances on its way: now mirror- ing the wild flowers blushing by its side; now furnishing a cooling draught for the agile deer bounding over its native woods; and now refresh- ing the weary traveller as he drinks of its crystal waters. A thousand other brooks unite with it, and it becomes a mighty river: on its broad bosom majestic steamers are borne; on its fertile banks proud cities are erected. Proceeding onward, it is constantly receiving tributaries, until finally, having traversed thousands of miles, it mingles its now turbid waters with the Atlantic's blue waves. As the forest oak was once a bitter acorn; as the island of the sea was the work of the coral insect; as this great Father of Waters-this mighty Mis- sissippi-had its source in a diminutive mountain     128    PROSE AND POETRY. lake, so in the moral as well as the material world, grand results have often sprung from the faintest causes. Almost all the great discoveries which have preeminently distinguished the late centuries, have been the result not so much 'of profound research as of accident. For instance, the simple circum- stance which led to the great discovery of the law of gravitation.. A hundred years later, in an humble cottage in Scotland, a little boy sat by his mother's kitchen' fire. In an attitude of the deepest attention he gazed at the tea-kettle singing on the hearth. What did he see in the misty wreaths of steam which ever and anon escaped from the spout, or slowly lifted the lid of the kettle? The expan- sive, the propelling power of steam! And the grand idea enters his mind of applying this power- ful agent to machinery. Little did his mother dream, when she chided her son for what she con- sidered a foolish habit, that he was making a dis- covery for which he would not only receive a proud title, but the untiring thanks of a grateful world; for the improvement in the steam-engine, which this discovery enabled Watt to make, has saved an amount of labor no mathematician can esti- mate   THE POWER OF TRIFLES.      129 The history of our own country affords many happy illustrations of the power of trifles. Behold Columbus, with a small fleet, and without a chart, sailing over seas hitherto unexplored. Even the magnetic needle, his only guide over the pathless ocean, ceased to point to the polar star. Terrified by this phenomenon, the sailors refuse to go farther, until he, with the presence of mind for which he is so remarkable, promises if in three days land does not appear he will return. Soon signs of land are visible: with renewed hope they proceed; and the discovery of a New World is the result. Had the self-possession of this renowned adventurer forsaken him but for a moment; had the time appointed for retracing their course been but a few hours shorter, America might yet have been a trackless wilderness. More than a century after this important dis- covery, a solitary ship is on the deep. With its precious freight of one hundred and one souls, it pursues its perilous way over the wintry waves. The winds howl through the rigging; the billows rage around; but within that little vessel all is calm. Those Pilgrims have put their trust in God, and amid the storm they sing his praise. At last, weak and weary, they land on the rock-bound coast of New England, "without shelter, without 6* , i     130     PROSE AND POETRY. means, and in the midst of hostile tribes." Were it possible to interrogate any one unacquainted with the subsequent history of the Pilgrim Fathers, as to the result of their enterprise, he would, answer: "They must perish; they cannot survive the priva- tions and dangers to which they are exposed." But every citizen of our nation knows that this little band of Christian brothers, forced by perse- cution to fle e their native land, were the first to establish a permanent colony in the Western Hemisphere; the first to establish the glorious privileges of civil and religious liberty. The causes which led to the American revolu- tion were in themselves insignificant; but the result!-the formation of a republic for which the world's annals furnish no parallel. Our chief institutions of learning exemplify the principle of "great effects from little causes." As proof, we need only turn to the history of Yale College and Nassau Hall. Even "genius loves to nestle in strange places," and confer its meeds of honor in the most obscure pathways. The very humblest households have frequently been the nurseries of the most gifted minds. "We see Galileo soliciting the loan of a few shillings with which to purchase the materials for constructing his telescope,' an instrument   THE POWER OF TRIFLES.      131 which has brought thousands of stars, never before seen, within the sphere of mortal vision; thus throwing a flood of noonday effulgence on the sublime science of Astronomy. Embarrassed by poverty, and surrounded by a gloom never varied by "The sweet approach of even or morn, Or sight of vernal bloom, or summer's rose, Or human face divine,"  Milton wrote an epic poem never equalled. Beethoven, whose name is inseparably connected with all that is sublime in harmony, was in ex- tremely limited circumstances. Like most great geniuses, he was in advance of his age. The world disdained to listen to those exquisite strains its discordant soul could not comprehend, and almost persuaded him to doubt the powers of his own genius. As a climax to his misfortunes, he became completely deaf. Never more shall he hear the sweet sounds dearer to him than all the world beside; but their memory lives, and will vibrate through his soul for ever. Alone amid the solitudes of nature, he composed those marvel- lous symphonies which everywhere thrill with unutterable emotion the heart-strings of the gifted, the refined, the noble in soul. It is with feelings of grateful triumph that we     132     PROSE AND POETRY. arrive at our own great and comparatively recent blessings, the results apparently of little causes. It was through the stern discipline of early strug- gles with adversity that the great American triumvirate, Clay, Webster, and Calhoun, derived that strength of mind which enabled them to battle so successfully when a nation's destiny was at stake. The very nobility of Christian literature have sprung from the lowest walks of life. Dr. Thomas Horne, author of the Introduction to the Bible, was once a journeyman bookbinder; and White- field, the Demosthenes of the pulpit, was once a poor boothlack in the University of Oxford. In- deed, almost all the great men who have done so much for the advancement of science and the amelioration of mankind, were in early life en- gaged in some manual employment. The profess- ing Christian who scorns the lowly, would seem to forget that Jesus selected his disciples from the fishermen of Galilee; that Melancthon, the theo- logian of the Reformation, emerged from  an armorer's shop; and that Luther went forth from the cottage of a German miner, to wound the Man of Sin, and to shake to its foundations the throne of Papal Rome. The publication of a book seems a trivial occur.   THE POWER OF TRIFLES.        133 rence; but who can tell the influence, either for weal or woe, which it may exert? Two centuries ago, within the walls of a prison, was written the immortal Pilgrim's Progress, which-now goes forth by millions to every quarter of the globe, leading multitudes to the Cross of Christ. And Doddridge, the author of the Rise and Pro- gress of Religion in the Soul, was of humble lineage. Thus we see that that book, and the like literature, which thousands, from the renowned William Wilberforce down to the present time, regard as instrumental in their conversion, have emanated from the domiciles of the poor, or from the confines of the persecuted. A learned writer has said: "There is nothing on earth so small that it may not produce great things." '"Planets govern not the soul, nor guide the destinies of man; But trifles lighter than straws are levers in the building up of character." On a bright summer's day, in years gone by, there lay, near a grogshop, on the outskirts of a Virginia city, one in manhood's prime, but ap- parently lost to manhood's pride. His senses stupefied by liquor, there he was, a degraded mass of animated dust, the scorching rays of the sun beating down upon his face with furious intensity. A young lady, who was passing by, recognized in the     134    PROSE AND POETRY. inebriated sleeper the idol of earthly affections; him whom she had told she would sacrifice every thing for, if he would but cease his intemperate habits. With all woman's devotion and tenderness, she softly spread over his face her handkerchief- her name written upon it. The sleeper awoke. The name uppermost in his sober thoughts met his eye. The truth burst upon his mind. He resolves to forsake such an ignominious course. The lovers meet and are united. The subsequent history of William Wirt shows that this little office of love was not lost; yea, that it may even have been the means of rescuing him, who after- wards declined a presidency, from a drunkard's grave; and enrolled his name upon the annals of his country's greatness to shine with undying lustre. A little word, a little act, a little thought seals our destiny for ever. A yes or a no shapes our fortune for wretchedness or bliss in all coming time. Thus, then, we may learn from this view of the subject not to despise little things. They possess a potency and expansion of which men little dream, amid the rush and turmoil of life's career. If we have been denied those extraordinary talents which ever give their possessor such influ.   THB POWER OP TRIFLES.       135 ence, we are apt to imagine there is nothing for us to do. But this is not so: Every one, though poor and humble, Has a mission to fulfil; Every hand, though small and feeble, Can work out some good or ill. We, then, who may mourn over the want of talents, the inability to accomplish great things, should take courage. Though we be not distin- guished for brilliant acquirements; though the worldly and the gay seek not our society; though listening senates and crowded assemblies hang not upon the eloquence of our tongue; yet we may exert an influence, unobserved save by an All-seeing eye-an influence gentle as the dewdrop, sweet as the fragrant flower-which will live when the vain and frivolous are forgotten, when the statesman and orator are stilled in death. If we have soothed one aching heart-if we have spoken one word of encouragement to an erring brother-if we have given even one cup of cold water to one of the household of faith, we are not living in'vain. Such deeds, though seemingly trifling, are pre- cious in the sight of God; and are recorded in his jewelled ledgers in characters imperishable as eternity,     136     PROSE AND POETRI. TO MARY. "And what is friendship but a name, A charm that lulls to sleep; A shade that follows wealth and fame, Then leaves the wretch to weep?" "Is friendship then a selfish thing? Is wealth-and fame the only spring From which such feeling flows? If so, how few on earth can claim That tender, that endearing name! For one, I can't, I know. ' But 'tis not so-none but the vile, The false, the sycophants, that smile To gain some purposed end, Would prostitute that sacred tie, And, masked in base hypocrisy, Profess to be a friend.   "NES TO MY SISTER.      137 Yes, there are some whose candid hearts Would scorn dissimulation's art; Who are just what they seem. May such kind Heaven bestow on thee, For only such will constant be, Or merit thy esteem. "NES TO MY SISTER. [Written in Tuscaloosa.] I'm far away, lov'd one, 'Mid sunshine and song, Where birds of gay plumage Their love notes prolong; Where golden-hued blossoms And soft zephyrs play, And joy sprinkles dew drops And balm in my way; Where murmuring waters ,Glide lovingly by, And reflect as a mirror The sunlighted sky; Where orange and myrtle Together entwine,     138    LINES TO MY 'SISTER. And dark waving cedar Rears tendril and vine. Where the spirit of poesy Floats o'er the scene, Like a cloud o'er the earth In its silvery sheen; And sparkling fountains Toss up their light spray, In ceaseless merriment Through night and through day; These spring days are passed 'Mid Tusca's cool bowers, Her butterflies gay, And tinted flowers; My footsteps have wandered Through grotto and glen, O'er mountain and woodland, Through valley and fen. In Castalia's groves I have tremblingly stood, And my heart beat high In that mystical wood:   "NES TO MY SISTER.      139 'Mid temples of learning And classical lore, And sweet scented briers On Warrior's green shore. I've gone, dearest one, To the temple of God, And knelt in devotion O'er death's cold sod; I've list to the teachings Of earth, sky and air, While my soul soar'd upward On pinions of prayer. But more sweet to my heart Is thy voice, my love! Than aught else beneath The bright heavens above; It has power to soothe My worn spirit to rest, And point it to realms Of the pure and the blest; "Where rivers of Jordon -Flow o'er the bright plains, And the noontide of glory Eternally reigns.     "O    PROSE AND POETRY. t: SING GENTLY. "SING gently, sweet syren ;" my spirit is sad, Peace has fled from me, no longer I am glad; The semblance has changed, the word has been spoken That blasted my hopes, while my heart it has broken. "Sing gently, sweet syren;" earth's pleasures are o'er, My bosom shall feel their emotions no more; This heart has been stricken, 'tis bleeding with pain, A pang it has suffered 'twill ne'er feel again. $Sing gently, sweet syren;" my lot has been cast In a land of troubles that fore'er will last; Hope brings no promise of approaching relief, In sadness and sorrow must weather my grief, i \    8IN* GENTLY.        141 'Sing gently, sweet syren;"I'll list to thy lay, Pill life's burning troubles shall flicker away; When on my last pillow I've suffered full long, My dying devotion shall cling to thy song.   .        "2    PR08s AF:. ETRY RELIGION. RELIGION! thou source of all true joy on earth! Conceived in heaven, and on earth given birth  Beautiful, lovely, glorious and sublime, Thy joys endureth unto the end of time! Ay, longer, over time itself victorious, Thou art enthroned in the courts above glorious! Religion! thou art a mysterious gift, Which the heart of man o'er the earth doth uplift! Thou tamest the wildest savage of the wood, And makest him the instrument of great good! Thou strewest with flowers the path of the exile, Arid, in the fulness of joy, makest him smile! Religion! thou brightenest the prisoner's cell, And draughts of bliss yieldest him from thy pure well! In the desert thou art an oasis green, The weary heart making all tranquil serene! In humble poverty's meagre abode, Thou smilest and speakest a hopeful word!    RELIGION.        1S  Religion! thou art a jewel beautiful-meet For the young bride to wear her bridegroom to greet! With thanks to the Giver, too many to speak, Thou impressest a kiss on the new-born's cheek! With unwav'ring faith in God's power to save, Thou lookest in hope from the loved one's grave! Religion! thy strength is felt in all walks of life, Now promoting peace, and now subduing strife! In the halls of state with grace thou dost preside, Enacting laws which throughout time wilt abide! In the senate-chamber, thy silvery voice For the culprit pleads, and makest his heart rejoice Religion! thou speakest with voice still and small, Alike in lowly cot and in stately hall! To the man of years thou givest a new birth, And convertest to heaven his home on earth! "Thou walkest in light shed from heaven abroad, And summerest in bliss on the hills of God!" + D      8     "4     PROSE AND POETRY. DON'T CRY, MY BABY. Lines suggested by hearing a sick mother say to her darling boy-an only child-just a few days before he died, "Don't cry, my baby." DOES fever rack my darling boy, And fill his little frame with pain: His mother knows no hour of joy, Till he with health is blessed again. Don't cry, my baby. O, nestle, loved one, near my heart; My fond affection may to thee Health-giving principles impart, Ev'n though of life it robeth me. Don't cry, my baby. Father in Heaven! God of Love! If thou wilt touch him he will live! O, from thy throne, in courts above, In mercy look-bid him survive! Don't cry, my baby.   DON'T CRY, MY BABY.      14b Bid him the bitter cup refuse, Surcharged with chilly dews of death! O'er his stricken spirit diffuse The healing fragrance of thy breath! Don't cry, my baby. It cannot be, it cannot be, For man's first sin my child must die! Must from his father and from me, Clasped in Death's sleep for ever lie! Ever lie, my baby. O! I was sick, and could not save The dear pledge to mortals given, To raise their thoughts beyond the grave, On wings of faith to soar to heaven. Blame not, my baby. And when they told me thou wert dead, My senses reeled-my earthly joy, And fondest hopes, together fled To realms above, my cherub boy! To thee, my baby! With mournful steps they bore my child Unto his narrow bed of clay; Whilst I, in deep despair, was mild, And saw not where my son they lay. Saw not, my baby. 7     "86   PPROSE AND POETRY, Though lonely is that dwelling-place, Though dark and deep the chamber there Which from earth's view hides thy pale face, Sad, sorrowing ones linger near. Rest, rest, my baby. Dear child of mine! thou liest low; The pulse has left thy silent heart; And thou hast gone where all must go, And'all must be as now thou art. My dead, cold baby! "A seal is placed upon thy tongue, Which mortal hand can never burst; A mist before thine eyes is flung, Which mortal might can ne'er, disperse." My poor, blind baby! The grief that now my bosom rends, None ever but a mother knew- My fair and faded bud now wends To other worlds, far from my view. Far, far, my baby! In brighter worlds the bud now blends Heaven's hues! cerulean blue! From His high throne my King now bends, To list this prayer-heartfelt and true- This prayer, my baby!   DON'T CRY, MY BABY      147 Pardoned, accepted, may again, In God's pure fold, the mother meet Her little lamb, by Thee now slain-- Now taken angel bands to greet. My angel baby  "Suffer it to come unto me; Composed of such my kingdom is; But in my courts 'twill meet with thee, Ne'er to part, as in worlds like this!" We'll meet, my baby! Give God the glory, O my soul! For love so great-love so Divine! Which can the broken heart make whole, And cure this wounded spirit mine! Give thanks, my baby! Don't cry, my baby! shout, rejoice, That so soon from sin thou art free! That thou canst list to IChrist's sweet voice, Pleading to save lost ones like me I Rejoice, my baby! Rejoice! the seal is off thy tongue, Which mortal hand could never burst; Rejoice! the mist thine eyes is flung, Which mortal might could ne'er disperse. Sing praise, my baby!     "8    PROSE AND POETRY. Some angel mother enfolds thee, Now, beneath her spotless white wings; Some angel band's sweet minstrelsy Thy mother's lullaby noV sings. Sing too, my baby! He who. sits on the great hnite throne Will take yoge    his arms! //   Hbgh-qiajeevery trouble borne, Ne'er more to feel earth's rude alarms! My blessed baby!   THE SABBATH.        1 49 THE SABBATH. SWEET day of hallowed rest! How,blessed thy sacred hours! White-robed Peace sits enthroned upon yon fleecy cloud, As when the first six days' work was done, and the God Of creation blessed the seventh day and sanctified It! The glorious king of light, in majesty Sublime, shoots forth his golden arrows, spreading bright Effulgence through the'branches of the tall old trees, That, like sentinels, stand around in triumphant Security-twining their leaf-clad arms in close Embrace; and, with ray serene, descends to meanest Blade of grass and lowliest flower that raise Their heads to heaven.     150    PiROSE AND POETRY. The fields are keeping Sabbath! the reaping. hook Lies untouched midst Autumn's generous sheaves! the black Bird's gladsome note, as he warbles his Heaven. taught Song, "comes soft and mellow from the dale;" the gentle Zephyrs scarce kiss the flowery dell; "and man and beast Enjoy the season designed for rest." At a time like this- So still, so tranquil, so Sabbath-like, the grateful Heart, in songs of praise and thanksgiving that upward, Like holy incense, riseth to heaven. No earth- Born passion nor thought impure obscures the brightness Of the spirit's gaze: unfettered from the world's cold Prison bars, it sees the vastness of eternity! Hark! it is the steeple's bell I hear. Welcome sound! sound that summons unto God's holy Worship! At thy bidding the rich and poor, the high And low assemble! The careworn laboier, who   THE SABBATH.       161 Earns his bread by the sweat of his brow, and the proud Voluptuous votary of mammon, all-all Come at thy impartial bidding! Now the bell has Ceased, and those for devotion met wait for prayer- Prayer which on angels' wings is borne to heaven t Then From the choir songs harmonious swell with chorus Sweet and joyful-voices touched by David's pure harp Of Zion, unite in the euphonious strain. Prayer again ensues--prayer, fervent, jeloquent prayer, In which-for "Our Father who art in Heaven" is No respecter of persons-the rich and poor Remembrance find. One in the pulpit stands, of God Elect! exhorting to good. He reasoneth thus: "Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white As snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be As wool."     152    PROSE AND POETRY. His soul, freed from all cares, bathes its wings in glories Unconceived; and as his lofty intellect grasps The inspiration of this, most sacred theme, he, Through argument great and imagery beautiful, Soars to bright, celestial altars, God has made Himself, eternal in the heavens. Now he tells Of a Saviour's dying love-his high estate-his Shameful banishment from the throne-his agony And bloody sweat-his soulfelt cry of anguish great: Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? His ignominious death and burial! The noon- day Sun conceals with crapen veil its blushing face! Deep Sepulchral voices fill the air--while the cold graves Send forth their dead!-pale band, to chant the songs of praise And love! "'Tis done, the mighty plan is carried out- The last great sacrifice for sin is o'er; Then from the tomb he rolls the stone away, And shows a risen Saviour and a God! The different hearers testify his power    THE SABBATH.        153 In different ways. The truth, like a sharp sword, Has cleaved its path. The flinty heart is crushed, And the great deep of sin is broken up; The old transgressors tremble by the stand, The young in sin repent 'to sin no more. A thousand voices join in one wild prayer, And shrieks, and groans, and shouts of joy arise;' And Heaven keeps Sabbath over the joyful scene, Sweet Alleluia to the King of the Sabbath day! ?*     154    PROSE AND POETRY. OOTHCAXLOOGA. VALB of beauty! the lone and troubled heart- In sweet seclusion, far remote from strife, Exempt from pain and folly, guile and art, Which throng around the busy scenes of life- Enjoys within thy bosom that repose Which in this cold world is seldom given! That calm content which from retirement flows, And holds celestial intercourse with heaven! Not here does malice plume her sable wing; Nor mad ambition rage without control! Not here does envy hurl her venomed sting, Nor passions base contaminate the soul! Here, in her primitive simplicity, Nature o'er all holds undisputed reign; And banishes deceit, hypocrisy, And fashion's giddy, unreflecting train!   OUTHCALOOGA.        155 Sure I for gayer scenes will never sigh, Nor crave the luxuries ill understood; Which lull the senses, and attract the eye From thy delightful paths' sweet solitude! O, if to us, while on this terrene sphere, A foretaste of heavens joys be given, Sure it must be by God's own hands strewn here, An earnest of:celestial bliss in heaven. 9     156     PROSE AND POETRY. THE SALVATION OF THE SOUL. "For what is a man profited if he shall gain the' whole world and lose his own soul? or, what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?"   * STARTLING questions! Momentous inquiries! Questions which, if not found within the lids of the Holy Bible, the book of God, but simply' propounded by man to his fellow-man, how deeply even then would he be impressed ,with their weighty importance, their startling suggestions! How much more weighty, how much more start- ling then should they appear to man, coming as they do to him sanctified by Divine authority, sanctified by the Holy Spirit of God himself! All will admit that the salvation of the soul, the salvation of the immortal part of man, is of more worth than any, or all, mere earthly possessions otr attainments, however desirable, however valu- able they may be.  These questions teach the loctrine that the soul is immortal, therefore of more worth than the 'whole world beside.   THE SALVATION OF THE SOUL.       157 Wealth, earth's most treacherous gift, is, never- :theless, valuable; affluence, though unstable 'as water, is desirable: it commands for the possessor every earthly comfort, every earthly luxury: it gratifies his appetite, indulges his passions, and purchases position: it allures the weak, it conquers the strong, and is the idol of all. When properly managed and judiciously appro- priated, wealth is valuable to man--valuable as a means, most valuable as an end. In the hands of the wise, wealth is power, and its possessor a uni- versal conqueror. But wealth belongs to earth; it abideth not with man. "Wealth hath never given happiness, but often hastened misery." Knowledge, too, is valuable, most valuable. Knowledge is wealth of the most durable charac- ter: she possesses a wand which commands for her possessor a nobler happiness, a more exalted des- tiny; and weaves for his brow a chaplet of virtu. ous renown, whose bright colors will fade but with the end of time! -But knowledge shall fail, her devotees be transformed to dust, her laurel-wreathed altars crumble to decay; tongues and prophecies lie stilled in death. Power is valuable: it elevates to the very sum- mit of earthly bliss. To be the observed of ob- servers, as the one preeminent, to govern and     158     PROSE AND POETRY. command, is pleasing to the soul of man--is the acme of the bright but illusive grandeur of human happiness. But it, like wealth and knowledge, abideth not with man. Wealth is terrestrial, and, however useful as a means, passeth away. Knowledge, when confined to earthly sciences, however the glory of its attain- ments may ennoble the mind and feast the intellect, perishes; and power, the poor brief power with which man is invested, is but weakness! Either of these great objects of man's ambition, however conducive to his temporal happiness, is mortal, and, in its very best estate, must perish in its use. The occupant of a palace, the presiding deity of millions, lies down in a little narrow house of clay, with the poverty of him   who tenanted a hovel, scarcely commanding the subsistence of a day. The philosopher, "Who knew all learning, and all science knew; And all phenomena, in heaven and earth, Traced to their causes," with the simple man 'Who never had a dozen thoughts In all his life, and never changed their course," both stripped alike in death; and the king, ' The man condemned to bear The public burden of the nation's care,"   THE SALVATION OP THE SOUL.     159 in the grave is too often more impotent than the subject; for the eye of the kingdom looks a pro- tection to the tomb of the subject, while the king dies in banishment and is buried in exile. Human life, in its purest form, surrounded by all the heart holds dear, is but vanity and vexation of spirit. Man, "poor pensioner on the bounties of an hour, walketh in a vain show." Why should he strive, why should he toil to obtain either of these the surest sources of earthly happiness, if life, and all that pertains to it, so soon be gone? But will not human wealth and knowledge and power combined secure the happiness he craves? Hath human effort, industry, and ingenuity com- bined them? What did they bring to the pos. sessor? Happiness? No! "For who did ever yet by honor, wealth, Or pleasure of the sense, contentment find? Who ever ceased to wish, when he had health, Or, having wisdom, was not vexed in mind?'^ Field joining field, 'waving and laden with autumn's golden grain; Minerva standing by, in- dustriously, gloriously analyzing, compounding, increasing, commanding the product of its wealth; then rising, in the majesty of her own queenly powerto gather and control productive industry fromn still brighter fields,. of larger dimensions and     160    PROSE AND POETRY. nobler pile in yonder star-lit plain, whose husband- man giveth the increase; increasing,; producing, expanding in the proudest nobility of man!-this were a higher happiness than earth hath ever known, and yet it were vanity; for the golden bowl is broken at the fountain, the daughters of music made low, and man goeth to his long home! Hope whispers not of bliss unfading in yonder heaven! Faith, living faith, points not to the Lamb which taketh away the sins of the world. Who then will deny that he walks in a vain show? Who then will deny that his life, without the hope of a blissful immortality, is a shadow, and his earth-born happiness emptiness and vanity? Depravity, universal and destructive depravity, the demon spirit that rears its altars at the expense of every earthly good, and then brings as its oblations purity and hope, which it consumes with fiendish delight, has made a wreck of human happiness; and the undying part of man, un- fettered and fetterless .by mere temporal good, weeps in agonizing bitterness over the mockery of life. Nor does death itself, the finis of all things sublunary, dispel its anguish: upon the graves of the departed it keeps its nightly vigils and its eternal moanings. We have immortal souls--O, what an incentive   THE SALVATION OF THE SOUL.       161 to good!-which soar above the earth, which death cannot imprison, which only eternity can measure in its duration of existence; and before another sun brighten the earth, the dark cloud of death may cast its shadow over all that is beautiful in life, the cold grave entomb all that is dear to the heart,. may even be open to receive these bodies of ours; but our souls, without regeneration, will live in the dreadful desolation of death, shall weep in endless hell, when the conqueror of life shall be destroyed; and the very funeral pall of Time itself be white as snow. O! what is worth a thought, what is deserving a moment's consideration, when put in the balance with the immortal part of our being? Is wealth? No! Though the wealth of both Indies and the diamonds of Golconda were ours, to-morrow we die, and these our goods may become the posses- sions of enemies, to the oppression of our own heirs: "Wealth heaped on wealth, nor truth nor safety buys, The dangers gather as the treasures rise." Is knowledge? "Sorrow is knowledge they who know the most, Must moan the deepest o'er the. fatal truth, The tree of knowledge is not that of life;" and though we were master of all science and the     162     PROSE AND POETRY. very light of philosophy, to-morrow we die and shall find no consolation in human wisdom. Is the power of kings? 'Earth's highest station ends in 'here he lies,' And dust to dust' concludes her noblest song." When did the turbid tide of death roll back at the command of kings; or the crown of the dead give security to the heir? The wealth of the world, the wisdom of Solo- mon, and the power of crowned heads combined! they dwindle into insignificance when put in the balance with the immortal spirit of man.   'As the mortal to the immortal: as the dead to the living!" Wisdom is folly to attempt the measure of an argument: "For what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?" "Nothing is worth a thought beneath But how I may escape the death That never, never dies." O let us prepare our souls! we can't too soon  Commence now the blessed work, before it is noon. This great preparation of the soul should be the grand object of human pursuit.  The salvation of the soul is inestimable. It cannot be repeated too often, that the accomplishment of this great work   THE SALVATION OF THE SOUL;      168 is worth a lifetime of the most arduous toil, the most trying sacrifices. There is implanted within the breast of every rational being a longing for immortality; to die, to pass away and be no more, is revolting to every reflective mind. But what would immortality be without the redemption of the soul? without a saving grace, which taketh away the sins of the world? A death that never, never dies! What is it to be a redeemed soul? It is to possess, to the fullest extent, that which our reason tells us constitutes perfect happiness; it is the possession of wealth without the ensign of poverty; the possession of knowledge which aspires to heaven, and passeth not away.; the possession of power which subdues death and robs the grave of victory; it is every thing combined, which human reason, true to herself, calls happiness-esteems valuable beyond estimate. Let us see what it is to be a lost soul! Let us contemplate the dreadful spectacle. It is poverty; a heart-rending personification of poverty; poor, naked poverty, in 'its most abject condition; poverty that the wealth of kings and emperors cannot enrich, nor conceal its nakedness; it is ignorance that the knowledge of man cannot educate; it is moral darkness that the world     164     P'ROSE AND POETRY. cannot illuminate; it is weakness that the powers of earth cannot make strong. A lost soul! God of heaven! what is it to be a lost soul? This little pigmy world, with its scenes of conflict and strife, where the unsatisfied mind is tantalized and disappointed in her every effort to obtain com- plete happiness, is trouble enough 'for finite for- titude; but to be cut offQ from hope which ventures beyond the narrow confines of time, from life everlasting, and to be doomed to inhabit the deep chambers of despair in unfathomed hell; itself an unconsuming hell, banished irrevocably from the presence of God--the last hope of rescue extinguished: This it is to be a lost soul! Anguish, deep and heartfelt, may envelop in dark clouds our spirits to-day, but to-morrow's sun dispelsthe gloom. Pain in the night, acute, ex- cruciating, subsides in the morning; but in eternity no hope of the day's return comforts the lost soul; no bow of promise spans the fiery abyss; trouble and sorrow, anguish and conflagration never terminate; the light of eternal life beams full and brilliant upon the liquid fire, not to in- spire hope, but a greater and more accurate know- ledge of the soul's eternal loss. God of mercy, save our souls from such a loss! The thrilling questions, asked in all the im-   THE SALVATION OF THE SOUL.     165 pressiveness of a Saviour's solicitude for dying man, which we have chosen for the context of our remarks, plainly, unmistakably imply that the rejected soul finds its way to that fiery abyss through its own 'neglect of the great overtures of mercy extended to it by a crucified God, all-pow- erful to save; and with every other source of trouble in perdition, the thought that we wilfully, deliberately, of our own free will and choice, made our destiny eternal woe, will doubly augment the dreadful suffering--will plunge us infinite fathoms deeper in the torturing lake. The inquiry suggests: Is it indeed true that-we are the controllers here of the destiny of our -im- mortal souls in yonder vast, limitless eternity? Yes; the united testimony of the-inspired writers teaches that we are as much the directors of our immortal as of our mortal destiny. Yea, more; it teaches that we may secure the salvation of our souls, while the acquisition of a world's wealth, the acquisition of a world's wisdom, the acquisi- ,tion of a world's power were impossible, and, if it were possible, would avail us nothing in eternity. Yes, these are the sublime teachings of the meek and lowly Jesus, the risen Savour and eternal God. It is ours to secure immortal bliss, or unending woe; to-shine a bright luminary in the pure     166     PROSE AND POETRY. galaxy of angels; or to be enshrouded in midnight darkness; to sing praises with Moses and the Lamb, or to howl in utter wretchedness a requiem to lost happiness. We are not now exempt from death, and sus- pended between heaven and hell, without a bias to the choice of either. This position is but the too common error-fair and plausible, even palatable to the understanding in theory, but false and poisonous ih practice. This is an error fraught with destruction to human souls; this- is an error which has kept many from the cross of Calvary, and therefore should be exposed, should be ex- ploded. If a man does not secure the salvation of his immortal being, must he not endure the eternal wrath of God? Yes, as surely as the God exists who promulgated that the wages of sin is eternal death. Christ never taught the doctrine for which careless sinners contend: he never, set life and death, heaven and hell before men who were disposed to the choice of neither; he did not take upon himself the form of man and come into the world to glorify the supposed free volition of man in. enabling him to save himself. Fallacious, pre- sumptuous thought! He came seeking to save the lost, those over whom sin had dominion: he came   THE SALVATION OF THE SOUL.      167 in might to break open the prison-house of the bound; he came, glory to his holy name, to set the captive free; he came to proclaim glad tidings to a dying world; he came to give the free agency of life to the spiritual dead, who have no agency to the right. To-day he comes to us-to those lost to holiness, lost to life, lost to happiness, lost to heaven-he comes with the white garments of holiness, the great balm of life, the great secret of happiness, the key to heaven, and offers them without money and without price. Who will re- fuse such great gifts? who will refuse to be made alive,? He stands above the tomb of buried hopes to-day, and says to the dead, "Come forth unto life;" to the sick he says: "Take up your bed ana walk ;" to the blind h'e says: "Behold thy Saviour;" to the deaf he says: "Hear the word of the Lord;' and to the poor (blessed be his name) he says: "Ye have the gospel preached unto you, and blessed is 'he, whosoever shall not be offended ai me." Does this look like Jesus 1came to set life and death before men free to choose either? No. It looks like he came to set life before the dead. He says: "Choose life and live, or drink the wrath of God." Is it not also plain that he who is perfectly free to choose either of two things, is equally free to choose neither? And God, our Saviour, therefore.     168    PROSE AND POETRT. upon this principle of human volition, fails entirely of the end of man's probation, and salvation by grace becomes the merest song of the idle imagina- tion. Unholy, impious thought, which seeks to elevate man by depressing and blotting the revela- tion of God! Has sin the dominion? Are we then without a bias to choose weal or woe, heaven or hell? Is not sil our prior choice, the troublesome current in our life which we cannot control? It flows on, it flows ever, anxious, disturbed, with swollen waters and increasing flow; it rolls us into the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, unless the fatal stream be broken, and its springs be dried up in time. He, therefore, who would pamper the pride of his depravity, the lust of his flesh, with the variety of choice, in the freedom,. recklessness of volition, is the enemy of his own soul, the destroyer of his own immortal happiness. The choice to life proposed in the heavenly philosophy, in the Divine economy, to eternal life in Christ 'our ransom, is from heaven. There is a hope, and but one way of hope, to escape the fearful punish- ment of sin; there is a holiness, and but one way of holiness, that leads up to heaven; there is the Christ, the appointed choice in God's appointed salvation to the lost souls. For out of this ap-   THE SALVATION OF THE SOUL,     169 pointed salvation, this salvation through Christ, our God is a consuming fire. Does this look like the freedom of variety of choice? Must we not choose the one way of life, the appointed way of salvation, to escape the everlasting death of the soul? Does this look like the freedom to a variety of choice? Is not the soul's estate, before it embraces this appointed salvation, one of spiritual death, without hope and without God in the world? I read in the blessed Book of God, that when there was no eye to pity man, and no arm to save him from death, then Jesus loved him. O won. drous love and pity, beyond our highest thought! Jesus loved the sinner in his lost estate, sinful estate. With an arm of love and of power, Jesus enters the prison - house of human death, and brings life and immortality to light. I read that Christ comes to-day, and says: "I am the way, the truth, and the life; choose me and live;" and so far from leaving man to exercise a depraved volition, the appointment of his love pleads with him to his acceptance; reasons with him with ability to conceal his sins and make him holy; entreats his acceptance of him for his own good; warns him that there is no other way to escape the eternal wrath of God-the eternal death of his ' 8     170     PROSE AND POETRY. soul. His word, his Spirit, and his providence he offers to sinful man, and are his, if he accept them, to teach, to guide, and to save. Who would not receive this salvation and live? and, O, who would reject it and drink the wrath of God? There is a better way than the exercise of a free volition. God, who only is free to will the salvation of his creature, hath willed, decreed man's life, and has not willed or decreed the death of any man, but that all would come to him and have life everlast- ing. If man escapes not the damnation of hell, it will not be because God willed his punishment; it will be because he rejects the decree of life-the great salvation appointed in Christ. This is the great difficulty with those who delay the acceptance of this appointed salvation: they entertain the idea of physical power in connection with the decree of life; whereas God is a Spirit, and the decree to salvation is spiritual, therefore cannot do violence to the spiritual man. That part of man which is born of the Spirit of God is the spiritual man; and that which is born of the flesh is flesh. It is not physical change; it is not a new creation of the physical man for which immortality pants and sighs: it is a redemption of spirit from the death of depravity which makes- the luxuriant earth a barren desert to the soul.   THE SALVATION OF THB     SOUL.  171 The redemption of the soul is precious. Who should be anxious much as to his physical man? What profit here? But, O  his soul! his fettered, lost, immortal soul, where shall he find a ransom? Thanks to God for his unspeakable gift. God has 'found a ransom; he hath laid help on one who is mighty to redeem; and in the appointment of his love he comes to all. He finds way to every lost spirit-for he is a Spirit-through the physical man, without violence, without let or hindrance, to the laws of the physical constitution. He offers free- dom to the captive soul; he unbinds the fettered spirit; he speaks, and it is done; the liberated spirit leaps for joy; salvation and the sinner are locked in close embrace; the lost is found; the soul is saved. This is the way to heaven; this is the way our fathers trod. Let us be warned of the coming wrath. Let us embrace the Christ appointed. Let us enter the good old ship of Zion ' At anchor safe within the bay she rides; Nor heeds the danger of the swelling tides: Faith, Hope, and Prayer her steadfast anchors prove, With resignation to the powers above. God is too good to tantalize a poor lost soul witl this variety of choice; Heaven regards sinners, as they really are, the objects of pity.     172    PROSE AND POETRY, The spirits fallen through their own choice of evil, and the totality of their depravity, constitute the continual tendency to all evil; Heaven com- passionates the poor lost soul, and so far from saying to the bound in sin, loose thyself, she approaches it in the more rational way; she says:, "I know thy sin and thy just deserts;. I know thy weakness, that thou canst not make one hair white or black; but I have loved you with an ever- lasting love; I have redeemed you with great power, and have laid your help upon one who is mighty to save; I ha-ve wrought out a righteous- ness which can save you; I give it to you freely; in this way only can you escape; receive now the grace of God and live, or reject it and die in your sins. It is my will that you live; it is my choice; I have chosen you in Christ to everlasting life, that you should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain; that whatsoever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it to you!" How any lost soul can resist the appeal of God's love to life, is one of the inexplica- bilities of human depravity. Yes, God so loves sinners, that he gives his only- begotten Son to die- for them, that they may have everlasting life. Why will they then fret their day of grace away in useless speculations as to the   P    THE SALVATION OF THE    SOUL,  1I7 way of life? Jesus says: "Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden ; take my yoke upon you; learn of me, and find rest to your souls;" and again, "Ye will not come to me and have life." This address must be to those capable in the physical man to exercise such a process of reason in regard to the facts contained in it, as shall bring the understanding to the point of the gospel address; which is, that sinners are fallen spirits, lost souls, and there is no escape from everlasting punishment, but in the mercy of God as pro- claimed in Christ, the appointed Saviour; and this operation of the reason brings us to the very point of the whole matter. The Bible plainly says, if saved at all, it must be through the mercy of God, not by works which you can do; and reason, looking to the facts, arrives at the very same con- clusion in reference to salvation. What then can sinners do but fall at the feet of sovereign love, and say: If I perish, I perish; I have no hope but in the mercy, the undeserved, unconditional mercy of God; that God against whom I have wilfully sinned, and who hath mercy on whom he will. I have no claim to such mercy; but, though my sins are great, I will venture to approach the mercy-seat! I can but perish if I go, I am con- demned already; this is my-only mode of escape.     174       PROSE ANP POETRY. Perhaps he will admit my plea, perhaps will hear my prayer,  And if I must perish, O God! let me perish there. I know his heavenly courts, and I would enter in; Why should I starve and hunger here-prison-bound by sin  rm in a barren land-my spirit thirsts and sighs For immortality, it fain to heaven would rise. I glad would eat and be full, but no man gives-to me; All unworthy as I am, O God! I come to thee. Have we reached this point?      Then light hath entered in-life is given. God is love! There is enough for all, and to spare- Room in the Saviour's bleeding heart for us to share. Arise, go to our Father, go in our great shame, Naked, poor, despised, forsaken, 'tis all the same, He loves us still; he beholds us from afar off, And gives us pity instead of merited scoff. He beholds the broken sorrows of each our hearts,. And runs to meet us, and to us his love imparts; He falls on our neck and gives us the kiss,of love, Promising us a bright inheritance above. Bring forth, says he, the best robe and put it on him; This is my son-in heaven, amongst cherubim, He 'll shine-for he was dead, but lives again; was lost, And is now found; he of my love will share the most." Thus Jesus spoke of the erring, prodigal son; And will he not extend to us like favor, won By obedience to his just and holy laws? Surely yes, then let us give him all the applause. We idle when we talk about willing       our own salvation; we   must submit to    the salvation  of God; we   must be born   again, not by the flesh nor the will of man, but by the will, the power of God. To seek out the lost, then, and to-secure our   THE SALVATION 0F THE SOUL.     175 redemption from the power of sin, is the object of Jesus' mission to earth, and it is because he hath the ability, both to the choice and the power of our salvation, and that he comes to us by his word, his providence, and his Spirit, and, in his loving interest for the salvation of our souls, inclines us to choose him, that we are enabled to choose at all the way of life, and live. Does this look like a choice of human, depraved volition? Is it not rather the choice of Christ, the choice of the benevolent Deity, our only Saviour? Yes, reason does and must see a necessity for the inter- position of Divine will to life! Must see that, without this Divine will to life, humanity, lost, must wail for ever the universal wreck of her happiness. ' For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? or, what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?"These impor- tant questions are an argument of Jesus, by which he would incline us to the choice of true happiness; and since our choice of destination to the life everlasting is dependent on the predetermining choice of Christ, the riches of his love as exhibited to us in the predestination of our souls to eternal life, we should accept the offered choice; if we do not, we are lost souls, and the possession .of the     i6s    PROSE AND POETRY. whole world could not happify our immortal spirits laboring in sin. It is the grace of God that saves souls. By grace we enter into the grace of salvation; because of grace abounding in- the gift of life we enter in, or it is freely given to us to enter in. Now, in the tenth chapter of the Gospel of St. Mark, the Saviour teaches us the way to Christ; the question is plainly asked, the answer is given in the same beauty of simplicity: "Good Master! what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?" "Verily I say unto you," says Jesus, "whoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a. little child, he shall not enter therein." Now this lost soul, it appears, was in quest of eternal life, and he ran to Jesus, and propounded the question to him. Jesus said: "Knowest thou the command- ments?" "All these have I kept from my youth up," said the young man; "but I have not found eternal life. What lack I  yet?" Jesus looked upon him and loved him; he was in the right way; he had qualified himself for eternal life, so far as man can qualify himself, as he supposed, and yet he lacked something, he knew, but knew not what that something was. With an anxious mind he ran to Jesus: "I am  in quest of eternal life; my soul is not satisfied with its portion; I have -earched the Scriptures; I have kept the comrn.   THE SALVATION .OF THB SOUL.     1" mandments; I have'done all I can; I have pre- pared the way; I no relief can find: Jesus, Master, what lack I yet?" We should particularly notice that human reason, in her quest, brought this young man to Christ; we should notice that he was kindly re- ceived; and we should also notice that he lacked but one thing, and that that was every thing to him. He had not yet learned that justification unto life is the treasure from heaven. Human reason sought a justification in the deeds of the law, but found it not. In the search, however, he found Christ coming in the way; and presents him- self, where reason fails, to the Saviour for further,. instructions. He seems to have been in earnest in the pursuit of life: "What lack I yet? I wait thy further command." Well might Jesus love him; for here is an ardor and anxiety on the part of this young man in relation to his salvation, that is lovable, most lovable: "What lack I yet? I am determined in my search; no sacrifice will be too dear; I have done much already; I have kept all the commandments: what lack I yet?" Human reason, the proud guardian of man's destiny in this fallen world, calculated on some great sacrifice, and was prepared to make it; but 8*     1TS     PROSE AND POETRTY. she was not prepared to yield up herself into the hands of another. Jesus looked upon him, and loved him, and said: E "One thing thou lackest. Go sell all thy goods, and give to the poor; then come, take up thy cross, fol- low me, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven." And the young man went away sorrowful, for he was very rich. He was not prepared to make the sacrifice required; he was-not prepared to receive the kingdom of God. He lacked but one thing, and that one thing he was not prepared to do. He, therefore, went away sorrowful. Had he been as a little child, he would have done as Jesus bade him; he would have received the kingdom of God. But it is. asked: How could he, being a man, receive the kingdom of God as a little child? Jesus has answered this question also: He could have been born of the Spirit then and there, by the will and power of God, without violence to his physical man, and as a child of heaven. But he went away sorrowful Perhaps if noble reason had been as willing to sacrifice self and self-love as to keep the commandments; had he been willing to give up all to the sovereign mercy of God, peradventure he had not gone away soM. rowful.   THE SALVATIO N OF THE: SOUL.     179 We are explicitly taught, however, that we. cannot do any thing which will enable us to inherit eternal life. We can do nothing but re- ceive the grace of God, which brings salvation. The condition of the acceptance of the grace of God is not the doing of any thing to bring salva- tion, but it is the receiving of the offered grace of God which, brings salvation. The very perform- ance of the condition, therefore, is a virtual sur- render to the sovereign mercy of God, in order to the soul's destination, at the hand of the merciful God, who hath mercy on whom he will have mercy. Now, if we lack but one thing, and will submit our proud and sinful souls, which we can do, to the sovereign mercy of God, in order to our soul's destination, we think we will not go away sor- rowful. The entrance of light shall give life, and we shall live for evermore. If we stay away, we know we shall perish, and if we come to him, we will be kindly received and loved; for he loves lost souls; and if we come to him aright, lacking nothing, it is his pleasure, his purpose, and his pre- rogative to save. We claim, rightfully, rationally claim the choice of our destiny. And there is an appeal to our reason by a powerful motive of love--a love that     180     PROSE AND POETRY. is life, and stronger than death. A Saviour is ready, able, and willing to redeem us. O! will we accept? Will we choose him and live? Will we make our election sure? Will we save our souls? Shall the great reprieve, which props our house of clay, be ours in vain? Shall the love of God, as exhibited to -us in the glorious plan of salvation, be ours in vain? O, let us save our souls! "For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul?" ZV   TO SARAH.        181 TO SARAH. O, MAY thy life with peace be blest! The wish is ardent from my soul- The peace that heals the wounded breast, And lifts the heart o'er earth's control. And when beyond the grave's dark bound Thy vital breath divine shall wend, O, may thy better life be crowned With ev'ry joy Heaven doth blend.     s182    PRO SE AND POETRY. THE BUSY-BOD' DID you ever see a busy-body, A rattling, tattling, talking thing In human shape, a flippant tongue of fire, To poison with its deadly sting? Did you ever note in his daily rounds, The scorched track he leaves behind'? The breaking heart-strings and the bleeding wounds, , The workings of a little mind? The lone prairie, swept by destroying fire, Leaves ii its rear a blackened plain; And the tall, green grass, which in beauty bloomed, By the fiery element slain. The beautiful spring, in " mantle of green," With smiling face and sun so warm, May in one short night be robbed of her sheen, By the frost and the pelting storm.   THE BUSY-BODY.       188 As the devouring flame consumes the grass, And withers by its heated breath, So the darkened shadow of scandal's glass Falls heavy on the good man's death. As the frost in springtime nips the flower, It ne'er resumes its early bloom; So the heart that's bent by scandal's power, Enshrouded is in midnight gloom.     184     PROSE AND POETRY TO ANN. O, HOW shall I measure the flight Or track of thy spirit unfurled  It dwells in the regions of light, And sweetly encircles the world! Where angels in purity move, It lingers in ecstasy there; Drinks deep of the ocean of love, And weeps over woe and despair. It loves the sweet dew-drops that lie Upon the lone wilderness flowers; On wings of imagining fly, And lingers 'neath beautiful bowers. O, how shall I measure the flight Or track of thy spirit unfurled? It dwells in the regions of light, And sweetly encircles the world!   soo.         185 SONG. A SONG for thee, dearest, I send from afar, Where my feet have been roaming Without guide or star. Wilt thou set it to music, And sing when I come, Disheartened and weary, Back to my home? Let the tune be a zephyr. Melodious and free, As true unto nature As thou art to me; Which thy heart can embrace As it would with a friend, And my words and thy music In melody blend. *.;     ^180    PROSB AND POETRY. Not a sad tone nor gay one, But a half-way between; High gladness, deep sorrow, Let it intervene. That so it interprets By musical art How we laugh when we meet, And shed tears when we part.   MOLLIB BAT.        187 WILLIE TO MOLLIE. I WILL not strike the harp to kings, But love shall tune the pensive lay; I'll touch with skill its tuneful strings, And sing of thee, sweet Mollie Ray. Let fortune reign in splendid pride, Fond of excess and rich display; With sweet simplicity my guide, I'd live and die with Mollie Ray. Were I of fortune's smile possessed, While on me shone her brightest ray, A secret pang would rend my breast, If wanting thee, sweet Mollie Ray. How canst thou witness my despair, And bid me from thee ever stray? Show me a girl but half so fair,  And I'll abandon Mollie Ray.     188     PROSE AND POETRY. Such charms as thine are rarely found, They bloom in Winter like as May! Go vainly search the earth around, They're only found with Mollie Ray. Should cold neglect, contempt, and scorn, My ardent vows of love repay, These eyes her absent form would mourn, This heart would bleed for Mollie Ray. 'What then could soothe this burning breast When hope had winged her final way? O Mollie, make me ever blest! And ever blest be Mollie Ray.   A VISION.         le0 A VISION. DARI and tempestuous was night. Around the throne on high not a single star quivered; but the deep intonations of the heavy thunder constantly vibrated upon the ear; whilst the terrific light- ning revelled in angry mood through the cloudy chambers of heaven, seeming to scorn the power exerted over its terror by the illustrious Franklin! Even the boisterous-winds unanimously came forth- from their mystic homes, and blustered about as if to enhance by their aid the wildness of the scene. At such a time, so dark, -so dreary, for human sympathy my very spirit sighed; but instead thereof, 4 My dearest friend, my counsellor, my comforter and guide- My joy in grief, my second bliss in joy," came to my side. She moved like one of those bright beings pictured in the sunny walks of fancy's Eden by the romantic and young, a queen of beauty unadorned save by her own transcendent loveliness. So soft was her step, it failed to make even a sound, and but for the     a90     PROSE AND POETKY. magical thrill imparted by her genial touch, as other unobtrusive beauties, she would have glided away unperceived-unsought. A strange sadness rested upon her features, like icy tears upon the robe of December, as she pointed to the contending ele- ments without, and bade me contemplate the two beings presented. The name of my welcome visitor was Meditation. The objects she bade me contemplate were War and Peace. In the right hand of Peace was a branch of olive, in the left a dewy cluster of the richest balm that ever grew in Gilead. O, I cannot paint her as she seemed to me! She seemed a seraph sent to teach us how to be; So gentle, so patient, so retiring was she. And yet, within her modest bosom lay stern deter- mination for her rights to contend. No sophistry her heart could contaminate, or her judgment mis- lead. List! methinks I hear his voice: "The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. "I was set up from everlasting, from the begin- ning, or ever the earth was. "When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water,   A VISION.        191 "Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth. "While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world. "When he prepared the heavens, I was there; when he set a compass upon the face of the depth. "When he established the clouds above; when he strengthened the fountains of the deep. "When he gave to the sea his decree, that the waters should not pass his commandment; when he appointed the foundations of the earth. "Then I was by him as one brought up with him; and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him. Rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth; and my delights were with the sons of men. I pro- mised them serenest bliss, but not content, God's holy behest they defied, entailing thereby all the miVera- ble corruption to which flesh is heir-dissension and war propagating throughout time. Since then my habitations have been vacillating and uncertain. Childhood's happy heart to me is a favorite resting- place; but often, alas! when human nature develops itself I am driven away! In rural retirement I love to dwell. There the high thoughts, the ambitious hopes of mortal aspirations to disturb my equa- nimity seldom obtrude! There the broad basis     192    PROSE AND?OETRY. upon which the magnificent temple of earthly fame is erected, my waking meditations disturbs not, and when sleep asserts her reign haunts not my dlreams. Humble and easily attained is my every desire." Hark! a sound so terrific and awful meets my ear, I fancy it comes from the lowest. depths of the low- est deep. 'Tis the voice of War, a convulsed na- tion answers! Mark well the hellish import of his words, the fiendish sneer pervading his counte- nance observe! But what avails a description? Before the world he stands the greatest terror, as numberless orphans, uncounted widows testify. With delight he surveys the bleeding hearts lying prostrate at his feet! The manifold groans of the wounded and dying never drew from him a tear! Hark! I am sure I never heard more dreadful words: "Destruction is my mission! Since the creation of the world, my guilty ambition has hurled into eternity no less than fourteen hundred thousand millions of souls! Conquest is my life, obtained at any price. Then why contend?" The silver lute of valor was perfectly tuned; no discordant notes fell upon the ear, like sometimes occur in the studied harmony of words which man has mind to frame or voice to chant, as she thus   A VISION.        193 responded: So long as I have a votary or patriot- ism a friend, the servile knee shall never be bowed of America's free sons. To any thing illegal, un- constitutional, or unjust, never, never shall they submit!" Shall valor's appeal in vain be made? Ah, no! Methinks I see the brave, vigorous men of the North, the voluptuous youths of the South, with armor well girded on, marching forth in battle array against the foe who our rights would dare assail. Methinks I see an aged man, whose locks are white as snow, whose feeble form is supported by a well-worn staff, raise his head, and, listening, hold his breath to hear the well-known notes of martial music! Notes which sent a thrill to his youthful bosom, cause him now to forget the in- firmities of age! With enthusiasm he casts away his staff, and once more shoulders his musket in his country's defence! Methinks I see an aged mother, whose trembling frame is bending over the grave, clasp her darling boy to her bosom, and bid him the patriotic number go swell, and "Come back in triumph, or come not again." She tells him the pearl of mighty price, for which his forefathers "fought, bled, and died," shoulN be by him pre- served-should be by him enlarged, else indeed a useless steward prove himself. She tells him to show 9     194    PROSE AND POETRY. the world that in an American soldier there is something-in the cause he espouses something-in the name he bears something-in the country he defends something for more than any common danger makes him equal ; and that, whether right or wrong, our country's privileges shall be defended, and that "he who conquers shall find a stubborn foe.' flea. -r   XI 'L LOVE THBE.       195 I'LL LOVE   THEE. I 'LL love thee as long as I live, Because thou hast ever a smile, And words in kind accents to give, My loneliest time to beguile. When those who should cherish me, never Doth naught but many foibles see, I can turn, dear one, to thee ever For the sweet balm of sympathy. And O, my soul-love for thee beameth More pure, more bright than star-lit dew! And thy earnest love for me seemeth To stamp all else beside untrue. I will never quench the flame of love, Though it consumed the hopes of youth; But, e'en as a lorn, forsaken dove, I'll prove in death its sacred truth. And when my life's-declining star, Obscured by death, no more shall shine; I'll think of thee 'mid skies afar, And still, O, still, I'll call thee mine,     196    PROSE3 AND POETUY. SONG. AIR.--"Those Evening Bells." THE village bell! the village bell! On loving heart its music fell In other days and happier time, "When first I heard its soothing chime.' Whilst now I list to thy dear sound, My heart doth leap with joyous bound! It tells of home, and mother dear, Her silvery voice and tones so clear! In childhood's hour, I list its call- Relinquished hoop, and bat, and ball; 'With willing steps repaired to school; My teacher loved,. obeyed his rule. And as it called each Sabbath day, I happy was to wend my way God's praise to hear, by one whose tongue With sacred truths divinely rung.   soN a.   .      197 But sadder strains-I know them well- My heart doth sicken while I tell- Of one whose beauty passed away In gay springtime and morn's first ray. 'Tis ever so with earthly sounds, The sweetest strain with woe abounds: There is a world of peace and love  No discord's there in heaven above! 'I     198     PROSE AND POETRY. TO MARIA. TEY form is like a ray of light, Tlhat brightly gleams, Shedding upon the clouds of night Its clearest beams. For of thy worth the noblest part Is all unseen; Thou hast an angel's soul and heart, I humbly ween. The thoughts that thy high soul doth know, Are all humane; From purest fount they ever flow; There's naught profane. I strive to emulate thy worth, 'T is all in vain; Thy soul has had immortal birth, 'Tis God's again.   TO MARIA.        199 The glory of the King of kings, Already's thine: O may like joy on angels' wings Be borne to mine. Then my wrapt soul, in vision bright, Will Jesus see; Will share the bliss with pure delight Now known to thee. Sorrows of earth will then have fled, Or lost their sting; And when I'm numbered with the dead, To Christ I'll cling. O wilt thou, loved one, in thy prayers, Remember me? Remember me to Him who bears The Cross for thee!     200     PROSE AND POETRY. A LEAFLET FROM    LIFE'S BOOK. ONE of the heart's dearest treasures is she-the gentle, loving help -meet of our pastor! Never, while memory derives pleasure from comrnmuning with the loved images stored away in its garners: or grasps at the sunbeams reflected upon its walls, or while earthly sounds cause the harp-strings of the soul to vibrate with soothing melodies, can we forget how she looked, sitting, as was her wont during the long summer afternoons, in the vine- sheltered portico of the old parsonage, or the tender, heartfelt cadence of her voice as she time and again gave us affectionate welcome to that con- secrated abode. How quiet, how peaceful every thing appeared there! On each side of the pretty sand-covered walk extending from the gate to the house, were flower-beds carefully tended by the pastor's favorite daughter. Here, in early spring, bloomed the daffodil, the hyacinth, and the beauti- ful monthly rose; and when autumn robed the woods in scarlet splendor, the hardy chrysanthe-   A LEAFLET FROM LIFE'S BOOK.     201 mum  unfolded its varied- colored blooms - fit emblem of a constant friend, who appears most lovely when all others forsake. But let us not linger so long without, even among flower-beds, when loving heart and tender voice are waiting to welcome us within. Ah! yes, upon the threshold stands "a mother in Israel," the pastor's wife. How cordially she shakes our hand, and what a motherly kiss she bestows upon us; and how kindly, too, she inquires about each member of our mother's household! A child of affliction herself, she ever sympathizes with the sick and the sorrowing; and many a burdened heart has been lightened by the consolation which she knew so well how to admin- ister consolation drawn from God's own word, and the merciful dealings of His providence. She was faithful in all the relations of life, but her unmitigated devotion to her husband was, in our eyes, one of the most charming features of her cha- racter. Though a few scattered white locks alone remained of the dark-brown masses which once shaded his noble brow, she loved him not a whit the less: her affection for the husband of her youth, the chosen companion of her earthly pilgrimage, steadily increasing as years passed by. An instance of her self-sacrificing devotion we will record: One bright afternoon she was sitting, 9*     202    PROSE AND POETRY. as described in the commencement of this sketch, in the vine-sheltered portico. She was alone, and yet not alone, for fancy was busy; and well might we guess, if an arch smile and speaking counte- nance betray the workings of the mind, that it was planning a pleasant surprise for the loved and absent. Yes, this precious woman had received, as a May-day present from her mother, a generous supply of money, and she was thinking how she would make each one of her family, especially her husband, the recipient of its benefits. Just as she had well-nigh matured a very satisfactory plan, footsteps which she never mistook -they were those of our pastor- approached. With a face beaming with love, she rises to meet him. What a change has come over her countenance-a troubled expression, despite her efforts to conceal it, has usurped the place of the joyous one! One glance at the face she had long since learned to read as a book, convinced her that all was not right with her husband- that something was weighing heavily upon his mind, or that some cherished object could not be accomplished, and her heart, true to the nature of woman's heart, felt the pang more acutely perhaps than his. Feeling that it was her right to share his troubles, she met him, and gently laying her hand upon his arm, inquired wnat the source   A LEAFLET FROM LIFE'S BOOK.    203 of trouble was. Handing her a letter received by the afternoon's mail, he took a seat without utter- ing a word; the emotions which heaved his full heart were too overpowering to allow conversation. After- reading it slowly and carefully, the wife raised her eyes from the letter to the face of her husband, with a most puzzled expression. In it she saw nothing to occasion trouble, but, on the contrary, much to inspire the deepest gratitude- the highest joy. At the earnest solicitation of many members, our pastor had sought and obtained the consent of his church to occasionally supply with gospel food a flock of a distant fold, deprived by death ot its aged shepherd. And the letter was from several of this fold; who urged him, in behalf of a goodly number who had attended with deep interest upon his ministry, and had been con- firmed thereby in the determination "to testify to the world the goodness and love of Christ, by putting him on in the ordinance of baptism," to come and "plant them in the likeness of the Saviour's death." But alas! our pastor was a poor man, and had not the means with which to defray the expenses of the trip; and his own people had been remiss in the discharge of their obligation to pay a promised     204    PROSE AND POETRY. salary. Hence his trouble on the present occasion. He, however, who had been with him in six troubles, was ready to carry him through the seventh. In this instance, as in innumerable others, his angel-wife was the instrument in the Lord's hands to relieve his burdened heart, and point him to One who has promised that " every one that asketh receiveth." When he had told her the want of means to go would prevent his enjoy- ing this Christ-like privilege, her countenance again grew radiant with joy and gratitude, as she ex- claimed with child-like enthusiasm, You can go! you can go!" Then, and not till then, did our pastor know of that aged mother's May-day present to a daughter who counted it no sacrifice to relin- quish her own cherished plans to promote the cause of her blessed Redeemer. -   THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.      205 THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. FROM the fifth to the fifteenth century the sable pall of ignorance and superstition spread over the whole of Europe.  Learning was almost extin- guished; the pure doctrines of the Cross were adulterated, and the Romish Church gained com- plete ascendency over the minds and fortunes of men. But this deplorable state of affairs was not always to continue. In 1587 the Reformation began, which has well been styled the most im- portant event that has taken place since the first promulgation of Christianity. Simultaneously with the revival of religion was the revival of learning; and the march of improvement has been steadily progressing until it has reached a high point in this the nineteenth century. Let us contemplate some of the leading features of the age; and though but little more than half of this period has elapsed, we safely assert, that never have the arts and sciences advanced so rapidly; never has knowledge been so widely diffused; never have such import-     '06    PROSE AND POETRY. ant revolutions agitated the world; and never have the glorious truths of the Christian religion been ,so extensively disseminated as in the nineteenth century. During this eventful period, the long list of earth's battle-fields has been extended by the addi- tion of the sanguinary conflicts of Leipsic, Water- loo, New Orleans, the Crimea, and Lucknow. The military exploits of this age surpass in many respects those of any preceding period. A con- queror such as Bonaparte the world never saw. The contests which he waged against the allied powers of Europe are the most wonderful on record, in the extent and rapidity of his conquests, and their influence upon the nations of the world. He stands forth upon the pages of history as the most remarkable potentate of modern times: ele- vated, at the early age of twenty-seven, from the rank of a common soldier to the chief command of the French army; at thirty, elected First Consul; and at thirty-five, proclaimed Emperor of France. A striking contrast to the ambitious Napoleon, is the hero of Lucknow-the brave, the pious Have- lock. Instead of laying waste unoffending cities, he came to the relief of the distressed and help. less; and though he stood high as a military com- mander, he was not ashamed of the gospel of   Christ, but preached its unsearchable riches to the soldiers of his regiment, and baptized them with his own hands. But he sleeps in victory! His battles are over; and he is now where the scorch- ing rays of the Indian sun, and the fierce combats of opposing forces, can never come. The present century is distinguished by great political revolutions, which have thrown in commo- tion the nations of the earth. When the year 1800 dawned upon France, she was a republic; in 1804, she became an empire; in 1815, after Bonaparte was deposed, Louis the Eighteenth was restored to the throne of his ancestors; and now another Na- poleon reigns, under the title of Emperor of the French. How many bloody battles were fought to produce these changes in the government of France! and what a striking illustration are they of the mu- tability of human institutions! In 1806, by the resignation of the reigning emperor, the empire of Germany came to an end; and in 1832, Poland was erased from the list of kingdoms by its incorpora-. tion with Russia. What changes have been wrought in our own land! In 1801 the United States extended only to the Mississippi river on the west, and to Florida on the south. In 1803 Louisiana was ceded to the Union by France, for $15,000,000. Florida was also     208     PROSE AND POETRY. ceded by Spain in 1820. Thus has the United States acquired a right to these valuable posses- sions, which cost their first owners so much death and suffering. In 1539 the romantic De Soto and his followers wandered over the sunny plains of the land of flowers, in search of El Dorado. After marching over half the continent, they met not the realization of their golden dreams. Worn out with fatigue and disappointment, De Soto sickened and died, and his remains lie undisturbed beneath the turbid waters of that mighty river of which he was the discoverer. Spain, once a wealthy and power- ful kingdom, now occupies a low rank among the nations of Europe, and the United States quietly enjoys the immense possessions she once claimed. In 1848 California was obtained by treaty from Mexico; and now the "star-spangled banner" un- folds its bright colors from the Atlantic to the Pacific. England has forced China to open her ports, so long closed to the civilized world; and by the negotiations of an American commodore, com- munications have been established between Japan and the United States. As before stated, the present century is remark- able for advances made in the arts and sciences. Steam, as applied to machinery, has wrought won- ders. The first railroad resembling those now in r    THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.      209 use, was the "Stockton and Darlington Railway," completed in 1825. But the first practical exhibi- tion of the powers of a steam locomotive engine was made at the opening of the "Liverpool and Manchester Railroad" on the 15th of September, 1830. In 1856 upwards of one hundred and fifty separate lines of railway, the total length being 8115 miles, had been completed in the United Kingdom of Great Britain. The increase of rail- roads in the United States is unparalleled. In 1828 there were only three miles of railroad; now there are 25,000. The advantages accruing from rail- roads in the rapid transportation of goods and pas- sengers from one section of country to another, and in the increased diffusion of knowledge, may be considered the greatest benefits of the age. In 1807 the first steamboat was launched upon the Hudson. Fifty years have gone by, and beautiful steamers are proudly gliding over all our principal rivers, along our coasts, and upon the broad bosoms of the great lakes of British America. The Pilgrim Fathers were three months perform- ing their perilous voyage across the Atlantic: their descendants sail over the same space in little more than ten days: a striking example of the progress of our age. Voyages by steam are performed along the Mediterranean, and along the Arabian iand Red !     210    PROSE AND POETRY. Seas. Indeed, "almost every sea and ocean on the surface of the globe is traversed by steam-vessels- promoting a rapid intercourse between all the nations, tribes, and families of the earth." By steam navigation commerce is extended, knowledge is increased, civilization is advanced, and the heathen world enlightened by intercourse with Christian nations, preparing the way for the mis- sionaries of the Cross, and the consequent conver- sion of the Gentile world. We come now to the greatest discovery of the nineteenth century, the electric telegraph. When we look upon a steam-engine rapidly advancing with its long train of cars, and hurrying on its freight of many tons: when we stand by the river's edge, or on the shore of the mighty deep, and behold some gallant steamer steadily and swiftly pursuing its way, in opposition to wind and tide, we feel that man, though fallen, is noble still, pos- sessing an intellect capable of devising and execut- ing great things; but when we contemplate the electric telegraph, we can scarcely persuade our- selves that it is the result of human research and human skill. To use the language of another: "The principle, or agent, which displays its terrific energy in the awful volcano, the fearful hurricane, and the destroying earthquake, is the same as, subdued by   THE NINETEEiTH CENTURY.      2" science and human art, is rendered useful to society in a vast variety of ways, and in no way more pro- minently than in the electric telegraph." By this agency the principal towns of the United States are closely connected. Friends thousands of miles apart can converse as if in the same hall. How many heart-cheering messages have thus been borne upon the lightning's wing! and in the late revival it has been made the speedy messenger of the glad tidings of God's converting grace. Submarine wires encased in gutta percha connect Europe with the British Isles; and the cable of the telegraph between Europe and America is now laid upon the bed of the ocean; and the time is doubtless near when all the grand divisions of the globe shall by this means be brought in converse. But to the philanthropist and the Christian the improvement in the art of printing by the application of steam- power, stands preeminent. As an illustration of the rapidity with which printing is done by this method, a machine of this kind throws off from nine hundred to twelve hundred sheets in an hour. Books once so costly that only the most wealthy could afford their purchase, are now within the reach of every one. Newspapers, magazines, and periodicals of every description are daily issuing from the press, containing much valuable informa-     212     PROSE AND POETRY. tion. and, alas! much which is deleterious to the minds -and souls of men. The power wielded by the press is second to none on earth; and it is a lamentable fact, that this, the nineteenth century, is so prolific of that species of literature entitled novels, infusing into the minds of countless multi- tudes, especially of the rising generation, false notions- of life, and erroneous views on the great subject of' religion. Fortunately, however, for society, this is not the only literature published and read in this age. Many excellent works on history, philosophy, and theology, have been written, and hailed with enthusiasm by the literary world. What a vast amount of good has been accomplished by those noble institutions, the British and Foreign Bible Society, the American Tract Society, and the American Bible Society, all of which have been established since the dawn of the present century. There are many other discoveries and inventions of the present age, which have done much for the amelioration of the human race. Many a poor miner has had reason to thank God that Sir Hum- phrey Davy was ever led to construct the safety- lamp, which has been the means of preserving many useful lives. Lighting the streets of large cities with gas has been more effectual in suppress- ing vice and crime than any polipe. Securing a  d -^  r-^ f^t.i: ^.^*.^.4t.   THE NINETEENTH CENTURY,       213 life-like shadow by the daguerrean art, has afforded more satisfaction to all classes of persons than any preceding discovery. Within the last fifty-eight years many interesting discoveries have been made in the science of astro- nomy. On the first of January, 1801, Ceres, the first of the asteroids, was discovered. Since then many of these miniature planets have been seen, which are supposed to be the fragments of a large celestial body, which once revolved where the asteroids are now seen.  This remarkable dis- covery has given us a slight insight into those great changes which are taking place in the remote regions of space, and fills the mind with admiration for that Almighty Being who formed the starry worlds,-"that bringeth forth their hosts by num- ber; that calleth them all by names." The- dis- covery of the planet Leverrier, or Neptune, by cal- culation, is a signal triumph of the human mind. By means of the great telescope of Lord Rosse, many of the& nebulve, once supposed to be chaotic masses of luminous matter, have been resolved into stars, giving us enlarged conceptions of the bound- less extent of the universe. The nineteenth century is distinguished by its long array of illustrious sculptors, musicians, artists, authors, statesmen, and theologians. Among sculp.     214    .PROSE AND POETRY. tors none stand higher than Powers, whose "Es e,' 'and whose "Greek Slave," have been the admira- tionll of both sides of the Atlantic. From the ear- liest ages of the world the sons of men have loved and cultivated music; but we are persuaded that it has now arrived at a degree of perfection never before attained. The exquisite mechanism of musi- cal instruments, especially that of the pianoforte, is one of the improvements of the age. And where, in the annals of the world, have we an account of such vocal powers as those of Jenny Lind? or of sweeter strains than those of Thalberg and William Vincent Wallace? What shall be said of the authors of the nine- teenth century? In British literature, we find the names of Sir Walter Scott, Byron, Moore, Pollok, Eliza Cook, Mrs. Hemans, Macaulay, Professor Wilson, and Hugh Miller. Among American authors are conspicuous Bryant, Longfellow, Ban- croft, Mrs. Sigourney, and many others whose writ- ings have exercised a powerful influence on the age, corresponding in its nature to the characters of their respective works. Besides the authors men- tioned, there are travellers who have rendered their names immortal by contributions they have made to our knowledge of the distant regions of the globe. Such are Dr. Kane, who wrote an account   THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.       215 of his search for the long-lost Sir John Franklin in the frozen regions of the frigid zone; and Dr. Liv- ingstone, who has spent sixteen years amid the burning sands of Africa. The Eastern Continent has not been without men who have swayed the councils of nations by the wisdom of their measures and the witchery of their eloquence; but in our own free land are we to look for the noblest statesmen of the nineteenth century. At its commencement Washington had just rested from his labors; but his associates, Jefferson, Madison, and Hamilton, held a prominent position before the nation. In later date come J. Q. Adams, Andrew Jackson, Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun, and Daniel Webster. But to the disciples of the Prince of Peace, neither the warrior nor the statesman appears so glorious as those men of giant intellect and holy heart who have during the present century boldly stood forth before the world and contended for "the faith once delivered to the saints." Of such are Chalmers and ,Cumming, of Scotland; Miller and Alexander, of America; and Spurgeon, the modern Whitefield of the English pulpit. And there is another whom it would be wrong to pass in silence, Harbaugh, the author of that beautiful series of works whose sub- ject is Heaven. Who that has read these books can ever divest himself of their mild but powerful     216    PROSE AND POETRY. influence-an influence leading his thoughts to that happy world of which they speak in such soothing and beautiful strains. With regret we now introduce another phase of this century, which forms a painful contrast to those by which it is preceded. Notwithstanding the wide diffusion of religious knowledge, there are some who, having, closed their eyes to the truth, have embraced- and propagated the most dangerous errors. As instances, the Millerites, perched upon the highest eminences, awaiting in. their white robes for the arrival of a specified day on which to ascend to heaven; the Mormons, differing in their origin and system of belief from any sect that has yet appeared before the world; and the Spiritualists, who have been so abundant in the Northern States. The position of woman is a remarkable feature of this age, being in many respects far more exalted than ever before; and yet, not satisfied with her own appropriate sphere, she has in a few instances sought to assume privileges belonging exclusively to man. Such are Lucy Stone and her strong- minded sisterhood, the advocates of woman's rights. But doubtless these errors and follies will soon be banished by the superior force of truth, which is mighty and must prevail, to the pulling down of the strongholds of error.   THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.      217 Another circumstance worthy of notice is, that no universal monarchy now exists as in the days when Assyria, Macedonia, and Rome flourished. The nations of the world are becoming too enlight- ened to allow a few despots to exercise unlimited sway. Under the benign influence of Christianity the world is becoming better. Much of the cruelty of former, times has been abolished; even war is less terrific. Benevolent associations for the relief of suffering humanity have been formed all over the civilized world. Asylums of elegant archi- tecture, surrounded by beautifully embellished grounds, have been erected for the reception of the deaf, dumb, and blind. To these institutions the world is indebted for many bright intellects which otherwise would have remained in obscurity. Even poor little outcasts found in all large cities have received their share of attention. Houses of indus- try have been established where these little vagrants are taught much that is useful. Thus have many souls been "snatched from hell and laid in the sheltering arms of Heaven." Missionary efforts have been crowned with signal success; and the Bible translated into the languages spoken by more than half the human race. ' England has the honor of devising and carrying into operation the present s--system of foreign missions. About fifty years ago 10     218    PROSE AND POETRY. the first missionaries, Carey and Hall, were sent out to India, and soon afterwards Newell and Judson, of America, were appointed to the same field. A feeble band, they went forth to convince the hea- then of the- sin of idolatry, and turn them to the service of the living and true God. Many, even in this favored age, regarded foreign missions as a visionary scheme; but those pious ambassadors knew that they were obeying the command of Christ: "Go forth into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature;" and they bade adieu to home and friends, and brayed the dangers of the stormy deep, leaning upon the precious promise, "Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world." Since then many self-denying men have devoted themselves to the missionary work. Need we detail the results? Go ask the converted Hindoo, the Chinaman turned from the worship of his idols, and the Christianized inhabitants of the islands of the sea, what they think of this glorious enterprise of the nineteenth century, and they will answer: By their instrumentality we have been brought out of darkness into the marvellous light and liberty of the gospel. But, if not before then, -at the last day will all the glorious effects of mis- sions be known; when that vast multitude, re- deemed out of every nation, kindred and tongue, -   THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.      219 shall be welcomed to the courts of Heaven, there to sing everlasting praises to the "Lamb of God," and there to meet the heralds of the Cross who led them to see Him as their Saviour. Thus have we cursorily reviewed the triumphs of this great age-an age in which more has already been done towards the civilization and renovation of the world than in any age since the Christian era. And yet the volume of its history is but half com- plete. Nearly half of its years, and, it may be, half of the mighty record of its achievements, is yet un- told. The future, as it unrolls the panorama of wonderful events to the eye, may yet eclipse the years that have passed-astonishing as have been their developments. One would think that the balance of this glorious century might be well employed in filling up the outline of its present achievements: in perfecting its inventions; in extending the utility and applica- tions of these great instrumentalities of good which have already been brought to light; in laying off, adorning, and beautifying the magnificent field which the march of mind has compassed; and that the historian and author might find ample employ- ment in the materials of the half century already elapsed. But who shall presume to set bounds or limits to     220     PROSE AND POETRY. the mighty march of this century--to that progress which impels civilization onward, as the comet is hurled in its infinite journey around the firmament? 'Who shall say, that the inventive resources of genius are exhausted-that the future has no re- serve, no depths of profounder wisdom yet to be fathomed-. no fields yet wider and wider to be explored--no more wonderful plans to be worked out by that Divinity, which is so manifestly devel- oping the' destiny of man? Who shall say that science, with all its boasted attainments, may not yet be in the primer of its learning--when future years shall have poured upon the world the meri- dian splendors which are yet to appear'? She has gathered beautiful pebbles on the beach, but the dark, unfathomed caves of ocean have not yet emptied at her feet the gems which are richly trea- sured there. The morning has come, the sun of knowledge has risen on the horizon, but it has not- yet performed its course;. it has but begun the revolution of glorious light which it is destined to make, and before which all clouds and vapors shall be dispelled. "Knowledge shall increase," is the fiat which has gone forth, and none but God who issued that decree shall set limits to that increase. Its fountain is no less than the mind of Deity, It draws its illumination from the great   THE NINETEENTH CENTURY.      221 central sun of that omniscient intellect which is the light of the everlasting universe. Who shall say that the full measure of its revelation to man, through the medium of nature, has yet been seen, or that He will not evolve from the vast treasury of his wisdom and his goodness an increasing degree- of knowledge, until ignorance shall be torn as a covering frbm the hideous vice and depravity of man-until light shall drive from the world the dark legionary of superstition, ignorance, and hell. The philosopher and divine cannot fail to per- ceive that religion and knowledge go hand in hand--that God has chosen light, in the moral world, as the instrument to dispel the darkness of error and evil, as, in the physical world, to chase away the gloom of night. Will he not, then, impel onward the intellectual march of the world, until knowledge all over the earth shall pave the pathway for the chariot-wheels of religion and mil- lennial glory? How much of so great a destiny is reserved for this century must be left to the unborn his, torian to write. We can only indulge in those bright anticipations which the past and the pre- sent inspire. Judging from these, that future volume of the history of this century will reveal     222    PROSE AND POETRY. to its readers other great triumphs of genius, other inventions, and other evidences of the wisdom and goodness of that Supreme Being who has so sig. nally favored this proud age.   TO GOD ALL TRUSTS BELONG.     223 TO GOD ALL TRUSTS BELONG. "WnVHY is it that the midnight moon" No moment stays? And why the sweetest bloom so soon Droops and decays? Why is it that the noonday sun So soon descends? And why the honor nobly won So quickly ends? Why sends the west its brightest ray As sinks the sun? Why sings the swan its sweetest lay When life is run? Why is the rainbow's gorgeous hue Begirt with clouds; And when 'tis brightest, dark clouds too, The earth enshrouds?     224     PROSE AND POETRY, And why does friendship's golden link So bright appear, Just as the foot has reached the brink Where ruin's near? Alas! 'tis always thus on earth!  The dearest tie, In love vouchsafed to mortal worth, Doth quickly die! I'll never trust the midnight moon, Though full and bright; Nor cling to earthly joys, so soon To fade from sight. I'll never gaze on noonday sun, In heaven high, But with the thought his course's soon run, His light must die. I'll never love the rainbow's hue, Though bright and fair; For when 'tis brightest, dark clouds too Are lurking there. I'll never trust to friendship's chain, Though bright and strong; iBut to the Lamb for sinners slainmi All trusts belong.     I   A FRA GMENT.       225 A FRAGMENT, The glorious sun was hast'ning To bid adieu to earth; his farewell ray Was bright'ning, and his lengthening shadows Casting through the balmy spring-time air. All nature sought repose, and woo'd, by its Soft lullaby, the busy throng to rest. A strange, sweet sympathy upon my spirit Fell, which with the hour chimed in unison; And gently touched the mystic chords That bind us to the spirit land, and swell The soul with love unutterable and full of joy! Led by unseen hand, my footsteps wander'd To the habitation of the dead. I stood Beside a full grown grave-yea, two- Blent in one: In life, 'two bodies-one heart; In death, two bodies-one grave." And a charm, sad and holy, Enchain'd me there. It was the last resting Place earth had to give those who, years agone Had fondled in their arms, and to their Daughter's orphan child spoke words Of love and comfort. Sad men'ries of the past     226      A FRAGMENT. Crowded thick and fast upon my brain. The funeral throng, with solemn, measured Tread; the crapen hearse; the earth arrayed In sable garbs-as if it gave in sullen Mood the spirits lent-all, all appear'd, in quick Review, before my spirit's gaze. And Repeating yet the still, small voice, Which whispered: "I am the resurrection And the life, saith the Lord; he that believeth In me, though he were dead, yet shall he Live: And whosoever liveth and believeth In me shall never die." The strug'ling sun breaks through The darken'd clouds, and a bright rainbow Spans the arch of blue. The tall old cedar keeps nightly vigil, While through the cypress blooms the beautiful Sunlight, in mellow radiance, brightens All around; and the eyes of heaven Look down in love upon those who sleep Beneath!   AN UNDEVOUT ASTRONOMER IS MAD. 227 AN UNDEVOUT ASTRONOMER IS MAD. "THE globe, that, in its present epoch, is the habitation and peculiar possession of the human race, appears, when regarded by itself, a body of imposing dimensions;" but when night's 'dark drapery conceals from view its varied scenery, its picturesque landscapes, and busy thoroughfares, its sunshine and shade, then it is that tLe eye, the portal of the soul, turns to the "lights in the firma- ment of heaven." What transcendant glories meet it there! The sky, the deep blue sky, bestudded with glittering orbs, pavilions this earth of ours! the moon in queenly majesty pursues her course through the chambers of heaven! What an inspir- ing scene! how elevating, how ennobling the con- templation of these "emblems of the Infinite!" "Kings have descended from their thrones" to ad- mire its beauty-to feel its power; "and humble shepherds, while watching their flocks by night, have beheld with rapture the blue vault of heaven,     228     PROSE AND POETRY. with its thousand shining orbs moving in silent grandeur, till the morning star announced the approach of day;" but by the astronomer-the pious astronomer, who views the mighty works of nature as step-stones to nature's God-alone, is the scene fully comprehended-fully appreciated. Though appearing, to those unacquainted with astronomical science, to be situated at equal dis- tances from us, yet shining with different degrees of intensity, as "one star differeth from another star in glory;" he, by deep research, has ascertained that those bright worlds are not all situated at equal distances, but that many of them are millions of miles more remote than others: he knows that some of the smallest stars that twinkle with golden lustre on the bosom of night, are suns perhaps larger than our own proud luminary, surrounded by planetary worlds which receive from them light and heat, and the vicissitudes of day and night. With telescope in hand he joins the innumerable host, whose movements are not noted by the com- mon eye-walks with Hesperus, and becomes fami- liar with Jupiter! About the latter he tells many strange things. He says, instead of the bright planet which this orb appears, it is an irregular world, "like our globe, and has undergone similar convulsions.'   AN UNDEVOUT ASTRONOMER IS MAD. 229 It has been estimated by the astronomer that there are one hundred million of stars now visible through the telescope, which cannot be seen by the unassisted eye. And is it not probable that in the regions of infinite space there are countless worlds which man, not even by the aid of the most power- ful magnifying- glasses, will ever behold? Far beyond the reach of mortal vision they wheel on in their rapid course, unseen, save by the eye of Omnipotence, or the adoring angels and seraphim around the throne on high. Countless as are these worlds, each, doubtless, has its own peculiar orbit, never interfering with the motions of another. The Power which placed them  there has also appointed their bounds, beyond which they cannot pass. Let us take an astronomical view of the solar system of which we form a part. This system con- sists of the sun as a centre, around which the asteroids and the principal planets, with their satel- lites, revolve. During a solar year, or in an interval of twelve months, our earth, at a distance of one hundred million of miles, describes an undeviating circle around this great central point. "Between the earth and the centre of its motion there are two other bodies, named, on that account, the inferior planets; and beyond it we find six superior orbs-     230     PROSE AND POETRY. the remotest, Neptune, being thirty times more dis- tant than we are from the sun."  The utmost bounds of this complicated system are enlightened by the sun, its great centre. The planets which surround him form a geometrical series, each one being double the distance of its next interior planet from the sun. Mercury being nearest to the sun, and receiving from him a much greater degree of light and heat, is found to be the most dense of all the planets. The atmosphere of the planets is also thought to differ; therefore, it may be as comfort- able at Neptune as at Mercury. If these planets are all inhabited as well as our earth, what a wise provision of Providence is this! each planet pre- cisely adapted to the peculiar situation it occupies. Our globe, the third planet from the sun, is most favorably situated in the solar system; nearly all the sister planets being visible to the naked eye. Its inhabitants may all look upon the silvery bright- ness of Mercury, the mild radiance of Venus, and the fiery splendor of Mars; and its astronomers, by the aid of telescopes, may gaze upon Saturn with his "sky-girt rings" and seven moons; and Jupiter with his belts and satellites. What a generous dis- play of the wisdom, power, and goodness of God! When we consider that all the planets composing the solar system, many of them hundreds of times   AN UNDEVOUT ASTRONOMER IS MAD. 231 larger than the globe we inhabit, are, without doubt, peopled by intelligent beings, formed to admire and adore the wonders of the universe, are not our minds impressed with the mighty power, benignity, and wisdom of Him who made them? But when we reflect still further, that were our system, vast as it appears to us, to be stricken from the "Divine empire," it would scarcely be missed by His Omnipotent eye, then are we lost; and feel indeed that God's ways are "past finding out." What must be the immensity of the universe if such a system as ours is but as a grain of sand to the sea-shore-a drop of water to the ocean? When we gaze upon the firmament of heaven, and see the moon "walking in beauty," and the same stars which shone upon our happy childhood, inspiring it with lofty thoughts, the first, perhaps, it ever entertained, we feel as if to them no change could come. The very same orbs, in all their wonted brilliancy, are nightly shining over us which Abra- ham, and Job, and David looked upon with pious admiration. "Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion? Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season? or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?" are beautiful inquiries, replete with significance, which the Lord put to the faithful Job; and when the "sweet     232    PROSE AND POETRY. singer of Israel" considered the heavens the work of God's fingers, and the moon and the stars which He ordained, he exclaimed, with a deep sense of his own impotence: "What is man, that thou art mind- ful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him?" The Pleiades and the bands of Orion gleam as brightly now as then; the same heavens proclaim the might of His handiwork! But yet, even witlhin the observation of mortals, there have been worlds which, having doubtless subserved the purpose for which created, have been seen to burn brighter and brighter as the work of their consumption pro- gressed, and then becoming fainter and still fainter, to disappear for ever from the starry host. And so it will be with this beautiful earth on which we live. "The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat; the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up." When it shall have accomplished the end for which designed, at a day and hour of which we know not, it shall be con- sumed. O, it seems that one look, through the medium of science, at the starry sky, would "ele- vate the soul above vicious passions and grovelling pursuits;" would irresistibly lead the almost god-   AN UNDEVOUT ASTRONOMER IS MAD. 233 like energies of the mind to the Divine fulcrum of this mighty machinery; that one look would con- strain man to bow in humble adoration to Him who "rules in the armies of heaven, and doeth His will among the inhabitants of earth." An astronomer who can devote his life to the sublime study of the heavenly bodies, and not exclaim, with deep humi- lity of spirit, Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God Almighty! Thou art worthy to receive glory, and honor, and power, for thou hast "created all things, and for thy pleasure they were created," is a madman indeed. -      234    PROSB AND POETRa THE DREAM OF LOVE. IN girlhood's bright and sunny days, I had a dream of joy, That filled my soul with sweetest lays And bliss without alloy. I saw a noble, gifted youth, Who stood amidst the throng, Beloved, admired for the truth W-hich would not stoop,to wrong.' I saw enrapt ten thousand forms,-- In sacred silence stood-- By eloquence, his eloquence, Poured forth in crystal flood. I listened to his language bold; I looked upon his brow; I gazed into his eagle eye,- Whose light is with me now?   THE DREAM OF LOVE.       235 Till language, brow and eye enshrined Within my innermost heart; With his my very soul entwined-- Of his became a part. In secret long I nursed the flame Which shed so soft a light; Nor dreamed that he would ever name, Or heighten my delight. ' At length one balmy morn he came, And breathed into my ear The sweetest words I ever heard-- The sweetest and most dear. His language I can ne'er recall, Though manna to my soul; I only know his theme was love, And I the loved of all. I could not tell my love for him- It trembled on my tongue; He saw it on my blushing cheek, And pressed it to his own. I could not breathe one single word, To tell him I was his; But little beatings there were heard Of rapture and of bliss.     236     PROSE AND POETRY. Though of love no word was spoken, Though breathed no vow to him, All the signs of love the token Were borne by cherubim, And written in the books of heaven, In characters of gold, To stand until the earth is riven, And heaven's joys unfold. In the pure ecstasy of love Passed sweet and happy days; The angels round the throne above Taught me their joyous lays. And I essayed to touch the lyre, And sing love's sweetest song, In strains of heartfelt melody- In notes to God belong. In full sweet strains of joy I sang Of a cot within the vale; And one lone minister of love, My loving heart to hail. And I sang of-I will confess- A darling, bright-eyed boy, My cottage in the vale to bless, His father's hope and joy.   THE DREAM OF LOVE.     n  287 But in my song a note of woe, High o'er the rest, was heard! My dream of love will ne'er below Call forth a joyous word. 'T was but a dream, too bright to last, And now from earth 't is gone; But mem'ry sad recalls the past, And leaves my heart forlorn. Yes, the dream of love has passed away Unto the realms of night, Where never star nor sun is seen To shed one ray of light. And as a worn and wearied child Upon its mother's breast, -I'd lean my aching head on Thee, Thou only source of rest!' A bruised reed Thou wilt not break, Nor quench the smoking flax; And though in anguish long I 've wept, Thou 'lt stay the fatal axe. I know if I but kiss the rod By Thee " in mercy sent, The staff of comfort from my God Shall in his love be lent."     238    PROSE AND POETRY. MY SPIRIT GROOM. IN life's gay morn and vernal bloom, We met and loved, my spirit groom! My hand you sought with noble pride-- I knew myself your spirit bride, And gave at once a loving heart, Forgetting that the world could part The spirit bride and spirit groom, Or overcast their sun with gloom. Many long years we lived and loved, Many long years I gently moved A happy captive to love's sway, And dreamed of joy's unending day. No shadow dark, my spirit groom, O'er this bright scene did darkly loom! But as the snake in Eden roved, The tempter came, and potent proved.   MY SPIRIT GROOM.       239 Yes, Satan came with costly ore; The paltry stuff you did adore; And turned from me, your spirit bride. To lead another by your side, And call her "wife." O, spirit groom! I'd have her loved, whate'er my doom; For blessings on her I'll implore; Though sad my fate, I'll not deplore. Another claims my spirit groom; Another rose for him doth bloom; A little bud opes by his side, And calls her " mother," his earth bride. And yet I love her-love her child, % And love him too, with passion wild. Wilt Thou, O Lord! dispel this gloom, And guard with care my spirit groom? Long years have flown since last we met, But still thy spell enchains me yet; And naught can cheer this heart's sad gloom Save thoughts of thee, my spirit groom! Thou 'lt think of me when far away, I'll think of thee when knelt to pray; Though years have flown since last we met, You love me still-I love you yet.     240     PROSE AND POETRY. O, love like yours, and love like mine, Too sacred was for earthly shrine! "Our Father's House" alone hath roorm For love like ours, my spirit groom! And though on earth we never meet, In heaven each the other 'll greet; And, like the stars, our love will shine With radiance bright, godlike, divine.   AN OASIS.        241 AN  OASIS. I saw a green oasis once Amidst a barren waste, "Where bright, pellucid streamlets flowed- Pure nectar to the taste; Where lilies and white roses grew, Morjoram and sweet thyme, The mignonette its fragrance threw, And fruits of ev'ry clyme. In state the tall magnolia stood, And sweetly bloomed the while: The monarch of that favored wood Looked down with sweetest smile. And ev'ry little flow'ret shed Its perfume soft and sweet, And ev'ry little zephyr sped To hear it to God's feet. "     242    PROSE AND POETRY. And many birds of plumage gay, And throats attuned to song, Their Maker's praise sang day by day, In chorus sweet and long. All nature joined the grateful strain, And trilled the joyous lay, Till zephyrs caught the strain again, And bore it far away. Upon that verdant spot by day The sun in beauty shone, Till like a sea of glory lay The flow'ret, tree and stone. And when the twilight hour came on With holy, rapturous spell, The moon in modesty looked down, And saw that all was well. No shiv'ring blast nor blighting frost Its loveliness did-mar- The Storm-god, with destructive host. Kept from this spot afar. And Venus in her pathway bright, A brighter ray shed forth, As she beheld, with much delight, No ravage of the north.   AN OASIS.        243 Its Adam was a godlike man, Of form and brow erect; And his fair face the impress bore Of thoughts from God direct. Its Eve was beautiful and good, And moved with angel grace, As, in the flowery wild-wood, With dew she bathed her face. Their children were a noble race, Living for good alone; With-not a single care to trace A line of sorrow's own. The serpent's trail ne'er entered there With sin's destructive breath; And not a single human care Brought on a human death.' All nature to their store bequeathed An off'ring rich and bright; The very atmosphere they breathed Was pure as heavenly light. "They worshipped in no lofty pile, No proud cathedral fane; God's universal temple theirs- Hill, valley, wood and plain."     244    PROSE AND POETRY. Their friendship never waxed nor waned, But stronger grew with time, Till, by the sacred spell enchained, Borne to still brighter clime. Their love-an angel's purest love, More pure than theirs could be, But not on earth the chosen dove Could woo from sin more free. Would you, dear friend, that Eden know, Amid what flow'ry plain, That you may enter bliss below, Nor live on earth in vain? Wouldst thou shake off the coils of sin That bind thee to this earth, And hie thee to a home wherein Sin never yet had birth T  "Alas! 'twas but a dream of night That showed that spot to me," And not on earth will spot so bright Be ever seen by thee.   MY BIRD.         245 MY  BIRD. Bird of the gay and joyous wing, Pour forth again thy tuneful lay! Sweet is the song thou e'er dost sing At dewy eve or break of day! I love thy song! its gentle strain Has ofttimes cheered a lonely hour; And now I list its notes again, And feel once more its soothing power. WAhat makes thy heart, sweet bird, so light? Ah! naught of trouble thou dost know To mar thy joy, so fresh and bright, Or shadows cast by clouds of woe! What makes thy tones so sw6et and clear? Hast thou an angel's voice, my love, To sing the hymns to mortal ear, lWhich vibrate round the throne above?     246    PROSE AND POE-TRY. I would that I could join thy song, And sing with thee the lays of love; But grief has closed my harp so long, It would not chime with thee, my dove! "There is no sorrow in thy song, Because no sin is in thy heart; And he whose soul is kept from wrong, Has learned the secret of thine art:" Has learned by faith to soar aloft, And trust in One who dwells on high, To cleanse from sins repeated oft,- Who'll hear his song beyond the sky. "Sweet bird! with gladnes in thy lay, And heaven's pure light upon thy wing, I seem to hear thy transports say, 'Seek heaven, like me, if thou wouldst sing.'"   VERSES.         247 VERSES TO A BEAUTIFUL, THOUGH VERY SAD-LOOKING, YOUNG LADY THE WRITER SAW IN SOUTH-WESTERN GEORGIA. Lady, we did but meet; No introduction passed; Thy name I could not greet, If we should meet at last. And yet I've felt for thee A sister's tender love, A sister's sympathy: O, may we meet above! I saw on thy young brow The lines of deepest woe; They told of no joy now In any thing below. And on thy blanched cheek, The rose's faded hue Of withered hopes did speak, And of withered joys too.     248    PROSE AND POETRY. Hast thou no brother's arm To shield thee from distress; Or, if should come alarm, To seek for thee redress? Hast thou no sister's love To brighten thy blue eye, And point to realms above, Where pleasures never die? Hast thou no father old, To live for and to love? Gird on thine armor bold, And woo the olive dove! Hast thou no mother dear, To soothe thy aching bIreast? Thy brother, Christ, is near-- He'll give thee sweetest rest. Hast thou no friend to lend A helping hand to thee? Thy Father, God, will send A friend who'll constant be. "If love has seared thy heart, A glorious hope is given, Which soothe's affliction's smart-- There's purer love in heaven.'"   VERS E S.        249 O0 if there is not one To follow thy lone bier, When life on earth is done, And shed a silent tear, Turn thy heart, so riven, Beyond the clouded sky, "To tenderer ties in heaven," Where loved ones never die.   .                .     250    PROSE AND POETRY. IN THE GRAVEYARD. In the graveyard see- them lie, Quietly, side by side; No anxious thought that mortal eye Should gaze approving, or deride, Disturbs them now; No broken vow, Nor cold averted look-- Oft seen in life's checkered book- Shivers now the pulseless heart; These it never more will brook. Peacefully the baby lieth In its narrow bed of clay; While the soul that never dieth Lives in bliss through endless day: Love it angels, love it dearly, Love it not as angels merely. Jesus said- And from his love-lit eye Divine Sparkled light too bright to shine -   IN THE GRAVEYARD.       251 Long on earth- To me let little children come, And share my bright, celestial home. Buds fresh and white, And diamonds bright, We ever want To glitter round the throne on high. Then love it, angels, love it dearly, Love it not as angels merely. In the graveyard see her lie, The youthful maiden fair; Called in the spring of life to die, In grief we laid her gently there: The flower sprite, In sacred might To earth came down, And took the rose, And then arose Far above mortal sight; O! in thy might again come down, And tell to us the joys she's won: From earth we know she's passed away- Her earth-light dimmed and turned to night; But Faith points to a shining day, In which she basks in radiance bright- A flowret in that holy crown.     252    PROSE AND POETRY. In the graveyard see-her lie, The-aged mother dear; No more the tear bedims her eye; No more oppressed by anxious fear; No more exposed To human woes, For God has heard her life long prayer, And now in peace she lieth there. Hath it flown, her spirit bright? Or lingereth it near its earth-worn garb? Or nearer still in darkest night To those on earth most loved? Points she still to that realm of light, Where Jesus is, from earth removed? Or hear ye the notes of an angel's song, As upward and homeward it speeds along? O, list to those notes, As in ether it floats f They will soothe thy spirit's sadness, And give peace to thee and gladness; And, perchance, They'll guide thy wandering footsteps, In the paths of truth and love, And direct thy wayward spirit, "To the bright, bright world above, Where the holy angels move." 5C  '         .   IN THE GRAVEYARD.       253 In the graveyard see him lie, The honored statesman bold; His form doth moulder in the dust, His spirit shine more bright than gold: O, why did this statesman, Nature's true nobleman. The silent grave enfold? Why does mortal worth Pass so soon from earth? Why the manly voice, Hush so soon in death?  Why ascend to heavenly sphere? His nation wants his service here. O!'cease, vain heart! His Saviour's praise Now claims, apart, His joyous lays. In the graveyard see him lie, The patriot brave; His country's call he quick obeyed, And gave his life to save. "Better that death Should come, than 'neath A tyrant's yoke to rest, Or be by foes oppressed." He said: *       d'            ;     254    PROSE AND POETRY. "'Better all the sweet joys of home- Its sacred love and tender ties-- Should pass from time away, than come A despot's rule, and die as dies A coward mean." Thus fortified by valor strong, He bravely fought, but fell, ere long: And now his rest, so peaceful, seems To ask steps that will not break its dreams. In the graveyard see them lie,  Quietly, side by side; No anxious thought that mortal eye Should gaze approving or deride, Disturbs them now; No broken vow, Nor cold averted look-- Oft seen in life's checkered book- Shivers now the pulseless heart; These it never more will brook. Peacefully the baby lieth On its mother's breast of clay; While the soul that never dieth, Lives with Christ through endless day; And never more on eaath will wake. The maid the sprite came down to take. And the mother, aged mother,    IN THE GRAVEYARD.       255 i   Lies beside the aged father; And the sons, And lovely daughters, calm in death, Are waiting for undying breath. The poor man, And he by opulence made bold, Slumber alike both stiff and cold. The poet sweet, And artist, meet And mingle here. The statesman and the patriot brave, Side by side with the coward mean; They cannot now their country save; He cannot nowto weakness leati. O cruel grave! Thou tenement of all! Not always will thy sway be felt! As Jesus from the grave arose- As near his cross the heart doth melt, And breathe to him its earthly woes- So the buried dead Will burst apart thy fetters strong, Their mortal forms hath held full long; And, Christ at their head, Will vanquish Death, their latest foe; His form into the caverns throw: One mighty grave     256    PROSE AND POETRY. Will this tyrant have! There, through Eternity's long day, With naught to cheer his cheerless way, He'll lie alone. O Death, where is thy sting? O Grave, where is thy victory? !   .         of   MEMORY.         257 MEMORY. I see the cottage in the glen, Remote from village, town, or fen, Where every touch of taste was shown A mother's hand alone, alone Could give to beautify the scene, And make the bliss of Evergreen. I hear the fountain murm'ring still, I see the sloping of the hill, And sward, and banks, and clumps of trees, Gently swaying in the breeze, Which gave enchantment to the scene, Around my home of Evergreen. I breathe the fragrance of'the mead, And that which doth from fields proceed, And hear the songsters of the wood, Pour forth their hymns-a vocal flood: I gaze enraptured on the scene, And live once more at Evergreen. "*     258     PROSE AND POETRY. I list once more to music's strain, And feel its soothing power again; It wakes and stirs, with pleasing thrill, Emotions of the heart and will, In this elysian, rural scene, Where is my home, sweet Evergreen. And now I con the classic page, Or converse sweet with friends engage To cheer this heart, too soon grown sad, And make my spirit light and glad, Amid the quiet little scene Around my home, sweet Evergreen. And now I gaze on worlds afar, Outshining fa# the brightest star, And, wrapped in meditation there, I dream of all things bright and fair- Of things surpassing e'en the scene That beauty gives to Evergreen. Yes, all these things before me pass, With the aid of memory's glass! But nevermore on earth will wake, The bliss in youth I used to take Amid the dear, romantic scene Which give the charm to Evergreen.   A FRAGMENT.        259 A FRAGMENT. 'Twas in the May-day of youth! Her brow was fair as the page of truth; No trouble had left its impress there; And o'er it wreathed her dark brown hair. I saw the soul in her mild blue eye, Which gave to her cheek that glowing dye That beams midst Spring's ethereal showers, Brightening her world of shade and flowers. Her pure young heart was light and gay As Luna's beams on ocean spray; Her beauteous form appeared to sight Like an angel clad in robes of light; "A foot more light, or a step more true, Ne'er from the heath-flower brushed the dew." I saw her crowned sweet queen of May, And reign in love that festal day; Whilst every heart in homage low Did near its queen devoutly bow.     260    PROSE AND POETRY. I saw her again in woman's prime! Her heart beat not to music's chime; And that marble brow, though very fair, Was marked by the lines of deep despair. And the soul I saw in her mild blue eye, Which gave to her cheek that glowing dye, No longer beamed with radiant love On aught beneath her home above. And too soon, alas! that lovely form Bowed to the blast, and bent to the storm; And slow and feeble her pulses played As her thoughts afar too often strayed. She moved a shadow-a spirit of fear, As one whose home is not of this sphere; And walked the earth alone-ralone, As one from every friend uptorn. "Was it sickness that made her cheek so pale, Or was it the trace of weeping and wail?" "The deceiver came--his syroc breath, Blanched her fair cheek with the hue of death! And now, as a beautiful wounded bird, Whose rich-toned notes in each grove were heard, 'Till a thoughtless shot deep pierced its side, It never sang more, but languished and died;   A FRAGMENT.         261 She is passing from earth away-away, Without one comforting, cheering ray, Her happiness wrecked, her spirit torn, And on life's current rudely borne, To stem the tide and buffet the wave, 'Till she sink unwept to her welcome grave." r  .     262     PROSE AND PO1ETRY. THE ZEPHYR. DAUGHTER of Aurora! whence comest thou, In beauty and freshness to kiss my warm brow? All laden with sunshine-all laden with love, And sweet balmy nectar just dropped from above? "From the flowery walks of Valhalla I come, Where the rose's cup is my elysian home; I've been to the Queen of the Morn-at her call, I've borne sweet fragrance to her star-columned hall; I've quivered the leaves of the forest boughs, And songsters have risen to warble their vows; I have kissed the sod where the green grass grows high, And the lark is now hymning her melody. I've been to the chamber of beauty, and there Have played with long ringlets of radiant hair: I've wreathed her fair neck which but the snow eclipsed,  And sipped the rich dew from her odorous lips.   THE ZEPHYR.        263 I've carried the plaint of a love-burdened strain; And the maiden blushed deep at the murmur of pain. Twas the same gentle sigh which but yestereve fell; It had kissed her soft hand, it had bade her fare- well. I have been to the bleak house of death, and from thence Have winged the freed soul to Omnipotence! 'Twas an innocent, beautiful babe, and the sigh Of the mother was heard in the cloud-paths on high-- Half mingled with prayer to the -seraphim given, 'Who smiled when it welcomed the baby to heaven. To Italia's seas I go, where the gondola rides, Like a nymph of the deep, o'er the languishing tides; Whilst waves one by one into slumber fast fall, And not a breath's heard save the Zephyr's call. 'Tis the clamor of voices I hear swells the dome- Loud the call is for 'Zephyr'-I come, I come, To your sun-lighted shores-to your bright seas away; There are wan ones awaiting, I dare not delay; I've flower-loves to meet-I have vows to renew, I fan your warm brow-Adieu, lady! adieu!"     264    PROSE AND POETRY. SPRING. THOU'RT cme again, sweet youth of time! In all thy pristine sheen;  With voice attuned to music chime, And robes of brightest green. Thou'rt come, with sunlight on thy wing, And joy's fresh op'ning day; And buds and blossoms -thou dost bring To scatter by the way. Thy step is felt o'er hill and dale; It glides along the main; 'Tis bounding o'er the modest vale, And quiv'ring o'er the plain. I feel thy impulse through me thrill, It throbs through heart and brain; 'Tis coursing through each little rill, And through each larger vein.   SP RIN. 5G. The turtle's song is heard again, And the cuckoo's gentle. call; No more the nightingales complain Of Winter's frozen pall. The mockbird's song at early dawn, The thrush at noontide hour, And, as the dewy eve comes on, The humminghird in rosy bower. Thou 'rt come again, sweet youth of time! Thy glory spreads from pole to poe! The sunny South, and Northern clime, Wake in joys at thy control! Thou'rt come, with sunlight on thy wing; I see thy glory in the East! The birds, and bees, and brooklets sing, As "light by light's increased." Thou hast breathed into mother earth Thy fructifying breath, And " nature bounds, as from her birth She gathers might and strength. Already see the flowers start To "beautify her feet ;" Already feel the bounding heart, Up-spring the flowers to greet. ,  ,     266'    PROS E A1D POETK',Y. The violets are blooming now^ Where late e t storm-god whisred  nAd ice-drops from his st ago, brow, Are dewdrops now by zephyrs stiied The crocus and the lilac's hue Is fitting now a royal king The hyacinth and tulip, t0oo Tributes of Trich frragranc' bring. Thoru'rt; coIC agan, sweet ' youth 3 time \ftith nerry p leasant honus        : And voice attuned to mnusic's^ chini-1., ,n fairy woodland bowe-rs.- Thoi'rt come, W  -ith .u1nlight o-t thy wng, And roses on thy btow;  t And beauty's smile on ev'ry thipg Which bedeck thy pathway now.  
         
      
   
