
    ----CITATION----
        Housekeeper, M. R., (b. 1838). My Husband's Crime .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6817
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            My husband's crime 
            
               -.-  - - - - - - -.r   '.. . . . . . .

B
f
"
1 YP      eOO/I
r
s
. "
.:     a
e
a
i
A
. .    y
r
e
r
r      O
"
0
4
A
,,,,  0
A
.r.
en.
0
"
a
"
ww     C
a
..,.,  "
e
...    "
"'    s
.:.
r
m
m.     "
....
r
.mar
rdr
AO    0
it Y
.      ,
'.
i
Iss
Ifs
Iqv
;,,,r  a
®,.
i
.....
r
e
e,
r
... .
e
pr
°   e
w+
.
. .
"
.
nyr.  r
n:
w     0
a
..e
6
e
. , ,  o
..
.. .
"
...   r
.°,.  o
. .   "

i
s

M
7

BY M.R. HOUSEKEEPERa

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.

r
a

T
d

1   . .s
1
1
"
1
1
/ M
1  .".I
1
1
.
1
1
1
1  t.".
.
w
1
1
.
1
1
1  wa"
1 _
1 ^
1  «w
1 r
1
1
"
1
i
1
1
"
/
1
1
f
1
1
1
"
1
1
1
/
/
1
/
1 _
1
1
1
1   w.e
1
1
/
1
1   rh
1
1
/
1 w
"
1
1   !
1
1
1
.
i
i    "
4=
"   x.11"
1
1
1
.
1
1   ""1
1   +
r
/
/

r

FRANKLIN SQUARE,
NEW YORK


N

By WILKIE COLLINS.
Armadale.
A Novel. With numerous Illustrations. 8vo, Paper, $i 6o; Clot, $2 00.
No Name.
A Novel. Illustrated by JoHN MCLENAN. Svo, Paper, ii 50; Cloth, $2 oo.
The Woman in White.
A Novel. Illustrated by JOHN MCLENAN.    Svo, Paper, $i 50, Cloth, 2 00.
The Queen of ears.
A Novel. izmo, Cloth, $i 50.
Anlonina; or, The Fall of Rome.
A Romance of the Fifth Century. 8vo, Paper, 5o cents.
T HE N                           TONE
(Just commenced in Iarper's IVeZihj.)
No amount of mechanical ingenuity vould, however, account by itself for the
popularity of Mr. Wilkie Collins's works. He has several other important qualifica-
tions.  He writes an admirable style; he is thoroughly in earnest in his desire to
please ; his humor, though distinctly fashioned on a model Mr. Dickens invented and
popularized, is better sustained and less fantastic and affected than any thing which
Mr. Dickens has of late years produced.-London Review.
We can not close this notice without si word of eulogy on Mr. Collins's style. It
is sun pie anti so manly; every word tells its own story; every phrase is perfect in
itsel f-Lond'ni Reader.
Of all the living writers of English fiction no one better understands the art of
story-telling than Wilkie Collins.  He has a faculty of coloring the myste y of a
plot, exciting terror, pity, curiosity, and other passions, such as belong to fe if any
of his confreres, however much they may excel him, in other respects.  H s style,
too, is singularly appropriate-less forced and artificial than the average mode n nov-
clists.-Bosten T znScipt.             .-
PUBLIsHED BY HARPER &amp; BROTHERS, NEW YORK.
I ILARPER &amp; BROT HE RS 70iII S~ud ti/c' (7boZ I' OTES bv MGId, postage p ;ypid, to aniypart
of the Un'ited States, onu receipt of thewprice.


"GUESS WHO IT IS ?"--PAGE 66.

x
i
4
_     }
j
S


HUS BAND'S

CRIME.
By M. R. HOUSEKEEPER.

l~itl  3Jlustratiotns.
P
NEW YORK:
HARPER &amp; BROTHERS, PUBLISH]
FRANKLIN SQUARE.
1868.

ERS,

MY


Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year one thousand eight hundred
and sixty-eight, by
HARPER &amp; BROTHERS,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.

CHAPTER I.
A PURITAN FAMILY.
ONE pleasant evening last summer I sat by
the open window of my chamber, a large and
airy room in the comfortable farm-house in
which I and my family, and my sister with hers,
had been located as boarders during the summer
months, by our respective husbands. I gazed
with loving eyes upon the merry group that
were assembled in the orchard beneath : my
husband, with his huge bulk extended lazily
upon the grass, playfully shielding my sister's
little Caroline from the fierce attack of a bellig-
erent band of wild Indians, composed of my own
two little urchins, Jamie and Frank; and at a
little distance from them, upon a rustic bench,
was seated white-robed Agnes, her baby in her
arms, with her handsome husband leaning upon
the back of the bench, whispering tender non-
sense into her well-pleased ear as, devoted and
lover-like a couple now, as when, five years be-
fore, they had first taken upon themselves the
bonds of matrimony.
The picture was a pleasant one to my loving
eyes, though I did not care just then to join the'
party.  I had been reading,. as long as the
waning light had permitted, and now, still re-
gardless of the cries both from father and chil-
dren, which summoned me to partake in their
noisy sport, I leaned back indolently in my chair,
content, in my present pensive mood, to enjoy
the society of my domestic treasures at a peace-
able distance. So I sat rocking to and fro in
the -languid summer twilight, almost uncon-
sciously enjoying the beauties of the scene be-
fore me; watching the light flying clouds, as
the stars singly and in clusters came timidly
peering forth; watching the martins, as they
darted with sharp, piercing chirp in and out of
sight beneath the overhanging roof that sheltered
my head; watching the lazy cows, homeward
plodding up the dusty winding road ; the busy
bees, swarming at the entrance of their hives,

eager apparently to be done with the tumult of
the day : I sat by the window listening to the
joyous voices of my dear ones, hearing all the
charming, dreamy sounds that the evening air
bore to my listless ears, yet scarce knowing that
I did so, for my thoughts were busy with the
book which I had just finished reading, and
which lay in my lap now, still ope at the last
page. It was the autobiography of a woman;
one who had lived, and loved, and suffered.
Alas! how often does the first verb, when won-
an is the subject, involve all that the other two
express!  The story was a simple one, the
whole interest of the tale centering in the sur-
mounting of the trials which were brought upon
the woman by the selfishness of the man she
loved. But the story had been one of thrilling
interest to me; I had pored over it every mo-
ment of the long summer day that I could spare
from my light domestic duties; and now, as
night had drawn on, I had brought my book to
the window, and had sat there straining my eyes
in the uncertain light, too eager to get through
to brook even the temporary delay that pro-
curing a lamp would occasion. And now, the
story concluded, and my mind relieved from the
tension in which it had been held during the last
few hours, I sat, swinging lazily back and forth
in my rocking-chair, musing upon the book, and
wondering why it was that tlhe joys and sorrows
it portrayed should be so deeply interesting to
one who neither knew nor cared for the indi-
viduals concerned in the narration, And then
my mind wandered back over the years of my
own life ; a life that had been shadowed by mis-
fortune and lightened by success ; a life into
whi'h a great mise'"y ha-i once crept, an I yet
which was now thankfully at rest ; drifting
peacefully and contentedly toward the great
ocean of Eternity toward which all mortality is
tending.
Why should not the story oP my joys and sor-
rows prove as interesting to others as those of
this woman have proved to me ? was the thought

K,   l =

MYIEITISBANID'S CRIME.


A PURITAN FAMILY.                1

that then and there occurred to me ; and then, have been his own near blood relation, for a
almost trembling at the audacity of the idea, stauncher little Puritan than she, I ween, came
I said, "I will commit to paper the story of my not over in the Mayflower.  A truly good and
life as I remember it ; its trials and temptations, pious woman she was ; and yet if I, her loving
its struggles and contentions, its defeats and vie- daughter, may dare to criticise her revered char-
tories ; and see if there be not in them an element acter, I must confess that she was almost too
as interesting to other human hearts as the story strict a sectarian, and a little, just a little, un-
of the woman of whom I have just been reading charitable ; one who was too apt in indignation
contains for tme."  And thus my resolution once for the crime to forget to pity the criminal; one
koried, without stopping to consider the expe- who, strong in her own integrity, could not sym-
diency of the matter, I started with eager enter- patliize with the frailties of natures less fitted for
rise upon my task. Concisely and unpretend- resistance than her own.  We children were all
ingly, in as straightforward a manner as I could dreadfully afraid of her, and I believe even my
command. I have told the history of my life ; dear father himself stood a little in awe of her
the work of many a long summer day is at length severe judgments ; and yet a more dutiful wife,
accomplished, and the result, be it good or bad, a more loving mother, never blessed a home with
is now before you.                          her presence.
My father's namo was Manvers-James B.       My father was a merchant in Boston, doing a
Manvers. iHe was a Bostonian born and bred, fine business in partnership with a brother of
and I doubt not there are snny still living in my mother's, Charles Winthrop by name, a man
that great city who remember him well, some older than father by many years, and one who
perhaps with only too good a cause, for lie failed had always borne an unblemished reputation ; a
in business there, failed very badly, and though pillar of the church to which my mother be-
-but of that by and by; I wish to tell the whole longed, and looked up to by her as a being as
story, for sorrowful as it is, it is not one that I near perfection as fallible humanity could possi-
have any cause to be ashamed of. James B. bly come.    And yet this stern, upright deacon,
Manvers then was my father's name.  lie was this pattern Pharisee of the straightest sect of
the descendant of an English family of great Pharisees, proved false to all the teachings of
antiquity, and he had a genealogical table or his life, and succumbed at last to that insidious
book of somme sort of which lhe was very proud, vice ivhich so often stealthily assails the self-
by which lie could trace his origin far back into righteous; I mean the love of lucre. lie was
tihe times of which history tells us.  I do not enticed into unlawful speculations ; and once
kmow that there were any titles or distinctions within the vortex, le had no strength to with-
of any sort marking the descent ; imideed, I rather draw.  He toyed and trifled with this legalized
tinik there were not, for I remmiber hearing may gambling until his own means became involved,
father say that the '' best blood in England was and then from rashness he stepped into crimi-
not to be found among her aristocracy, but nality, and dared to risk the money of the firm.
among her yeomanry ; and we," lie would add, He was so much reverenced, so much respect-
"come of the best blood."    One fact, how- ed ; no one dreamed of watching or suspecting
ever, did he earnestly impress uponl misy youthful Charles Winthrop ; the honor of the firm was
mind, and that was, that through all the ccn- in his hands, and lie managed matters just as he
tries through which our family can travel back, pleased.  Poor father was naturally rather of an
there could be discovered no individual of the indolent temperament, and lie had always been
name, in the direct line, who had been guilty of content to leave all active charge of fhe business
crime, or who had borne a tarnished reputation. in the hands of his brother-in-law, who had been
Poverty, sorrow, tromle there had been plenty as ready to accept the supervision as my father
(if, but-never dishonor. Need I say hew proud to resign it. At last the crash game, the more
my father w-as of this glorious truth? scarcely terrible because so entirely unlooked for. Uncle
prouder than I am myself, though.  11y pride Charles, having involved the firm in inextricable
amy life hmas bitterly !&amp;s/ad, yet still it survives; embarrassments, absconded in the night, carrying
and spite of all the misery it has caused me, I with him all the available funds he could lay his
verily believe it reigns to-day, scarce humbler hands on ; lie fled to Europe, and was never
than of yore, the ruling passions within my breast, heard of again by any of us.
My mother was a Winthrop, and she too was   Oh ! such a terrible time there was when the
very proud of the f.Act of belting connected, though  discovery of his wickedness wvas made!  I was
veruy distantly, with the fiuuiily of the great Pu- but eight years old, and yet I remeniber many
rtian governor ; and certainly she deserved to particulars of that dreadfml time as if they had

occurred but yesterday.   My father, aroused
from his easy, indolent life to the terrible reali-
ties of poverty and disgrace, remained for a
time in a state of bewildered inaction, scarce
knowing what to do, or to whom to turn ; per-
-haps his very brain would have suffered from
the shock had it not been for the grievous do-
mestic afflictions which also fell upon us about
- this time, serving to divert his mind from his
business troubles in a manner effectual though
severe.
My sister Sophy,,then twelve years of age,
was taken ill with scarlet fever ; within a few
(ays little Maggie, the one next younger than
myself, also sickened with the same fearful dis-
order. The sickness terminated fatally in both
cases ; the little one went first, she only suffer-
ed three days, but Sophy lingered as many
weeks, and then she, too, was borne to the
church-yard. Mother never held her head up
after her return from Sophy's funeral. Between
sorrow, caused by the loss of her children, and
the mortification springing from Uncle Charles's
conduct, her heart was broken ; she sank into
a rapid decline, and three months after the
children's death, she too was taken away from
us, and father and we three desolate girls were
left helpless and despairing, tempted to believe
that we certainly had been guilty of some great
evil, and God's judgments were visiting us with
inexorable atonements.
I believe father would have followed mother
to heaven very shortly, had it not been for a
means apparently the most unlikely to have
been attended with a beneficial effect upon his
health. Some weeks after mother's death, while
suffering most deeply from the effects of his af-
fliction, his attention was-casually arrested by
the sight of his own name in a newspaper para-
graph.  He read the article in, which it occur-
red almost involuntarily.  It was a reprehensi-
bly sharp stricture upon his failure in business,
and his present inaction written, it is to be
hoped, by some one entirely ignorant of the
great domestic afflictions which had fallen upon
him. It gave a brief expose of Charles Win-
throp's conduct, detailed the dishonorable posi-
tion in which the once prosperous firm now
tood, gave a list of those creditors who would
certainly be heavy losers by the failure of the
house to pay its honest debts, and finally wound
up with a harsh rebuke of my father for his in-
activity and seeming indifference to the busi-
ness troubles which encompassed him.
S "He is the cause," thus read the article
"even though the innocent cause, of undeserved
misery to hundreds, perhaps -to thousands, tom

in a failure so extensive as this has been, the
consequences of one man's crime shoot through
innumerable ramifications into the hearts alike
of rich and poor ; yet Mr. Manvers, now the
only responsible member of the firm, takes no
measures whatever to secure to his creditors
even the poor percentage of his debts which he
is able to give them ; he is living in luxury,
surrounded by afiluence and comfort, while
those whom lie, or others in his name, have so
bitterly wronged are suffering the pangs of pov-
erty which, if he were the man of honor he has
always been considered to be, lie vould at least
share, if he could not alleviate."
"The man is right, whoever he be !" cried
my father, springing to his feet and crushing
the cruel paper in his hands. " Sharp though
the words may be, they are not uncalled for nor
undeserved. I had thought myself done with
life, but a Munvers can not die with a dishonor-
ed name."
From that day my father roused himself to
take an active part in the business which his
faithful clerks had been endeavoring to hold
together during the time of his tribulation.
Though indolent he was energetic, and now
with such an incentive to exertion before him
as the preservation of the unisullied honor of
his name, he applied himself to the settlement
of his affairs with a resolution and concentra-
tiveness which almost worked miracles.  The
faiTure was a very heavy one, that fact could not
be got over ; but he gave up all to meet his lia-
bilities ; may mother's little fortune, which by
will she had bequeathed exclusively to him; our
fine house and its costly adornments ; plate,
jewelry, books, all went, and by his good man-
agement and prompt action, a far better per-
centage of the liabilities was met than outsiders
had believed possible.  His actual debt was
thus brought down to a sum less terrible than
he had ventured to anticipate. Then his old
establishment fairly off his hands, his clerks
discharged, himself homeless and destitute of
all resources, with barely sufficient funds re-
- served to keep himself and his children for a
few months from actual want, he next turned
his attention to obtaining the employment nec-
essary for his future support.
The business talents and sterling integrity
of James B. Manvers, I say it proudly, were too
- well known among the leading merchants of the
city for him long to lack occupation.  Some of
his old friends offered to advance him capital
sufficient to start him in business again, but
With proud humility lie refused to avail himself
r of their kindness.

10

MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.


12                    MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

"My constitution has been much enfeebled
by the troubles of the past year," he said,
"and my life is too precarious to allow me to
venture into the vortex of profit and loss on
borrowed capital. Were I certain of ten years
of life, I would thankfully, gladly avail myself
of the kind offers of my friends ; as it is, fear-
ing as 1 sometimes do, that scarce as many
months are left to me, money now taken by me
to be involved in the slow and uncertain chan-
nels of trade, would almost surely be lost were I
to die before being able to realize by it." Find-
ing him immovable in this resolution, his
friends then procured for him a situation as
book-keeper in one of the leading houses in
Boston. They gave hint a splendid salary for
his services, and had lie chosen so to do, we
could have lived almost as luxuriously as before ;
4         but far different were my father's intentions.
Renting a small house in an obscure street, fur-
nishing it as humbly as decency would permit,
and with the necessity of the strictest economy
° ever before his mind and in his language to his
family, there did my hither retire with its chil-
dren, and there commenced a life of toil and
self-sacrifice which any of the ancestors lie was
so fond of talking about might have been proud
to acknowledge.  Every year the small sut
actually necessary for our support was drawn
from his salary, and the balance was given to
defray the debts which Charles Winthrop's vil-
lainv had brought upon him; and as time sped
hy, and every New Year found the balance
against hiit growing rapidly smaller, my father
toiled proudly on, his legitimate business occu-
pying his days, while extra work in the shape
of book.keepiiig, copying, etc., which he seldom
found any difficulty in procuring, filled his
evenings sometimes until far in the night with
wearisome labor. Yet steadily lie persevered,
scorning deprivations, glorying in sacrifice, and
yearning, oh ! how eagerly, for the day to
come when lie could once more call himself an
honorable muan -- a Manvers, worthy of the
name.
There were three children of us, all girls ;
father never had a son, aid it had been no
slight trial to him to think that our family name
must become extinct with him, for he himself
had been an only son, and had not a relation in
the world that he know of bearing his own name.
However, he was proud and fond enough of us
girls, and if lie had had a son 1 do not think ie
could have loved hint more than he did us.
L    Susan wvas the eldest ; shte wvas about fifteen

her name and looked very much like her; an
active, bustling little creature, a great worker,
and scrupulously conscientious ; as ready as
father himself to starve and pinch in every pos-
sible way, that we might the soo er be rid of
those terrible debts. We kept nd servant, and
Sue, with such help as my nine y ar old hands
could give her, did all the work of our tiny es-
tablishment. She worked a great deal harder
than father had any idea of, harder in fact than
was at all necessary, but she was so nice and
dainty, and had inherited all mother's cleanly,
tidy ways, so that between her dread of spend-
ing a cent more than we could actually avoid,
and her determination to have every thing about
the house as mother herself would have liked
it, the poor little thing worked herself to death ;
literally worked herself to death, for though she
did not die for a good many years, yet the too
great burdens borne by her at this tender period
of her life, sapped her constitution and cut her
off at three-and-twenty a prematurely old wom-
an.  Of course father did not see this; he was
out of the house all day, and whenever he was
home lie found every thing neat and comforta-
ble as hands could make it, while Sue, active la-'
bor all finished in his absence, would be sitting
at her sewing, as tidy and composed a little
housekeeper as ever man was blessed with. Out'
house was so tiny and compact, our family so
small, and he, poor man, so entirely and utterly
ignorant of the nature and amount of the work
which the care of a house produces, that I sup-
pose he thought, if he thought about the matter
at all, that there was no more to do than would
serve to keep Sue and myself healthily employ-
ed. To be sure he hated bitterly that our time
should be occupied so much with the drudgery
of the domestic work, but then lie very seldom
saw its so occupied, and if he did, to his regret-
ful complaints Sue had always his own answer
ready, "Wait until we are out of debt." Poor
thing! she did not live to see the day, but fa-
ther never knew what killed her.
lie was very proud of Sue ; she was so active
and energetic, reminding him, as he often said,
so much of mother, that lie grew to rely upon
her, to refer to and consult with her as he would
have done with his wife, and when she was taken
from us, it was to the full as great a blow as
mother's death had been.
I was the second daughter. Caroline is my
name, and I believe I was more like father in
temperament and appearance than were either
of hIis other children, at least he always said so

when we moved to our little home in Willow  himself. Sue and the little one were small and
Street ; she was mother's own child, she bore fair, with light hair and blue eyes ; they were

each active and industrious, great talkers, and
possessed of gentle, even tempers. I grew to be
much taller than they did, I am now, as a
woman, considerably above the middle height,
while they were below it; Sue particularly, like
mother, was very small. 1 am  dark too, with
black hair, and eyes which every body told me
were just like father's, and I was honestly glad
of that, for a handsomer pair of grey eyes than
lie possessed I never saw. In disposition, too,
I resemble father. I am naturally quiet and
reserved ; indolently averse to exertion, with a
quick temper, and a jealous, suspicious nature
that I come by naturally, I suppose, for that was
not one of father's characteristics by any means.
The fourth sad last member of our tiny home
circle was baby Agnes, but two years old when
mother died, and the dearest, loveliest creature
God ever sent to earth; we all united in trying
to spoil her, and we should certainly have suc-
ceeded, had it been possible to pervert her lovely
disposition ; she was a very beautiful child, and
grew up to be as fair a flower as ever blossomed

benefit of father's. advice and assistance, and
as the teacher was patient and loving, and the
scholar diligent and ambitious, my progress was
rapid enough to satisfy even my proud father.
It is true I had none of the aecomplislhments
now deemed almost essential to the education
of a lady; my father could not bestow them upon
me himself, and the expense of hiring teachers
could not even be thought of, but a solid,
thorough English education I did receive, and
it was a blessing fully appreciated by me, though
I longed for still higher advantages with a long-
ing that I would not have had my father know
for worlds.
Thus eight years sped away ; then came the
first break in our happy home. Poor Site began
to droop ; she had one little cold after another,
and it seemed as though before she could fairly
recover from one she would be attacked by a
severer one ; then she began to cough contin-
ually, and so it went on front bad to worse, un-
til her worn-out frame gave way, and she sank
into her early grave, the most unselfish, uncom-

in a home garden.  As I said, she was fair and plaining little martyr that ever sacrificed herself
small, like Sue, with blue eyes and light hair ; for the welfare of others.
but while Sue's thin tresses were combed back  ier death was a great blow to father, as in-
in plain flaxen braids, Agnes's luxuriant hair deed it was to all of us ; every thing seemed ti
drooped around her sunny face in a shower of go wrong with us after that. I did my best to
golden ringlets.  While Sue's complexion was fill her place, God knows I did, but even had I
unhealthy and colorless, Agnes's displayed every been able to toil as she had done, I did not know
shade of the lily and the rose.  Sue's slight how to do it. Stue had been one of those women
frame was thin and angular, but Agnes, though who seem born to rule and conduct aliousehold.
petite, was so exquisitely shaped, that it seemed, From  the time, when a mere child, she had
were an inch added to her stature, the beautiful taken control of father's family, until within a
proportion would have been disturbed.        very few weeks of her death, not the most trifling
This then was our family; and a very loving, matter had been transacted in the house without
happy home was ours, during the eight years her 'immediate supervision and control, and now
first following mother's death. Working .hard that she, the head, the mistress, was gone, every
and living plainly it is true, but yet so happy in thing was in confusion.  I was but a girl of
ourselves and each other, that all hardships were seventeen, just taken from school, and ignorant
easily borne, and the time slipped quickly and and helpless as a child, now that she was not
uneventfully by.  I, and Aggie when she be- there to counsel and direct te.  Father fretted,
came old enough, attended the public schools of and I worked myself almost sick, to keep every
the city, and surely one need only have the ca- thing as he had been used to having it, but it
pacity and the inclination, to be able to obtain a was very long before I could succeed in getting
really good education at the Boston free schools ; the domestic iisehinery into respecable running
however, even hind they been deficient, the con- order.
stant supervision which father maintained over  At last father's health began to fail. I saw
our studies duing the evenings at home, would him daily growing feebler, and my fainting heart
have more than compensated for any thing that predicted the trouble that wais fast coming upon
was lacking in the school. I vas naturally fond me. I had watched the progress of the iell de-
of my books, and as Agnes was almost too young stroyer before, and I was as certain that my father
to need any instruction save that which she re- was soon to be taken from ine, as if a prophetic
ceived at school, and Sue had neither the time tongue had given me warning. Father's task
nor the inclination to devote to mental culture, was not yet finished; there still existed unsatis-
farther than father actually insisted upon, it so fled claims against him, and that knowledge I
happened that I received almost the unshared [think sustained him.  He toiled on throughout

A PURITAN FAMILY.                1


14                             MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
that last winter of his life with a desperate en- parlor. I allowed her to start to school again
orgy that I and I only could understand. His as soon as possible, for I thought there was no

friends, his employers, besought him to rest ; to
recruit his health, which all saw was fast failing
him, in vain ; he would give but one answer to
all such entreaties-"-'' Next year I will rest." At
last the end cane.  On the evening of the New
Year lie came home, later than usual, and seem-
ing more utterly exhausted than he had ever yet
confessed himself to be, Before he took off
either hat or coat, he gave to me the bundle of
papers lie was grasping in his hands. " I an a
free man at last, Caroline,'' he said ; "nowI can
die in peace." I scarcely needed a glance at
the papers to know what were their contents;
they were the receipts given to hiimii that lay by
the last of his creditors ; lie no longer owed any
nan a farthing. 'Ilie struggle was over now ;
the powerful incentive that had so long sustained
his failing strength was gone; and he sue-
c (umbed at once. lie never left the house after
New Year's Day, and before the spring violets
} were ready to bloom for the second time upon
Susan's grave, we had made a place beside her
for fasthier, and Agnes and I were alone in the
world.
CIAPTEl II.
LOOKING FORS WORK.
I no not suppose any one-no man, certainly,
and no woman who has .iot known from per-
sonal experience our desolate.situation-can ful-
ly understand the appalling sense of helplessness
that settled upon me after my father's death,
ind I was left to myself to look around ime and
settle iipoin some mode of procedure for the fu-
ture. Upon mie, I say, for Agnes in 11o degree
shared with ne my anxiety. She was but twelve
years old, and was remarkably childish even for
her age.  She had been accustomed from her
infancy to depend upon others for the most
trifling of her daily needs, and this fact, added
to her unusually sanguine temperament, gave
her that perfect freedom from care for thie mor-
row which is seldom  seen save in those who
have always been taken care of by others. I do
not siil)pose the child ever once asked herself
tthe question of how we were to live in the fu-
ture ; so lng as lier food, shelter and clothing
were provided for her, she rested content.  A
few floods of chillish tears after the funeral was
Over, amid the, in less than a week's time she
was her old, merry self again, seeming to have
1o more care or trouble upon her mind than had
the hird that warled in his cage in otir lomnely

use in chaining her bright young spirit down to
the dull companionship which was all my aching
heart would let me give her, and so she studied
and romped with her light-hearted school-mates,
as thoughtless and unconcerned as though she
had been the heiress of thousands, with no pos-
sible shade of care clouding her future pros-
pects.
So I was alone, utterly alone; and oh' how
helpless did I feel!  Bitterly did I'bewail my
sex ; had I only been a man,  I thought, all
would have been very different; I could easily
have obtained employment of one kind or an-
other, had it only been actual manual labor, by
which I could have earned sufficient to support
myself and my little sister; but now, even if there
were work to be had, how could I, a friendless
girl of nineteen, seek it out myself? Of course
I ran over in my mind the few pitiful occupa-
tions which a woman, claiming to be considered
a lady, is allowed to engage in ; sewing or teach-
ing being the only ones that I could settle upon
as practicable, and even such occupation Ihad
no more idea how to obtain than had Agnes
herself. I had no near relations, and very few
acquaintances; the summer friends who had
crowded around us in the days of our prosperity,
had long since fluttered away, and my father in
his proud seclusion had sought no new ones.
Neighbors we had, kind, sympathizing people,
who came to us before and after the funeral,
wondering, I suppose, many of them, how we girls
were going to get along, but none of them were
sufficiently intimate with us to ask the question,
and most assuredly I would not broach the sub-
ject myself. So a month glided by after the
funeral, and I sat alone, day after day, feeling as
if apprehension and distress would drive me
wild, for I saw how rapidly our little stock of
money was dwindling away, and I was ignorant
as ever of any possible means of replenishing my
purse. The doctor's and the undertaker's bills
had been settled ; we had not now a debt in the
world, but a new quarter's rent was running on,
which I saw no earthly means of settling when
due. Was not my situation pitiable?   Bad
enough it would have been for any woman, had
she been ever so capable or energetic, but when
to my friendless, penniless situation was added
the fact of my shy, indolent temperament, the
case was doubly hard.
At last, nerved to a desperate courage by the
knowledge that something must be done, I de-
termnhed to write to Mr. Ilenderson, the gen-
tlemnan in whose employ say father hind spent

LOOKING FOR WORK.              15

the last ten years of his life. He was a wealthy
old bachelor, fifty or sixty years of age, a good-
hearted gentlemanly person, Who had proved
himself a faithful friend to my father, and who
would, I doubted not, be ready to assist and
counsel me ; yet how I hated to ask him for
help ! I suppose it was the Manvers blood
boiling in my veins, for I do truly think that
had it riot been for Agnes, I would have starved
before asking of any one, even the small as-
sistance I requested of him.
I wrote to him briefly, stating that I found it
necessary to obtain some employment by which
I could maintain myself and sister, and I re-
quested him, if he knew of any occupation suits-
ble for me, that he would for my father's sake
assist me in procuring it ; or, if he could not do
this, that he would at least point out to me the
Proper course to take in procuring such erploy-
iaent for myself.
Anxiously I waited the answer; I did not
much apprehend a rebuff, for I felt every confi-
dcnce in Mr. Henderson's good-will toward us.
Though suspicious by nature, I had not yet
learned distrust from experience of the world,
and I was still too young, too child-like to
dream of the cold-heartedness which after-years
revealed to me in selfish humanity. Mr. lien-
derson had called upon us twice after the fu-
neral; it was he who, at my request, had set-
tied the bills which were due against me, and I
had paid him without hesitation from the ready
money remaining in my hands. The last time
he had called lie had seemed desirous of ascer-
taining something of my intentions for the fu-
ture, but, between my natural reserve and the
violent grief which at that time rendered me in-
different to all worldly affairs,. he could not,
without point-blank inquiry, have ascertained
any thing about our circumstances. He did
not feel authorized, I suppose, to venture ques-
tions that might have been deemed impertinent,
so he departed as he had come, entirely unac-
quainted with the state of our finances, or our
intentions with respect to the future.
Ike answered my letter in person. He call-
ed one morning a day or two after I had written,
ishen Agnes was at school, and I was alone in
the house.   I answered the door myself; of
course; he shook hands with me warmly, apol-
ogizing as he did so for not having responded
to niy appeal sooner.
"The fact is," he said, "I had intended com-
nug that same evening to see you about it, but I
was called away from town unexpectedly that
afternoon, and I only returned late last evening.
I was too anxious to see you personally in the

matter to satisfy myself by merely writing, and
I hope that my delay has occasioned you no in-
convenience."
Of course I told him that it had not, hypo-
crite that I was, when I had been fretting my-
self sick over the delay for the last twenty-four
hours. I invited him into the little parlor and
saw him comfortably seated in father's chair
before I ventured to recur to the subject of my
letter.
"I am afraid you will think me very trouble-
some, Mr. IIenderson," I said. " I have no
right to impose upon you the task of providing
employment for a very useless girl, but as em-
ployment must'be had, and 1 am very destitute
of friends, 1 have ventured upon the liberty of
applying to you."
"No apologies, Miss Manvers,"lie responded
good-humoredly, "no apologies, I beg of you.
If any are needed they should come from me,
for it was my place to have saved you the ne-
cessity of making this application by profferiiig
to you long ago such assistance as I might be
able to render. I was to blame from the start,
and I do niot know how I ever happened to neg-
lect so plain a duty ; the only excuse I can
offer now is that I had not the slightbt idea,
until I received your letter, that you were in
any need of such assistance as you there re-
quest."  He'hesitated a moment, glanced in-
quiringly at me, and then finding that 1 did not
speak, continued :'' I suppose, since you have
done me the honor of calling upon me as a
friend, that I may without offense speak frankly
to you?"
I bowed my head in assent, but made no far-
ther reply.
"'Then explain to me, I beg of you, how it is
that your father's daughters are driven to the
necessity of supporting themselves by their own
exertions. Your father has been in th receipt
of a comfortable income for years hack, and I
know that he has not lived up to it, at least by
any visible expenditure. I have never been
surprised at his habits of economy, for I knew
that he always considered his hold upon life as
ver' precarious; I supposed of course that lie
was trying to save sufficient from his income
to provide for his girls an independence against
the time he should be taken from them; and
yet you say he has not succeeded in doing this ?"
" The little furniture this house contains, our
small personal property, and two hundred doel-
lars in cash, was the entire worldly amount of
which my father died possessed," I answered,
as anxious as himself that no farther misunder-
standings should exist, and feeling so gloriously


16                  MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

proud of the revelation I was about to make,
that I quite forgot for a few moments the suppli-
ant position that I was then occupying. ''You
are quite right, sir, in thinking that he did
not live up to the income he received while in
your employ; scarce one-fifth of his salary was
expended for his family's use ; how the balance
was employed during the ten years in which we
have lived so humbly, these papers may perhaps
inform you;" and unlocking a secretary that
stood in the room, I took from a drawer therein
the package of receipts, given to my father at
various times by those prisons to whom he had
been indebted at the time of his failure. At
that moment my trials and humiliations were
nothing compared to the pride I felt in know-
ing myself to be the daughter of dJames Man-
vers.
Mr. Henderson took the papers and glanced
over them, at first carelessly, then more atten-
tively, and finally eagerly and thoroughly. his
face and voice expressed unmiingled astonish-
ment as he turned to me at length. "And is it
really possible," he said, ''that the amounts re-j
ferred to in these papers are the former liabili-
ties of the firm of ' Winthrop &amp; Manvers ?' "
"They are," I answered, "and their sum, I
think, you will find completely covers the in-
dehtedness with which that firm was charged.
There is no man living this day who can just-
ly say that my father ever wronged him of a
cent."
Mr. Henderson glanced sharply at me from
under his spectacles as I stood haughtily before
him, my cheeks flushed, my eyes flashing, iy
habitual reserve quite deserting me, and it was
in a tone of bitter significance very galling to
my pride that lie added - '' And meanwhile,
his orphan children are thrown destitute upon
the world ! high-minded, honorable, Quixotic
man !" Then noticing the color that angrily
mounted in my cheeks, lie went on hastily:j
" But there, there ; I will not intimate a word
of censure; people regard such things very dif-
ferently, I know ; though I should myself have
been very unlikely to act as he has done, I yet
can feel and appreciate the disinterested and
peculiar magnanimity of his conduct; conduct
of which I do not believe another man in Bos-
ton would have been capable. Yet, after all,
Miss Manvers, you see yourself that his honor-
able conduct does not alter the fact that his
children are left destitute.''
'No," Ianswered, with indignant pride; "but
it very mu1ch lightens the suffering of that des-
titution. Believe ine or not, sir, had I this day
in my possession flhe money of which those re-

ceipts are the token, I would expeld it precisely
as my father has done; nay, more ; if he had
died, leaving his task inconple ed, it should
have proved my duty, helpless woman though
I am, to have fulfilled his design ; and to its ac-
complishment, had it been necessary, I would
have devoted the labor of my life.'
"Oh! I believe you, I believe you !" cried
Mr. Henderson hastily ; "there is enough of
your father shining in your eyes this moment to
make me credit you, had you asserted your de-
termination to pay his debts twice over, just for
the glory of the thing. But come, let us pro-
ceed to rational business ; you and I must be
good friends, Miss Caroline, for I loved your fa-
ther, and you are his own child, verily.  Par-
don my bluntness of speech, and tell me frankly
what you wish me to do for you."
The kind allusion to my father melted my
pride at once; for I had sufficient penetration
to see that the old gentleman's implied censure
was more than balanced by the genuine admi-
ration which I knew that he felt. I conquered
the choking in my throat and the tremor in my
voice sufficiently to say, "I must have employ-
ment, sir ; something by which I can earn three
or four hundred dollars a year--or less if I can
not get that much ; if you can find this for me,
I shall never forget to be grateful to you." .
Mr. Henderson sat silent for a few moments.
meditating, evidently upon what I had said.
At last he turned toward the table upon which
he had deposited my precious papers, and com-
menced turning them rapidly over.  "An idea
has just occurred to me," lie said briskly, "and
one that I think likely will prove advantageous
to you. I see upon these papers the signatures
of your father's former creditors, many of them
very wealthy men ; with several of these I am
personally acquainted, and I have no doubt that
if I speak to them, and acquaint them with the
facts of the case, that there will be not a few
who will so far appreciate the high-toned honor
of your father's conduct, as to feel it a duty as
pleasant as it would be binding, to provide for
those whom the payment of their claims has
left destitute."
Unable to control the indignation his words
excited, I started to my feet, crying passionately,
"Destitute, perhaps, yet still not objects of char-
ity, Mr. Henderson ! Little do you understand
my father's daughter, and sadly indeed have you
misinterpreted the spirit of my appeal to you,
if you can imagine that pecuniary assistance
from strangers is either desired or would be ac-
cepted by me."
"' There iieed he ino question of ch ruity in the

matter," he began, a little sharply ; ''you have
a right to their good offices, and they-"
But I interrupted him haughtily. "I can not
for a moment listen to you upon this subject,
Mr. Henderson ; regard for my father's memory
would render your idea an impracticable one,
even did not my own self-respect lead me to
protest against it most vehemently, as I do."
He looked very uncomfortable; he would
only have been punishing my insolent temper
properly, had he left me to my own devices
then and there, but such summary vengeance
his kind heart forbade, and, much more kindly
than I deserved, he continued to expostulate
with me.   "You take a wrong view of the
matter, entirely, my dear young lady; put the
question to yourself ; suppose that by some obli-
gation conferred upon you, another party had
been grievously wronged ; should you not feel
yourself called upon to remedy that wrong when
it was made known to you? more especially,
when you could do so at no loss or trouble to
yourself?"
"My father conferred no obligation upon his
creditors, sir, in paying his just debts, nor did
be wrong his children because he had no worldly
goods to leave them.  The priceless treasure of
his honorable name he did leave us, and that,
by God's help, shall never be tarnished by word
or deed of mine. Do not urge me farther, sir,",
I said, seeing that he still seemed disposed to,
continue the argument ; "your intention is
kind, I know, and for that I most sincerely
thank you; but my resolution is immovable ;
independent of all save the advice and sympa-
thy which I trust to obtain from you, I must
and will remain."
Mr. Henderson rose from his chair and slowly
paced the room; he said nothing farther to me
for some moments, and I, tired and uneasy, sat
watching his restless movements, longing for.
the interview to terminate, yet not courageous
enough to disturb his cogitations by word or
movement of mine. At last he halted abruptly
in his walk and stood before me. "I am a lonely
old man, Miss Manvers," he said, "homeless,
wifeless, childless, I had almost said friendless,
for though there are plenty of folks who invite
me to their houses, and receive my presents, I
fear were the balance at my banker's to lose
the significant figures on the left of the ciphers,
I should find but few of my many acquaintances
left to love me., Were I a married man, had
I a wife and home of my own, I should say to
.you now, come home with me, you two little
V   girls ; be my guests until you camn timid for your-
selves a more congenial home, or as long as

you can feel contented and happy in remaining
with me ; but I can not do this now, for I re-
side at a hotel and have no home to which I
can invite you. But I like you, young lady, 1
like you, and that little flaxen-headed one 1
saw with you when I visited you before ; I liked
your father before you, I trusted him, and I re-
spected him as I never did another man in my
life ; I see his features in your face ; I hear his
voice when you speak; I recognize his spirit
and his ways of thinking in every sentiment you
utter.  I am tired of my lonely, aimless life ;
let me claim you and the little one as my daugh-
ters, Miss Caroline ; let me provide a home for
you and myself too, and bring you to it, to
comfort and to cheer me in my old age.'
He paused, and gazed earnestly at me, his
kind face beaming with benevolence, his manly
voice husky with ill-repressed emotion.  I was
so overpowered with astonishment at this un-
looked-for speech that for a time I was quite
unable to reply ; at last I managed to stammer
forth, " You are very, very kind, Mr. Hender-
son ; I can not thank you as I ought."
''Then you accept my offer ?" he said eagerly ;
"you will let me provide for you as if you were
my own children ?"
But I shook my head, though the tears stood
in my eyes as I answered, "It must not be,
sir; I have no words to thank you for your gen-
erosity, but I shall be grateful for it while I live;
do not think me insensible to your kindness,
even though I must at once and decidedly check
all such schemes in the start.  I must main-
tain my independence, sir ; could I once be per-
suaded to relinquish 'it, I should be miserable
ever after ; and you know as well as I do, that
only by earning my own livelihood by my daily
toil, can I maintain it. I were blind indeed,
could I not see that your motives for this pro-
posal are my benefit, rather than your own eqm-
fort, and I must decline it; nay! do not urge
me, I beseech you ! farther discussion of the
subject will only be painful both to you and to
me-my decision is immovable."
Again he turned from me, and walked up and
down the room as if to gain time to conquer
the angry words that I could see had risen to
his lips ; at length he stood before me again,
still a little flushed and excited.
" What (10 you want sme to do for you then ?"
he said bluntly. " Tell me what you require
and what assistance you will receive, and I will
do my best to oblige you."
Tears rushed to imy eyes. "Find me some-
thmimig to do, sir ; that is all I ask. I am a friendt-
less, inexperienced girl, inoet good for much, I

LOOKING FOR WORK.               l7


18                   MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

know, but I am young and healthy, have been
pretty well educated, and I am a good plain
sewer. I am willing and anxious to work, but
I no more know where or how to find employ-
ment than does little Agnes herself.  If you
could only help me to getting a situation in a
school; or would recommend me to some of
your lady acquaintances who would be likely
to provide rme with sewing ; in either way you
would be doing me a far greater service than
by persuading me to lead a life of idleness."
Ile sat musingly for a few moments. "There
is not much chance in the schools, I fear, at
present. Spring is a bad time to seek employ-
ment there ; the teachers, you know, are en-
gaged in the fall, and generally for the year,
unless a vacancy should happen to occur, and
you could secure it. I (1o not know much about
how these things are managed ; I have never
had any thing to do with the school manage-
ment, but I will see what I can do for you.
Sewing, needle-work of any kind, is utterly out
of the question.  I might as well recommend
you to go hang yourself as to take to that for a
living. You could not keep soul and body to-
gether on a seamstress's wages.  What do you
say to going into a store as saleswoman ?"
" Any thing, sir ; I shall not be particular as
to the mtanner of the employment if I may only
be able to get at it immediately."  Yet my
heart sank within inc as I answered, for there
was not another respectable occupation imagin-
able, it seemed to me then, that I would not
rather have accepted than this. Not for worlds,
however, would 1 have uttered an objection to
any reasonable plan Mr. Ilenderson chose to
propose.
" Well, I svill see about it," lie said, rising
and drawing on ihis gloves; " this will be rather
more in my line than any thing else I can at
present think of.  I have a pretty extensive ac-
quaintance among the larger retail merchants
of the city, and I think I may safely venture to
promise you a situation with some pleasant, re-
liable man, who will he willing to paty you liv-
ing wages.  You. shall hear from ie shortly.
Good-bye !" and my kind friend departed, leav-
ing ne really uncertain whether to be pleased
or vexed at the result of the interview.
Two days later the expected note from Mr.
Ilenderson arrived. IIe stated that lie had pro-
cured for me a situation as saleswoman in a large
wholesale and retail dry goods establishment on
- Street, and that I would receive during the
first six months the sum of five dollars per
week, with the priospect of increased wages at
time termimnationt of that period, if imy services

gave satisfaction.  It was too late now to draw
back even if I had felt the desire to do so ; but
really, all minor emotions were so completely
swallowed up in the one great fact that I had
a sure and independent method of making a
living at once laid out before me, that, in the
great relief I felt in my new prospects, I forgot
to shrink and tremble at the manner in which
the relief was to be obtained. The public life
which my new occupation would force upon me
would have been repugnant to any girl young
and inexperienced as I was, but to one of my
shy, indolent temperament it was absolutely ter-
rible. Nothing but stern necessity could have
forced me to accept the life thus offered me; but
I well knew that I had no alternative ; and re-
solving, with all the will and energy my desper-
ate circumstances inspired, that I would brave-
ly and faithfully accept the duties thus forced
upon me, I cast pride to the winds, and armed
with Mr. Henderson's letter of introduction,
sought the scene of my future labors, and en-
joyed my 'first interview with my future employ-
er. It was fortunate indeed for my self-satis-
fied feeling of independence, that I did not know
that the wages offered to me were nearly double
those usually given to beginners like myself,
and that it was to Mr. Henderson's generosity,
after all, that I was indebted for so much of the
comfort of my future life.  I never knew it un-
til after his death, yet I can not resist paying to
his memory the tribute of this passing acknowl-
edgment.   A noble gentleman and a faithful
friend he proved himself then anti always, to
others no less than to myself.
My new employer proved kind and gentleman-
ly ; lie seemed interested in me, and asked me
many questions, some of which, I thought, sa-
voted strongly of impertinence. He introduced
ume to several of the older ladies in his employ,
andi finally handed me over to one of them to
be initiated into the duties of my new office,
and to make myself at hoie among the ac-
quaintances thus formed with what celerity I
might.
"Nettleby &amp; Son" was the name of the firm
(of course I disguise frames, for the house of
which I speak is still a flourishing one in Bos-
ton); the " son," Mr. Frank Nettleby, was.sel-
dom at home, and was known to but few of the
employs, as he was always absent in Europe
half of the year, sometimes much longer, at-
tending to the foreign business of the house, and
his own pleasures.  It was a large establish-
nct, doing a vast business, and employing uip-
svard of a hundred hands, about one-half of'
whom were women. 'There was a foreman whio

superintended the male employs, and a fore-
woman who controlled the girls, and over all
there was a "governor," a Mr. Harrington, who
kept a general supervision over the whole estab-
lishment, and walked about among the' various
counters, in and out, all day, with a pencil and
note-book in his hand, his keen eyes noting
every thing that transpired within the building.
He was accountable only to Mr. Nettleby, the
head of the establishment, and that gentleman,
having perfect confidence in him, was content to
leave the whole management of the internal ar-
rangements of the store entirely in Mr. Harring-
ton's hands, who by this means came to be con-
sidered as the most influential person in the es-
tablishment.
This is a brief description of "the store" in
which a very important period of my life was
destined to be passed ; and there, upon the Mon-
day following my interview with Mr. Ilender-
son, did I, nervous and heavy-hearted, repair ;
and there and then did I enter upon the ea-
gerly anticipated task of "earning my own liv-
ing."
CIIAPTER III.
TILE CLOAK DEPARTMENT.
TuE various commodities in which the firm
of Nettleby &amp; Son professed to deal, were dis-
posed of at various counters, presided over, each,
by as many hands as the particular branch of
the business seemed to require. My province
was the cloak and shawl room, and in that
department I found three ladies beside myself
engaged ; two of them were new-comers, and
scarcely more experienced in the business than
I; the third was the forewoman, who was prin-
cipal in this department as well as general over-
seer over all the other counters ; that is, though
she had nothing at all to do with the business
of the other counters, she was compelled, by
.  virtue of her office, to see that they were kept
in proper order, that the saleswomen conducted
themselves properly toward their customers and
each other, and to be arbitress in all the petty
disputes that necessarily arose daily-among so
many young and flighty aspirants to commercial
honors.  She was a sister of "the governor,"
Miss Jenny Harrington by name; a woman from
forty to forty-five years of age, active, energetic,
talkative, and quick-tempered.  She had been
,; employed in the firm for twenty years of her
-life, and was now regarded by her employers as
an almost indispensable assistant in carrying onr
Sthe business. To her were intrusted always

the "new hands" as they entered the establish-
ment, and all were required to submit to a pre-
liminary training at her hands, erc they were
allowed to take charge of any really responsible
part of the business. She was shrewd and
keen ; a little cross and domineering sometimes
with the poor, frightened creatures she was ex-
pected to tutor, though often so sadly tried by
their carelessness and stupidity, that I really
could scarcely wonder that her temper had be-
come hasty and impatient. She had a kind
heart though, and a generous affectionate dis-
position, and I never had any thing to complain
of at her hands. She was evidently, from some
unknown cause, favorably disposed toward me
from the first, and bore with my ignorance much
more patiently than I had any right to expect.
I soon learned to appreciate the sterling.wortlm
of her character, and to look upon her as a re-
liable friend and adviser.
The shawl-room was, an enclosure rather apart
from the main space devoted to the public, and
was, from its comparative retirement, a very de-
sirable place for beginners. Though as accessi-
ble to all customers, of course, as the rest of the
store, it was seldom entered save by those who
wished to purchase the articles of which we were
in charge, and thus I was spared much of the
publicity I had so much    dreaded.   Oddly
enough, however, the very fact that made the
situation so pleasant a one to me, was the ob-
jection which the other girls coat inually urged
against it.  It was ''so lonely," "so quiet,"
''so tiresome,"was the invariable cry ; and these
causes, combined with the terror which Misc
Harrington's sharp eyes and still sh arper tongue
universally inspired among them, made it m-
possible, without a great amount of grumbling
and dissatisfaction, to fill any vacancies which
occurred in the shawl-room, except by new-
comers,
Miss Harrington called my attention to this
fact one day, about a month after I had entered
the store.  I had been telling her how delighted
I was at being kept free from the tumult and
publicity of the main departments.
Ah!" said she, ''you will get bravely over
that, by and by. You green hands are all glad
enough at first to get rid of being stared at by
every body, but your bashfulness soon wears oil,
* and in three months' time you are all as eager
to see and to be seen as you at first are to get
out of sight. You will be pestering' the gov-
* ernor' in a little while, as well as the rest of
them, to give you a livelier stand.'
" Indeed nto!" said I decidedly. ''If I never
leave the shawl-room except by my own request,

THE CLOAK DEPARTMENT                19


20                    MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

you may depend upon being bothered with me
for an indefinite time to come."
"I wish I could be certain that you knew
your own mind," she said eagerly ; then adding
abruptly, "but I know you girls better by far
than you know yourselves, so I will take no ad-
vantage of you in your present mood."
" You don't know me, Miss Harrington," I
answered, a little indignantly, "if you think me
so changeable or so whimsical as that. Believe
me or not, I do assure you that I had rather
work in here with you, than for double wages in
any other part of the store."
" You are sure of that now, are you ?" she
cried. "If I secure you this place, youwon't be
fretting and fidgeting for a change before three
months are gone ? You are certain enough of
your own mind to be willing to retain the sit-
uation you now hold permanently, even though
the prospect of rising to the head of a counter,
which would be before you in any other depart-
ment, will be quite denied you here? for I need
hardly tell you that no one can become my su-
perior here, and I shall never leave the store as
long as I am able to work.  Take time to think,
and don't decide hastily."
" I should cheerfully accept all the conditions
you name for the privilege of keeping as I now
am, in the background," I said, laughing. " I
assure you, Miss IHarrington, my only terror
now is that I should be ousted from my position
whether I will or iot, by Mr. Nettleby wishing
to place new-comers under your superintendence,
and to do that he will have to remove me to
make room for them."
" He shan't do it," she cried in her quick, pos-
itive way. "It is none of his business, anyhow ;
the governor' attends to all such matters as
that, and 1 will have the matter definitely settled
before I am a day older." And just then catching
sight of " the governor" passing by the entrance
to our department, she hailed hint: ' John ! let
inc speak to you a moment when you can spare
the time, will you ?'  lie nodded and passed
on, and she resumed speaking to ine. "You
see I have beei complaining for a good while
back, both to JIohn and to Mr. Nettleby, that I
have too much responsibility upon my hands.
Together with imy duties as forewoman and the
constant watching which the green hands of my
own department require, I ami fairly worried to
death sometimes. Mr. Nettlehy thinks, I sup-
pose, because I am the oldest ,hand in the store,
that I can work miracles; so I ant expected toj
sell as much as ainy other counter does, and
keel every thing imn fluriishinmg order, though
every other department in the store has, beside

the head, two and sometimes three or four ex-
perienced saleswomen to manage it.   Now I
must do every thing myself, as you know by this
time, or let every thing go half done, and the
mistakes that the green hands are continually
making is all cast up to my account in the long
run, I know. I have just made up my mind
that I von't stand it. I am going to have an
assistant here that I can place some dependence
upon ; some one who has sense enough to sell a
shawl to one customer and a cloak to another,
without sending the bill for the shawl to the
person who bought the cloak, and vice versa, as
Sarah Conway did yesterday ; or who knows
enough of arithmetic not to insist that three
shawls at nine, fourteen, and twenty dollars re-
spectively, amount to forty-five dollars, as Jose-
phine ioyle did last week.  You don't know
much yet, to be sure, but you always have your
wits about you, and understand addition and
subtraction; and as you never lose your temper
when I tell you of your faults, I really think
that in the course of a few months you will be
able to do very nicely with me; and if we do
learn to get along comfortably together, I am de-
termined that you shall not be removed against
your will, particularly to make room for-"
"What do you want with me, Jenny ?" said
the voice of "the governor" at the entrance, in-
terrupting his sister's harangue at this interest-
ing point.  "Be quick, please, for I am wanted
at the book-keeper's desk."
"I only wanted to tell you that I had found
at last the assistant I had been looking for so
long," said she.  "This is Caroline Manvers,
who has been with me for about a month. I do
not know whether or not you have ever particu-
larly noticed her before ;" and, as if to make up
for past negligence, Mr. Harrington then noticed
me to such an extent that I felt the color rush-
ing to my cheeks beneath the keen glance of his
eyes.
"What can I do for you and Miss Manvers ?'"
lie said at length.
"Just this," answered his sister.  "Miss
Manvers likes her present situation, and I like
her, so it is our mutual wish that she should re-
main here permanently, and I want you. to let
the arrangement be an understood thing, to draw
up a written agreement to that effect if it is
necessary."
"1 do not suppose that it will be, but it shall
be just as you please," said Mr. Harrington, and
then as he walked away his sister added--
"Mr. Ne ttleby never interferes with any of
John's arrangements if they mire serious ones, so
you may consider yourself a fixture here now."

Thus the conversation terminated, and -myI
position was thenceforth regarded by all asI
definitely settled, and  every day made it a1
pleasanter and an easier one for me. I learned
to like Miss Harrington very much, and with
the other girls in the store I was thrown very
little in contact. Those in our own department
vere continually being changed, one set rarely
continuing with us more than a month at a
time, and thus I formed no intimate acquaint-
ance with any of them. With the young men
engaged in the store I was even less associated,
scarcely having acquaintance enough with any
of them to warrant more than an occasional
passing word of salutation.  With Mr. Harring-
ton, however, I could not help but become better
acquainted; associated as I was with his sister,
this could scarcely be avoided, for he frequently
stopped in his circuit of the store as he passed
the shawl-room, and when he found us alone he
would often tarry to chat awhile with her, and
naturally with me also.  She was very fond of
him, and he apparently of her.  Though she
was at least ten years his senior, yet she seemed
to look up to him with unb unided respect ; and
all that "John" said or   id was lawful and
right in her sight. All her hopes and affections
seemed to be centred in im and a younger
brother, "Eddie" she calle I him, of whom she
often talked to me as we became better ac-
quainted ; but though she s oke of the latter af-
fectionately, it was not with the same tone of
proud deference which she  sed in speaking of
"the governor."
Mr. Nettleby I seldom s.aw, yet I heard him,
much more frequently, I suppose, than he had
any idea of. His desk w s situated immedi-
ately in front of the shawl-room, which, by the
bye, was not a regularly 11thed and plastered
apartment; it was merely one end of the store
separated from the principal department by a
frame-work some eight feet in height, curtained
on one side by cloaks and shawls, on the oppo-
site by the curtains, etc., of he upholstering deo
partnment. Of course all that transpired upon the
one side could be plainly heard upon the other,
and I had the benefit of many a conversation
between Mr. Nettleby and he various person-
ages who frequented his d sk, which I should
have been much better pleased could I have es
caped from hearing.  This, however, was hard
ly possible.  When Miss H rrington was in th
cloak-room, she with her race of pupils wam
usually stationed at that sile of it nearest tc
the entrance, and, except whenm we were over
sun with customers, it was ,my ditty to renmati
at the opposite side, where I took charges of thu

clerkly labors of the department, Miss Harring-
ton having, by degrees, as she found my knowl-
edge of addition and subtraction warranted it,
submitted to my hands the entire superintend-
ence of the bills and payments, and all the bus-
iness transactions requiring the attention of an
educated person.
Thus it happened that, as I sat at my counter
with pencil and memoranda before me, day afier
day, I was perforce obliged to hear all that
went on at the desk which was separated from
mine only by a silken curtain and a cashmere
shawl. 
I do not remember having yet said any thing
about the personal appearance of my employ-
er. He was a man upward of fifty, I suppose,
for Miss Harrington told me that his son, Mr.
Frank Nettleby, was five-and-twenty; but he
did not look a day over forty ; he was tall,
finely formed, a little inclined to corpulency,
with bright blue eyes, brown curly hair, and
heavy side-whiskers ; both hair and whiskers
being as yet quite guiltless of grey. To his den-
tist he was indebted for a faultless set of teeth ;
to his tailor for costume irreproachable in cut
and texture ; and to nature for a dashing gen-
tlemanly air, and the gift of language in perfec-
tion. Such a talker as he was ! and so inquisi-
tive ! Upon my first interview with him, as I
intimated, I had been inclined to consider his
questions and himself as rather impertinent;
but as I learned to know him better, I found
that this questioning habit had become second
nature to him, and that all strangers who came
under his notice were submitted to it, as far as
! they would stand it, without respect of sex or
station. He was a good-humored, charitable
man, easily imposed upon, and unable to say
"no" to any of the scores of petitioners who
daily beset his desk. Had it not been for the
stricter discipline of Mr. Harrington, chaos must
soon have reigned in the now orderly precincts
of the store. Mr. Nettleby was a widower, and
- his son Frank was his only ehild ; lie was a
man of fashion and of pleasure; not addicted
to any particular vice, that I ever heard of, but
fond of racing, boating, billiards, theatricals,
- and with all such tastes as mark the man of the
I world. Many a bet was booked ; many a
- doubtful bargain concluded; many not overele-
- gant anecdotes related by him or some of the
e many fashionable gentlemen who visited his
s desk during the hours in which I sat at my
o counter behind him; and at last, really dreading
- that I might thuts inadvertently overheatr some-
nthing that Mr. Nettleby would not wish to have
known, I spoke to Miss Hlarrington about it,

THE CLOAK DEPARTMENT.


22                  MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

and asked whether I had better not inform Mr.
Nettleby of my vicinity.
"You will be laughed at for your pains, if
you do, my dear," she replied ; "I formerly
occupied your position, and was annoyed in the
same manner; so I one day told Mr. Nettleby
of the circumstance, showing him just how the
screen between us was arranged, and how im-
possible it was that I should avoid overhearing
all that was said. ' Overhear as much as you
like, he said, laughing;' 'if you can stand it, I
am sure I can;' and that was all the satisfac-
tion I could get out of him."
Thus I was compelled to let the matter rest ;
but if I had any remaining doubts about the
light in which Mr. Nettleby regarded my vicin-
ity, they were settled definitely by an incident
which occurred a few weeks after my conversa-
tion with Miss 11arrington.
It was a stormy morning; there had not
been a dozen customers in since we opened the
store. Miss Ilarrington taking advantage of
this lull of business, as was her custom, had
had hauled down a vast quantity of goods at the
end of the apartment farthest from  me, and
with the aid of her two assistants, was rear-
ranging them according to her ideas of right
and convenience.  I was busily engaged copy-
ing a paper containing an account of stock,
taken in Miss IIarringtou's crabbed, angular
handwriting, a  writing  that now   seldom
emerged from our domains, since she had made
the discovery that I was a tolerably fair pen-
ian.
man.
Outside sat Mr. Nettlehy, with his chair
pushed so far back against the screen that di-
vided him from me, that I expected momentari-
ly to see it thrown down. Ie was engaged in
an exciting conversation with a dog-fancier,
concerning a choice litter of Pups of which the
latter was anxious to dispose.
'' And t don't want the cursed things at any
price," was the elegant Peroration with which
Mr. Nettleby wound up a long and disparaging
harangue concerning the animals in question.
Come, now ! really, Mr. Nettleby, you
mustn't expect me to believe that," rejoined
the coarse voice of the man with whom he was
conversing. ''No genelman who knows what's
what, as well as you does, can see them hani-
mals and not want them.  I know you, sir, bet-
ter than you knows yourself. When that white
and tan opened his eyes, the first thing I says
was ' Mr. Nettleby's the man for that chap !' I
hiad 'ema all laid out in my mind, you see, for
different customers ; but when that tother tan
growed so amazing party, thinks I ' It's a sin to

part 'em.'  I had laid him out, you see, for
George Le Grange, and lie's the man that
could appreciate him too; but I haint yet said
nothing to him about it, and if so be you'd
like to have the pair on 'em, Mr. Nettleby, I
will try what else I can do for Mr. Le Grange.
Come, now! let's strike a bargain; if you're
for taking the critters, I aint the man to let the
matter of a V more or less cross your fancy."
"The black and tan you say is marked like
Flora?" queried Mr. Nettleby, evidently relht-
ing.
"Eggsactly !" rejoined the other with anima-
tion ; "two fore-legs and tip of the tail black--"
"No!" interrupted the gentleman; "only one
of Flora's fore-legs was black."
"Not wishing to contradict, sir, you're tee-
totally out there. Lord! I've handled the crit-
ter enough to know the color of every hair on
her body. Her two fore-legs was black, sir, one
to the knee, tether to the shoulder."
"I tell you no, man ! the left leg was tan ; 1
could swear to it," again interrupted Mr. Nettle-
by, and in the excitement of the interesting dis-
cussion lie gave his chair the final hitch which
I had so long been dreading, and down came
curtains and shawls upon our heads, enveloping
us both in the ruins. We could not help but
laugh, for the situation was certainly a ludicrous
one; however, extricating ourselves from our
superfluous drapery as gracefully as might be,
we started to repair damages-Mr. Nettleby first
dismissing his trading friend, the innocent cause
of our present embarrassment, with language
more decisive than refined.
"Don't let us interrupt you in your neces-
sary avocations, Miss Jenny," lie said, grace-
fully waving that lady back, as she started to
come to our assistance ; "I will attend to this
upholstery business myself; I have nothing bet-
ter to do, and I am perfectly competent to the
task, I assure you. Iallo ! you, sir," bailing
one of the innumerable small boys that were
appurtenances of the store, and who now stood
gaping with open eyes and mouths at the de-
struction wrought by their employer; ''go yon
and hunt up a hammer and some nails. I will
nail this damask up myself this time, and I
know that then I shall not be able again to in-
vade so unceremoniously the privacy of your
domains. By the bye, Miss Manvers, if I may
venture the question, what is your opinion of
the color of that dog's leg ?"
I laughed in spite of my vexation, and Mr.
Nettleby seemed to enjoy the joke vastly, so in
high good-himhor he proceeded to gather up the
scattered drapery.

"HE GAVE HIS CHAIR THE FINAL HITCH."-PAGE 22.


TIHE CLOAK DEPARTMENT.

Just then "the governor" came along, and
without asking any questions, seemed to under-
stand at once what had happened.  "Had you
not better allow me to attend to that, Mr. Net-
tleby ?" he said.
"Certainly not," briskly returned that gen-
tleman; "but you may watch and see how it
ought to have been done in the first place. -I
will have no assistance except what Miss Man-
vers I dare say will benevolently afford me. If
you will be good enough to hold this corner of
the damask, Miss Manvers, I will keep the other
side in its place until the hammer comes.
So, obedient to his directions, I held the fold
of crimson on a level with my head upon a bar
of the frame to which he designed to nail it,
"What a pretty hand you have !" he said,
checking his operations abruptly and gazing
admiringly upon the hand and arm thus con-
spicuously forced into notice.  "I beg your
pardon, but really I could not avoid speaking
of it; small, well-shaped and white-we do not
often see those three combinations-and with
rounded wrist, tapering fingers, and filbert nails,
too; really you have every reason to be proud
of such a hand." And thus he went on with
cool impertinence, criticising and commenting
until I was ready to cry with vexation. Fortu-
nately the boy arrived with the hammer just
then, so I hoped that I should be tormented
with no farther remarks. He nailed his own
corner of the damask and proceeded leisurely
toward my end, driving a tack every few inches.
Half way down, however, he stopped and re-
commenced his attack.
"From which side of the house do you in-
herit that hand, Miss Manvers ? Did you not
know that fine hands and feet are always hered-
itary?  Do you get yours from your father's or
mother's family ?"
"From my father's, I believe ; please, Mr.
Nettleby, don't talk about it any more. Do you
think it is necessary to put those tacks so close
together ?" I said, desperately endeavoring, if
not to check his loqIacity, at least to change
its direction. But the distraction was but tem-
porary, and he instantly resumed, driving an-
other tack as he spoke.
"On the contrary, I was just thinking that I
had not driven them quite close enough ; but I
can easily put a few more in if it is necessary.
So you inherited your pretty hand from your
father's family, did you? I thought so ; I have
an acquaintance whose hand resembles yours
very much; that is, it is similarly shaped, andI
think as white, though by no means so small as
yours. She inherits hers from her father ; she

is a Wilberforce, comes of a fine old family, you
see ; a faultless hand is an indubitable'sign of
good blood, Miss Manvers, did you know that ?"
Even while he was speaking a low voice
sounded in my ear, ''I do not "believe the task
Mr. Nettleby has imposed upon you is an agree-
able one ; may I not relieve you ?" And turn-
ing, I saw Mr. Ilarrington standing by my side,
ready to take from my hand the damask I had
just mentally resolved to drop, at the risk of
discomposing all Mr. Nettleby's arrangements.
" Oh ! thank you, yes sir !" I cried, and flushed
and excited, I resigned to him my position and
turned thankfully away ; yet vexed as I was, I
could not help noticing that Mr IIarrington
seemed scarcely less indignant at his principal's
want of delicacy than I was niyself.
Mr. Nettleby made no effort to detain me,
and never afterward alluded to the incident in
any way, but it was long ere I heard the last
of "The Wilberforce hand" from the girls in
the store, and the whole affair was a subject of
annoyance to me for weeks after.
Time rolled on, and I believe no event of
sufficient importance to record transpired dur-
ing the first year of my employment in the firm
of Nettleby &amp; Son ; unless perhaps it was the
arrival, toward the close of the year, of Mr.
Frank Nettleby.
This gentleman was a younger duplicate of
his father, and not much younger either, if
looks were to be believed, for while Mr. Nettle-
by, senior, was avery young-looking man for his
age, his son was decidedly the reverse.  No
person glancing casually at him would have
thought him less than thirty ; he wits about his
father's height, not quite so broad, however, with
the same brown curly hair, side-whiskers, and
bright blue eyes ; of munch the same tempera-
ment too, I thought, for a more jovial, light-
hearted, good-tempered fellow could scarcely be
found than our junior partner. lie and his fa-
ther would have anywhere been mistaken for
brothers, and this was a relationshipp that the
older gentleman was quite disposed to=counte-
nance. It was an odd connection that existed
between them, and yet no one doubted but that
they were sincerely and warmly attached to
each other ; but they had very queer ways of ex-
pressing themselves, notwithstanding.  While
Mr. Nettleby almost always addressed his son
as "F. N.," that worthy as universally spoke
of and to his father by the title of "Partner."
I overheard once from my station behind the
curtain a coniversations which illustrated the 1e-
lationship of my two employers better than ans
niere description of mine can do.-

d


24                           MY HUSBAl
Mr. Harrington had been remonstrating with
Mr. Nettleby, senior, concerning some of his
son's delinquencies.  "Do exert your authority
over Frank, Mr. Nettleby," said "the governor,"
"and at least find out for me whether he has
brought with him copies of the bills for the goods
that were received last week ; the bills that were
forwarded are evidently incorrect, and I can not
persuade him to compare them with those he
holds, or ought to hold. If you would just pre-
vail upon hii to take a search among his pa-
pers, and find out at least if he has the dupli-
cates, it would save us all an amazing amount
of labor and vexation."
" Now, Iarrington ! where is the use in
making such an appeal to me !" returned Mr.
Nettleby in an injured tone. "If you chose to
talk about my junior's exerting his authority
over me, there would be some sense in what you
are saying. You know very well F. N. does as
he pleases ; always did, and always will.  lie
was an older man than I when lie left school,
and the idea of me prevailing upon a fellow who
has spent six months out of each of the last six
years of his life in Paris, to do any thing he has
not a mind to do, is absolutely preposterous.
T he error in the bills is as much his affhir as it
is mine, and lie knows it ; if there is a loss, he
will sufler by it; and if die fear of loss won't
make him observe the proper precautions with
his bills and receipts, it is really absurd to ex-
pect that the remonstrances of his partner would
be more effectual."
The odd argument here closed, and I regret
to add that I never found out whether Mr. Frank
produced the missing duplicates or not.
My home life had proved throughout this
passing year still more uneventful than my pub-
lie one. Agnes had attended school steadily,
and I really saw but little of the child except at
meal-time.  She was always a sleepy-headed
little thing, and found it hard work to stay awake
in the evenings long enough to prepare her les-
sons for the next day's school ; so she always
gave me her good-night kiss, and ran off to bed
long before I was able to retire, for I had the
sewing to attend to in the evening, both hers and
my own, and this generally kept me busy until ai
pretty late bed-time.
I became terribly lonely during those long,
dull, wearisome evenings at home; I often would
read over in the newspapers the advertised
amusements of the day, longing with all the
eager curiosity of youth for the opportunity to
see and to hear the wonderful things I read of.
I was always fond of theatricals, though the
nmmberof plays I had seen I could have counted

25

AN EVENING AT HOME.

ND'S CRIME.
on the fingers of one hand ; perhaps it was be-
cause they were such a novelty to me that I
longed so ardently to behold them, and bitter
feelings of repining would rise in my heart,
when I thought how utterly impossible it was
that I should ever have any opportunity of en-
joying that which would have been such a
source of delight to me. Very, very hard it
seemed to me that all joy, all pleasure, natural
to my age, should have been denied to me, and
I grew morose and low-spirited, brooding over
my deprivations until I was almost shocked at the
extent of the discontent which had grown upon
me. The lonely, quiet evenings did not tend
to lessen the reserve of my disposition; this liv-
ing upon my own thoughts, ever mourning over
the past, ever hopeless of the future, was likely
to prove pregnant with serious results for me.
I began to grow morbid; I dreamed at night of
father and Sue continually, and finally I began
to fancy that their frequent appearance in my
visions was a token of my own approaching
death, and my health really began to give way
beneath the influence of such presentiments. I
wrote a long letter to Mr. Henderson, accepting
for Agnes the favors I had declined for myself,
and this letter I laid carefully by in the secre-
tary, along with those sacred receipts, my fa-
ther's legacy to his children, to be given to Ag-
nes after my death.
It was with these feelings of hopeless de-
spondency, these presentiments of impending
death, that my twentieth birthday found me en-
grossed ; and in one particular at lesst, these
presentiments were destined to be realized, for
the ensuing year proved to be, as I had fore-
boded, the most important of my life.
CIIAPTER IV.
AN EVENING AT hOME.
My first interview with Mr. Frank Nettleby
was after this wise : I think it was the second
day after his return he went the round of the
store, stopping to chat at each counter with such
of the employs as he remembered, claiming
introductions to the new hands, and winning for
himself golden opinions from all.
In his rounds he stopped, of course, at the
shawl-room, and leaning his handsome head
against the door-way, ie stood looking in upon
us, with good-humored face and laughing eyes.
" Still there ! Miss Jenny," he cried; "so
none of your many admirers have yet persuaded
you to leave us, and you are Miss Jenny still ?"
" I ani-still sanie," shte retorted dryly, and he

went on laughingly.  "Yes, yes! I have not the other departments ; I have never heretofore
forgotten what a sworn man-hater you are. I paid much attention to the style in which they
know of old that "the governor"is all that re- were gotten up, provided they tallied correctly
deems the sex from total depravity in your eyes. with the book-keeper's balance-sheet ; but 1
Who have you with you now?   I believe these think, now that Ihave seen yours, that it would
yonig ladies are all strangers to me."     be a decided improvement if ths records which
"The two nearest to you are sisters, Misses are filed for preservation could be handed in in
Margaret and Mary Leigh ; the lady at the desk uniform style." And then he left us; but I need
is Miss Manvers."                           not have distressed myself about the additional
lie shook hands with the two girls nearest to amount of work which was thus ordered, for it
him, timid little creatures both of them, scarcely did not arrive ; I suppose Mr. Frank forgot all
knowing whether to be most pleased or fright- about it, or else came to the conclusion that it
ened at their employer's condescension, then he was a matter of less consequence than he had
advanced towardme to accord me the same at first considered it, for, though he saw  ae
honor. I rose aslie approached, of course, and every day or two, lie said no more upon the sub-
gave him my hand, as he extended his. He ject for many weeks afterward.
had hardly looked at us while speaking, but as  Both Miss Harrington and I were very thank-
he clasped my hand he glanced first at it, and ful for this forgetfulness just at this time, for
then at me, with rather more interest than lie the close of the year was coming on, and our
had exhibited in speaking to the other girls. yearly account of stock and many other heavy
"Hope you find things pleasant with us ," lie duties which the season brought were weighing
said. "If I can be of any service to you at any heavily upon our shoulders.  Of course the
time, don't hesitate to call upon me ;" and scarce praises'which my penmanship had received stin-
listening to my words of thanks for his civil elated me to fresh endeavors, and I would allow
speech, he dropped my hand and was turning no accounts to be forwarded from our depart-
away, when his eye fell upon the sheet of paper ment which I had not smoothly and carefully
upon which I had been writing,              copied. In making out the first draft of these
"Your writing, ma'am ?" he said, catching accounts, Miss IIarrington's assistance was. in-
up the sheet; "of course it is, though. A very dispensable, and the work weit on very slowly,
pretty hand; really, a beautiful hand; I noticed except when we could engage at it together.
the same writing yesterday in looking over the As we happened to be uncommonly busy this
shawl-department accounts ; I was about to in- year, it was generally a very difficult thing for
quire thenof what writing-master Miss Jenny had her to be spared long enough from her other
been taking lessons during my absence, for I re- duties to make any thing like satisfactory prog-
member her chirography of old as being re- ress with our accounts. Even when we could -
markable for many other peculiarities rather work at them we were so frequently interrupted
than legibility or beauty. No offense, Miss Jen- that serious mistakes more thatm oice occurred,
ny, I hope ?" and be cast a laughing glance at and finally Miss Harrington ceased her efforts
her, the pleasant familiarity of his tone divest- in despair.
ing his words of any taint of rudeness.       "There is no use in trying to accomplish
"None at all," she answered, in the same any thing in this way," she cried one day, after
spirit ; 'honor to whom honor is due;' pen- finding." that the work of hours had been ren-
manship never was my forte, I freely confess, and dered useless by a mistake she had made in
since Miss Manvers has relieved me of the care some calculations at the start.  "If we can not
of the accounts, I can see as plainly as any body get a chance to work together uninterrnptelly,
that they are much more creditably managed we may as well give up the task at once, for we
than in my day. I am not at all jealous of shall never succeed at the present rate. What
your praise, Mr. Frank."                    do you do of evenings? would you mind taking
He still examined the paper which he held, the books home with you some night and hav-
and took up others from the table, comparing ing me come around in. the evening and work-
and admiring as he did so. "An uncommonly ing at them with you?   Or you can bring them
pretty manuscript !" he repeated. "Miss Man- to me at my boarding-house, if you prefer it,
vers, would you object, if you can spare the and we will work at them there-I will see that
time, to doing some copying for me ?" you have company home any time."
" Certainly not, sir."                      I was pleased with the suggestion, for any
" Well, I will bring you in then, to-morrow, break in the monotony of my long, lonely even-
if I think of it, some acecounts handed in from ings was welcome to mue. On account, of A g-

' v   :
-_


MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

nes, it was better that Miss Ilarrington should
caine to mue, andl so I told her.
" Well, then, shut up the books ; we will no
worry over them any longer now.  Let me see
to-night is our prayer-meeting ; it will not d
for me to miss it, but I will come to-morrow
eight early, and I know we can do more in on
hour quietly at home, than we can accomplish
by a day's work here," and thus the matter wa
disposed of-.
Now that I look back upon that time, I car
scarcely credit, myself, the excitement with
which so unimportant an event as this visit wa
anticipated by inc-my first expected visit
since Mr. Ilienderson's call more than a yeas
before ; and perhaps the simple announcement
of this fact may better enable the reader to un
derstandt how lonely andi isolated a life I lhad
been leading than could any other assertion.
I hurried home from the store earlier than
usual that night, that I might embellish my
parlor with a little extra attention in honor of
the expected guests.  So long had it been since
I had entertained company, that the unusual
circumstance awakened in me a pleasurable
excitement to which I had long been a stran-
ger. My parlor swept and dusted, and iy own
simple toilet completed, I then tacked fresh
laces to the sleeves and neck of Agnes's little
black dress, and arranged with more than or-
dinarv care the long goldoi ringlets that adorn-
ed her beautiful head, and then, with my table
drawn i front of the fire, with the store books
and papers conveniently disposed upon it, with
Agnes settled industriously at her school-books,
I waited in patient expectation the arrival of
my guest. I was not long detained ; soon there
came a ring at the bell which sounded like Miss
Jenny's veritable self, and when I opened the
door she stood before me, lively, active, and
talkative as ever.
" Yes, I am alone, child," she said, seeing
my look of surprise that she was unaccompa-
ied, for though early, it was quite dark. " John
has just left me ; he brought me to the step,
but lie had business down town yet this even-
ing, so lie was obliged to leave me.  He will
call for me at ten."
I ushered her into the parlor, and soon saw
her comfortably seated in an arm-chair by the
table.  " Why !" she exclaimed, upon seeing
Agnes, ''is this little one the sister of whom
you have so often spoken ? I had thought of
her as being an older child than she evidently
is."
"Agnes is thirteen, though she looks so
young and childishi," I said, smuiling. "' She

d has always been our pet and baby, and I am
not sorry to keep her a child as long as possi-
t ble ;" and then as my little girl put her hand in
, Miss Jenny's and raised her beautiful blue eyes
o timidly to the lady's face, she could not resist
stooping and kissing affectionately the sweet
e mouth thus turned toward her.
h    "She is a dear little girl and a great com-
s fort to you, I have no doubt," she said. "It has
always been a matter of regret with me that I
have had no sister ; it would have been great
h company for me during my lonely life. The
s boys have been as good and kind to me as boys
r could be, but I have often wished that Eddie
r had been a girl."
t After a little more chat we set to work with
- our accounts, and worked at them so industri-
. ously that when the door-bell rang, announcing
the arrival of Mr. Harrington, his sister glanced
at her watch, scarcely able to believe that the
evening had so far advanced.
" Half past nine !" said shse; "I had no idea
it was so late, though John is rather earlier
than I told him to be."
I escorted Mr. Harrington to the parhov ;
lhe paused a moment in the door-way, his tall
head almost touching the humble lintel.
"And this is your home ?" he said almost
unconsciously, glancing first over the room and
then at me, with that kind, cordial expression
in his eyes that made him at times so much
resemble Isis sister.
"It looks much more like home than our
boarding-house rooms do, don't you think so,
John ?' said Miss Harrington ; and then, with-
out waiting for an answer, she went on impuls-
ively, "But, poor fellow ! he does not even
know what home ought to look like ! He has
lived in a boarding-house ever since he was ten
years old."
"I have my ideas on the subject, notwithi
standing," he said quietly. "This little maid
is your sister, I suppose, Miss Harrington ?" and
as Agnes rose to return his greetings, he took
her rosy face between his hands and gazed at
her with a look in his eyes that few would have
imagined those stern, quiet orbs capable of ex-
pressing. And Agnes seemed to understand
it too, for with that peculiar freemasonry
which children possess in common with the
other orders of the brute creation, she recog-
nized in him a friend; and drawing her low
chair close to his, before ie had been in the
house half an hour, she was nestled cosily to
liis side, with his arm around her, and her hand
clasped us Isis ; ans unprecedented piece of con-
descension in my shy, wild little sister.

AN EVENING AT HOME.                                    1
I brought in a plate of apples and passed a moment's pause ; "yet I need not ask the
them around, and as Miss Harrington sat question, for the shape of your forehead is suifli-
munching hers, she said to me somewhat ab- cient proof of that. You must allow us to in-
raptly, "What do you do with yourself here troduce to you some of the inmates of what we
of evenings, Caroline?  Do you have much call our home. We have some fine musicians
company or go out much ?"                  among them, and can get up impromptu con-
" I have not spent an evening from home certs almost any evening. Have you finished
since my father's death," said I sadly, "and your accounts ?" turning abruptly to his sister.
you are the first friends I have received here  "Bless you, no !" cried she; "we have work
since before I entered the store."         enough there for a week."
"But, good heavens, child!" she cried, quite  "Then, Miss Caroline, I shall do myself the
aghast at my announcement, "how can you pos- honor of calling upon you to-morrow evening for
sibly lead such a life? I should think you the purpose of taking you to spend an evening
would die of loneliness."                  with Jenny.  Such industrious folks as you are
"If it is a fatal disease I certainly shall," I can accomplish a good deal in the early part of
said bitterly, "for I believe that I am often af- the evening, and we will wind up the programme
flirted with it in its severest forms."    with a little music. Is the proposal an agreea-
" Tut, tut ! this will never do," she cried, ble one ?"
her kind eyes filling with tears as she .spoke. Miss Harrington cordially seconded her broth-
"We shall have you ere long a hopeless victim er's invitation, and I, scarce knowing whether I
of that 'green and yellow  melancholy' that was pleased-or not, finally accepted it, and then
Shakespeare tells us of. Now we are too much the subject changed. We chatted long and
troubled with society for our own good, for we pleasantly on many themes, our mutual ac-
never can be alone in a boarding-house ; I quaintances in the store, and the many incidents
think an exchange of visits once in a while will that daily occurred there, forming endless themes
be good for all of us, don't you, John?"  for discussion, and it was past eleven o'clock
"I think we will try the experiment, at all when Miss Harrington rose to take leave.
events," he said, in a voice so gentle and tender  She kissed me cordially as she bade me good-
that my heart throbbed, I knew not why, with a bye, the first time she had ever done so, and my
feeling of grateful joy that was almost painful, eyes grew dim with unshed tears as I remembered
"If Miss Manvers will only allow us to be her that it was the first caress I had exchanged with
friends, I think we shall henceforth take the any one but Agnes since my father's death.
friendly privilege of inflicting our company Then I caught Mr. Harrington's gaze fixed upon
upon her very frequently."                 my face, and blushing, I dashed my tears aside,
I faltered my thanks as best I could for kind- feeling intuitively, as I did so, that he had
ness and sympathy so unexpected and sincere, guessed the reason of my emotion.
and in the same voice, so expressive of consider-  I accompanied my new friends to the door,
ate affection, Mr. Harrington continued-   and with Agnes clinging to my side, I gazed
"I have noticed for some time past the gloomy, wistfully after them in the darkness as long as I
cheerless expression your face has been grow- could distinguish their forms.  Twice I per-
ing to wea, an expression totally different from  ceived that Mr. Ilarrington turned to look back
the easily understood sadness that clouded it at me, and the action awakened again that wild
when first you came among us, and I have often fluttering in my breast that I knew not whether
wondered what terrible domestic trials could be to interpret as joy or sorrow.
harassing your young spirit to bring that terri-  From that night the dark fiend of ennui which
Lie look into your face. The mystery is ex- had so long tormented me vanished with the re-
plained now ; so desolate a life as you have cvi- treating forms of my new-found ties, and a gold-
dently been leading would account for even the en halo, shed from some mysterious radiance
extent of dejection which has afflicted you. within my own bosom, was cast upon the me-
There must be a change here, or the shawl de- notonous pathway that still lay unchanged before
apartment of Nettleby &amp; Son will have to find me. My prospects were the same; it was I that
another clerk before a year is out."       was changed; and in vague but delightful per-
I was so utterly astonished by the intelligence plexity as to the cause of my mental phenome-
that my face and its expressions had been no- na, I yielded myself to the guidance offered to
ticed by our quiet "governor," that I forgot to re- me, quite forgetting to be proud or reserved im
peat my thanks for his sympathy.           the grateful affection I was learning to feel for
" You like music, do you not ?" lie said, after Miss Jenny and her brother.


28                  MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

The next evening, arrayed in the plain bla
silk which was the only attempt at dress of
which my mourning wardrobe could boast,
received Mr. Harrington again beneath my roof
Agnes had gone to stay with a school-mate, tht
daughter of a kind neighbor, with whom she in
tended to remain until Ireturned, and was muc
more delighted in expectation with her visi
than I was with -mine--for my old shyness wa
creeping back upon me quite overpoweringly at
the idea of appearing so soon in the presence of
so many strangers. However, I had no time foi
faltering, for Mr. Harrington bore to me his sis
ter's injunction that I should lose no time, and
soon, hooded and shawled, I left the house un-
der his protection.
It had been so long since I had been in the
street after night, that this sensation alone was
quite a novelty to me, and so I told my com-
panion.
" You poor little hermit !" he said, almost
involuntarily, "no wonder you are becoming
so shadow-like!  At least you shall have a
good look at the streets to-night, if so trivial
a circumstance can give you pleasure."  And
choosing the principal thoroughfares in our
progress, we walked slowly and leisurely along,
I feeling really delighted at the bright spectacle
of the gas-liglitef streets and showily-decorated
shop-windows, clinging timidly to the arm of
my escort, and feeling momentarily a growing
sense of comfort and protection in his conpan-
ionship that was not the least delightful of all
the novel sensations of that memorable evening.
Arrived at last, decidedly to my regret, at
our destination, Mr. Harrmington escorted me at
once to his sister's room.  She was reading
when we entered, but laying aside her' book,
greeted me very kindly, and after relieving me
of my wraJ))igs, introduced me to her young
brother, Edwin Harrington, a boy apparently of
eighteen or twenty, who had been seated by the
table reading as we entered.
I glanced rather curiously at this new ac-
(unintance, for I felt really interested in the
boy, having heard his sister speak of him so fre-
qiughtly and so aTcetionately. lie was tall, but
slightly built, anI seemed to be in very deli-
cate health, lIe had a fair, beardless face,
high white forehead, light hair and blue eyes.
By many persons I dare say he would have been
regarded as strikingly handsome, but his was by
no means a style of beauty that I admired; he
inl no respect resembled either Miss Jenny or
when it is exlIlained that he wsassil rearkablf-
brother, his another having ee vaDr. Harming-

k ton's second wife. He shook hands with me,
and his hands'seemed as soft and slender as my
I own, and his voice, when he spoke to me, fairly
startled me, so musically feminine were its tones;
e upon the whole, I could but agree with Miss
- Jenny in thinking that it was a pity Eddie had
h not been a girl. How little could I then guess
t the feelings of respect and admiration I was
s afterward destined .to feel for that seemingly
t effeminate boy !
. The first two hours of my visit were devoted
r to the inevitable accounts; but with "the gov-
- ernor's" assistance we made such rapid headway
1 with them that I declared my ability to finish
- the rest of the work without any farther assist-
ance.
Work finished, Mr. Harrington escorted his
sister and myself to the parlor, Eddie still
choosing to remain with the book to which he
had devoted his undivided attention throughout
t the evening. In the parlor I was introduced to
many persons, both ladies and gentlemen, and
at last,,overpowered by the many st ange faces,
I shrank timidly to Miss Harrington's side,
scarcely able to raise my eyes, or to respond
with more than monosyllables to all the civil
speeches that were made to me. "Thy governor"
was evidently a man of mark in his own circle,
and his conversation was as eagerly listened to
by the gay crowd around him as by unsophisti-
cated me. Hopeless of drawing me from the
shy reserve in which I had involunta-ily clothed
myself, one by one the strangers who had been
introduced to me wandered away, and to my
great relief I was allowed to sit by Miss Jenny's
side unnoticed and untalked to. I was not al-
lowed to feel myself neglected though, at any
time, for when the company generally consented
to worry me no more with civilities that only
frightened me, and I was left sitting in my
quiet insignificance, listening to the gay chatter
around me, and watching all that occurred with
eager, happy eyes, I not infrequently caught
Mr. Harrington's glance directed toward me,
anti often, during the evening, he would leave
the gay circle of which he seemed to be the cen-
tre, and would come to where I sat so quietly
by his sister's side, questioning me kindly con-
cerning my comfort and enjoyment.
At last the music which I had been promised
was introduced. The performers were several
ladies who played upon the piano, and a gentle-
man, proficient upon the violin; and then after
a general cry for Eddie Harrington, that young
gentleman appeared with mu flute in his hand
celon wich he 1 certainly " discoursed most ex-

A NIGHT IN THE SHAWL-ROOM.
It is only by remembering how entirely I had I was daily growing more hopeful and ure-
been deprived of any pleasures of this kind, served, while the hidden happiness that was
that the extent of my present enjoyment can be springing up in my heart so brightened my eyes
understood. I forgot the time, the place, the and quickened my tongue that Miss Harrington
company by whom 1 was surrounded ; Ilistened was wont to declare that I was becoming as
like one entranced, drinking in the harmony of merry and heedless as was Agnes herself.
sweet sounds that so ravished my senses with a had learned very quickly the lesson which hap-
ravenous appetite that seemed as if it could piness had taught me-and with the daily prayer
neverbe satisfied ; at times the tears sprang nn- that my past repinings might be forgotten, I
controllably to my eyes, and I would have given thankfully acknowledged that there was always
almost any thing I possessed for the privilege something worth living for in life, while earth
of weeping; it was at such a moment as this, was blessed with such generous, unselfish spirits
during a brief lull in the music, that Mr. liar- as those of John Ilarriugton and his sister Jenny.
rington stood by my side.
rigHow dearly you love music!" he said, gazing
almost wonderingly into my excited face.
''And do not you like it, then ?" I asked, with       CIAPTER     .
still more amazement than he had shown.
"Like  it !  of course,"  he  said, with  a  slight  A  NiG  IN  Tr 1E  1AwL- OOM.
shrug of the shoulders, ''in an easy, indifferent  THAT spring an incident occurred at the store
sort of a way; I think it is generally rather which exercised a marked influence upon my
pleasant to listen to; to be sure it all sounds future life, so I trust I may not be considered
alike to me, but I don't mind that, so long as unnecessarily tedious if I relate the affair at
the sound is an agreeable one. There are length.
thousands of things I like better, though," he  One afternoon, after one of the busiest days
added, laughing; "watching your horror-struck of the season, Miss Harrington, who had been
countenance at this moment, for instance ; I am  complaining of a headache all day, came to me,
sure you are mentally convicting me to be fit white and faint, saying, " I believe I shall have
only 'for treason, stratagem, and spoils?'" And to go home, Caroline; I feel really very sick.
just then the music recominencing, lie left me I hate to leave you when there is so much to do,
again to the undisturbed enjoyment of it.  especially as Margaret Leigh is away, and you
This evening proved to be only the first of will have no one to help you but that little girl
many as pleasant ones which followed during who has just come to us; but I am afraid I shall
the ensuing spring. I never again had reason not be able to stay any longer."
to complain of the loneliness which had occa-  "Do not think of doing so, dear Miss IIar-
sioned me such bitter misery. One or two even- rington," I cried, feeling quite uneasy at her
ings every week I spent in the society of the haggard looks.  "I do not know what I can
IIarringtons, and their kindness secured to me have been thinking of, that I did not send you
even greater pleasure than I found in visiting home long ago. Get your bonnet on instantly,
and being visited by them. Learning by aeci- and I will go and find 'the governor,' for you
dent my fondness for dramatic performances, really are not able to go home alone ;" and
Mr. Harrington introduced me under his sister's without waiting for an answer, I ran to do as I
guardianship to the hitherto forbidden paradise had said.
of the theatre, and very frequently did he escort  I presently returned, followed by her brother,
there not only his sister and me, but little Ag- and soon had the satisfaction of seeing Miss Jen-
nes, between whom and himself a wonderful ny fairly on her homeward way.
friendship had sprung up; and though Miss Jen-  "Do not overwork yourself, Caroline," she
ny almost invariably fell asleep during the per- had said as she left me; "what you can not get
formanees, she as invariably protested after- through with by the time the store closes, leave
ward that she enjoyed it quite as much as I undone, and I will come a little earlier than
did, and was too thoroughly good-natured to usual to-morrow morning, to make up for lost
mar my enjoyment by declining totaccompany time."
us wenevr hr brtherinvted stogo."You shall do no such thing," cried 'the gov-
Mar velous indeed was the change wvhich the ernor' and I with one accord, and lie added
kindness of these dear friends had succeeded in gravely, "You will not be able to come at all,
bth imnproved under their benign influence, an hey lef metandtI ran back to my wok and my


30                          MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
customers, and was kept busily employed until worry yourself though about me; I can stay here
nearly dark.                              an hour or so later without any inconvenience,

Then we commenced the tiresome task of
folding up and putting away the innumerable
articles which had been hauled down from their
shelves and boxes, to gratify the whims and
fancies of the public.  An endless task it ap-
peared to me, tired as I already was, and I looked
almost despairingly upon the piles of shawls of
every size and material which were lying n-
folded and disordered upon the counter before
me. Before we had fairly commenced our task
the girls at the other counters had finished their
work and were preparing to leave.
I had noticed that my assistant, a girl of six-
teen or seventeen, who had been with us only a
few days, had seemed very uneasy during the last
hour or so, and now, just while we were in the
heaviest of the work, she was called away from
her duties by the appearance of a little boy who
ane to the door of the shawl-room and called
her by name. They talked together very ear-
nestly for a while, and she seemed so much dis-
tressed at what he was saying that I could not
avoid asking her what it was that troubled her.
"l 'm sure I don't know what I ought to do,
Miss Manvers," she said, bursting into tears.
a Mother is very sick, and there has been no one
at home with her all the afternoon but Sammy
Here. I wanted to get home earlict to-day than
usual on that account, but I knew I could not
leave you here alone, so I said nothing about it.
liut about lanhour ago, Sammy tells me, mother
was taken worse, and he was so. frightened that
he called in one of our neighbors to 'tay with
ier while he came for me ; and I must go home,
Miss Manvers, right away."
''Of course you must," said I. "I am sorry
all this trouble has happened the same day, but
it can not be helped. 1 will do the best I can
alone, and do you hurry home as fast as possible
to your mother."
Site started to. obey me, evidently much re-
lieved, but paused again in dismay as she looked
upon the confusion reigning around hter. ".But
von, Miss Manvers, what will you do?   You
surely can not finish all this work by yourself?
Is it not possible to leave it?  I will be back
as soon as the store is opened in the morning,
if mother is so that I can leave her, and we can
get put to rights then before the customers com-
merrce coming in."
Ol, no !" said I, " that will never do. 'The
governor' is away to-night, you know, and Mr.
Frank Nettleby will go the rounds of the store.
I would not upon any account have him find
outr department in sucht a condition. Do not

i

and if you will let your little brother carry a
note to my sister on his way home, I shall not
mind staying at all."
So I scribbled a few lines to Agnes, telling
her the cause of my detention, and bidding her
not to be uneasy if I should not be home until
quite late; and then I hurried the frightened
uneasy creature off.  She had scarcely reached
the door erc she cane hurrying back.
"Oh! my goodness, Miss Manvers, I had
completely forgotten ! Here is an order for a
white crepe shawl just like the one Mrs. Mc-
Donough bought yesterday. Her sister order-
ed it, and said it must be sent home to-night,
because she was going to leave the city early
to-morrow morning. I was busy waiting on
some other persons when the order was given
to me, and thinking there was no particular
hurry about it, I put it in my pocket and
had completely forgotten it until this minute.
What would Mr. Nettleby say if he knew of my
negligence?  I have been in so much trouble
about mother that it has made me quite inca-
pable of attending to my duties here."
"There is no harm done, thus far," I said
good-humoredly, for she looked very much
frightened, and I was anxious to soothe her.
"It is not yet too late, so I will attend to send-
ing it, and Mr. Nettleby need know nothing
about itL"  So she hurried away quite satisfied,
and I turned to find the desired article, and have
it sent before the stores losed.
Of course when one is in a hurry every thing
happens to cause detention. Upon going to
look for a shawl of the kind required, I found
that there were none upon the shelves, and that
it would be necessary for me- to repair to the
wareroom in an upper story to obtain one. I
was provoked enough, but there was no help for
it, so I ran through the almost deserted store,
and ascending the stairs to the fourth story, I
entered the room in which the supply of shawls
was stored.
To my surprise the room had already an oc-
cupant, in the form of no less a person than
Mr. Frank Nettleby, who was unpacking a box
of fine laces which had been brought up there
that afternoon. I was glad he was there, for
the shawls were troublesome to get at, and I
knew he would not mind helping me.
"Hallo !" he exclaimed, turning his head
as I entered, apparently yet more astonished
at seeing me than I had been at seeing him.
" What brings you up here, Miss-Mies--'
"Manvers," I suggested.

-
'
s. '
'
,
HE_
Y
:f
'i
,''
j[}53 i
W ('
A'
A


"Miss Manvers, I beg your pardon; my according to the amount of filthy lucre the

"YOU WOMEN ALWAYS LIKE TO LOOK AT PRETTY THINGS,"PAGE 3!,

memory is very treacherous. I thought you
girls had all gone home. Did you wish to see
me? is there any thing I can do for you ?"
I explained the object of my visit, and he im-
mediately arose and assisted me in obtaining
the desired articles. I turned to go then, but
he called me to come and look at the goods he
was unpacking.
"You women always like to look at pretty
things," he said, "and here is some finery, the
very sight of which will make you die of en-
vy.",
"Hardly charitable to show it to me, then,
Mr. Nettleby," said I, laughing, but I tarried
nevertheless, in spite of my hurry, for I was
neither more nor less than woman, and possess-
ed as great a fondness for pretty things as Mr.
Frank had credited me with.
"It is part of the wedding paraphernalia of
Judge Home's daughter," Mr. Nettleby went on
to say. "I received the commission to get
them when I was in Paris, and I ordered them
at head-quarters. I tried my hand at a little
designing for some of the lace patterns myself,
and I am rather anxious to have a lady's opin-
ion of them before they are submitted to Miss
Home's inspection."
lHe shook open cloud after cloud of soft fleecy
lace, and thin gauzy muslin, veils, sleeves, col-
lars, handkerchiefs, embroideries of all kinds,
each article more beautiful than its predecessor.
I had just taken from his hand a lovely cobweb
which he called a handkerchief, proclaiming
himself designer of the pattern which embellish-
ed it, when a man's foot approached the closed
door of the apartment which we were occupy-
ing. Just then there was a great noise raised
in the room below us, caused by the drawing
of some heavy crates across the floor, and when
that noise had subsided, the sound of retreating
footsteps was heard in the distance descending
the stairs, and Mr. Nettleby remarked careless-
ly, in answer to my inquiring look, -" One of
the porters, I suppose, sent up stairs for some-
thing he had forgotten. They are getting in a
lot of domestics and such like heavy goods down
below there, which is the cause of that confound-
ed clatter. I guess they are through now.
Come, look at that handkerchief, and tell me
honestly how you like it."
"It is pretty, very pretty ; but I think there
are some of the others I liked better: this one,
for instance, with the thistle and lily border ;
but they are all beautiful. Did they cost much ?"
" What a truly feminine question !" laughed
Mr. Frank. " I suppose you will value them

f

^ 3'
-

A NIGHT IN THE SHAWL-ROOM.

31

judge expends on them. Well, for your satis-
faction be it known then, that the thistle and
lily border was the most expensive one of the
lot, though any one of them cost more than you
can earn in a year. Stop ! don't go yet ! you
have not seen the gem of the collection, the
wedding-dress ;" and hurried as I was, I could
not resist the temptation, but sat lingering on,
quite breathless with delight, as he opened a
box that was in itself a gem of art, and from the
folds of silver paper which enshrouded it, drew
forth into the light of day a fabric so exquisite
that even my inexperienced eyes knew it to be
worth a fortune.
"None of my handiwork there," he said,
opening the robe and throwing it over my black
dress that the pattern might be fully displayed.
" One of the first artists of the day was called
upon to furnish that design, and I guess he
found it a better paying job than many of his
more dignified studies. Look at those clusters
in each corner ! 'T'hey are what I call superb."
And having admired the beautiful cobweb until
I had expended upon it all the adjectives in
my vocabulary, I rose again to depart.
I must-go, Mr. Nettleby," I said ; ''I shall
not get through my work down stairs until ten
o'clock if I linger here any longer;" and I hur-
ried to the door, quite worried to see how late it
was growing.
"I have rather more of a task here myself
than I had bargained for," lie-said, as he com-
menced refolding the dress. " I shall have my
hands full in getting these ' airy nothings' back
to the shape I found them."
Meanwhile I had been trying to open the
door, but found that it resisted my efforts, from
some cause or other. "You will have to cone
and open this door for me, I believe, Mr. Nettle-
by," I said at last; '' something seems to be the
matter with it."
lie tarried a moment to deposit out of harm's
way the laces he had been holding, and then
hastened to comply with my request. lie gave
the door a forcible jerk, but an ineffectual one,
then he -shook it with all his strength ; all in
vain ; the handle turned readily, but the door
would not open.
''Upon my soul !" he cried in dismay, " I
believe we are locked in. Could that fellow
who disturbed us awhile since have been the
watchman of the night? If it was, he has pass-
ed the room, and thinking it empty, has locked
it for the night, as it was his duty to do, the
careless scoundrel !" with which rather contra-
dictory conclusion, Mr. Nettleby rattled at the

x
i,,
4 #

+(.lY
TT"+] " +k
' V f
Y.1


32                  MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

A NIGHT IN THE SHAWL-ROOM.

door with all his might, and exerted his lungs
to the utmost in calling for help.
In vain ; I knew, and lie knew too, that if
the men from the story beneath us had depart-
ed, and the night-watchman had gone his
rounds, there was not a human being in the
building, for the latter, although lie remained in
the building all night, went home to his supper
first, and did not return until late in the even-
ing. Even had lie still been in the store, how-
ever, he was completely out of hearing of the
combined voices of half a dozen men exerted in
the fourth story.
Mr. Nettleby, seeing that it was quite impos-
sible that lie should make himself heard at the
door, next turned his attention to the windows,
and flinging one open, again shouted as loud as
he was able, in hopes of attracting the attention
of some one below. Alas ! this hope was no
less vain than the other. The room was in the
back of the building, and the windows opened
only on a deserted yard and tightly-barred back
buildings belonging to our own and adjoining
stores. Not a human being evidently was with-
in sight or hearing, and at last, relinquishing
his hopeless task, and hoarse from the exertions
lie had made, Mr. Nettleby turned to me as I
sat pallid with apprehension upon one of the
boxes that filled the room.;
"Well, ma'am, I am afraid we shall have to
snake up our minds to pass the night here," lie
said, adding, with a forced laugh, "I atm sure:
if you can endure my society for that length of
time, I ought not to be discontented with
yours."  And then the dreadful predicament ini
which I was placed I could no longer refrain
from realizing.
I started to my feet, sick and faint. I turned
so white that I suppiose lie thought I was about
to faint, for lie sprang quickly to my side as ift
to support me. '' My God ! what will become
of me !" I cried ; then clinging to his arm, r
I gazed into his face with agonized, implor. -
ing eyes.  " Oh, Mr. Nettlehy ! do something !s
please do something ! don't stop trying to make
them hear you ! Think, think, what a dreadful
thing this will be for me !
le passed his arm around me, for I wasa
trembling so that I could hardly stand, and at
the time I was quite unconscious of his action; e
lie looked down into my pallid face with a kind, f
grave glance that would have reassured me if t
any thing could, and seating me gently upon a
the box again, he spoke to me in a quiet, sooth- n
ing tone.                                 11
"You are glaring yourself unnecessarily ;
have confidence in mie; I will allow no shadow a

of blame to fall upon you from tl e unfortunate
conjuncture of circumstances thai has forced us
into this unpleasant predicament. That you
will perhaps be obliged to pass a very uncom-
fortable, wearisome night I am afraid I can not
deny, but rest assured that I will permit no far-
ther annoyance to result from it.
"You could not help it,"I mur ured almost
inarticulately.  " There is not an emplovd
about the establishment that will not know of
this affair to-morrow, and oh ! the cruel, terri-
ble things they will say of me !" i nd I wrung
my hands in agony.
Mr. Nettleby's kind face wore a terner frown
than I had thought it could possibly have as-
sumed. "If there is one of them, man, wom-
an, or child, who dares by word or insinuation
to cast a slur upon my honor or your delicacy,
he or she shall leave my employ that moment.
Fear not; my thoughtlessness has involved you
in this difficulty, and I promise you most sol-
emnly that no endeavor upon my part shall be
lacking to screen you from its ill eft cts. Rely
upon me."
I felt his kindness, and I knew that all he
promised he would perform, but he could not
soothe the agony that was battling with my
heart. He could not even understan it. How
should he?  How could he dream thtt the poor,
commonplace shop-girl who heretofore had re-
ceived from him so little attention th t her very
name had been forgotten, the obscure, friend-
less woman, dependent upon her daily toil for
her daily bread ; how could he dream that so
insignificant a creature should prize above all
worldly advantages and station, nay,  ven above
life itself, the stainless purity of a name more
honorable than his own ! How could he im-
agine the cruel torture I endured w en forced
to the belief that the name my fathr had so
gloriously maintained unsullied, should now, by
my most sorrowful misfortune, become the
theme of thoughtless jests, perhaps of malicious
scandal ! And with look and voice of agony I
could only reiterate my cry, "Do try again to
make them hear you, Mr. Nettleby ! Do not
ease your efforts, I implore you, while there is
a shadow of a chance to escape !"
So, obedient to my  entreaties, again he call-
d from the window and rattled at the door, and
inally, with an empty goods-box thumped upon
lhe floor, making din enough, I thought, to have
roused the, whole neighborhood. All n vain;
io sound responsive to his own broke the si-
ence when his futP a labors ceased-.
" You see," he said, "it is all useless. I do
ot suppose there is a soul in the building ex-

cept ourselves. It is abominable, this being
shut up like a rat in a trap ! A prisoner in
one's own house ! If I had but a crow-bar !"'
and he gazed helplessly around; "but no !
deuce a bit of steel is there within these four
walls stronger than my pen-knife. There is no
help for it, Miss Manvers. Let us make the
best of a very disagreeable business: endure
the night as best we may ; and believe me, in
the course of a few days we shall come to look
upon our adventure actually in the light of a
good joke."
A glance at my white, despairing face check-
ed his light speech ; he came and stood by my
side, looking down pityingly upon me. "Do
you really then anticipate so much trouble from
this foolish affair ?" he said gently.
The kind words and pitying tone vanquished
completely the little fortitude I yet had man-
aged to preserve. Bowing my head upon my
hands, my long-repressed agony found relief in
convulsive sobs and tears.  "God pity me," I
cried ; "how shall I ever bear it ! Oh, my fa-
ther ! my father ! little did I ever think that
the day would come when I should be thankful
you were in your grave !"
"Hush, my dear girl, do not weep so, I beg
of you !" he said, scarcely less agitated than my-
seltf "Surely your imagination is inflicting
upon you needless suffering. Your fears are
exaggerating the evils you apprehend."
"I can not exaggerate them," I said, almost
fiercely. "There can be no worse, save actual
crime, than the evil that has befallen me. You
are a gentleman in position and breeding, and,]
doubt not, value highly the honor of you
name ; if you were poor, helpless, friendless as i
am, with that good nmem your only treasure, in
beholding it imperiled you could perhaps appre
ciate my feelings now. Yet, no ! you'could no
even then, for you are a man, and in no circum
stances could you realize the horrible misfor
tune that a sullied reputation is to a woman.
am no coward, but I could meet the assassin'
knife with far more fortitude than I can th
jeers and inuendoes of those girls below, to
morrow morning."
" Is it'indeed so ?" he said sorrowfully; an
then he turned away from me and paced up an
down the room in thoughtful silence, while
the violence of my grief exhausted, sat wit
bowed head in the passive quiet of despii
Presently he stopped in his walk, and agai
came and stood by my side. With gentle vh
leuce be removed my hands from my face, ar
retaining them in his clasp, lie said softl
" Miss Manvers, look at me !"

Mechanically I obeyed, and raised my eyes,
dull and glazed with suffering, to his face. IIe
lool-ed very much agitated, and there were ac-
tualy tears in the bright blue eyes that gazed
pityingly into my own. He looked at me with
peculiar fixedness ere he spoke, and when he
did, his words at first seemed more in answer to
his own thoughts than intended as an address
to me.  "You are a good, virtuous girl, I do
believe, and one whom any moan might learn to
love; your manner and speech show that your
education and breeding have been superior to
the circumstances in which 1 find you." lie
paused a moment, and continued gazing into
my face with an eager, searching look that
seemed as if it defied deceit-then with more
decision, lie continued, "The same vile slander-
ers, whose malicious misconstructions would
sully your wiomanily fame, would, at the same
time, asperse my honor as a gentleman. I may
be able to save you from unjust suspicion in the
store, but outside of it my power faiils, anid all
I can do is to suffer with you. I see but one
mode of escape for you. Our misfortune is mu-
tual, let us meet it together. My heart and
hand are free ; I offer theta to you now in all
sincerity; and in making you my wife, I can
safely promise to shield you front all the scan-
dal you so much dread, and to raise you at
once to a position so far above the power of the
malicious, that you may safely venture to defy
t them."
lie paused again, but I could not speak ; my
tongue was palsied with surprise and consterna-
I tion at his unexpected words. Ie waited a
r moment or so, and then gently repeated, "Have
I I not made myself sufficiently plain?  I ask
you to become my wife, Miss Manvers ; may I
not hope for a favorable answer ?"
t   At last I cried, "You are an honorable and
- a generous man, Mr. Nettleby ; a true and loyal
- gentleman ; and miserable though I am, I can
I understand and appreciate the magnanimity of
s your conduct, though God forbid that I should
e take advantage of it! You are in no way re-
- sponsible for the misfortune which has befallen
me, and I am not so selfish as to wish to save
d myself by dragging you into an alliance with a
d woman whose worldly station is so far below
I, your own, and in whom, save from compassion,
h your feelings are in no way interested."
r.   ''I am not - so sure of that,"~he said, in a
[n low tone, and then in his natural voice he rc-
o- sumed, " 1 will_ not agitate you farther, by
id dwelling upon this subject; think over what I
y, have said; I will ask you again for an answer
to my appeal when we are both in a calmer
C

)


MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

mood.   That I sincerely hope your reply may
be in the affirmative, let this attest ;" and bend-
ing over, he pressed his lips upon my hand with
a fervor that left me in no doubt of the sincerity
of his speech.  Then he left me, and walked
away to the window, where, in the gathering
darkness, I could just distinguish the outlines
of his form as lie leaned against the casement.
Meanwhile I sat, stunned almost into apathy
by the sudden and violent emotions which had
racked my frame during the past hour. I did
not think of the morrow, for my mind was be-
coming too unsettled to appreciate its terrors. I
(lid not think of the offer with which Mr. Net-
tlehy had honored me, nor did i think of him at
all ; a vague confused idea that his position
toward me had vastly altered, indeed struggled
within my mind ; vet any active sentiment either
of like or dislike toward him, I felt none. I (lid
not think of the discomforts which were likely to
fall to my lot during the long, long, tedious
night now rapidly coming on ; I sat with folded
hands, my head leaning back upon a rough box
that stood behind me, a dull, heavy feeling of
distress weighing upon my heart and brain ;
with but cue thought, one idea, at all clearly de-
fined amid the host of shadows that beset me,
and that was, '' What would ' the governor' say,
when he heard what had happened ?"
I d1o not know how long I sat thus ; the time
seed interminable to me. Twice Mr. Net-
tleby camne to me from his station by the win-
low ; once lie brought a couple of heavy shawls
he had taken from one of the boxes, and throw-
ig one over the box behind me, to serve as a
sort of pdllow for my head, lie wrapped the other
around my shoulders, and then silently with-
drew again. A little later, a heavy sigh, which
escaped from me almost unconsciously, as I
slightly changed my position, brought him to
m side again. iHe stood beside me in the
darkness, iiiotionless and silent fbi a moment ; at
last bending over me so that I felt his breath
upon my forehead, he said gently, '' I hoped you
were sleeping ;are you comfortable ?  Can I
do any thing more for you ?"
" Nothing, I thank you."
Still he lingered, and I could distinctly hear
his iick breathing as lie stood over me. A
vague feeling of terror crept over me, as I re-
membered how completely I was in this man's
power ; my womanly aelicacy took the alarm,
and I shrank back from him, faint and trembling,
as far as I was able. He seemed instinctively
to comprehend my feeling ; lie sighed heavily,
sand passed his hand caressingly over niy head
as if tO reassure me, and then lie stole from nmy

side again to some distant part o the room;
where, I could scarcely tell.
Again a long, unbroken silence, interrupted
only by a restless motion occasionally from him.
Sleep came not near my eyes, and I knew that
Mr. Nettleby was quite as wakeful as I. At
last there came a sound ; I could not credit my
ears ; I leaned forward, and listened breathless.
ly; it came nearer ; I was not deceived.  "Mr.
Nettleby !" I cried. "Quick! call for help;
there's a man's foot upon the stairs."
Ie needed no second bidding, for my fellow-
prisoner had caught the sound as well as I.
lIe sprang to the door, and pounded lustily upon
it, shouting vigorously at the same time.
"Where are you?     Who calls for help ?"
said a voice outside.
"It is I--Frank- Nettleby. We have been
locked in this room, through mistake, by that
infernal watchman.  The keys are kept in the
chest at the end of the passage; for Heaven's
sake get them, and let us out."
The step retreated as directed, but presently
returned ; then came the welcome sound of the
key rattling in the lock, the door was thrown
open, aid the light of a lantern streamed into
the room.
" Caroline, are you here ?" cried a familiar
voice. With a wild cry I sprang forward ; a
strong arm was thrown around me, and the next
iuonient I was sobbing upon the bosom of Mr.
Harrington.
He clasped me in a close embrace, and I felt
his heart beat heavily beneath my head, yet he
asked me no questions, and indeed I could have
answered none then had my life depended on it.
But Mr. Nettleby's tongue ran fast enough.
" Curse that watchman !" he was saying;
"he has got us into a pretty predicament;
turned the key on us while we were looking at
Miss home's wedding finery, and was out of
hearing before we discovered what had hap-
pened. I have shouted myself hoarse, and Miss
Manvers has almost cried her eyes out but all
to no purpose.  I supposed we were infor the
night, of course. What lucky star sent you
here, Harrington, just in the nick of time ?"
"No idea of finding you, Mr. Nettle)y, I as-
sure you.  My sister sent me with a message to
Miss Manvers, this evening, and when I arrived
at her house, I found her little sister becoming
very uneasy about her lengthened absence,
though a note that she had received told her
that Caroline would be detained at thy store
later than usual. I thought it very impi'robable
flint she should still he here, hut I concluded I
hind better come and ascertaini for Inyself.

r /

"Yes! yes !" I cried. "1Do not leave me, hesitating sort of a way, beforelieeenso su
Mr. Harrington ; I want no carriage, the dis- it lie raised it quickly to his lips and kissed it.
tance is not great, and I can easily walk ; only Then while the hot blood which the act called
please take me home as soon as possible."    up still burned my cheek, lie turned from me,
Mr. Nettleby looked very angry ; agitated as and walked rapidly down the street.
I was, I could see that.  "Come along, then !"  The caresses of those two men yet lingered
lie said crossly ; ''I must get a lantern and on my hand ; their voices still sounded in my
come back here to put away these cursed trump- ears ; and their faces mingled strangely and gro-
eries ; it will never do to leave those laces lie tesquely in my dreams when slumber finally
around all night.  By the bye, what time is it, sealed my eyes after the troubles of that event-
Harrington ?"                               ful day.
"The governor" consulted his watch. "Ten
minutes of ten," ie said, and both Mr. Nettle-
by and I gave an ejaculation of surprise.                  CHI  PTER VI.
"Thought }t was most morning, didn't you V'.,,
he said ; "I am sure I did."                       F. N. AND "TaE GovERNOR.
When Mr. Iarrington and I were clear of     I im not obey Mr. Harrington's injunction
the store, and on our homeward way, he asked to stay at home next day, and I was just ready
and obtained of me a full account of the manner to start for the store when Miss Jenny entered.
in which the accidental detention had occurred. "Well! you have come 'pretty near being a

P. N. AND "THE GOVERNOR."
When I reached the store, finding it closed and When he had listened to all that I thought best
(lark, I imagined, Caroline, that you had left, of to tell him of the evening's adventures, he said
course, and was about retracing my steps ; but to me, " Why were you so terrified at the idea
acting upon second thoughts, I aroused the of having Mr. Nettleby escort you home? sure-
watchman, and determined upon taking a look ly during the forced coimpiiionship into which
at the shawl department, thinking that I could you were thrown with him, he did not dare to
tell somewhat from its-condition of the time you forget that he was a gentleman ?"
had left the building. I found it in utter disorder,  '5' Oh, no ! no ! no !" I cried, almost indig-
and youdmay imagine my surprise when I saw  nantly; "how could you think it?_ The delica-
vour bonnet and shawl lying upon the counter. cy and respect with which he treated me could
I knew from their presence that you must be in not have been greater had I been the noblest
the building, so I determined to visit every part lady in the land. When I declined his escort
of it, in hopes of finding you. This explains my now, it was not that I objected to his aecoimpa-
fortunate appearance.  The whole affair has nving me, but that I dreaded to have you leave
given me inexpressible anxiety, but I am well iie."
contented now, since it has had so harmless a  " You were very glad when you saw me,
(denouemnent." And Mr. Harrington looked upon then ?"
me with an expression that was evidently not  " Glad !" I said tearfully, " the word does
entirely satisfactory to Mr. Nettleby.     not begin to express my feelings ; in fact, they
"We are very thoughtless in keeping Miss are inexpressible. When I heard your voice, I
Manvers here so long," he said, advancing knew that my troubles were over."
toward me. " Harrington, if you will add to the  We reached home, and I found Agnes still
favor you have already done us the additional awake, and anxiously awaiting my return ; of
one of summoning a carriage from the nearest course I did not tell her of the events which
stand, I will have the honor of seeing Miss Man- had detained me, and she unquestioningly ac-
vers safely home. I know she is anxious enough cepted my late return as a mere matter of busi-
to be there."\                             ness.  Mr. Harrington only stayed with us a
I clung apprehensively to "the governor's" few minutes. "You had better not come to the
arm. I could not bear that he should leave me, store to-morrow," he said, as lie tod his leave.
even for a moment; he understood my feelings "Jennie is much better since supper, and will
readily, and answered, "I think, Frank, I had be at her post as usual. I will tell her to stop
better take charge of Miss Manvers myself; she and see you on her way to the store to-morrow
has been sadly terrified, and as she has seen morning. Get yourself to bed as speedily as
enough of Jenny and me to make us seem to her possible, for rest is. the best restorative for you
like old friends, I think she will perhaps be better now."
pleased with my company than with yours just  He took my hand, which I extended to him
now."                                      at parting, and holding it for a moment in a
--°- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~  ~   l   i h. d.,l_ ---   l--  --  C...... 1.C..,',  " ct

,

i
L


36                             MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
heroine !" was her first salutation.  "1I fully was encountered by that individual himself, who
expected to have found you in bed this morn- sprang from his desk as he saw me, and walked
ing, from the efbets of your fright.  Seriously, quickly forward.  He extended his hand to me,
though, it was very fortunate that John was in- and very unwillingly I placed mine within it
spired to hunt for you ; the consequences might unwillingly, I say, because there were twenty
have been awkward enough had you remained pairs of curious eyes turned in surprise upon me,
looked up all night. Tell inc now, I beg of you, as the young gentleman's unusual cordiality was
how it all happened, for John's account of the thus manifested.
matter was very unsatisfactory."                "You are feeling none the wor e for your
Accordingly, I gave her as full an account of fright, I trust ?" he said, in a voice audible only
the events of the preceding evening as I could to ne. " I dreamed about you all night, and al-
(1o without revealing the proposal with which ways as being in some distress or trouble, and J
Mr. Nettleby had honored me ; my aceounit of should not have been at all astonished had I
that gentleman's conduct pleased her greatly.  heard this morning that you were ill."  He
I always knew Frank was a real gentle- pressed my hand warmly as he spoke, and fixed
man ; if it had been possible to spoil him, lie his eyes upon me with an expression that made
must certainly have been ruined ere this, for lie me feel very hot and uncomfortable ; so I drew
has had his own way all his life, and his whole my hand impatiently away, and answered cold-
career ihes been one of uninterrupted prosperity. ly, "I have nothing to complain of, Mr. Nettle-
Ihis father has never pretended to exercise much  by ;" and without waiting for hin to speak
more authority over him than lie now does, and again, I passed on.
how much that is, you can see for yourself.     Mr. Harrington shook his head reprovingly
Iis mother, I suppose, he does not even re- when he saw me.     "You have disobeyed my
nmhebr, and, save the loss of her, he has orders, I see, so yoti must not hold me responsi-
never miet with a misfortuie in his life.  IIe lIe for any ill effects that may follow your ad-
was quite a little fellow, not more than five or venture,'' lie said, half in jest, half i earnest;
six years of age, when I first entered the store, and indeed, now that I was fairly at work, I was
and I have seen a good deal of him ever since; teiil)ted to wish that I had followed his advice
out of school lie was always in the store, anid I and stayed at home, for my head ached sadly,
canliinot realize yet that lie is any things but a boy. and my nerves were terribly unstrung,
lie was seventeen or eighteen when John enter-  Both of the gir's were at their posts this
el his father's clploy, and the young gentle- morning, and so my help as saleswoman was
man took quite a hncy to my quiet brother ; lie not needed, and I sat down to my books to try
took lessons in book-keeping from him, and used to make some headway with the yesterday's neg-
to spend many of his evenings with us at our lected work ; but may mind wandered, and I
boarding-house. Tihen his father sent him on a made mistakes by the score, until I felt ready to
trip to F'urop , and lie did not return until lie give up my task in despair.  I worried on for
was onie-aid-tweiity, and lie was tlieu formally several hours, but at last I threw down my pen,
instiuted a niemilber of' the firn ; iot altogether and resting my head between Iy hands, I gazed
a diinterested pioceediing on the part of Mr. xwith a sort of blank apathy upon the sheet of
Nettlebv, eilier, for Fraik had quite a lnuid- figures before mc.  While sitting thus, a hand
oie propeit of his own, iniherited fioiii his lightly touched my shoulder, and I looked Ip,
mothiei, and when lie came into the firii he in- with a nervous start, to see Mr. Frank standing
vested his noney in it, and extended the husi- beside ne.
ness consideralbly. 'The perfect freedom from  "I had come to see about that copying,
restraint in wlicli lie lies lived since lie has at- which so long ago you promised to do for me,"
tailed his riaiijority, his free and easy life in the he said, '' but I see that you do not feel in tire
European cities, aind his unilimited control of' miiood 'for any extra exer'tionu, so I will not
money, would certainly have proved the destrie- trouble you with it to-day.''
lion of almost aiu other man of his age, but I  '' On the contrary," I cried, starting tip with
do not see that these circumstances have had animation-for I was really pleased at tie pros-
any worse effect u)oii liiim tha to make him a pect of doing any thing for him whiici could
little headstrong and selfish."              show my sense of his kindness-"On the contra-
All this, and a great deal riore concerning rv, I shall he delighted to undertake tl e task,
iri toning eiiiployen', did Miss JIenniy tell me as aiid at once. - Simple copying requires do rmen,
we prioceeded together on our wax' to the store ; tel exertion, and it xxill be a relief to me to (luit
arid I had searcely' entered the building crc I these figures and computations, which, I fear,

F. N. AND "THE GOVERNOR."

_  :e
., J
P         _
i

There was no help for it I saw ; so seizing my
pen, I dashed rapidly into the business before
me; and after seeing me fairly. started, with all
imaginable solemnity he commenced his own
labors, and thr ughout the whole day was I thus
honored, my gcrntleman keeping his seat undis-
trrbedly, though at times the little enclosure
was thronged with customers, and became a per-
feet Babel of noise and confusion, and at all
hours it was dark and close, and very incon-
'      venient for clerkly labors. Sometimes he work-
ed quite industriously, with a few rapid calcula-
tions arriving at conclusions over which I
should have puzzled for hours; but by far the
greater part of the time he sat leaning back in
his chair stroking his long heard, and watching
me so attentively with his keen blue eyes, that I
-grew so nervous I could hardly write.  Then,
noticing my disturbance, he would relieve me
temporarily, by bandying lively repartee with
Miss Harrington, whom he took a mischievous
delight in teasing.  She watched the whole per-
formance very suspiciously, and evidently was
completely- at a loss to know what interpretation

partrnent he assumed himself, and with his rapid
business-like habits was able, with an hour's ap-
plication, to accomplish what had formerly oc-
cupied me three times as long. The rest of the
time he occupied chiefly in staring at me, and
in sketching caricatures of the customers on
scraps of paper, which, as soon as finished, he
would toss over to me for my edification ; and
comical enough they were, too ; much as lie an-
noyed me, I was amused in spite of myself, for
his sketches were full of genius, and all that he
said- was so witty and original, that I listened
and laughed, notwithstanding my vexation.
Miss Jenny often scolded at being deprived so
entirely of my services, and I could see that she
was much annoyed by the odd turn which if-
fairs had taken, but he never would release me,
no matter how hurried she was. i " If you want
another clerk,"he would say, " I'll engage one
for you, though I really do not think you will
find one more thorough and disiniterdsted than
I am ; if the department needs another sales-
woman, call one in from one of the other coun-
ters. There are always plenty to spare out

are becoming almost hopelessly confused under to put upon the unaccountable fit of industry
my present efforts."                         her employer was evimciig.  She was too busy,
What is it that troubles you ?" he said, however, to bestow upon us much of her atten-
looking over my shoulder at the paper upon tion, and the perfect gravity of the gentleman
which I hac been employed, "transcribing cast such a business-like appearance over the
bills of sales ch! from the girls' memoranda, whole affair, that she did not dare venture to
calculating percentage, etc.?  Well, I will tell imagine any impropriety, in it.
von how we can manage.   I had no design of    Heartily thankful was I, though, when at
giving you an extra amount of work to do, last, toward the middle of the afternoon, Mr.
without relie1ing you of some of your present Frank saw fit to gather -up his books, and re-
duties; so it shall be understood that when you lease me from the pursuance of my labors. " Go
are engaged for me on the copying of which I home now, Miss Manvers," he said authorita-
have spoken, I am  to be responsible for the tively; "you have worked enough for one day,
proper rendering of your department accounts ; and I do rat wish to tire you too much at the
let me see, if you will show me a little what you start ; to-morrow, if you have no objection, we
want done, I think I can help you , give me will resume our labors, and I think, as we pro-
the memoranda, and I will relieve you at once." ceed, we shall find them quite interesting ;" and
As lie spoke very positively, I had, of course, as he spoke in the manner of one who intended
no alternative but to obey; and before I was to be obeyed, and waited to see me start for
well aware of his intentions, Mr. Nettleby had home, I meekly donned my bonnet and shawl,
brought his books and papers to my table, and and left the store two hours earlier than usual,
seating himself opposite to me, prepared to con-. too astonished to venture upon any remon-
tinue the work which I had just resigned. -  strance.
"I will work at them here, if you have no   This day was but the first of many such that
objections," hi said coolly ; ''it is quieter here, followed. When not prevented by really unh-
and then, too,(I shall be able to show you ex- voidable business, every morning, about two
actly how I wish those bills copied ;" and to my hours after I arrived at the store, Mr. Frank
great disgust the gentleman opened before me would make his appearance in the shawl-room,
the first pages of a large blank book, and, hand- and seating himself at my table,'would spread
ing m1e the first of a vast bundle of folded papers before me the inevitable blank book, upon which
he had placed upon the table, waited with im- I must forthwith resume my labors, no matter
perturbable gravity for me-to commence my how much all other business was neglected on
task.                                       account of it. The clerkly labors of our de-

37I

i
t
t

jFf4
't
k  :


38                            MY HUSBA]
there ; but my transcript I must have, and I
must have it in Miss Manvers's handwriting.
You have no idea, Miss Jenny, of the value I
place upon that copy she is making." And all
this lie said with the gravest air imaginable, so
serious that even sharp-sighted Miss Jenny was
partially blinded, and in view of his solemnity
and my undisguisable discontent, dared raise no
farther objections.
Oh ! how lie vexed me ! At times, when
he bent over me to point out some trifling error
in my manuscript, or to suggest soie improve-
ment which lie would argue about as gravely as
if he were really interested in the useless thing;
when he would question me in such a way that
in replying I was obliged to lift my eyes to his;
or when, to point out some word or letter refer-
red to, he would touch my hand to guide the
pen1 to the place designated ; at such times I
felt provoked enough to have thrown the book
at liimii, and to have boxed his ears into the bar-
gait; for I knew, as well as if he had told me,
that the whole affair had been gotten up by him
for no earthly motive but to enable him to lin-
ger unsuspected in my society, and that, save to
carry on what I supposed lie considered an in-
teresting flirtation, he placed no more value
upon that abominable book of bills than I did
myself. Not only was the whole affair an an-
noyance to me in itself, but it began to attract
the attention of the employs in the store, and
I found myself very frequently the subject of
witticisms more poilited than delicate. These,
however, strong in my consciousness of indiffer-
ence, I could have laughed at, and perhaps disre-
garded, but I found that my employer's conde-
scension wasbringingupon me a still heavier pun-
ishment: "the governor" was noticeably grow-
ing cold and reserved in his demeanor toward
Inc ; though always quiet and undemonstrative,
he had yet hitherto had the faculty of making
me perceive that he cared for my comfort, and
was interested in all that I said and did; in short,
that lie was my friend. Now all was changed ;
he never spoke to me save when compelled to
by coninon civility ; though Miss Harrington
had several times spent an evening with me
during the few weeks of which I am writing,
her younger brother had ever been her escort ;
mnd upon two occasions when I visited her, "the
governor" was called down town by unavoidable
business, and Master Edwin had been obliged
to gallant me home in his brother's stead. For
two weeks lie had not once happened in upon
us during his rounds, as it wvas formerly his cus-
tonm so frequently to do. Only once do I re-
member his eniterinig the shiawvl-rooms while Mr.

AND'S CRIME.
Frank honored it with his daily presence ; it
was one day about a week after my daily hum-
bug of copying was instituted. Mr. Frank had
been in an unusually merry mood that morning,
and had exerted himself to the hitmost to dis-
pel the gravity which I always endeavored to
maintain in his society ; he had jest handed me
a most extravagant caricature of a stout coun-
try-woman to whom Miss Harrington was try.
big to sell a velvet cloak ; the outr i figure in
her cotton delaine dress, gloveless hands, and
coarse straw bonnet, decked out in the costly
garment which had evidently mace a great im-
pression upon her, and striving frahitically to ob-
tain a view of her own back in the tall mirror
before which she was posturing, was laughable
enough in itself, but when depicted by Mr.
Frank's clever pencil, its salient points exagger-
ated, so like, yet so unlike, I should have been
more than mortal could I have repressed my
mirth while viewing it ; and yet I was so
ashamed of my weakness, so fearful that Miss
Ilarrington would see mue. One glance at my
companion's face, and I was almost undone ;
the curves and dimples around the handsome
mouth, the blue eyes absolutely dancing with
merriment ; 1 covered my eyes with my, hand
and leaned upon the table before fue, my face
scarlet with the effort to refrain frm laughing.
Just then "the governor's" voi e sounded by
my side, quick and angry. "Miss ;lIanvers, was
this bill made out by you ?"
I looked up, and all disposition to laugh fled
from ise as Imet the glance of those stern grey
eyes. Trembling and alarmed, I took the pa-
per lie handed to me. " I copied it, sir," I said,
hi umbly enough, "but Mr. Frank pade out the
bill."
"Mr. Frank, then, will doubtless not cons-
plain, when I tell him there is an error in it of
fifty dollars from uncharged goods, which it is
too late now to rectify, as the good themselves
and a receipted duplicate of this bill have been
forwarded to their destination."
Mr.~Frank made a comical grimace, and
shrugged his shoulders. "Don't look so sav-
age, Harrington, and don't let our pe rtner know,
and I guess I can survive the daniage. Charge
the loss to my account, and I'll bear it like a mar-
tyr. But just let mc tell you, Ma mselle Car-
oline, the next time you make me laugh when
I am writing out bills, I shall divide the conse-
quences of the errors between us--charge the
losses to your account and the profits to my
own."    .
But I was in no humor to laugh now ; almost
before the light speech was concluded, "the gov-

F. N. AND "THE GOVERNOR."

ernor" had disappeared, angry and displeased, I_
knew, at what he must consider my levity and
heedlessness ; and guiltless though I knew my-
self to be, I was as wretched'as though I had
deserved his wrath, when I felt that he must
think me ungrateful and insolent, even if lie was
charitable enough to deem me no worse.
I was cross enough to Mr. Frank the next
day, but my conduct seemed to have but little
effect upon him ; and it. was quite powerless to
rid me either of himself or his accounts. I saw
nothing of "the governor" for a week afterward ;
except at a distance, that is ; for of course lie
was on duty in the ' store as usual ; but all
the little friendly chats we had formerly had,
seemed to be entirely a thing of the past. I
had never been conscious of how much I had
been thrown into his society, until now that I
was so entirely deprived of it; and sadly enough
I now remembered how often we had formerly

39

ashamed to acknowledge, and which she had
sent for me to dissipate. "The governor" was sit-
ting in Miss Jenny's room when I entered, andi
looked vastly astonished, and, I thought, a little
annoyed when he saw me ; evidently I had not
been an expected guest to him. There was no
need of his leaving the house this time to avoid
me, for as his brother had brought me there, his
brother of course would take me home again.
So, after fidgeting (I really can express his he-
havior by iio other word) around the room for
a while, Mr. larringtoiinmurmured some almost
inaudible excuses, and retreated to his own apart-
meat. Eddie, too, soon after quitted the roon,
and Miss Jenny and I were left to ourselves.
The business part of the visit was soon trans
acted, and the rest of the evening passed in quiet
friendly chat, which I should have enjoyed very
much had my mind been as undisturbed as usual
At length ten o'clock came, and I rose to de-

met and conversed, during the routine of our part.  When I was hooded and shawled, Miss
daily duties.  Now it had been some errand Harrington stepped to the door which connect-
from his sister to him which I was sent to ful- ecl her brother's apartment with her own, and
fill ; then some trifling instruction which he had opening it, said, " John, you will have the pleas-
chosen to give me about my accounts, which ure of escorting Caroline home to-night; Jim
would bring him to my table in the shawl- Rivers is sick, and has sent for Eddie to stay all
room. On arriving at the store in  the morning night with him."
amid on leaving it at night, the first and last face  I heard a book dashed impatiently down, and
I saw had been his, and he had never' allowed an angry ejaculation; then the door was closed,
me to pass him without a few kind words, which and Miss Jenny returned to where I stood dis-
often, when time permitted, were lengthened mayed at the prospect of forcing msy unwelcome
into conversations.  These and many other in- company upon Mr. Ilarrington. " Oh! Miss
stances recurred to me, now that they all had  Harrington," I cried, '"why did you not let me
vanished, of the intercourse I had had with Mr. know a little earlier, and I could have gone by
Harrington ; pleasant little episodes, enlighten- myself! I am sure I am disturbing ' the gov-
ing my daily toil, making me ever leave my la- ernor."
bors with regret, and return to them with pleas-  " Oh! no, my dear, not at aill;" and Miss
ure.                                        Jenny's placid face looked as uneonscious of the
Miss Jenny also noticed the change, for she white lie she was telling as if she had not known
said grumblingly one day that "it seemed to her that I was perfectly aware of her breach of ve-
John's business lately lay in any part of the racity ; no time for farther comment was per-
store rather than the shawl department."    mitted, however, for the door opened, and Mr.
One evening Eddie Harrington came to me Harrington, hat in hand, made his appearance.
with a note from Miss Jenny, bidding me return  I bade adieu to Miss Jenny at the door of
with her brother, as she had some special busi- her room, and then ran hastily down chie stair-
ness to transact with me, which demanded my case, followed more deliberately by my escort.
immediate presence, and pleading a headache I had to pause for him to throw open the door,
as an excuse for not coming to me.  Of course but when I stepped out into the air, and found
I went to her ; I had no alternative, though it to be a beautiful bright moonlight night, I no
sensible as I was of the displeasure of "the gov- longer hesitated to say the words that had been
ernor,'" I should much have preferred not to go. upon my lips ever since he had put on his hat.
But I went ; found the business affair upon "Mr. Harrington, there is really no imeed of
which she had summoned me-of a nature so tri- your going all the way home with mime to-night;
fling that it could easily have been deferred the moon shines so brightly that I am not at all
until the morrow, and came to the conclusion afraid, and I can just as well go home by my-
that my dear Miss Jenny must have been threat- self as not. Good-night !" and I started off the
cued with a fit of the blues,' which she was steps, half frightened at my own temerity.


40                            MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
Before I had gone half a dozen paces, how-.  As he gazed into mhy flushed face, and saw
ever, he was by my side. Catching my hand, my tearful eyes and quivering lips, his face re-
he drew my arm within his, still retaining his laxed from its stern intensity, and the old look
hold of my hand.  " Are you cr zy ?" he cried of reassuring  kindness crept into it. I turned
sharply, "or has your dislike fort me become so away my head to hide the fastifalling tears.
strong that you can not endure my company, He clasped with a firmer pressure the hand that
even during this fifteen minutes' walk ?"   was trembling in his.  '' My poor little girl
This was a new view of the question to me, he said almost involuntarily. "I have been very
and the query certainly staggered me a little, unkind, as well as very unjust to ybu. I fear."
but I managed to answer meekly, ''I beg your  Something in the tone of his voice, and in
pardon ; I thought you did not want to go."  the pressure of his hand, even more than the
" Nonsense !" he said crossly ; and then we few words he had uttered, areas ured me so
walked on fur a while in grim silence,      much that I ventured again to raise my eyes to
With all my bravado I was feeling very mis- his face ; there was a gleam of something deep-
erable ; the remembrance of that beautiful past er and tenderer than kindness in the eyes that
in which " the governor" had been to me all met my own, that caused my heart to beat tHi-
that was kind and considerate, honored and be- mnltuously, and my cheeks to color hotly be-
loved by me beyond all created beings, haunted neath his glance. "What did I do? why were
me like the ghost of a dead friend ; I could not you angry ?" again I ventured to ash.
realize the change that two short weeks had   "You have done nothing that I have any
wrought in the pleasant relations which had ex- right to reproach you with," he said, in a low
isted between us; as I walked by his side in the agitated voice ; "and if your own conscience does
cold moonlight, silent and unhappy, I could not not acquaint you with the cause of my anger, I
resist stealing a glance at his face, half expect- shall have no hesitation in pronoincig it as
ing that it would seem as unnatural as were the unreasonable as it certainly was unjust."
circumstances which surrounded me. It was     "Is it because I have been doing that-writing
changed, indeed ; stern and moody in expres- for Mr. Frank, instead of attending to my own
sion, the eves downcast, the brow clouded, the duties ?" I asked timidly, after a moment's
mouth rigidly compressed ; unlike, in all btit pause, finding that my conscience refused to
mere feature and coloring, the kind genial face submit any evidence of a more satisfactory na-

wIch hiad become so dear to me ; and yet, in
spite of the sternness, or rather, I should say,
mingled with the sternness, there was a look of
deep despondency, of trouble and anxiety, which
made my heart ache for him, and inspired me
with sudden courage to carry out a resolution
which for some days past I had been forming
-the resolve to remove, if words of mine could
do so, the dark shadows of reserve and suspicions
which had so mysteriously sprung up between Us.
Without pausing to select appropriate words
with which to make my appeal, I broke forth
abruptly--" Mr. IHarriugton, why are you angry
with me ? What have I (1one0? I am qtuitec
ready to promise beforehand, like the children,
that whatever may have been my offense, I will
never do so again,' if you will only be friends
with me once more; you have been so very
kind to me, and I have so few friends, that 1 can
not bear to lose your esteem; and I am sure if
vou knew how much I have suuffecred from your
changed manner to me, you would overlook my
unconscious offense, and be kind to me as you
used to be." Aid then my faltering voice quite
deserted me, and I could only look beseeching-
ly in his face, and tremble at my own daring
words.

ture.
"You know it is not that !" he cried vehie-
mently.  "What difference do y u suppose
Mr. Frank's whims could make in ny feelings
toward you, unless you yourself inested them
with importance.  Give me a downright nega-
tive to one question, and I will admit myself to
be the most unreasonable, suspicious fool that
ever strove to understand a woman." He paused
for a moment, but kept his'eyes upon my face
eagerly, searchingly, as if he would read my
very soul.  "Caroline, do you love Frank Net-
tleby ?"
An indignant negative sprang to rmy lips, but
just at that instant the remembrance of the
scene in the wareroom flashed upon my mind,
and it suddenly occurred to me that Mr. Har-
rington had by some means become aware of
the proposal which Mr. Nettleby had made to
me, and perhaps he, too, thought, us I felt cer-
tain IMr. Frank himself did, that I was only
waiting for the renewal of the offer to accept it.
It was this idea which had caused the change
in his manner toward me. The knowledge that
Mr. Harrington should have had cause to think
thus of me, so overpowered me with mortifica-
tion that I could fid no words with which to

F. N. AND "TILE GOVERNOR."           41

answer him.   The blood rushed to my face
until my very temples were crimsoned with
shame, and my eyes filled with tears of vexa-
tion, and sunk confusedly to the ground.
"I am   answered," he said, dropping my
hand hastily as he spoke; "there is not an hon-
est woman in the world, so truth it is vain to
expect from you ; but that tell-tale blush is more
eloquent than words ; I will force from you no
farther confessions."  He checked himself ab-
ruptly, and we walked on again in miserable si-
lence. I could not then have commanded my
voice sufficiently to have spoken intelligibly, and
I would not have undeceived him if I could; I
was too angry and indignant at that moment to
care what the consequences of his self-delusion
might be ; that lie of all others should so mis-
judge me!   My proud heart was almost burst-
ing with its agony of rage and mortification,
and not for worlds would I have made any far-
ther attempts to conciliate him. Mr. Ilarrngton
seemed scarcely less agitated than I was myself,
hut I gave him no encouragement to pursue the
distasteful subject, so in proud silence we finish-
ed our walk.
I bade him  good-night almost inaudibly; as
he threw open my door, he lifted his hat in
cold civility, but made no farther answer ; and
thus we parted, more widely separated than be-
fore, for now there was a sense of bitterness
against him in my heart which heretofore I had
never felt.
"I hope you and John had a pleasant walk
home, last evening?" said Miss Harrington to
me next morning.
"Oh! certainly," I answered, with a tremen-
dous effort to seem unconcerned, and the good
lady turned away from me with a discontented
humphh !" which told me that she by no means
credited my assertion.
Of course the events of this evening did not in-
crease my affection for Mi'. Nettleby, and a very
cross assistant he found in me next morning. I
could not see that my irritability had much ef-
feet upon him, however, for he remained with
me quite as long, and made himself quite am
agreeable as ever. And thins two weeks moe
sped on, marked by a haughty reserve on "thI
governor's" part, and daily increasing affabil
ity in Mr. Thank, and then, at last, matter

leave the store. Mr. Harrington stood at the
door, and after a momentary hesitation, just as
I was ready to start out into the storm, lie ad-
dressed me, his color heightening as he spoke.
"It is too dark for you to go home alone, Miss
Manvers; I trust that I may be allowed the
pleasure of accompanying you."
lie had just spoken the words when Frank
Nettleby came hurrying up, " Never mind,
Harrington," he said, in his '' take-it-for-grant-
ed" fashion, " I am going in the same direction
Miss Manvers is, and I will see her home with
the greatest of pleasure ;" and throwing away a
cigar he had just lighted, lie unfurled his um-
brella, and stepping out of the store, cool and
imperturbable, seemed waiting for me to follow
him.
I was strongly tempted to cling to " the gov-
ernor's" arm, as I had done once before, whlien
called upon to choose between them, and thus
again strive to quench Mr. Frank's unblenching
audacity. Upon second thought, however, I rc-
solved to make no choice. " I am much obliged
to both of you," I said, " but I shall get along
very well by myself, and need no escort at all.'
And I walked off independently into the storm.
It was really very dark, but I did not feel
much alarm but that between them both I should
reach home in safety, and a quick step behind
me proved that I had not been mistaken in my
anticipations. As I had expected, it was Mr.
Frank.   "You will have it; so be it then," I
muttered between my teeth, and having no es-
cape save by downright incivility, I accepted ils
offered aria with as good a grace as I could com-
- mand.
lIIe chatted gayly for some time in his own
peculiarly insouciant manner', but I was in no
mood for gayety, and spite of himself infiono-
syllabic responses soon brought him to a pause.
- At last after a few moments' silence he resumed
the conversation by saying in a more serious
[ tone than he had yet used, " Miss Caro, do you
not think I have waited long enough for an
answer to the question I asked you a month
s ago?"
" I am afraid you will have to propoiinl your
e question anew, Mr. Nettleby, if there has been
one remaining unanswered for so long a time,"
s I replied, trying to speak easily and unconcern-

came to a crisis.                            edly.
Again, from one cause or another, which I    "Do not trifle with me !" he cried impeti-
have now forgotten, was Miss Jenny absent from  ously.  "I am in earnest now, my dearest girl,
the store, and I having double duties to per- if I never was in my life before.  My enemies
form, was detained much later than usual. It have always called me a trifling, empty-headed
was a dark, stormy evening, and the rain was fellow, but what little good there is in me you
descending in a perfect deluge when I started to have awakened and brought to life.  You have


42                  MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

kindled a passion in my careless breast which I
had not believed it possible I could feel. Car-
oline, once you refused to marry me, because
you said that I entertained for you no feeling
warmer than compassion. That plea can avail
you nothing now, for with all my heart and soul
I love you. Speak to me, dearest, tell me that
I do not love in vain."
"I can not tell you so, Mr. Nettleby," I an-
swered in a low, irmts voice.
Ile started with undisguised astonishment.
"I fear you do not understand sme," he said.
I have told you that I love you ; of course its
saying that, I intend you to understand that I
ask you to become my wife."
"And I intend you to understand that I de-
cline the honor, sir," I answered haughtily, for
the man's arrogance angered me.
Ie stopped abruptly in the street, checking
my progress with his own.  " Caroline, what
have I done to deserve this? how have I offend-
ed you? why are you angry at me ?"
"Pray do not stop me in the public streets to
call me to account," I said pettishly, pulling him
forward as I spoke.  "See, the passers-by are
all staring at us. I am not angry with you at
all. Ont the contrary, I am sorry for your dis-
appointment, and still more sorry that this afftair
should have gone so far as it has done. I am
sure-and you will acknowledge yourself, if you
look back upon the events of the last few weeks
-that in no possible way has my conduct given
you any encouragement to renew the generous
proposal you made to me when you thought my
honor and happiness depended upon your doing
so. I declined it then, less decidedly perhaps
than 1 should have done, yet for my indecision
I am sure you will not hold me accountable, when
you remember the circumstances by which I was
then surrounded, and how terribly tempted I
must have been to accept your offer. I with-
stood temptation then, and I find no difficulty
in doing so now.  Again I decline the honor
you offer me, this time positively and finally,
with. thanks, however, and the kindest possible
feeling toward you."
"But why ?" he cried, indignation and
amazement mingling in his tone.  " I know
that I am worthy of your love, were it only by
the depth of the passion I feel for you. I am
no coxcomb, Miss Manvers, but it surely is al-
lowabhe in me to say that I anm young, wealthy,
educated, laying claim to the manners and title
of a gentleman, and at least passably good-look-
ing. If you are por I can give you wealth ;
if yon are proud, I can give you station ;if you
are amubitiouis, you shall teach mue to be so like-

wise, and together we will rise to any height to
which our capacities will bear us. Are you
friendless? I will give you love, ardent, passion-
ate love as ever blessed a woman's lot, or crowned
her brow with glory. Reflect, Caroline ; re-
member all that it is in my power to bestow
upon you ; recall your hasty words, and say that
you will yet be mine."
"Your eloquence is all in vain, Mr. Nettleby,"
I answered, my voice not quite so steady as I
could have wished it.  "All your arguments
are worse than useless when opposed to the one
unanswerable fact, that I do not love you. Be-
lieve me, I appreciate all your good qualities as
fully as you can desire, not the least of which is
the noble disinterestedness with which you have
loved and wooed a woman so far beneath your-
self in worldly station. Most sincerely grateful
am I for the good opinion which you profess to
feel for me, and as a man and a gentleman, I
regard you with sentiments of unfeigned respect
and admiration ; but something more than this
you must inspire, before I can consent to marry
you ; that something you have never awakened
in my breast, and I dare not bid you hope that
you ever can. I speak to you plainly because I
think it better to terminate at once and f ever
an illusion which has been no more painful in
its effects to you than to me."
'  Plain enough, upon my soul !" he cried,
angrily.  "Pray gratify this candid spirit by
answering me as plainly one question more, and
I will torment you no farther. Even after all
you have said, I shall not consider such grounid-
less objections as entirely unsurmountable un-
less you can tell me that you love another. In
that case only can I bring myself to believe that
my suit is hopeless."
I felt that I owed him more consideration
than an ordinary suitor could have claimed. I
knew, too, that in his honor I could safely con-
fide, and that in any case my secret would be
held sacred by him, so after a moment's hesita-
tion, I said: "If that knowledge alone can sat-
isfy you, Mr. Nettleby, I will not be heartless
enough to withhold it. I do love another."
"Ileaven help me ! I ought to have known
it; I have suspected it for some time past," he
groaned in tones of genuine anguish. Then he
cried, " Ah ! Caroline, I have your secret now'
What price do you suppose a certain gentleman
would give to know it?  And what direful spell
have you cast upon me, that makes me feel just
now that the rarest pleasure earth can give
would be to cut that fellow's throat, and whisper
your secret to him imn his death struggles."
"Ilush ! hsushs ! for shame, Mr. Frank ; I

"HE STOPPED ABRUPTLY IN THE STREET."-PAGE 42.


"THE GOVERNOR

will not hear you talk so even in jest," I cried.
I know my secret is safe with you ; I have
proved you to be a gentleman, or you had never
known it.  And now I am home ; we must part
here, and let us drop this subject now and for-
ever. If you had'ever given me the shadow of
a chance, I would have spared you the pain of
this refusal, but you would not; you took it for
granted from the very start that I would marry
you, and-with that idea in your head you have
been laboring for the past month, not to make
me love you-that you considered a superfluous
task-but to teach yourself to love me.  Your
offer was made at first thoughtlessly, yet through
such generous impulses, that had my heart been
free, it must have appreciated the act, and I
might perhaps from then have learned to love
von. That offer you considered binding, how-
ever, only if I proved worthy of the honor you
had done me, and to enable you to form a de-
cision upon the subject has been the only aim
of your courtship. That the conclusion you
arrived at was a flattering one to me, 1 suppose
the conversation of this evening proves. That
is all I have to say, and now you must let me
bid you good-night."
"You are a witch !" he cried, "and an un-
charitalde one at that.  You certainly have
cured me of a propensity for taking things for
granted to which I have always been subject
Your remedy has been a severe one though, and
has destroyed completely all inclination for love
or matrimony in which I may have been fool
enough to have indulged. however faulty you
may deem my method of courtship, I assure you
I have been inspired to it by a love as pure and
earnest as ever man felt for woman   I have
wasted upon you the passion of a life time, and
ll that I have received in exchange has been
a lecture upon self-conceit, and-a manuscript
edition of Nettleby &amp; Son's bills of sales."
He strode off into the darkness without farther
leave-taking, and scarcely knowing whether to
laugh or to cry, as the words of this last eharac-
terisfie speech rang in my ears, I entered the
house, and during the long monotonous hours
that followed before bed-time, I steadily plied
my needle and wondered whether Mr. Harring-
ton would ever find out that I had refused Frank
Nettleby.
CHAPTER VII.
"THE GOVERNOR" ENLIGHTENED.
TuE blank book and its owner did not make
their appearance next day in the shawl-depart-
mnut, and though I could easily have accounted

I

" ENLIGHTENED.                          43
for their absence, outsiders, mistaking effect for
cause, concluded that I was neglected on account
of Mr. Frank's absence from town, " on busi-
ness," his father said.  At all events, he did
not make his appearance in the store until
toward the close of the day, and then he did not
come near me until he saw me getting ready to
leave the store.
lie had been standing at his father's desk with
Mr. Ilarrington, examining some papers that
the latter had produced for his inspection ; but
when lie saw mie lie left his companions abrupt-
ly, and hurried toward me.
" Shake hands before you go, Miss Caro, and
tell me you are not affronted," he said.
Of course I obeyed.
Haven't repented your cruelty yet, I sup-
pose?" lie continued, half in jest, half in ear-
nest.
" No, I have not, Mr. Nettleby," I said sharp-
ly, trying to draw my hand away from him, but
he held it tightly.
Don't be so cross," he said pathetically.
I can not imagine how -you can nurse wrath
against so helpless a fellow as I am. When I
left you last night I was about as well wrought
up for hatred and revenge, and all that sort of
thing, as the bloodiest hero of the bloodiest melo-
drama you ever saw. I left town this morning
on purpose to avoid you and my rival, for posi-
tively I was not certain but that I might be
temp ted to commit soein terrible act of violence
whip under the influence of such savage emo-
tion. I left town, and have amused myself all
day by galloping over the country and wreaking
all manner of direful vengeance upon your de-
voted head ; but Nemesis is appeased now, and
I have come back fully resolved to forget and
forgive; nay, more; in such an amiable tensper do
you see inc at present, that, upon my soul! I
should really be tempted to renew my offei' if
you would give me the least encouragement."
''I most certainly shall not do so then,'' I said,
laughing at his whimsical speech, though I saw
traces of genuine feeling in his face as lie spoke,
and I knew that it was not all intended for jest.
"There is no hope, then ?"' and he gazed wist-
fully into my face.
"None whatever. God bless you, Mr. Frank,
and give you a more loving wife than you could
ever find in me !" And then I hurried away.
I had got some distance from the store, when
I remembered that I had left my gloves lying
uponl iny desk, so I retraced miy steps in order to
get them. I re-entered the building hy a side-
door ; it was nearly deserted ; all the girls had
left, and there were remaining only a fewv of the


MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

young men, hurrying through their concluding
duties, eager to get away also. Mr. Harrington
and Mr. Nettleby still were at the desk, and
Mr. Frank w'as sauntering slowly up to them as'
I came in. As I was anxious to avoid his no-
tice, I slipped into the shawl-room as noiselessly
as possible, and catching up my gloves, I was
about to depart, when I caught the sound of my
name spoken by Mr. Nettleby, senior, and in-
voluntarily I stopped to listen.
Yes, stopped to listen; there is no denying
the fact. At first I did so thoughtlessly, and
with no thought of hearing what was not in-
tended for my ears ; but as the conversation pro-
gressed, with shame I acknowledge that I tar-
ried purposely, willfully, chained to the spot by
eager, breathless curiosity, and deaf for the time
to the indignant voice of outraged honor, and
the whisperings of conscience. I listened, and
this is what I heard :
It was Mr. Nettleby who was speaking. "I
believe the Manvers has really made an im-
- Iression upon you, F. N.  Seems to me the af-
,fair is becoming serious, eh ?"
"If you want me to answer you, say Miss
Manvers, father," answered Mr. Frank in very
different tones from those he had lately used in
addressing me.   "If there is any one vulgar
thing I hate worse than another, it is the habit
we maen have of speaking of a respectable woman
in such a disrespectful way. If you had lin-
gered as often and as long in the anterrooms of
the Paris theatres as I have done, you would
have heard enough of such talk to disgust you
with it for a life-time."
" Ear! hear! hear !" cried his worthy fa..
ther, putting his delicate hands softly together
in mock applause.  " Is it not wonderful, Iar-
rington, what a good little boy we have raised ?
lie is a credit to our management.  Every body
used to prophesy that he would come to ruin,
but he has gone the rounds of continental dissi-
pation, and returned, addicted to no more serious
vices than a tendency to lecture his papa, and
fall in love with the shop-girls."
Mr. Harrington did not see fit to respond to
his employer's witty remarks, but addressed him-
self directly to Mr. Frank. " If the lady you
refer to has been spoken of with disrespect, Mr.
Frank, I think you have no one to blame but
yourself. rTh doubtful nature of your conduct
toward her, the marked attention with which
you have favored her during the past month,
has drawn upon her from all sources comments
neither delicate mnor pleasant ; comments that I
shonld imagine would have booms a source of
great distress anti anxiety to her, had not her

pleasure-in the cause possibly have blinded her
to the unpleasantness of the effects. It scarcely
becomes you, who have occasioned this state of
affairs, to censure others for language which
your own imprudence has provoked." It would
have been a great relief to my feelings, at that
moment, if I could have boxed John larring-
ton's ears soundly for that delightful speech.
Prudence restrained all outward signs of wrath,
however, and I calmed my excitement suflicient-
ly to give my attention to Mr. Frank again as
he spoke wrathily to his lecturer.
"I should like very much to be informed who
it is that dares insult, by groundless gossip or in-
delicate jest, a young lady for whom I feel the
highest respect, and in whom I have no hesitation
in declaring my feelings are very much interest-
ed; one to whom I have never in my life addressed
a syllable that a princess of the blood-royal need
refuse to hear. If you can point out any such
individual, or if I can discover him for myself,
I shall certainly so far constitute myself the
lady's champion as to thrash him within an
inch of his life."
"I assure you, Mr. Frank," said "the gov-
ernor,'' dryly, " lam not the individual in ques-
tion, so waste no wrathful looks upon me. On
the contrary, the lady possesses no warmer
friends than myself and my sister, nor are there
any who have her interests more at heart. If
I spoke as'I did concerning her, it was only
from a desire to ascertain the true nature of
your feelings for her ; by no means from any
disrespect to her. ' Your indignation, I am hap.
py to say, has appeased any doubts I may have
entertained concerning the serious nature of
your attentions to her."
"Serious intentions ! Ha ! ha ! ha !" and
Mr. Frank's laugh rang bitterly through the
store. "By that I suppose you mean intentions
tending toward matrimony. Serious attentions!
Ha! ha! ha!"
"The governor" brought the young gentle-
man's mirth to an untimely termination by say-
ing, in a voice so stern and angry that I could
hardly recognize it as his, "Frank Nettleby,
can it be possible that you are a scoundrel?
Can it be possible that by every means in your
power you have sought to win the affections of
that girl, and that now, when in all human prob-
ability you have succeeded, you intend to cast
her aside, and to view the whole affair in the
light of a meaningless flirtation ?  Can it be
possible that you have only been amusing your-
self by thme attemtins you have paid her during
the past month ?"
"Hold your horses, if I may be permitted

"YEs; I STOPPED TO LISTEN."-PAGE 44.

44


"THE GOVERNOR" ENLIGHTENED.        45

the inelegant remark, you are a mile ahead
of the mark now, oh! Daniel come to judg-
ment," cried Frank again with that bitter un-
natural laugh.  ''I have succeeded in winning
the young lady's affections, have I? and her
feelings are interested in my unworthy self, are
they?  A very queer way she has of showing
her interest, then, is all I have to say. I last
night did myself the honor of offering my hand,
heart, and fortune for her gracious acceptance,
and the three articles were returned upon my
hands, with as contemptuous a 'No, I thank
you,' as a harmless young man ever received.
Been amusing myself, have I ? Lord ! what a
fanny pastime it has been !"
Involuntary exclamations of surprise broke
from both his hearers.
" Bless my soul! F. N., you don't mean to
say you have gone as far as that ! You don't
surely mean to say you have made such a fool
of yourself!" cried Mr. Nettleby.  " And-"
"You have been refused by Caroline Man-
vers ? Do you seriously tell us that you oflred
yourself to her and she refused you ?" cried
"the governor."
"There is no need of making such a noise
about it," said the young gentleman sulkily ;
"I suppose I ant not the first man in the world
who has been mittened by a woman. I plead
guilty to all the counts in the indictment, but
it isn't the pleasantest thing in the world to me
to hear the story rehearsed. I have told you
two the truth, but remember I don't want it to
go any farther."
"I am    astonished," drawled  his father.
"With no intention to be personal, you will
pardon me for quoting the proverb, 'A fool for
luck.' You have made a narrow escape, F. N.,
allow inc to congratulate you. You deserved
to have been accepted'; you have made a nar-
row escape."
"Wider by a damned sight than pleased
me," growled Frank between his teeth, and his
father went on. " Not that I should have in-
terfered in your arrangements at all; do not
misunderstand me, the satisfaction 'which I feel
at your escape is purely disinterested ; the rale
of cruel father is the last one which could be
imposed upon me.  No, my dear sir, the emo-
tion which your unexpected information chiefly
excites in tay bosom, is at this moment only
surprise, pure, unmitigated surprise ; for where,
tell me where, do you see any thing in the dam-
eel in question, to warrant you in making such
a donkey of yourself as you acknowledge to
having done ?"
" Ask Ilarrington, lhe knows," said Mr. Frank

spitefully, but "the governor" deigning no re-
sponse to this side-stroke, Mr. Nettleby re-
sumed.   ' She has a fine hand, yes, I renei-
ber noticing that ; she hus a very fine hand,
and she is a tall, shapely young woman enough,
but I'll wager you a cool fifty, F. N., that for
every homelier girl you can point out to me in
the store, I will find you two handsomer ones.
A  sickly, sallow, sulky, commonplace-looking
woman."   And the gentleman wound up the
string of alliterative epithets with which lie
had honored me by a contemptuous " Bali
My quondam   lover caught up the cudgels
manfully in my defense. ""You know nothing
at all about her," he cried dutifully. "She is
not one of the milk-and-water doll-habies that
I suppose you would admire, and I do not sill)-
pose any one would dream  of calling her 'a
pretty woman.' I have seen that article ho
scores in my travels, and none of them ran anv
risk of becoming Mrs. Frank Nettlehy. I wore
my heart upon my sleeve, and the pretty daws
all peeked at it, but it was tough enough to
withstand all attacks, until I met the magnifi-
cent eyes that flashed a saucy ' No !' at me.
last night. Sulky ! conunouplace ! you think
her ? By Jove, sir ! there is more heart, .more
character in that woman, than-than--" and
stammering a moment for a comparison, he at
last went gallantly on-  than I am able to ap-
preciate. If you had seen her as I have done,
her face under the influence of strong emotion,
white, piteous, appealing, the clear, sharp (utt-
line of her features thrown markedly forth, the
sweet mouth with its varying lines and slhalows
a study for a painter; those large, clear eyes,
shadowed by their heavy lashes, turned with
wild, beseeching pathos to your face ; if you
could have seen all this, father, and at the
same time have clasped within your arms the
slender, shrinking form, and felt the pressure
of that fairy hand, I solemnly believe that it
would have been through no fault of yours that
I can not at this moment salute Miss Manvers
as my step-mother."
"The boy is certainly bewitched !" cried his
father-and I really could not blame him for
thinking so.
"If I am, I am not the only victim," was the
pettish rejoinder.  "Turn your arms upon Iar-
rington, father. I ant young and susceptible,
anl may perhaps be justly accused of blindness
where the woman I love is concerned ; but lie,
you must allow, is steady enough to have
escaped the shafts of Cupid, if wielded by a
commonplace girl. It is not every woman who
could run unscathed the gauntlet of his keeni

D

1'


46                             MY IIUSBAND'S CRIME.
eyes, and intrench herself within his fortified question. The conversation which I had 
breast almost in spite of himself; and yet this heard had given me plenty of food for thought
sickly, sallow, sulky one has done this.  Look and as I recalled the jealous severity of 
at that guilty face. Does it not prove my words Iarrington's remarks, the petulant honestyof
true?  Ai! my fine fellow, your disinterested Mr. Frank, and the supercilious insolence of liii
and chivalrous speeches can not deceive me. father, I almost lived over again the contending
Did you think I had not seen those watchful emotions that had swayed in while listening to
eyes, resting forever upon our mutual enchant.- them.
ress with a devouring passion that must have   The revelations which both Mr. Nettlehy and
consumed   her had   she been   inflammable Mr. Ilarrington had made concerning the re-
(which you'll find to your cost she isn't), and marks which Mr. Frank's rather questionable e
not content with that, you must ever be glaring civilities had drawn upon  ne, was a trtt
at me. forsooth! as if the story of my success which, though I was not cnirely ignorant ot
or failure would be written upon my face ?  I I had certainly never hitherto appreciated as I
trust the revelations of to-night have set your should have done. So conscous had I been of
jealous heart at ease. Had I not been more the honorable intentions of he gentleman, so
magnanimous than any mortal can have any confident, too, of the tranqil nature of the
idea of, I should have played ' dog-in-the-man- feelings with which he had inspired mc, that 1
ger,' to sonic pulrposc, in this game. As it is, had not considered sufficiently how differenily
IIarrington, I have called to mind that you are the affair might appear when viewed by disin-
my friend, and that she is worthy of your love. terested eyes. The contemptuous speech of
'l'he coast is clear, now; I bid you God speed, Mr. Nettleby, the angry rebuke of ''the gay
in all sincerity; woo your bride, and win her- ernor," even Mr. Frank's indignation, all served
if von can."                                 to awaken me to a full sense of the disagreeable
T had heard enough, more than enough. position ii which I was placed ; ant the feeling
'''The governor's" voice was raised in reply, of mortified pride which tormented me as I
but I dared tarry no longer. 'Irembling, blush- thought over all the little incidents that memo-
ing, overwhelmed with agitation, I stole noise- ry was now ready enough to bring forraid to
leosly away, and escaped into the street, thence increase my discomfort, was galling in the on-
to the quiet of my home.                     treme.
Idispatchled Agnes after supper to spend tihe  Then, eager to be rid of so disagreeable a
evening with one of the neighbors, for I longed subject, my thoughts turned tq the author of all
for solitude, and felt that even her innocent this vexation, aid in thinking of Mr. )Frani
compainionshiip would be a burden to inc.  It and his speeches, spite of tlae regret which I
was a mild, pleasant summer evening, and the could but feel for his disappointment, I was
air in the house seemed heavy and oppressive, forced to latigli  hen remenhering his whinsi-
so I took my station upon the door-step in front cal account of his rejection.  There was not a
of the house, and there indulged myself in a particle of malice in Frank N ttleby's composi-
bewildering though delightful reverie of tumult- tion.  His manly, straightfor vard conduct-of
nous thought,                                this evening had abundantly rovecl that ; and
The door-step was a favorite resort of mine, whatever superabundance of self-esteem  he
and was a fir pleasanter one upon these warm  might possess, had been implanted in hmim far
summer evenings thaw any I could find within more by education than by nature.   I sne-
doors.   Our low-ceilinged, narrow-windowed how seemed intuitively to understand the true
rooms were cosy emoigh in winter, but in sum- nature of the feelings with which he regarded
mer they were by no means so attractive.  So, me.  From the perfect indiffcrcnce he had felt
upon such evenings as these, the step was the for me upon the evening when le had summon-
usual resort both of myself and Agnes.  The ed mc   to look upon Miss Home's wedding
street was a quiet and retired one ; the neighbors, finery, through all the gradations of chivalrous
generally, civil, respectable 1peo0l, with  no pity, idle curiosity, excitement of rivalry, gen-
higher pretensions to wealth and style than we nine liking, and finally imaginary passion, I
ourselves possessed ; and the joyous shouts of could trace the course of his feelings up to the
the children as they chased the hoop, skipped preceding evening as plainly a if, throughout,
the rope, or scampered uip and down the street, he had made me his confidant - and the clos.
wer uualy he  iiy ooidsta     bro the lng act of the drama, or comedy rather, as it
stillness. Ihere, then, I retook myself aiid hind appeared .to me, culminating in the pro-
nmy meditations upon the eventful evening in posal, had by no miens taken me by surprise.

"THE GOVERNOR" ENLIGHTENED.          47

I believed in my heart that he was really no
more in love with me than I was with him.
Yet I was not ignorant that the sorrows of the
imginationare always as keenly felt and
sometimes as hard to bear as are the sterner
ones of reality. If Mr. Frank imagined that
ie was suffering from the pangs of disappoint-
ed love, mistaking for them the grievous sensa-
tion of mortified vanity and anticipated ridi-
cule, I liked him well enough to feel quite as
much sympathy for his distress as if it had
arisen from a less commonplace cause. lie
had borne his troubles so nobly, that I could
not help but respect him, even while I laughed
at him.   The generous, candid nature had
come unstained through a trial more dangerous
to its purity, perhaps, than real suffering would
have been. There was not a shadow of resent-
ment rankling in that noble heart, either to-
ward me or toward the one whom he consider-
ed his rival, for spite of the melo-dramatic
speeches with which he had favored me, I knew
very well that he felt no more real anger
against me than I did against him ; and that
was saying a great deal, for I had never been
nearer being what is called "in love" with my
young employer than 1 had been that evening
---was now. Without a particle of sentiment,
with no shadow of romance or thought of pas-
sion, my mind yet dwelt almost regretfully on
the loyal heart that I had thrown from my
grasp, a heart capable of making the happiness
of any woman, a heart that seemed now utterly
lonely and unloved, for, spite of all his worldly
advantages, Mr. Frank had really been de-
privedi of all the truest happiness that earth
can bestow.  No mother's and-no sisters love
had ever blessed his life. No good woman
had ever cared for him, as only good women
can; and the tie between his father and him.
self was such an anomalous one, that it really
could have brought to him very little comfort.
"God bless you, Mr. Frank, and bestow
upon you finally a home in which you will bC
appreciated as you ought to be !" was thu
termination of my soliloquy, as far as ie wa
concerned. And then my thoughts betook
themselves at last to the consideration of a sub
ject yet more interesting, a subject which
quickened my pulses and flushed my cheeks
and awakened in me that wild, delicious hap
piness which never comes but once to th
heart of woman.
Frank Nettleby had said that " the govern
or" loved me-was this so ? dared I believ
it ? or -was it but the outbreak of a causeles
jealousy, which found food for suspicion in th

most unlikely object? His words still sounded
in my ears, and even in the darkening shades
of twilight the hot blood mounted to my face,
and burned in-my cheeks, till I was fain to bow
my head upon my hands, and cover it even from
the gaze of the stars.   "It is not every
woman who could have run unscathed the
gauntlet of those keen eyes, and have intrench-
ed herself within that fortified breast ; and
yet the sickly, sallow, sulky one has done this!.
And it was while these words were echoing in
my heart, while my burning face was yet buried
in my hands, that a fanmihiar footstep fell upon
the pavement in front of me, and a fanhiar
voice greeted my ear.
Good-evening ! Miss C'aroliine." Wih ma
guilty start I lifted my head to behold Mr. Ilar-
rington standing before me. For an instant I
felt almost as scared as if ie had been aie to
read the thoughts which but now hadl possessel
me ; and yet I need-not have been alarmed, for
certainly an humbler man never stool before
woman than, hat in hand, now awaited my
greeting.
" I beg your pardon, Mr. Ikularriugtn it
has grown so dark that I hardly knew you,'
was the polite fiction with which I finally en-
deavored to excuse ny enbarrassment. '' Wall
ill ; I will light a lamp in an distant "
" No ! no ! do not go in !" hue stammered,
scarcely less confused than myself ''It i,
much pleasanter out here, and, if you wii per-
mit, I will sit with you here on the step awhile
T I shall not detain you long."
So I remained, and he seated himself upon
ithe step below me, leaning his elbow on the
one upon which I sat, and gazed upon tie
ground silent and thoughtful.
I tried to chat upon the topics of the day,
- unconcernedly and freely, as if our long es-
trangement had been a dream, amnd there hia
been no break in the friendly intercourse oif the
v preceding winter ; but I found that indifferent
e subjects were rather hard things to manage be-
e tween two individuals who had been almost at
s sword's point, understood if not expressed, for
k more than two weeks past, and who, during
- that time, had been thrown nto daily, almost
hu hourly intercourse without exchanging one word
, save such as business or common civility e-
- manded. Time attempt was a ditffcult one to
e me, who, as the injured party, felt sire of my
ground ; to him, with the embarrassment of m
- expected apology upon his shoulders, and time
o confusion which a consciousness of having huemn
s in tine wrong naturally produces, 111 d tim  effort
e was not only a difficult but an impossible oc.

:
,.
rY
YY
Y ' _


48                   MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

Indeed, he made no attempt to keep up the
appearance of indifference ; monosyllabic re-
sponses, or no responses at all, were all I re-
ceived in return for my most brilliant conversa-
tional efforts, and finally I, too, lapsed into si-
lence, awkward indeed, but really less enibar-
rassing than had been our previous attempts at
conversation.
At last he made a desperate plunge. " Miss
Caroline, I have not been behaving right to you
for some time past ; I have been angry at you
causelessly, as I have now every reason to be-
lieve, and even when you did me the honor to
make an effort at conciliation, blinded and mis-
led by my ownt mad passion, I was too miserable
to receive your advances as I should have done,
and by rejecting them I have added so incalcu-
lably to my faults that I now dare scarcely hope
that you will overlook them."
Ihe charges he made against himself were
so undeniably true, and I had felt them so deep-
ly, that I could not in conscience contradict
him, so I maintained an unbroken silence,
though lie paused for some time evidently de-
sirous of reassurance cre he proceeded ; none
coming, he again desperately resunied.  " If
my penitence were less heart-felt than it is ; if
my consciousness of the wrongs I have done
you were less acute, I should not have dared
make this appeal ; as it is, I feel that these cx--
planations are due to you, even although I ;mti
almost hopeless of obtaining your pardon. Car-
dine _!-" with a sudden burst of emotion that
belied grievously his assertion of hopelessness
"Caroline ! this estrangement has made me
very unhappy, may we not be friends again ?"
And then I found my tongue.   '' There has
been no cessation of our friendship so far as I
anm concerned, Mr. Harrington.''
My pretty speech was received with a pet-
ulance unexpected indeed in our dignified ''gov-
ernor." ''Do ntot insult me by insincerity, Miss
Manvers;   for anger, difference, scorn, I
an prepared ; I have deserved them, but for
Heaven's sake disguise not your real feelings
behimtl the garb of cold civility, or I shall feel
hopeless indeed of winning your pardon."
"And yet you told me once that it was vain
to expect truth from me ; how then can you
be unprepared for insincerity ?"  And thus the
hitter words which so long had rankled in my
heart were brought to light, and the citadel of
my pride was left defenseless.
" Did I say that ?" he asked, meekly enough,
for lae was thoroughly ashaimed of the senti-
mntt now. "' Oh, Carolinec ! had you only
ktiown the misery 1 endured when those words

were forced from me, you would have forgotten
them as soon as uttered. Be generous now, and
overlook the past, if not for my sake, for Jet-
ny's, who is worrying herself half sick, through
anxiety to see us friends again. Shake hands,
won't you?"
I do not know to this day whether I did o1
not, but I do know that somehow my hand
was caught in his, and remained imprisoned
throughout the whole of that memorable inter-
view.
"Entirely on Miss Jenny's account, though;
remember that, sir !" I said.
" It will not be the least of the services she has
rendered me ; and I accept the pardon thank-
fully upon whatever terms it is accorded.  And
now, Caroline Manvers, let me 'put to you a
question which has burned upon maay lips ever
since I took my seat beside you. Wihy-from
what imaginable motive-did you lead me to
believe the other evening that yon loved Frank
Nettleby, when from his own lips this evening,
im the story of his rejection, I have learned that
no such feeling over animated yodr breast ?"
"I never led you to believe any such thing,"
I said, a little indignantly.  "' I ritsunderstood
the motive of your question, and from the con-
fusion I evimced, you chose to draw a wrong
conclusion, and leaped at once to the decision
which misled you; I would not undeceive you
then, for I was too grieved and indignant to do
so; I-I thought you had ito right to misjudge
me so."
" I do not think my mistake was at all si-
prising ; you blushed deeply whehi you heard
my question, and your eyes, which until that
moment had frankly met my own, tank in con~
fusion to the ground. Surely these are the
signs of conscious love, if the stories poets and
novelists tell us be true ! You misunderstood
the motive of my question, you say; what pos-
sible construction could you have ut upon it,
that could have caused such marked confu-
sion ?"
And then I told him Mr. Frank's first propos-
al to me, saying, as I concluded the narrative,
"I did feel sadly guilty that I had not given
him at the time a more decided negative, for I
well know that by consenting to leal'e the sub-
ject unsettled, as by my silence I did, I virtual-
ly encouraged him to expect a favorable re-
sponse. His manner showed that he so under-
stood me both then and afterward, and though
he gave me no possible opportunity to un deceive
htim, be did not cease to act upion the supptosi-
tion ntil hast evening. 1 supposed, when so
abruptly you asked tme the strange; questions

"THE GOVERNOR" ENLIG HTENED.                                49
von did, that Frank had spoken to you con- rest of your sex, Caroline. You know perfect-
erning his offer and my indecision in answer- ly well the meaning of what I said, or tried to
-ag it, of course conveying to you his own in- say, and yet you will not yield one iota of
terpretation of the matter.  I was horribly your privileges, but cruelly torture me with
ashamed of it ; no wonder I blushed ; I feel my ;doubt anti suspense until I have satisfied your
face burn yet, when I think of it.  Are you exacting pride by every concession you have a
convinced ?"                               right to demand. Yet it is your right, and Codl
"That I have acted like a fool?     Yes. forbid that I should wrong you by withholding
That you were right in resenting my folly? even so much as a word that is your due. List-
No. Now, Caroline, answer me one other cues- en to me then, for my destiny is in your grasp,
tion, and my catechism is finished. Why did and upon your decision depends the happiness
yon refuse Frank Nettleby ?"               of my life. I am an unpolished man, with
Because I did not love him," I replied neither position, wealth, or personal endow-
promptly enough.                           ments to tempt a woman s love. Yet with
"And how has it happened thatyou did not love strength to defend her, and with love to bless
him ? Young, handsome, and wealthy as he her, if she will trust her fate to me. I can of-
is, these qualifications are valueless when com- fer for her acceptance a hand never willfully
pared to the inestimable worth of a heart as no- guilty of a(lishonorable deed ; a name whose
1)e as was ever proffered to woman; a dispo- stainless integrity no act of mine has ever sul-
sition and mind whose charms I. know that lied. That hand, that name, Caroline Man-
von perceive and appreciate.  Why, I ask vers, I offer to you; will you accept them ?"
again, was he allowed to sue in vain ?  Ihe   And still I was silent. He was right, my greedy
wooer who would prove irresistible to ninety- woman's heart would not forego one atom of
nine women out of a hundred has found the the happiness it had a right to claim.
lhuidredth in you ; is your heart invulnerable?  '' You ask me to marry you,-Mr. harring-
or is it----"                              ton, I said softly; ' ' but you have not told
But here I interrupted kim.  " have you me that you love me."
sought me out this evening to plead Mr. Nettle-  ''Not told you that I love you !" lie cried ve-
Iy's cause, Mr. larrington?" 'hemently, the restraint which he had hitherto

"God forbid !" he ejaculated fervently. " I
have the cause to plead of a far less worthy
man than Frank Nettleby, yet one in whom I
am much more interested. KInowing his fate,
how dare I proceed !  If he, with all his noble
qualities and worldly advantages, was unprosper-
otis in his suit, on what possible grounds -can
John Harrington hope for success ?"
He paused as if expecting me to reply, but I
retained perversely silent. Ie dropped my
hand and rose slowly to his feet.
"I understand," he said ; " your silence is
expressive, and it it I read my fate.  All that
now remains for me, is to thank you for the
kindness that has spared me a harsher answer,
and to take my leave."  And he was moving
away when my words detained him.
"You have asked me no question,'Mr. Har-
rington, it is impossible that I can have given
yeou any answer."
One instant he stood gazing eagerly upon me,
the next he had resumed his position on the
Step.
"Women are all born coquettes, I verily
believe," he said.  "You have no pity upon
the agitation and confusion which a man must
tel when addressing y'ou upon the subject of love
ad matrimony.  You tare ino kinder than the

by visible effort maintained over his words anti
manner, now entirely overthrown. 'Love you
there is not a nerve in my body that does not
resent idignantly the implied doubt. There is
not a thought of past pleasure, of pre5ent con-
tent, or of future prosperity that my mind con--
ceives, that is not mingled with dreams of you.
Since that evening when I left you after my first
visit to your home, and looking, back saw you
through the darkness of the night standing npon
this very step, clad im your black robes, with
your little sister clinging helplessly to your side,
so lonely, so young and fair, so unprotected-
from that moment I took you into my heart as
I never before had taken a human being, and
silently vowed that if my love could save you
from the snares and troubles of the-world, your
path should thenceforward be a pleasant one..
0, my love ! will not this content you ? what
else can I say to woo from you the answer my
impatient spirit craves?" and casting aside the
shy reserve which had always marked his con-
duct toward me, he threw his arm around my
waist, and drew me to his side, gazig imto my
face with eyes whose eager passion not even the
obscurity of the evening could conceal.
And all the answer that I could make was to
rest my glowing face upon his shoulde, and n-


50t                            MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
circle with my arm the neck that was bowed so             CHAPTER VIII.
lovingly over me.  Lower, still lower drooped
I ' I  1  b  I   1 8   1 -  1     F. N. RIETIREs" THE GOVERNOR' IN POSSESSIusin  u  eti  ige;u  ekON.
htis head; our breaths mn1iiigle ; his cheek  ..IETES'rIEGYcOC"IPSSSON
touched mine ; and then our lips met in that   TImE engagement between Mr. larrington and
first sweet, thrilling kiss of love, which man myself was not a long one ; there was no need
never gives, or woman takes, but once.      that it should be so, and a long delay was im-
A happy silence ensued, broken at last by possible if I acceded to my lover's wishes, and
hint, as lie murmured, '' My Caroline, this ex- resigned immediately my situation in the store;
presive silence is very sweet, and vet, exigeant for, as may be readily supposed, I had laid by
as yourself, my heart craves words to satisfy its but little capital during the eighteen months I
longing.  Speak, dearest ; tell inc that I am  had worked for my living, and could afford to
loved-that you are happy."                   live in idleness but a very brief time.  Miss
Spite of my agitation I could not resist the Jenny proved to be as earnest as her brother in
nuiscehievous retort : ''Does the spirit of coquet- desiring me to leave the store, and on many ac-
rv then exist ii man's bosom  also ?" I said, counts it was really better that I should do so.
Are you, too, so pitiless as to require from my 'I'he relations existing between ''the governor"
'ofusioit every concession you have a right to and myself could not easily be concealed, and
demand ?   Can you pretend to misinterpret the would of course attract notice and remark that
answer that my looks and actions have already would be embarrassing to both of us. Beside
given you ?"                                 this, it would be very disagreeable to me to be
But I could not divert hi from his aim. Ie thrown constantly in the society of Mr. Frank,
only whispered, ''Be generous, Caroline ; tell uncertain as I was how he would be disposed to
ate that you love me.'                       view the altered demeanor which I must hence-
And at last the words found utterance, and forth sustain toward him, and so I left the stome
my answer was given, defmaitely enough to satisfy the evening following to return to it no more,
even him,                                    and the same evening it was arranged between
'I'hc happy moments flew quickly by, and I Mr. Ilarrington and myself that our nuptials
only knew that the evening had sped by the re- should take place one month later.
turn of Agnes, with the intelligence that ten  Never was bride received into her husband's
o lock had arrived.                         family more affectionately than was I by Miss
A little later amid my lover rose to leave.  "I Jenny.  Master Eddie, when next he saw me,
shall expect you to give Mr. Nettleby warning very politely and prettily expressed his satisfac-
to-morrow to provide another clerk for his shawl tion at the prospect of the near connection which
leptartment," he said with playful assumption of was shortly to exist between us, and though I
authority ; ''o more task-masters, no more toil half fancied at the time that there was a want
for you, mmy darling. You are mine now, and I of cordiality in his advances which might give
shall not allow you to be any longer subjected ground for the suspicion that they were not al-
to the temptation which etMr. Frank's handsome together sincere, still his youth and shyness were
thee must be to you.  I shall be very jealous of very likely to have beem the only cause of the
you until you are once irrevocably my wife, and reserve whieh I noticed.  At all events, I did
shall allow no man's eyes to gaze upomn you, not disturb myself long with the idea, for in
save my own."                                Miss Jenny's hearty, tearful greeting, I found
I shall make no rash promises," I said, full solace for any coolness on the part of her
laughing, but a little tremulously too, for the young brother.
new feeling of beimg protected and cared for was  IIer feelings on the subject of the approach-
very precious to me. " Miss larrmugton and I ing marriage may perhaps be better miderstood
will talk the matter over, and I shall act as mmay from the substance of a conversation which oc-
appear to her most seemly in the matter."    curred between us a few days after I had left the
I claims no other concessions," he sail coma- store, and as it settled also several other ques-
rentedly.  " I am sicure of her support ; and now  tions of equal importance, I will record it for the
good-night again, and may the good Lord bless reader's benefit.
aid protect may Caroline, now and ever."       It was at my own home that the sceme trams-
A brief caress, and he xas gone ; and I stole pired.  " The governor" had bought his sister
io my mmmi, anti laid my-selt' downm by Agnmes s to spend the evening with me as of yore, and Item'
stale that might, thme happiest, most thankful kindi hands xvere mnw busily engaged imn soe 
wvomiani that slept benecath the taunopy of God's needle-wxork emn my bhlas were my owmi also,
14'ighit ih-em.I for-, thouigha may trousseau was necessarily' hmumblo

I,5

F. N. RETIRES "'THE GOVERNOR'' IN POSSESSION.                         51
enough, yet I had sufficient work upon my hands he is willing enough to postpone entering into
in preparing it, to employ me very busily during regular practice for six months longer, and this
tie month that was slipping away so rapidly. is such a capital chance for him to go abroad,
Of course "the governor" was with us, lazily too, for he goes with Frank in a business ea-
ensconced in an arm-chair, with Agnes hovering parity, and while his duties are light, his cx-
about him, amusing himself alternately with her penses will be still lighter."
and with us, his eyes often seeking mine with an  ''Mr. IIarrington," I said thoughtfully, after
expression that filled my heart with satisfied a few moments' silent musing upon the news
happiness such as nothing else could give. I had just heard, "' I do not see why I can not
John was by no means a demonstrative lover- resume my situation at the store again after Mr.
fond words or tender caresses being but seldom  Frank goes away, or, even if I remain at home
bestowed by him.  This phase of his character, for a while now, why can I not go back again
however, was so accordant with my own, that I after-after we are married ?"
never wished it otherwise, and thus, perhaps, I  " Why, what in the world is the child think-
prized even more fondly than less timid women ing about !" cried Miss Jenny, dropping her
would have done, those tender glances which work in dismay.
were the only tokens of love of which he was  " Proceed, Miss Manvers," was the only comi-
not chary.                                  ment myfiancee chose to make at this stage of
"I have a piece of news to tell you, Caroline," my proposition.
said Miss Jenny, "that I dare say you will find  " You are not a rich man, Mr. Ilarrington,"
interesting.  Frank Nettleby sails for Europe I continued,'" and Miss Jenny has always
next Monday."                               deemed it her duty to support herself, and why
" Does lie, indeed ?" I cried, as much excited should not the saiie duty be imperative upon
by the intelligence as she had expected I would me? more especially, as 1 bring to you not only
be. "I thought he never left until autumn ?"  myself, but Agnes.  I really see no reason that
"Such is his usual custom, but I find no dif- you should bear this double burden alone, when
faculty in accounting for his early flitting this I can assist you a little just as well as not."
rear, nor1, I suppose, do you?"              Here Miss Jenny's indignation forbade a
As no answer was admissible from me in this longer silence.  " John Ilarrington's wit'
case, Miss Jenny after a pause resumed:     stand in a store ! A pretty story, upon iity
"And I have yet another bit of information to word ! I think you have taken leave of
give you-unless John has been beforehand with your senses, Caroline. As for my earning my
Ine I"  A negative shake of the head answered own living, it is a different thing altogether. I

her inquiring glance.  "Eddie has concluded
to accompany him."
"Eddie !"I cried: "What in the world takes
himi to Europe ?''
"Inclination, chiefly, I suppose, for I do not
know that he has any stronger motive. Mr.
Frank wanted him to go last year, but he would
not leave until lie had finished his studiesand

commenced doing so when John was not able
to do it for me, and I had become used to my
daily toil, and found it actually necessary to my-
happiness, before he could offer to relieve me.
I was too wise to yield up my independence,
and knew too well the discomfort and misery ot'
an aimless life to be contented to settle dowi
into idleness, though I well knew that he would

been admitted to the bar.  You know, I sup- never have considered my support as a burden.
pose, that he is a lawyer by profession ?"  1Ihad another reason too, which the events of
"lIndeed I did not know it," I said, in still the past week have proved was not an idle one.
greater astonishment.  " I had not thought he I had dreamed that the time might come in
was more than eighteen or nineteen years of which John would wish to tale to himself -a
age-too young to be any thing but a stu- wife, and make for himself the -home that lie
dent."                                     never yet has known. Then, thought I, there
"You have made no greater mistake than shall be no possible tuipleasantntiess caused by
People generally do, though I had thought you the knowledge that lie has a sister, who must
were better informed. Ed. is considerably older be dragged along with him, wherever lie chooses
than lie looks. But, as I was saying, Frank and to settle, to mar with her enforced presence
he were very intimate last year, and Eddie was the harmonious privacy of married life, which
onl hindered from accompanying him  on his all men so dearly prize. No! Caroline; Eddie
trip over tIme Atlantic by the delay it would nec- is now independent of his brother's help-- have
(ssarily make in his future settlement. Noynever ceased to be so.  So John has nothing
however, that his profession is a settled thing, to do with his money but to provide a home for

t
t'
l
I


52                             MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
himself and you.  And you must have nothing the store to a real, genuine, boia-fide home:
to do with your time but to make that home a to have some one to watch for u and to greet
happy one ; while, meanwhile, if I in my board- us when we come; to sit down to our meals
ing-house should miss too much the society of with our own family only, and to father around
the boys, I shall have a little sister handy who  the table with our sewing or rating of an
can cheer me up, and in her happy home I evening, as people only can do when they are
shall find a very pleasant place to spend my in their own homes. And you, Caroline, dear,
evenings."                                   are so eminently gifted with the quality of mak-
" Spend your evenings !" I cried indignant- ing a house a home ; I noticed that upon the
lv.  " You do not mean to say that wherever first evening which I spent with you here, and
John may take me to live your home will not I said to John that very night upon our way
also be ?  You can not possibly dream that I home, ' John, if ever you make ut your mind
would allow his marriage with me to separate to marry, I should think you would like such a
him from you?   Never, my dear, dear friend ! woman as that;' meaning you, dear, of course.
WIere our home is, there must yous be also, Well, what do you think he said ?"
iow aend ever.  I could never forgive myself  " What ?" I cried quickly ; and then I drew
if I thought Ilhad catsedh the shadow of a sep- back again, blushing at the eagerness I had
:uratioin to coie between hina and the sister shown.
whom he so dearly loves.  Why! you might      " Why, he said," continued 1Iiss Jenny,
just as well propose that I should send Agnes '''that he had already learned to like jst such
to a hoarding-house, rather than disturb the 'a woman as that.' "'
privacy of our home.  Why would it be more     " Still meaning me, I hope ?" I said, glane-
unnatural for mue to be parted from my sister ing at " the governor's" placid face.
t hat for him to give up Iis ?"  And then "the  " Still meaning you," he responded, and
governor's" grave voice took up the strain.  Miss Jenny resumed
" You see, Jenny, it is as I told you ; I    "From that time I have worked just as hard
knew Caroline's sentiments too well to fear to as I knew how to promote this marriage. You
ilust my cause iii her hands. Renounce at once can not tell, Caroline, what a relief to mae it
ill idea of being separated from us, for where was to find upon whom his choice had fallen,
sty home is, there must yours bie also ; and the I knew that John was never destined to be an
soine to which I look forward with such ardent old bachelor, and I hiad always been afraid he
atsicipations, would be robbed of one of its would fall in love with some one of the fine-
iairest features, if you, my (lear sister, refused to lady girls into whose society he has been so
bless it with your presence." Ihis voice falter- much thrown at the boarding-house ; for even
ed, and hiss Jeiiny's eyes and miine were dim if such a one could have made him happy, she
with tears; sifter a moment's pause lie resumed would have come between him and nle, I knew,
in a lighter tone, " As for the sulject upon and instead of gaining a sister, as I so stuch
which your indignation was aroused, I have longed to do, I should only have lost a brother,
but one renmriuk to make ; when I need Miss But I have always had faith in you, and had I
Manvers's help in supporting my wife, I will selected his wife for him myself, I should cer-
all ipom hIer sor it, and until I do, I sincerely tainly have chosen you."
trust sie will never again volunteer it.  I hope  " I am  sure, Miss Harrington," I cried with
that scettls the qpusctions ?"              tearful eyes, "I as very grateful to you for
" I mi sure, sir," I replied demiurels, " Miss your good opinion ; you have indeed proved
Manvers his no intention of consteisding for the yourself my friend ; always have you done so;
pri ilege.  I tm ' silenced hut tot coiviiced.' from the first day I came to you, a sorrowful.
I still cling to my original line of argument, I timid stranger, awkward and inexperienced, to
have just as good a right to work for my living worry you with my ignorance, until tsis night
ts has Miss Jenny."                         that you put the finishing stroke to mour kind
Work ! so you shall, Caroline ; you will labors, by telling me that you  have helped
have plenty to do, never fear," said that lady en- ase to a husband.  I am really curious to know
ergetically ; "if you start housekeeping with by what great good fortune I ever ingratiated
Agnes and me to talke care of, as well as your- myself so completely in your favor ; wait have
selves, I think s-ou will fiadyu  ad  ulIee      done, that from the first yost should
its keepig thse wheels of the domestice maa- have been so kindly disposed toward mae ?"
chimnerv in rumnnsimig order.  Just think, Jlohn,  "' Suite ensousgh, this munsst seem a little nays-
htow nice is wcill he for its to come home from teriouis to you," she said, laughing, "but you

F. N. RETIRES-" THE GOVERNOR" IN POSSESSION.                    -     5
must know that both John and I had been pre- Jenny had ceased speaking, " You had heard
disposed in your favor before you came to us. of my father, then, Mr. Harrington, even be-
I will tell you how it happened. One evening, fore you saw me ?"
just before the store closed, John and I were  " That I had," he replied smilingly ;'' of
at work at your old post of observation behind him, and his father and his grandfather before
Mr. Nettleby's desk, and we there overheard a him ; at least as far as it was in the power of
conversation between him and Mr. Henderson, Mr. IHenderson to enlighten us. Ile discoursed
of which you were the subject. The latter gen- at length upon the fine old Manvers blood that
tleman gave an outline of your history, and of had never known a stain through countless
your father's before you, and spoke of you in generations. Ie spoke of your mother, too, as
such terms of glowing admiration that we be- being a Winthrop, and remarkable for her stern,
came quite anxious to see you.  The story of Puritan principles ; and then he finished his
your desolate situation warmed my heart to you, remarks by saying that he believed you to be a
and I resolved, if you came among us, that I satisfactory compound of both parents ; possess-
would try to make your store-life as smooth as ing the high pride of name and birth which
possible.  You know yourself what excellent characterized your father, judiciously tempered
friends we afterward became and, as I tell you, by the strong principles and sober good sense
I was vastly pleased when I saw   that you of your mother.    Of course you can easily
and John were beginning to take a fancy to imagine how much our anticipations were ex-
each other, for I saw it, my dear, before you cited by so glowing an account."
had ever thought of such a thing yourself.    '' Well, for my part," chimed in Miss Jen-
Even during the little episode in which Mr. ny, rather irrelevantly, " I can not undertake to
Frank figured so prominently, I, more clear- vouch for the merits of my grandfathers and
sighted than John, saw plainly enough that it grandmothers, but 1 know my father was an
was not Frank you cared about, whatever might upright, honest man, and that lie left belsihid
have been his sentiments toward you, and I him as fair a name as ever sons inherited; aP
had far more fears of losing my chosen sister- I know that my mother was a good Christian
in-law from John's jealousy than from Frank's woman-a better one than her daughter will
love. I tried for a while to manouvre you into ever succeed in becoming, I fear.  And yet
a better understanding with each other; but another thing I know and will say, John, even
after the unfortunate termination of the even- though you are my own brother, that no woman,
ing in which I made him  escort you home, I be she high or lowly, need shrink to accept the
forsook that line of business, fearing that I name you give her, for it is borne by as honor-
might by my meddling work more mischief able a man as America can boast of."
than I did good.  I believed, too, that if you  " Indeed, indeed, I believe it, Miss Ilarring-
really had a liking for each other, .every thing ton !" I cried; " proud even to foolishness as 1
would come out right at last, and you see events am of the stainless name my father bequeathed
have proved that I was correct-John's insane to me, I merge it willingly in your brother's,
jealousy came very near blocking the game, and that I would not do, were he a royal prince,
though. You must always beware of that, my had I not most boundless faith in his integrity.
dear, it is his weak point ; he has always been Agnes and I are the last of our race, you know,
jealous, jealous of his father and mother as a and I fear you will think that Mr. Hciderson
mere baby, jealous of me, of every one -he made rather a rash assertion in attributing to
loves ; I hope the lesson he has lately received me my mother's good sense, when I tell you
will go far toward curing him, but at all events that this pride of family is as truly my ruling
it is my duty to give you warning.  Mr. Hen- passion as it was my father's, and that 1 would
person told us how proud a mani your father make any sacrifice of happiness and affection
was, and I know you have inherited that char- rather than bring upon my father's nMosse a
acteristic ; if ever your pride and John's jeal- shadow of dishonor."
Otusy are brought into collision, I fear you will  '' Hush ! Caroline," said " the governor"
both have reason to rue the day."           gravely, "you know not what you say ; talk not
Far-sighted Miss Jenny ! Hei words were of sacrificing happiness and affections to a shadow.
in-deed p.rophlietie, yet of how little moneent they Suppose-you should be pu1 t to the test; suipposi
seemed to ame then. I was far more interested I were to tell you now of some dishsonorable
ins knowing that they had heard of soy dear deed which had stained irremediably the namse
father, and could admire with me 'his glorious which you are' hereafter to hear, would you
character, so I said eagerly as seems as Miss have sac believe that yost would reject the love

7,
{
F ,
"
i __
X
h
r
t,='
«
i
r


MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

I ofler you rather than sully your father's name restraint, all espionage ; the constant society of
by connecting it with mine ?"                the loved one, and the knowledge that a life-
"I would, yes, I would I" I cried with flushed time of such communion is before them ; the
cheeks and flashing eyes raised defiantly to his, constant unfolding of new tastes and peculiari-
but when I toot the loving, earnest gaze he bent ties in each other, tastes and peculiarities always
upon rite, antd read in it the ardent affection harmonious at this epoch, whatever a more in-
that I knew was ready to crown my life with tinate acquaintance may prove them to be; the
blessings, my haughty spirit was subdued, pride boundless trust in each other which characterizes
vanished, and with a sudden revulsion of feel- their communion; these causes combined create
ing I burst into tears, crying petulantly, "Ilow  for the husband and the wife a new world so rich
can you torment me so ? it is cruel even to im- in indescribable emotions and boundless antici-
igine such a case !"                         nations of future bliss, that the vulgar realities
My lover gazed wistfully at me with an ex- of life around them, its cares, passions, steeds
pression in his eyes which I strove in vain to and sorrows, is completely cast into oblivion,
understand.  lie sighed heavily, and did not and anost perfect happiness for a fe*brief days
speak for some moments.   When he did, how- is the result.
over, his voice was clear and steady as usual.  I speak now from my own experience.     [
'' I believe I know you better than you know  snow that at that time I was perfectly happy.
yourself, Caroline; yet I am sincerely thankful My imagination cani not conceive, nor could my
that there is no need to put your resolution to nature realize, if obtained, a greaterbliss than was
rite test.  You need not anticipate discovering enjoyed by me in the first month after my mar-
in mne a second Eugene Aram."                riage, and I think I may safely venture to say
And thent the conversation, by mutual coi- that the feelings of my husband wre no less
sent, turned upon other topics, and the words intense and absorbing than my own.
we eaca had spoken passed into temporary oh-  So we left the crowded, bustling city, and
livion, to be recalled after nanny days with fear- wandered off amid strangers, into strange places,
fisl empthbasis aid weight.                 with no criticising eyes to comment upn our
From  all this it will readily ie seen that I actions, no mocking tongues to sneer at our
ftid ito diflictulty ini makittg a sister as well as new-born happiness.  John threw off the stern
a friend of kind Miss Jenny. Heart and soul gravity and reserve which long yearslof respon-
ste entered into all our plans and arrange- sibility rather than nature had woven around
ments, taking as mittuclpride and interest its my himt, and became a boy again, frank, joyous, af-
preparations as if I had been her own sister, fectionate, as it was his nature to he.  Then
and thitus the happy weeks of my short engage- did I obtain an insight into the boundless
mTent glided by, aid, at length, upon a pleasant, wealth of the heart I had won for my own.
hazy morning in September, I bade a tearful lhis gentle charity, his womanly tenderness of
adieu to Agtes and Miss Jeniy, leaving them  soul ; his unselfish, sacrificing devotedness ; his
to console ea(cht other, while I, the most loving, delicate purity of soul.  All the nobility of the
trusting wife that ever assumited the matrimonial great, grand nature of the man who hlad become
yoke, went forth from my girlhood's home with my husband, was now discovered to me ; and
hit5 who was thentceforward to be the master of very, very humble did I become, when recogniz-
ay l'siny. .uing how utterly unworthy I was, with my sus-
An autumn trip up1) the St. Lawrence and to piciouts, faulty nature, of the love which was so
the White Mountains was te extent of our lavishly bestowed upon me ; and yet not utter-
bridal tour.  We were away three weeks, and ly unworthy either, for great love, lice divine
even tow the golden radiance of those happy charity, covers many imperfections.  And oh
days tints with glory my sober maturity.  The how tenderly, how truly, how absorbingly did
raptures of the hiottey-mtiooit haie been so end- I learn to love my husband! All other enso-
lessly extolled, and so endlessly ridiculed, that I tions paled beside this one great passion.  My
am almost afraid to attempt to describe the joys life amid soul were dissolved in his ; an l in him,
of mtsine, lest the remembrance of that time, so henceforth and forever, were centered. all the
holy to me, should become the subject of mock-  hopes and joys of my existence.
cry to others.  Yet, in spite of sneering cynics,  In our trip we avoided large cities a td places
if any approach to perfect happiness can be felt of public resort generally.  Solitude asd retire-
uipotn this siniful earth, I think it is enjoyed by a ment were the blessings which our spirits eraved,.
pure-heartedl, lov intg couple its the first few weeks amid during many a long ratmble thsreugh time
tem' mtarriage.  Thme eotmplete reuioval of all woods, manys a sail sun some placid lake, or

54

,.
_,
f
-  ,
i
s
r

F. N. RETIRES-" THE GOVERNOR" IN POSSESSION.                           55
scramble over some grand-old mountain, did we but three short days, and then she too was taken
drink in health and happiness, mental and phys. from our longing hearts. The trial and disap.
ical, while luxuriating in the glories of the pointment were bitter indeed ; yet no affliction
bright autumn landscape, and enjoy the pure could be overwhelming, no sorrow utterly hope-
blessings of the time and place, chiefly because less, while we were so blessed in each others
those blessings were felt and appreciated' by love; and I believe the loss of our children only
each other,                                 knit together more closely our hearts, and we
At last, after our three golden weeks of holi- were half comforted, even when most miserable,
day, we returned again to the realities of every-day because we mourned together.
life.  We sojourned for a few days with Miss  There years rolled by, at the end of which
Jenny at her boarding-house, during which time time Mr. Frank Nettleby and Edwin Ilarring-
we selected and furnished our future hone. A  ton returned to America. Their stay had been
very plain and unpretending residence, plainly protracted from month to month, and from year
and unpretendingly furnished, yet it was our to year, without any definite period being fixed
home, and many a happy hour did we all spend in for their return, until they had passed out of
talking over and arranging the pleasant little our lives so entirely that it required a struggle
tminutis in which we were so much interested, to welcome them back. A correspondence had
At last it was ready for us, and bidding a final been of course maintained between Edwin and
farewell to boarding-4euse life, John and my- his brother and sister, but for the last eighteen
self, sister Jenny and Agnes, installed ourselves' months of his absence his wanderings had beet
in our new home, as happy and united a family so indefinite, iis address so uncertain, that our
as could be found in Boston.                knowledge of his movements had been very
And then, almost like a dream, the days and unsatisfactory. Through Mr. Nettleby, both
weeks sped by, until weeks became months, and John and Jenny had frequently heard of Mr.
months years2 and still my life continued to be Frank, and occasionally a merry message from
as rich in love and happiness as my fondest him was sent to one of us through Eddie's letters.
dreams could have wished it. I should per- Once, too, within a few months after John and
baps have become hardened in my prosperity I were married, he had written to me a short
and quite forgetful of that future life which comic little note, characteristic of himself, and
all must be taught to prepare for and remember, accompanied by a collection of costly laces and
mad it not been for a great sorrow which came bijouterie which he tendered to me as a bridal
upon us, to remind us of the fleeting nature of gift. John and I together wrote hitn an an-
our sublunary joys.               i         swer, and that was the last we had heard of
In the second year of our marriage my first- him except, as I said, through Eddie's letters.
born son was given to me, a beautiful, healthy  And now they were both home again, anid
child, who soon became the idol of the household. the very sound of their names recalled thoughts
Before ie came to us, we had not realized that and feelings belonging to days gone by, which
there was an empty niche in our hearts which I had imagined had quite passed iito oblivion.
only his sweet presence could fill. So perfect Edwin of course came directly to us ; neither
had been our happiness that we had not thought ,John nor I ever dreamed of his doing other-
it possible that it could be increased, but when wise ; and, though he hesitated, and made at
our baby was born, we felt that the well of ten- first many objections to thus, as he expressed
derness in our hearts had been stirred by an an- himself, intruding himself upon us, we over-
gel's hand, and with humble, grateful hearts, we rtfled all that he could say against it, and he be-
offered up our thanks to the Giver of all Good, came at once a member of our faitinly.  le
whoi had thus graciously blessed us. Yet, alas! started afresh upon his long-neglected profes-
not long did our dream of parental rapture en- sional career, and thanks to the kindness of the
dure.  Six months did our little one bless us Nettlebys and of other friends who patronized
with his presence, and then he sickened and and encouraged himn, attd I suppose, too, owing
died; and in the bitter grief which my bereave- a good deal to his own  m(loutbted talents, lhe
metnt brought upon   me, I woke from    my prospered finely in his career, and im a few
dream-life of a present that gave me nothing to months was engaged in quite a successful prac-
wish for, to the patient waiting for a future be- twice.
yond thme grave, whore suffering and~ death are  Ihere then commnenes; a now epoeb in moy
fir evermore unknown. A second babe was story.
orn to us within a year after the death of our--~~~
'ittle James, but this little angel lingered with us


56                             MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
CHAPTER IX.                    heaven of-my home until all its glories were
shrouded in despairing blackness.
RUADowvs AND SUSPICIONS. -
I saw with a little uneasiness the evideut
Oxn day, about two weeks after the return of fancy which Mr. Frank appeared to have taken
the travelers, John brought Frank   Nettleby to Agnes.  She sat opposite to him  at table,
hiome with him to dinner. I was heartily glad and I noticed how frequently his glance rested
to see the gentleman, and said so.           upon her, and what evident interest he seemed
'' Of course you are," he cried in his old reck- to take in all that she said and did.  I noticed
less fashion; "1 entertained no doubts concern- this with anxiety, I say, for though I was never
iug the friendliness of your greeting ; a woman much disposed to " match-making," I had ven-
always likes a sincere admirer, eveni when her tured to dabble a little in Agnes's matrimonial
taste is so bad as to prevent her from loving him. prospects, and the husband-elect whom I had
I was very anxious to see you again, Mrs. iar- mentally chosen for her was Eddie Harring.
rington, and my only fear was lest the jealousy ton.  I can not say I was the origiliator of this
of your spouse here should strive to prevent scheme, for, to say the truth, it was really the
our meeting.  however, his inv itation of this evident liking which the young people seemed
morning quite reassures me, and I foresee I shall to have taken to each other which had first
be a frequent visitor in your  /nage, probably suggested to me its expediency ; and imagining
inflicting my company upon yo so often us to that to be probable, which was, after all, only
constitute myself quite a bore. possible , I was uneasy at the bare prospect of
('ome as often as you like and stay as long the disappointment which I feared Mr. Frank
as you like," said John ; " as long as Caroline was again beginning to prepare for himself.
does not object, I assure you I shall not."     This was one source of discomfort to me, and
'Then I introduced our visitor to Agnes, who then another trouble came upon me before the
by this time had sprung up into a beautiful girl conclusion of the meal.  Frank Nettleby had
of seventeen, the fair promise of her childhood been telling us of an eccentric old gentleman
beinu more than fulfilled by the bloom of her with 'whom he had become acquainted during
youth, for a more charming creature could his travels.    lIe related many humorous an-
scarcely he iiuagimned than may little sister. Fr- ccdotes concerning him, and just as we were all
idently lr. Frank himself liehined strongly to laughing at one of them, the narrator turned to
this opinion, for his attention was at once with- John, saving, as I thought, a little abruptly--,
draws from muy unworthy self, to settle upon   '' By the bye, Harrington, not the least ci-
this younger anl fairer charmer.             rious of old S-'s sayings and doings was his
I could see very little change wrought in my persisting in asserting  that he knew  you.
'uonda luoer by his three years of absence ; Father had made some mention of you in a let.
he was a trifle broader and heavier, and his ter which I had just received one mouning whenu
hair and skin were perhaps a shade darker, but S    had strolled into my room.   I opened
save in these trifling respects, hue was exactly  my letter with the customary ' excue mue,'to
the same Mr. Frank who in former days had him, as I did so.
caused me so much vexation ; no wiser, no       " 'I shall not excuse you unless you can find
steadier, and really looking not a day older. something iln the letter which will interest mie,
And so in a little while we were all chatting too,' he said in his usual unceremonious man-
nmud laughing as gayly and imureservedly as such ner ; so partly to amuse him, and partly to keep
a party of old friends had a right to do.   him quiet, as I skimmed through my letter, I
Presently Eddie came iln, and then dinner here and there read aloud a passage to hmim
was served, and we six sat down to table, a concerning local items, politics, etc. ; one pas-
friendly, happy party, with kind feelings reign- sage of which I gave him  thie benefit, com-
ing in every breast, and good-u ill and merriment  menced thus :'' Harrington tells me'-''
cheering the repast.                           '' ' Iarrington ? what IHarrimgton is that ?
Never' again did that same party meet with interrupted my auditor; I once knew a rogue
(ute the same happy feelings.  From that day named Harrington.'
do I date the first comumnmencemenlt of the stormI  " ' Then you did not know our Ilart'ington,'
ivchi afterward burst with sui  fearful vie- I said, and tied to mestue my letter.  But
lenice 111on1 may life. The first shadowy orut.- vainly ; S-- was off on another tack miow,
hunes ot' its clouds dawned uponi the horizon at arid it wa's-nio misc try ing to bring him hack unii
this time, cnd fiomi so apparemitly insignificant til he was mready to come.
a hueginnuinug, gradumally grcew to overnshiadow the  " 'Who is youir Ilarr'ington, if I may make

(1

SIIADOWS AND       SUSPICIONS.                             5
so bold as to ask?' he persisted ; 'where does ton is a gentleman of the most undotgbted honor'
lie come from, and wvho was his father ?' ' one whom long years of service has endeared to
At this point my husband rather abruptly us, and who has won our unbounded confi-
interrupted his guest.                      deuce by his reliability and proved integrity.  I
"Jenny," he cried, addressing his sister, can not imagine how you ever can have made so
would you mind preparing for me a little of ridiculous a mistake as to confound him with
that salad, of which I used to be so fond, as a the rascal of whom you have spoken, as you
boy?  I have just taken a'notion that I would ' evidently have done.'
like to have some, and I dare say Frank would " ' All right !' cried the obstinate old wretch,
appreciate it too ; if it would not be too much I still nodding his head with tremendous empha-
trouble."                                   sis, 'lie's reformed, I suppose, and the Lord
I could but stare in astonishment at him for forbid that I should throw a stumibhng-ldock in
making so inconsiderate a request at such a his way.   But one thing I will say, whether
time, but Jennie rose good-humoredly from her you like it or not, if that hypocritical thief
beat.                                       IIarrington has turned out to be a man of
"Oh, no! I don't mind the trouble if you proved integrity-there's hope for the devi-
have a fancy for it ; the ingredients are all at that's all.' And to no other conclusion could
hand in the kitchen, and I can mix it for you I force him, though I argued for ted minutes
in a few moments ;" and so saying she left the about the impossibility of his larrington and
roo .                                      mine beig identical.  Ihe old gentleman was
''Did you prove to the old gentleman's sat- undoubtedly honest in his belief, nid he hal
isfaction that John was not a rogue ?" said Ag- your parentage and history so correct, that the
ies, resuming the conversation at the point only way in which I could account for his error,
where my husband had interrupted it.        was by concluding that he really had known
"I can't say that I did," continued Frank; you as lie had said, but had contrived to mix
"you may judge for yourself.  I answered his your name, by his treacherous memory, with
questions in full, for I thought it would be the somebody else's conduct.  John  . Casey i
shortest vay of terminating the discussion.  the brother-in-law of whohi lie spoke. You
'The Mr. Ilarrington of whom my father never were in the employ of Casey &amp; Co., were
speaks,' said I, 'is a gentleman who has been in you ?"
our employ for more than ten years.  He is a   There was a moment's inexplicable pause,
native of Connecticut, I believe ; at all events his as Mr. Frank waited for an answer to his clues-
father, Doctor John Harrington, was a physician ' tion.
of some eminence in Hartford, where he resided  " I never was," at last answered a voice so
for many years.'                             hoarse and unnatural that I could scarcely
"'That's the chap!' cried the old fellow, nod- recognize it as my husband's.
ding his head with furious sagacity, ' the identi-  I had listened to the recital with which w
eal individual-Connecticut man, son of John had just been favored, half amused, halt' indig-
larrington, M. D.; we were humbugged because nant, but giving no more serious thought to the
he was the son of his father. The old doctor had accusation than Mr. Frank appeared to have
been a college crony of my brother-in-law, and done. Now, however, as John spoke, I turned
lie could not believe but that this lad must be my eyes to his face, my attention attracted by the
a chip of the old block, and consequently a strange emotion which his voice betrayed. And
jewel of steadiness and virtue.  That was one surely never did innocent man wear a more con-
of the times ny advice was not followed ; be- fused or guilty aspect. his usually colorless
cause I was a silent partner in the firm they face was scarlet, his eyes downcast, his hands
seemed to consider me a blind one too, and trembling with agitation, aid his voice, when
what my eyes saw was paid no attention to, and at length he seemed able to control it, was, as
I saw that young fellow was a scamp the very I have said, so unlike his natural tones, that it
tirst time I clapped eyes on him. Lord! what not only attracted my attention but that of the
a young reprobate he did turn out to be ! You whole company.
have a dangerous customer to deal with, Nettle-  "I was not," he said ; and then lie glanced
y, I can tell yots that, if le has progressed in at me cd caught the look of bewildered
10oguery with his years.' sturprise with which I regarded hun, andl as
4,   "' M. S--,' I cried, as soon as he gave he did so he turned deadly pale, every vet-
me an opportunity to speak, 'yen are entirely tige of color forsaking lasi face, leaving even
-mnistaken in the man. Our-friend Mr. Harring- his lips bloodless, and there came into his eyes


58                            MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
such a look of appealing terror as almost made with him. I found no little difficulty at first
my heart stop heating, from the horrible dread in drawing him out of the shy reserve behind
it awakened in me.                          which he always entrenched himself when in
With visible efibrt lie turned to Frank Net- the presence of strangers, but when I succeeded
tley, continuiiig his denial. ''I never was in doing so, I felt well rewarded for my pains,
employed by the firm of which you speak, and for I discovered that Jenny's eulogiums upon
to the best of my knowledge I have never met her young brother had been much more just
Mr. S--    at all.  Furthermore, I can assure than might have been expected from so inter-
you T mit not the individual of whom he seems ested a critic.
to entertain so unfavorable an opinion."      I found to my surprise that Edwin Ilarring..
" I Stever for a niomient supposed that you ton, the beardless, pale-faced boy, whose blue
were," said Mr. Nettleby; and then, to my in- eyes drooped so modestly when they met my
finite relief, he adroitly turned the conversation own, whose blushes were as easily awakened as
into other channels, and Miss Jenny entering were those of Agnes herself, this timid lad
at the same time with her salad dressing, a whom I had hitherto regarded with a feeling
farther diversion was the result, and the disa- pretty near akin to contempt, was really a man
greeable topic seemed to be forgotten.      of commanding talents and rare endowments;
I was thoroughly mystified by John's behav- whose acquirements for one of his age were as-
ior.  I felt uneasy, T could scarcely tell why, tonishing.  And surprised beyond expression
though his prompt denial of the charge thus en- by the discovery I had made, I was now likely
riously brought against him, had at once laid to fall into the other extreme, and become
at rcst all active suspicions, if I had really henceforth as ardent an admirer of my young
even for a moment entertained any. He had brother as was his sister Jenny.
said that he was not the individual in question,  I have already stated my passionate fondness
and that surely was suflicient.  I believed in for music-a passion which neither hy husband
John as I believed in my religion. Ile was nor Jenny could sympathize with ; so Agnes
truth itself, to me ; and I could " doubt truth andi 1 were generally sole auditors of the ex-
to be a liar'' sooner than have believed him  quisite perfortances with which Eddie now fre-
guilty of a falsehood. here was some mystery, quently regaled us, for he was an accomplished
some trouble that I could not understand, un- musician, master both of flute and violin, and
der all this light talk, but my husband was not many an evening I stole quietly away from the
the man of whom Mr. S      had spoken.  Of room in which John sat with his newspaper, to
that one fact I felt assured ; and with a long the parlor where Eddie with his musip was woo-
breath of relief, I turned to listen to the lively ing my fair young sister's love. And there I
chatter of Agnes with Eddie Harrington, and would sit entranced and absorbed, ven when
gave no farther present thought to the previous the sweet harmony would have lull td my ni'
conversation.                               romantic sister into slumber.  Eddie never
Frank Nettleby went back to the store after grew tired of playing, and certainly I never
dinner with John and Jenny, and Agnes, Eddie wearied of listening, so upon this great master-
and I were left alone. I believe I have not yet passion of our souls we agreed so cordially that
said how much I was beginning to like this it opened the way to farther intimnacy, and
young fellow.   So very boyish, spite of his swept away at once all the cobwebs of reserve
three years European tour; I had almost said and prejudice which had been spun between us
Jirlisl, for his shy, guileless ways really seemed by his timidity and my suspicions. Then, the
to have nothing masculine about them. When pathway once opened, we soon advanced more
I had first become acquainted with him, I be- boldly upon it.  Eddie's business as yet de-
lieve I had entertained rather a dislike to him, manded his attention but for a few hours dur-
certainly a very unreasonable one, founded ing the day, and many a long afternoon he was
upon no earthly cause save his delicate hands thus at liberty to devote to us ; and always at
and musical voice, but from his own shyness I the time when he was sure to find Agnes and
had been able to see so little of him before my I engaged quietly with our needle-work,'would
marriage, that I had really formed no opinion lie steal upon us, book in hand, to ead to us
at all about the boy's character and disposition. as we sewed; his shy ways antd tprecating
Now, thrown as lie was into daily intercourse glances at Agnes always amusing nme in spite
with me, a member of may family, the near and of myself.
dear relative of my husband, of course I felt How completely wrapped uip in her he seem-
much interest in becoming better acquainted etd to be ! Hotw solicitous of her approval!

0

SHADOWS AND SUSPICIONS.               .59

How fearful of her displeasure! I sometimes
was almost tempted to deplore the poor lad's
devotion to her, for she seemed so unconscious
of the value of the heart she had won ; so care-4
less of his feelings, so blind to his sufferings,
that I could not help feeling, spite of my affec-
tion for her, that she was unworthy of the love
she had inspired. Agnes's conduct at this time
was a great mystery to me. I could not for the
life of me satisfactorily determine whether she
loved Eddie Harrington or not.  She was such
a merry, thoughtless little creature, so full of
fun and mischief, that I sometimes was tempt-
ed to believe that she was quite incapable of se-
rious feeling of any kind. My love for her had
never blinded me to the fact that her nature
was not a very deep one, and that, charming as
she was, the power of feeling very intensely had
never been bestowed upon her. Eddie was her
first admirer, and she took a girlish pleasure
in the innocent little flirtation that would have
been natural to her even were her feelings quite
uninterested. Yet this, I could not believe, was
the case.  Often when I came unexpectedly
into the room where the young couple were
sitting together, they would be absorbed in low-
toned conversations that my presence would be
sure to bring to an untimely conclusion. They
would start away from each other, agitated and
confused. And in Agnes's bright blushes and
conscious looks, I could read but one interpreta-
tion.  I often noticed, too, the quick glances
that were interchanged between them, upon oc-
casions, that seemed to have a subtle meaning
to them that others could not see. All this, add-
ed to the pleasure she undoubtedly took in his
society, made me certain that her feelings were
interested in him, even while her unvaried high
spirits, the pleasure with which she received
Mr. Nettleby's attentions, which he assiduously
paid her upon every possible occasion, and the,
to me, inexplicable fact that she was very apt to
fall asleep when Eddie played or read to us, all
told a very contradictory tale. I finally came
to the conclusion, not a little sorrowfully, that
Agnes, besides being incapable of very deep
emotions, was also not a little tainted with the
spirit of coquetry. Yet having full confidence
in her innate purity and loving heart, I did not
allow this discovery to grieve me much, feeling
pretty sure that the match I was so bent upon
making, would, ifuninterferedwith, finally come
to a satisfactory termination.
So Eddie brought his books to us day aftei
day anti read, sometimes the charmed words oh
time poets, sometimes thrilling 'scenes of trave
andh adventure, his musical voice growing deel

and eloquent with the emotions the subject
excited. And when, laying down the book,
he would allow himself to tell of the scenes he
himself had passed through in the far-oil couna-
tries of which he had been reading, and in lan-
guage as elegant as forcible described to us as
no books could do the noted places he had so
lately visited, 1 would sit eager and excited as a
child, leading him on with numberless pues-
tions, never tired of listening, always heartily
sorry when our converse was interrupted.  1
could but-marvel to see the sublime indifference
which Agnes maintained at such times, even
when she kept awake, which she did not always
do if her hands were not busily engaged.  She
paid at all times vastly more attention to what
was transpiring in the street, a view of which
she conimmanded by sitting at the window, than
to her young lover's most eloquent descriptions.
Now she would interrupt the reading wit some
frivolous questions about her sewing, or again
upon subjects quite as unimptrtaut. whichi  r-
haps were suggested to her fickle fancy liv the
words to which she was preteutling to listen,
and sometimes, even, she would desert ns en-
tirely at the most interesting part of a poem
or narrative, to run iout to chat with a neigh-
bor, or shop for a skein of silk, and iieven to
Eddie I could sometimes fancy that her ah-
sence was almost a relief, for surely there is no
greater bore under the sun thiainann ulllnterest-
ed listener when one is reading aloud, even
if such a listener chances to be a young and
pretty woman.    Several times I had almost
made up my mind to lecture Agnes about her
giddiness, yet I refrained lest I shouldchance
to work more harm than good to Eddie by my
interference, for I know how delicate a thing it
is to meddle in lovers' affairs, so I concluded
it was wiser for inc to let Eddie take Agnes just
as he found her, and cnre her himself of her
foibles if he were able to do so.
I became, as I have said, very much inter-
ested in the young man, lie was the most
highly educated person with whom I had ever
I been associated, and the charm of knowledge
was to me a new and overpowering one, so
greedy had 1 always been to gain it, and so Ut-
terly unattainable a treasure had it hitherto al-
ways been. And now as the true extent of this
young man's acquirements were gradually ini-
veiled to me, in the close intercourse into
which we were daily thrown, there was awak-
r ened within me a profound respect which I
made no attempt to conceal. lHe was miiuiout-
1 etly a talented nman, aind a thoroughly educated
pone, antI the kinowleidge that lie was principally


SHADOWS AND SUSPICIONS.                01

self-taught, only added to the esteem and ad-!
miration with which I regarded him.
lie possessed a genius for the study of lan-
guages which I suppose is very rarely found ;
Greek and Latin, and even a smattering of He-
brew he had attained as a school-boy, and his
classical education had not been neglected, as is
so often the case with professional men after
they emerge from college and enter upon the
duties of their career. He was an excellent
German and French scholar, and was conver-
sant more or less thoroughly with half a dozen
other European languages, acquired during his
travels. For all of which I had Frank Nettle-
by's word, not considering my own judgment
in such matters to be very reliable.
lie (Frank) had a vast idea of Eddie's abil-
ities, and had been the first to awaken my in-
terest in the lad before I had learned to like
him so thoroughly myself.
" Ed is a flower born to blush unseen,' lie
had said to me one day a week or so after the
dinner of which I have just written. ''He has
never been appreciated at home half as lie
should have been. Miss Jenny, to be sure, con-
siders him a very smart boy, almost worthy to
be John's brother ; you, I presume, Mrs. iar-
rington, entertain in a modified degree the
same opinion; but as for Harrington, it was al-
ways a marvel to me, how a man clear-sighted
as he is, could be so blind to merits self-evident
as are Ed's. lie never could be made to be-
lieve him any thing extraordinary, though I
have sounded his praises before him most dis-
interestedly for the last five years back. All
of which I suppose is owing to the fact that the
prophet is in his own country.  It was vastly
different when we were abroad, I assure you.
Ed was a sought-after man wherever we went,
and I really did not wonder at all, for when he
chooses to make himself agreeable, a more en-
tertaining or desirable acquaintance can seldom
he met with.   his memory is marvelous, lie
never forgets what lie learns, and he has an apt-
itude for learning that is astonishing indeed to
an empty-headed fellow like myself.  Culti-
vate him, Mrs. Ilarrington, draw him out ; my
word for it you will be well repaid for your
trouble.'
Inspired by Mr. Frank's eulogies as well as
my own interest, I did try to draw Eddie out,
and the result was, as 1 have stated, a wondrous
surprise to myself, and a great change for the
better in him.
A new source of intimacy was soon evolved
from our dlaily readings. Etddie had one day
been reading to us his translation of a charming g

little song of Bdranger's, a gem that even Ag-
nes appreciated and listened to with delight.
"Ah !" said he, regretfully, "if y3ou could
but read it in the original ! my word' and ex-
pressions seem so weak and meagre, wrten com-
pared to the charming tones and phrases which
Bdranger himself uses. I give you the outline,
the vague idea of the gem, but its sot1l, its in-
imitable sparkle, it seems to me the translation
hides rather than reveals.  If you could but
read Be'ranger in his own language !"
" Ai! if we only could !" I sighed regret-
fully; and Agnes cried eagerly, "Why can we
not?  Will you not teach us, Eddie?  We all
have plenty of time, and I think it would be de-
lightful.  Caro is so clever, that she can learn
almost without teaching, and with you and her
both to help me, I am sure that even I could
make rapid progress. Do teach us French, Ed-
die, won't you ?"
" Would you really like to learn ?" he cried
eagerly, and he glanced quickly at me as if to
find whether the proposition met with my ap-
proval.  "Nothing would please me better
than to become your teacher, and as you say,
Agnes, we have plenty of time, that is of course
if Caroline wishes to undertake the task."
"It would be an imposition upon good-na-
ture," I remonstrated, though my sparkling
eyes belied the objections my tongue was rais-
ing.  "A language can not be learned in a
week or a month, and I fear, Eddie, thtt your
patience would be exhausted long before your
pupils were able to read Bdranger. I can not
consent that you should undertake such a
task."
She is only going through the ceiemonv
of that fine speech for form's sake, Eddie," cried
Agnes. " I know that she is as anxious as I
am that you should take us in hand. Pray don't
mind her !"
And Eddie added earnestly, "Indeed I am
sincere in offering my services; if you will real-
ly undertake the language, I shall find great
pleasure in assisting you to the best of my abil-
ity."
And as I had no farther objection to raise,
the arrangement was forthwith concluded ,and
our French lessons became henceforth a daily
institution.
My butterfly Agnes, however, soon wearied
of her self-imposed task. And after the ener-
getic application which characterized her first
week's study, she relapsed into her nsua idle
ways; and though she would not, for very shame's
sake, relinquish the study she had so eagerly
commenced, she proved to be a very negligent

scholar, allowing almost any trivial excuse to'
serve her as a plea for missing her lesson. II
fancied perhaps that Eddie would not have been

to me is," he added, laughing, "that you ever
could make up your mind to change it for one
so insignificant as ours."
"' What's in a name?'" I quoted theatrical-
ly ; "'tis the substance I aim at, not the shadow.
My ruling passion has found food on no such
airy diet gs a mere name, the honorable charac-
ter of the men and women who have borne it
has been the nourishment upon which my pride
has attained its present mighty growth. Imar-

so willing to turn tutor, had he know how the
matter would have terminated, but at all events
he was too polite to let me see that I was to him
a less interesting scholar than my pretty sister,
and I was so industrious and eager a pupil that
he could not help but take pleasure in aiding
me in my labors.
And thus the weeks and months slipped by,
and the friendly intimacy between myself and
my husband's young brother daily grew closer
and more affectionate. It was about a month
after the inauguration of the French class that
the cloud began to-darken over my path.
One day after a short lesson (Agnes was ab-
sent, and my well-conned task seldom took
much time to recite), Eddie and I had lapsed
into conversation, as was frequently the case
now that we had become such good friends,
and by some means or other we had got to
talking of ay father, of his struggles, sorrows,
and triumphs. Eddie's appreciation of him was
sufficiently entire to satisfy even my loving
heart, and he had said-
"I no longer wonder, Caroline. at the haugh-
ty pride which is so pvc-eminently your charac-
teristic. I suppose, now that we have grown to
be good friends, that I may tell you how it at first
appeared to me so repellent a feature in your dis-
position. I recognized it, the very first evening
I saw you, and then it made me almost dislike
you. I could not understand it; I am so de-
ficient in that respect myself, that I could not
sympathize with such a spirit in another, espe-
cially-" and lie hesitated, and blushed con-
fusedly, as he glanced timidly at me.
"Say on, Eddie," I cried, laughing at his em-
barrassment, "you could not sympathise with
pride, especially i'n one who had so little to be
proud of; was not that what you meant to
say ?"
"And if it was, you can not take offense at
it now, when I tell you how excusable I consider
such a feeling in any one who can boast of such
a father and such a name. The only marvel

E

eyes could read every expression of miy face.
He had beautiful eyes, large and clearly cut ; in
color grey, and in expression gentle and tender,
almost melancholy, though there were not want-
ing times when they were lighted up with a fire
that betrayed the strong soul within. They
were the only really fine feature in his face, for
Eddie was by no means a handsome boy ; his
skin was too sallow, his hair too light, his whole
appearance too efleminate to deserve that so

e w

CU                 MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

ried the ean John Harrington, not thie name;
Ithe honor of the one depends upon myhusband
and myself ; of the other Upon his father, his un-
cles, his brothers, his cousins, upon any one who
bears the name ; I am scarcely so insane as to
build my happiness upon so fragile a founda-
tion."
" Your happiness, do you say ? would you
have me believe that your happiness is built
upon your husband's honor, rather than his
love ?"
The question strikes deep, most learned
lawyer, and I know not whether it is in my
power to answer it. My husband's honor and
my husband's love are so indissolubly mingled in
my mind that I can not separate them, even in
thought."
"Let me see then if I can not propomund the
question in a clearer form," lie said smilingly ;
" I am not very well versedi hi matrimonial sta-
tistics, especially on the feminine side of t he
question, yet I believe I am right in stating that
a true wife should find her happiness in the love
she bears her hnshand ?"
"Jean only answer for myself,"I replied, ''and
my response is unreservedly in the affirmative."
"Then suppose that from some circumstance
over which neither you nor he had aniy control,
disease, mental or physical, incompatibility of
temper or disposition, from any'of the numerous
outside occurrences which so frequently work
revolutions in our resolves and feelings, suppose
from any of these causes your husband should
grow to love you less ; more, to look upon you
with absolute repulsion ; think you that in los-
ing his love your affection for him would fail ?"
Eddie's manner was half jesting, half earliest.
but his voice was so kind and gentle that it was
impossible to feel displeased at questions which
from any one else I certainly should have re-
sented ; to this, and to all the questions lie after-
ward asked me, it seemed rather as if I were
responding to some voice within my own heart,
than to the cross-questioning of another. IIe
lay upon the sofa, and I in my low sewing-chair
by his side, sat facing lim as I had done during
the just finished lesson. I was so placed that hil


JEALOUS JOHN HARIRINGTON.

strong an adjective should be applied to him. dissembler, who under the fair guise yf virtue
The charge of effeminacy extended even to his had won your heart and hand, and whom when
eyes, for with all their beauty they were essen- too late you discovered to be the false-hearted
tially womanly in form  and expression, and traitor he was.  Still irreproachably true in his
they had a peculiar habit of drooping before love to you, remember, though false tc honor,
a stranger's glance which I never before noticed duty, and all the world beside. How in this
in any save a young girl. I often wondered case, Caroline?  Would still your love, and con-
how a young fellow untrammeled and uncon- sequently your happiness, survive ?"
trolled as Eddie had been, could have preserved  I fidgeted uneasily in my chair. "
the innocent guilelessness which seemed to char- " Oh ! Eddie, how can you imagine such ter-
acterize him, and even as his intellect and attain- rible things ! you are only trying to tease me,
ments commanded my respect, his purity of heart I believe."
invoked my reverence, and the confidence which  ''Not at all, I assure you," he replied ear-
I had learned to feel in him was hardly equaled nestly ; ''the subject may'seem a silly aid a tri-
hy that which I placed in my husband.      fling one to you, yet my interest in it is unaffeet-
I trust that the reader will pardon this digres- ed. rThe metaphysical features of the case are
slion ; I am so anxious to dojustice to the char- to inc very curious, apd I should really be
acter of this young man, so anxious that the in- obliged to you if you would aid me in compre-
iluence he exercised upon the destiny of rue and bending them. Or perhaps I trespass too far on
mine should be rightly understood, that I per- your good nature, and my persistency may be
haps may become unnecessarily prolix when construed by you into impertinence ?"
speaking of him. In this special case the corn-  " Oh, no ! no !" I cried warmly, anxious to re-
mnents I has e just made concerning him were assure him, for as he spoke the last words the
the result ofthe conclusions I formed while sitting color had mounted to his cheek, and his eyes fell
by his side that day the atniosplicre of purity timidly before the glance of mine. Impertinence
and delicacy which impressed me as surrounding from Eddie Harrington ! the idea was absurd,
1dm, influenced me to a greater extent than I and I told him so.
was myself aware of, so, although the personal  '' Thank you!" he said, 'you only do me
character which the conversation seemed iuper- justice.  Your hesitation  in answering my
(lptibly to have assumed, really annoyed me not question, then, if it arose not from displeas-
a little, I yet felt no hesitation in responding urc, was probably caused by the doubt which
frankly to questions which I was sure were you feel as to your conduct and emotions
prompted by no other motive than affectionate in such circumstances ; I can not wonder at
interest.                                  that, for it is always difficult to know by w e
" No !" I said decidedly, "I can not think would feel in imaginary cases, and in this par-
that it would; if Jolui-you see, Eddie, my mind ticular case I can readily believe it woulk be al-
involuntarily brings the application home-if most impossible.''
John ever grew to love me less, the fault being  " You are wrong again," I answered grave-
Fate's, not his or mine, I can not think that the ly ;''as you say, there are imaginary cases vhere-
fact would alter my feelings toward him. The in it would be rash indeed to foretell what
happiness, a mournful one though it would be, of one would do, but this is not one of them.
knowing that I was his wife would still be mine; While my identity remains, but one course of
and the right of loring him dearly as I had ever action and feeling would be possible to me were
done would h  a precious privilege of which I such a contingency as you have imagined to
could not ie deprived.''                 happen.''
So, then," he said with his gentle smile,  " And that ?" and lie bent eagerly toward me,
we have solved one-half of this puzzling enig- his eyes fastened upon mine with an expression
ma ; your happiness consists in lovingyourhus- that haunted ise for weeks. "And that?"
hand, aid your' love for him does not depend  My voice was hard and cold as steel, as with
upon his for you ; I confess that I myself am haughty resolution I answered-
strongly inclined in the latter clause to a coi-  "Utter repudiation of all former feeligs of
trary opinion.  One question more then, Caro, tenderness and affection ; resolute pursuit of
and I am done. Let uis suppose again, then, that oblivion, and finally a disenthralled, even al-
while his love for von still remained unassaila- though a broken heart."
ble, you should have found in your huisbaisd, us-. There svas a moment's pause, then my cons-
stead of the' honorable mani John Hlarrington lspanioin arose and strode hastily toward the fair-
has~ been pirovedl to be, a rogue, a thief, an arch.. timer eiid of the apartment; be leaned against

the window with his back turned toward me,    The terrible misgiving his words and main-
and it was some moments cre he again addressed ner had awakened in my breast made me irri-
me ; when he did so there was violent emotion table.
depicted upon his countenance.                "You have chosen a curious text to sermon-
"Do not speak of a broken heart, Caroline, ize upon," I cried sharply.  " After all your
you are too strong to succumb to so unworthy a hints and innuendoes, am I to understand that
case. Outraged faith, violated confidence, bring all you aimed at was these pitiful generalities?"
suffering indeed to their victims, but they carry  For an instant his eyes met mine, filled ivith
their antidotes with them. The pride that would a strange expression, peculiar, vet indefina-
spur you to resentment, would also support you ble ; then his pale, sorrowful face was turned
through your trials, should ever you-"  -   away.
"1Don't suppose any more cases, Eddie, for  " I am sorry I have offended you, Caroline ; it
Heaven's sake !"  interrupted, for I was get-- was from the deepest interest in your welfiro
ting tired of the subject, and my companion's that I was induced to say what I did."
agitation  filled me with  vague uneasiness.  His voice faltered as lie spoke, and iii an in-
"Were I the wife of any other man than John stunt my ill-humor vanished, and shame for
Harrington, what you have already said would my crossness overpowered mc. I laidi my hand
be enough to make me nervous for a week."   upon his arm, its he turned to leave me.
He started and looked at me in a wild, scared  ' Forgive me, Eddie ! I know that you love
mainer as he said hastily-                 me, and I anm ashamed indeed that I should have
" God forbid that from me, of all men, you wronged your affection by my hasty words-"
should learn-" and lie stopped abruptly.     I stopped abruptly, for his face loud suddenly
"Learn what?' I cried; and I felt that the turned scarlet. I gazed at him in amazement,
color forsook my face as I asked the question, but the secret of his confusion was soon solved,
and his cheek was no less white than my own as for in another instant I heard the voice of Ag-
lie stammered, awkwardly enough-           nlies behind ma, saying-
Nothing-there is nothing to learn, I as-  ''The French lesson to-day must surely have
sure you. Do not take any absurd ideas into been an interesting one, Caro, that you cai
your head from my foolish habit of thinking neither see nor hear  iay oue but your tutor."
aloud.  John is a good man, and an honor-     ''Eddie saw you, at all events, as his blshes
able man. His love for you is as perfect as testified to ime before I heard your voice," I an-
is yours for him. My supposition was purely swered, thankful enough for the interruption.
an imaginary one, and I am distressed indeed " I will lease him to explain to you the cause
to think that word of mine should lead you to of my temporary deafness.'

doubt-" But at that word I flashed indigna-
tion upon him.
" Doubt! I doubt my husband! Eddie, are
you losing your senses?"
Ie caught my hand and clasped it passion-
atelv between both his osvn.
''I know you do not doubt him, Caroline, I
do not want you to doubt him, and yet - )
Heavens ! to see you so blind, so trustingly
fond, and to oknow-but pshaw ! I am but mak-
ing matters worse. My visionary life I believe
lhas made me morbid, for really all that I wish
to say is, that you must remember that John is
but mortal. You are making him an idol, and
in your worship willfully overlooking his hu-
manity-a humanity that has its passions and
its faults in common with yours and mine, and
that sooner or later must stand in need of char-
itable judgment, of loving forgiveness, as must
our own. I tremble for the happiness of both
of you if your haughty pride he not tutored into
mercy before-before the day shall come upon
which he shall need mercy."

And gladly embracing the chance to termi
nate the conversation, I heft them together and
hastily quitted the room.
CIIAPTER    X.
JEALOUS JOHN IARRINGTON.
ITvwas growing dark. I was too uneasy and
nervous to settle myself to any employment, so
I sauntered into the parlor and watched by
the front window for John's arrival. I was n-
comfortable, I could scarce tell why, fo' I
would not allow even to myself that Eddie's
disconnected words and strange maioieur had
really awakened even the shadow of a suspicion
against my husband in my mind, the thought
was too absurd to be entertained, and I was
ashamed of myself that what had pssed lie-
tween us should have influenced my spirits as
I could but feel it had done. Eddie was such
an old, visionary sort of a boy, that he could
work upon his own fancies and imaginations to

rS
e
i  s  °
s ,
t

62

MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

03


G4                 MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

JEALOUS JOHN HARINGTON.

an extent that would be ridiculous in any but a
genius. And had his suppositions chanced to
have referred to any one but my husband, they
would have impressed me no more than he had
intended they should. It was only my fanciful
affection which made me so prone to exagger-
ate every trifle in which John was concerned,
and to believe that every one else magnified
his virtues and perfections as I did myself.
So I stood by the darkening window, gazing
out into the autumn twilight, watching the hur-
'ying wayfarers thronging past, and at last, in
the obscurity, John's form loomed dimly up.
Jenny and Frank Nettleby were with him,
but I recognized my husband long before I was
certain who were his companions. The 'tall,
erect figure, broad shoulders, and quick, de-
cided step, all were so familiar and so dear
that it seemed to me were I never to see him
again, and could yet live on, that after the
lapse of half a century they would still be as
vividly impressed upon my mind as they were
to-day.
Frank Nettleby was talking as they passed
the window in his usual energetic fashion,
though it seemed to me rather seriously for him,
and I was sure that John's face, by the moment-
ary glance I caught of it in the twilight, was
cloudy and anxious-looking.  The party as-
cended the front steps, and John opened thb-
door for them himself with his night-key. At
any other time I should have run to meet them,
even if I had not opened the door, but to-night
it seemed as if some irresistible influence was
working within me, impelling me to thoughts,
words, and actions of which I could not ex-
plain the motives.
So I stood by the window still, and heard'
the steps going past the hoor through the long
entry, and finally entering the sitting-room at
the end of the passage, the room in which I
had shortly since left Eddie and Agnes. The
door closed behind them, and then 1 heard no
more.
I still stood gazing out into the street, think-
ing odtd, disconnected thoughts, about Eddie,
Agnes, Frank Nettleby, and the unknown pass-
ers-ly, who were flitting like shadows past the
window, not thinking of John at all, though
his face and form were with me in the darkness
almost sensibly.
Preseutly I heard the sitting-room sdoer open
and shut, and then a step in the entry which I
knew was searching for ie.  The next mo-
ment he stood at the door gazing into the shad-
ows of the room.
-"Are you here, Caroline ?'' he said.

"Yes ; by the window;" and then he cross-
ed the floor and stood by my side.
" Any thing wrong, Caro ?" he asked, a
vague uneasiness in his voice as he bent over
me to see my face, as if to guess from it the
cause of my strange demeanor.
"No! I am only watching and thinking.
"Watching whom? and thinking of what ?"
"Watching the world go home to their sup-
pers," said I, laughing at his suspicious curiosi-
ty, "and wondering what they will have when
they get there. Of nothing a bit mor~e roman-
tic, I assure you. Did you suspect me of mus-
ing upon a former lover ?'"'
" Less probable things than that hake occur-
red, I suppose, Caro, though I can not say I sus-
pected you of such vanity, exactly. hadn't
you better come to your own supper now? it is
about ready, I believe. Frank Nettleby came
home with me, and, apropos of former lovers,
is, I suppose, of course anxious to see you. You
were not dreaming about him, were yos ?".
" No-yes-I believe he was in my mind
along with a good many other people. Poor
Frank !" and I sighed almost unconsciously, for
I really had been thinking over the disappoint~
ment which I felt sure his love for Agnes was
preparing for him, and, much as I liked Eddie
larrington, there was in my heart a warm af-
feetion for my kind-hearted, honorable lover of
olden times, that made inc loth to lave hin
supplanted even by my new favorite.
John had turned away from me rather ab-
ruptly, I thought, and crossed to the open door.
"Are you coming out now ?" he said coldly.
" Of course I am,' I cried ; and springing
across the room, I linked my arm in his as we
traversed the entry.  " You are in a terrible
hurry, though, I think. Are you so hugigry for
your supper ? I have seen the time, Mr. Ilar-
rington, when the prospect or a few ityinutes'
tete- -tate with me was more alluring to you
than the finest supper ever cooked."
" Yes, but if I defer the tote-n-tate, I shall
have that and, the supper too.  And the tate-
d-tate will improve by waiting, while tie sup-
per will not."
"You are more discreet than gallant,'" I said
half pettishly, as he threw open the sitting-
room door, and then together we entered the
room.
" Ier  she is!" cried Frank Nettleby as
soon as he saw me.   " You are just in time,
Madame Caro, to be imeluded in a general iivi-
tation which I have just extended to all friends
here assembled to visit my bachelor amdnaee
this evening, there to survey the amatefsr mu-

scum I have collected, and afterward to honor
me by partaking of a collation which I have or-
dered to be prepared. I have really a pretty
collection of coins and seals, and some mosa-
ies that I believe can not be matched this side
of the Atlantic. May I hope for the gracious
company of Mr. and Mrs. Harrington ?"
" Of course you may,"' I said, quite delight-
ed at the prospect. "I am not much of an
antiquary, so I will leave all anticipations of the
museum to John and Jenny, who, I know, have
strong tastes in that direction; as for me, I am
free to confess,.my curiosity is much more
strongly excited by the prospect of discovering
what sort of a wilderness a bachelor's adnage
may be. I am curious, indeed, to see how you
look when you are at home, Mr. Frank, so I
accept your invitation unconditionally, and so
will John, I know."
"Not quite so fast, Caroline, if you please ;
be content with answering for yourself," said
my husband. "I shall not be able to accom-
pany you, for I have letters for the firm to
write to-night which will occupy me until mid-
night ; and they must be ready folr the morn-
ing's mail."
"Hang the firm !" cried Frank Nettleby ;
"let business slide for to-night, Harrington, I
beg of you. Upon my soul, it makes me feel
guilty to look at you nowadays, for you go
through all my business and your own, too. I
dare be sworn now, those are the identical let-
ters I promised our partner to write this morn-
ing."
"The identical ones," said John dryly.
"Well, now, I'll tell you what I'll do: do you
come along with us to-night, and enjoy your-
self as a Christian should, and I will get up
early to-morrow morning, and go to the store
soor enough to get through a whole mail-bag
full of correspondence beforenine o'clock. Will
that do ?"
"No, sir !" answered John shortly; "even
supposing you do not oversleep yourself, or for-
get the 'whole affair entirely, which is by no
means an improbable circumstance, there are
more than you would be able to write in so
limited a time."
"Don't you believe that! I can get through
more work in an hour, when I set my mind to
it, than any fellow of my weight in the city."
"That you can, Mr. Frank !" I cried, laugh-
ing. "I remember when you used to help me
with my work when I was in the store; you
used often to astonish me by the rapidity of
your progress."
'"You hax'e not forgotten those days, then,

Madam Caro?"and Mr. Frank laughed, too. "'I
do not remember much about the work 1 did,
though ; it seems to me I spent far more time
looking at you, than in any less interesting em-
ployment.  You used to work, though, to some
purpose. Shade of Hercules! xw'hat an indefhti-
gable little creature you were ; it used to require
the greatest display of brilliancy otn my part,
and not a little diplomatic manouvring, to
make you raise your eyes from your work - and
to win from you a smile, I was obliged to display
the combined talents of a Machiavelli and a
Ilood. I have that precious blank book yet,
laid carefully away as a souvenir of those 1Een-
orable days."
I was foolish enough to color quite highly at
this light speech, more, 1 think, because Agnes's
eyes were turned inquiringly upon me than
from any other reason, and Frank himself look-
edh a little foolish, as he ceased speaking, and
saw my crimson face.
There was an awkward pause for a moment,
which John broke by saying-
" Supper was announced some time since
Caroline; had we not better obey the sum-
mons ?'
''You'll go, Ilarrington, wont you ?" sail
Frank, s we took our seats at table.
Certainly not '" answered he, a great deal
more harshly than 1 thought warrantable by
the occasion. ''I promised your father when
I left the store that the letters should ie writ-
ten this evening, and it shall be no fault of
mine if the promise is not performed."
" Well, if you won't you won't, and there's
the end on't," said unimpressiounble Frank, and
thent straightway commenced talking about
other matters, and nothing farther was sabd
about the proposed visit.
After supper the whole company adjourned to
the parlor with the exception of John, who be-
took himself with a brief apology to the silence
and solitude of the sitting-room, for the pur-
pose of proceeding with his letters in peace.
Our supper had been late, however, and rest-
less Frank allowed but a short interval to
elapse before he was teasing us to start.
" Suppose it is early !" he cried, ii answer to
Agnes's expostulation; "you have no fornial
hostess to meet there to rebuke your appearance
with an incompleted toilet and an- unlighted
room. I have a capital valet whom I imported
from France five years ago, expressly for my own
use. His orders to-night were, to have the
rooms alllhighsted and hprepar'ed for comspanmy by
dark. I have no doubt whatever but that my-
commnands were literally obeyed, and every mo-

.
x=
,
.
.'a


)                            1VL   L T JI~flA.1 U Vt  i'                                                                          JEALOU     JOHN     AR        N..
meat we spend here is that much gas-light room lightly andlaid my two hands ipon his
wasted there--so go get your bonnets on, like shoulders.
sensible people, and make no more excuses or  "Who is it? guess!" I cried lauhingly ;
delays."  And yielding to hisenergy, the femi- and, fairly starting from his seat with surprise,
nine part of the company excused themselves to he turned toward me.
make such changes in their attire as they deem-  "You, Caroline ! how is this? I thought you
ed necessary for the occasion, and in less than were far enough away by this time."
half an hour returned to the parlor, hooded and  "And leave you, my dear old bear sulking
shawled, ready to depart.                   at home?  I could not think of it."
"Where is your bonnet, Mrs. Iarrington ?"  "My dearest girl !" and he threw his arm
said Frank Nettleby ; ''it is something new to around my waist, pulling me down upon his
see you behind Miss Agnes in your prepara- knee, and gazing eagerly into my face as he
tions for an evening out."                  spoke.  "Have you really stayed at home
I shall not want my bonnet to-night, Mr. and deprived yourself of a pleasure you antici-
Frank," 1 replied. "I shall trust sister Jenny to pated so eagerly, because I could not abcompa-
take care of Agnes, and if you will be kind ny you?"
enough to excuse me, I will stay at home to   "Really and truly i have done so, John,
keep John company."                         my husbandd" I answered; ''you see I am much
Stay at home ! Oh, nonsense !" with such more solicitous for a matrimonial tlte-n-tite
a look of genuine disappointment, that I could than you have shown yourself to be.  But
not help but laugh. " I'm sure Iarrington don't jesting apart, I really cared nothing at all for
want you, and   quite as sure that we do. poor Frank's party, except because    I have
I know   you will interfere with the letter- heard you express so much curiosity to see
writing if you do stay ; so in the interests of his cabinet, and I thought it would hie such
the firm I insist upon your accoipauying us." a pleasant visit to you ; but I shall like it much
"Not to-night, thank you !" .I returned deci- better if you and I can go some evening quiet-
sively; " some time, when John is disengaged, ly, and enjoy Frank's chatter and curiosities all
he and I will come and spend a sociable even- by ourselves. But come, now, let me get my
ing with you, and admire your curiosities to our sewing. I did not stay at home to interfere
heart's content, but I think this time I shall with your writing, and I do not intend to have
feel better satisfied at home."             you working until midnight, I assure yotb."
And after considerable grumbling, and every  " Never mind the writing, sit still," he said,
imaginable remonstrance, I was allowed to have as I endeavored to rise. "I can get through that
iiy owi way.                               fast enough, when I feel inclined to get at it,
Just before they left, Frank stepped back to and not work until midnight either. Do you
the sitting-room, and opening the door, cried really mean to tell me that, except in such a
out to the master of the house, who was sitting second-hand sort of way, you cared nothing at
at his writing, looking lonely and unsociable all for this visit ?"
enough-                                      " Not much; I should like to have gone well
" Good-night, Ilarrington ! Your wife has enough ; but it isn't much pleasure to me now-
promisedl that you will bring her soon to spend adays to see Agnes in company with Eddie and
an evening witl me; you will do so, won't you ?" Frasik Nettleby. It used to be rather amusing to
Thank vi! I suppose we will come if watch them, and see how Eddie with his quiet
Caroline wishes it," was the unsgraeious reply, innocent ways could upset all Frank's auda-
and with this concession our hospitable friend eious schemes to secure Agnes's company to
was forced to be content.                   himself; and how completely Eddie, without
After seeing the party oil, I re-entered the any planning at all, could accomplish all that for
parlor, where I remained some few moments, w ich poor Frank so daringly manouvred ; but
arranging thle disordered furniture, and extin- lately I have fancied that Frank's feelings are
guishing the gas.  Then I sought the sitting- becoming really interested in the mattel, and
room.                                       as I can give hitmno help in the matter, not even
The door was ajar as Mi'. Nettleby had left my good wishes, it had become painful o me
it, and consequently, my husband did not hear to watch them, and that I can not help doing
mse as I eiitered those rooms. ie was sitting at whenever we are all togetherr"
the table, his writing materials before hsims, " What ?n thse world is all this that you are
lut with his head bowed upon his ansss in an telling me ?" cried Jolsn withs thse most amazed
altitude of strange dejection. I crossed thse face mortal ever wore. " Eddie and Frank

Nettleby manouvring against each other for were not the good honorable man that I know
Agnes's favor, and you grieving over the non- you are, that you had deceived me into believ-
success of the latter!"                     ing so, and that some day I should find you
Oh! you blind, blind mortal !" I cried, out; and sometimes there have come into my
laughing gleefully.  " Has it been such a long head wild horrible visions of what I should do,
time ago since you were in love yourself, that if my fancies could ever turn into realities.
you have not been able to see the tantalizing That is all, indeed. I have been shamefully
game of cross-purposes which has been going silly,'but I really have done nothing to deserve
on these three months beneath your very eyes? the reproachful look you cast ipon me just
And I am not exactly grieving over Frank's now."
non-success either, for thigh I am sincerely  He laughed aloud.
anxious to have hint marry some pretty, atia-  '' And this is the terrible secret of which I
bsle xvoman, who will make him as happy as he have been so afraid! My shear little girl, have
deserves to be, I by no means wish him to you really no darker sins than an evil dream to
outshine Eddie in Agnes's eyes. Frank wouldn't confess ?"
make a suitable husband for Agnes at all, they  "' Not against you, anyhow," I answered,
are both too wild and flighty ; but if Eddie can quite relieved to find that my confession scene-
win her, they will exercise' mutual good influ- ed to be to him of so little weight.  " But I
ence upon each other, and to no one 'would I wonder, sir, whether your conscience is equally
trust my darling sooner than to Eddie IIar- easy ?  Have you no dark secrets or treacher-
rington."                                   ous thoughts for which to claim sy pardon ?
I think we had better allow Agnes to de- Pray, of what was it you were thiiking so in-
cide that matter for herself; meanwhile there is tently when I entered the room just now
another matter, of far snore moment to mie."  It was John's turnIow to color and look
Then with a strange eager look in his eyes, he confused.
took my face between his hands and gazed       " I would not tell you for a kiingdom," he
down uspon me.                              cried impulsively.
You are not deceiving me ?" lie said.      '' You have no more right than have I to
I almost forgot to be angry in amazement at thoughts you can not share; you have excited
his manner.                                 my curiosity now, and you inst tell iie, or I
" I never deceived you in my life, John, and shall fancy your thoughts WQ e treacherous to
you know it.  What do you mean by such a ite.   What were you thinking about, John ?"
question ?"                                   lie looked confused and uncomfortable, but
" No !" ie went on, still watching me keenly, he shook his head resolutely.
" you would not deceive me; I did not mean    '' Whatever my thoughts were, I am heartily
that ; but are you not holding something back ashamed of their now, too' much ashamed of'
from me now, that I ought to know ?   Some them ever to reveal them to any human be-
thoughts, somfe feelings,which my true wife ought iing."
not to entertain ?"                            " Only to your wife, Johin," I pleaded coax-
In an instant the hot blood mounted to my ingly, " only to me."
cheeks and temples, and my 'eyes sank frighten-  "To you least of all the world," he cried,
ed and confused before the gaze of his.     with energy; amid then I juitped usp angrily
"I knew it !" ie said, or rather groaned ; and 'walked away from him.
and releasing my face, he covered his own with  " Caro! you are not angry with me, surely,
his hands, at the same time making a motion and for such a foolish, trifling cause as this ?"
as if to push me from his knee.   Oh ! how     " I wonder what you would have been, hind I
ashamed I then was of the foolish doubts and answered your catechising a while since it such
fears which had made me so miserable a few a manner ?" said I crossly enough, but with a
hours since.  I pulled his hands away from his quivering lip and swiuniing eyes. lie followed
face, and held them in my own,              me to where stood leaning by the mantle-piece,
" Look at me, John, I will tell you all ; I and laid his hand gently uponit my shoulder.
knowyou willonly laugh at ne. If I blushedjust  " Will you not have faith in me, my wife ?"
snow, it was through shame, not guilt ; you misl he said.
interpreted my blushes once before, remember,  I turned and looked up at him; by a sudden
ani perhaps yonusae doing so nox-isten, I impulse I said
xxill tell you all. 1 imaxe sosmehoxv em' other " ,Johsn, I will forget my first (luiestionl, if you
taken a fancy-pserhaps I dreamed it-that you xviii ansxer mc candislyv ansouhier.''

y
i   ~ 4 1
"if4
,
-,,
'f    j
)  r
V     :6.
f   ,  {  V
r      . [
't,
i }
g
'       !
t     x 3
tl 3
j e
t

GG

M1Y HUSBAND'S CRIM

JEALOUS JOHN I-IA1tItIl  GTON.

(i i

E
l
Li


BASE COINAGE OF A SUSPICIOUS BRAIN.       69

"If I answer at all, it will be candidly," he
said gently ; and then I dashed boldly on.
"Have you ever kept from me any secret con-
cerning yourself, the knowledge of which might
affect my love for you ?"
I gazed eagerly into his eyes, and they never
blenched from mine, but every particle of color
deserted his face until even his lips were white.
It was some moments ere he spoke, and when he
did so it was with visible effort.
" I should be the most miserable man on God's
earth if I thought so," he said slowly.
I threw myself into his arms, laughing hyster-
ically.
That is all then ; I will have all faith in
you now, and from this moment my dream shall
be forgotten! He caressed me gently for a few
moments and then released me.
" Our tute-(-t~e is making me neglect my
work, after all," he said. '" It will be mid-
night yet before I get through, if I do not start
pretty soon."
So then he returned to his table and his writ-
ing, looking up at me as I stood watching'
him.
"Hadn't you better go to bed?  I shall be
several hours occupiied."
"No, I will wait here until you get through ;
I dont want to go to bed yet, but it is too late to
get out my sewing." So I curled myself up
upon a lounge which stood opposite the table,
and lay where I could see his thee and watch
him as he worked.
lie said no more, but wrote on industriously,
at times casting an affectionate glance upon me,
as I lay comfortably tranquil before him.
After a while he arose, and took down his
coat which hung behind the door; coming to me,
he threw it carefully over my shoulders.
You will fall asletip here, and take cold, 1
am afraid ; had you not better go to bed ?"
"No, I will wait for you," I murmured,
drowsily.
He stood looking at me a moment, and then,
suddenly bending down, he pressed his lips to
mine, and before I was wide enough awake to
return his caress, he had returned to the table
and his work.
Ahr! could I but have looked forward into the
future, and known then all that would intervene,
ere again my husband's kiss should be upon my
lips, how different would have been the emo-
tions his act had excited. But I was blind;

CHAPTER XI.
BASE COINAGE OF A SUSPICIOUS BRAIN.
Tm next morning at the breakfast-table, Ed-
die and Jenny united their powers of descrip-
tion to convince me of what I had missed by not
accepting the invitation I had received upon the
previous evening. Eddie was particularly en-
thusiastic, which astonished me the more, as I
knew this was by no means the first time he had
examined and admired Frank Nettleby's collec-
tion of home and foreign curiosities.
I said as much to him, and be answered, "It
is true; I have frequently seen, while we were'
abroad, almost all the articles he has collected
together; indeed many of them I begged, bor-
rowed, bought or stole for him, myself; he is
indebted to me for more than half of his foreign.
autographs, for as he speaks no foreign language
but French, he could do very little begging on
his own account. But somehow, I never tire of
examining these mementoes of the past, and ev-
ery time I go over them, I discover something I
had overlooked before.  John, I am astonished
that you never have had curiosity enough to visit
Nettleby's rooms to examine his collection ;
there may be larger, but I really doubt if there
be a more unique private museum in the city."
"Caroline and I are going shortly to spend
ar evening with him, and then we can view
these treasures at our leisure."
"Eddie, what were those pictures I admired
so? the works of Mercy, you know ; there were
eight of them," questioned Jenny.
"Copies from Murillo, taken in the Hospital
de la Caridad of Seville," answered hei brother
briefly.
"Yes, that was it.  Caroline, my dear, when
you go, you must take a good look at them; I/
saw nothing I liked as well in the whole collec-
tion ; I want you to notice particularly a female
head in the one which hans nearest the window ;
it is an exquisite face, and both Frank and I
fancied we could trace in it a strong resem-
blance to our Agnes."
"I thanked you last night for the implied
compliment," said my sister, laughing  and
blushing, "so I will not do so now ; but in-
deed I scarcely acknowledge any compliment,
either, for I could not trace the least possible
resemblance to myself, for all Mr. Nettleby
was so determined that I should. For my part,
I thought the museum was the dullest part of

and the long memorable evening, the last of my the entertainment.  I never had any tast4 for
happy dream of wedded bliss, glided on after its such things, anyhow.  But, 0 Caroline ! we
predecessors into the ocean of eternity; and then had the most exquisite petite souper (is that
came the morrow!                           pronounced right, Eddie?) ever I sat dowdl to

Every thing was in such excellent taste ; and
that French fellow who waited on us-Andre,
Mr. Nettleby called him-he is a perfect jewel
of a servant ; so quick and intelligent, really
gentlemanly, I declare. We never have any
such in our country. It reminded me alto-
gether of the tales of English high life of which
we read. The flowers, and perfumery, and
dainty vittnds, and the French waiter ; they
were all so delightfully romantic. I was so
sorry you weie not with us."
"Yes !" sighed Miss Jenny regretfully, "the
supper was nice. And that reminds me, Car-
oline, Frank said that he was going to send you
a basket of fruit this morning. lie had such
an abundant supply of every thing. You re-
member, Agnes, there was a large vase of those
lovely white grapes, and very few were eaten."
"I was rather astonished to notice how defi-
cient his collection of modern coins is," Eddie
Ilarrington was saying, when next I caught his
voice.  "His ancient specimens are pretty
complete'; the Greek coins especially, but he
seems to have taken no pains whatever to per-
fect his collection of European specimens. He
has one piece I should like you to see, John ;
an English quarter-florin struck in the reign of
Edward III. ; undoubtedly genuine. Perhaps
you do not know that they are exceedingly
scarce. George Emerson wrote to me, when I
was in London last year, to get him one at any
price, but I could not do it. I did not know
that Nettleby had one until last night. He
catme across his, quite accidentally he said, in
Paris ; purchased it from a Jew pawnbroker
fo 'a mere trifle. By the bye, you used to have
qute a collection of coins yourself, what have
yok done with them ?"
" They are in one of the inner drawers of
the secretary, I believe," answered John. "I
have not looked at them for years. I have long
agu outgrown my fancy for numismatics ; still,
I should like to see what Nettleby has gathered
together."
"I suppose you have no objection to my
overhauling yours ?" queried Eddie.
"Certainly not ; Caroline has the key of the
secretary, she will give it to you whenever you
want it."
And accordingly, that afternoon, when the
French lesson was concluded, Eddie called upon
me for the promised key, and busied himself
diligently in bringing to light a parcel of black
and time-stained medals and coins, which'had
been stowed away in the drawer of the secreta-
ry ever since we had been at housekeeping-.
I was amused to see the interest which the

boy seemed to take in his new discovery.
With a box of whiting, an old-tooth-brush, and
a vial of some kind of acid, he scrubbed und
polished until he really made some of the' old
things assume quite a respectable appearance.
I watched him for a while, as he unfolded the
papers, in which some of the more valuable
coins were wrapl)ed, and did my best to sym-
pathize with the excitement he seemed to feel
when one dirtier or uglier than the others made
its appearance; but I soon got tired of the new
pursuit, and sat down with my sewing at the
other side of the'room. Agnes watched a while
longer, but she too soon lost interest in the
amusement, and finally sauntered out of the
room, leaving Eddie to pursue uninterruptedly
his occupation. lie would frequently call my
attention to some new discovery, which he fan-
cied to be particularly noticeable, and at last
he jumped up, and coming over to me, threw in
my lap a coin wrapped carefully in paper.
"'Take charge of this for me, if you please,"
said he; ''it is a Roman medallion, struck by
Hadrian. I heard Frank Nettleby last night
wishing lie could obtain one. John seems to
place very little value on his, so I will ask him
to-night, when lie comes home, to give this to
Nettleby," and then lie went industriously to
work again, brushing a large bronze coin, whose
inscription lie seemed to find it impossible to
decipher.
I unfolded the parcel lie had given to me,
and glanced carelessly at the piece of silver (I
believe it was) which was within. I saw noth-
ing more remarkable in it than I had seen in
any of the other specimens, so I proceeded to
refold it in the paper from which I had taken
ilt. This paper seemed to be the yellow nd
discolored fragment of a letter, and as I took
it up, my eye fell upon a few words written iii
it, which made me involuntarily pause and
smooth out the paper to examine it more fully.
" Casey &amp; Co." were the words which had
attracted my attention, and the reader may re-
member, as I did instantaneously, that this was
the name of the firm in which Frank Nettleby's
eccentric friend S    had declared my hus-
band had been employed; an assertion which
John had, with visible agitation, positively de-
nied to be true. Remembering these facts, and
the conversation which had introduced them,
my feelings may perhaps be better imagined
than described, when upon turning to the top
of the letter, I read the following lines
"DEAn HARlriNGTrON :-Your letter of the 201th inst. is
at hand. I wiui (0 the best I can for' you,~ but you mnust
net expect tee much. There are pulenty of eld iiid expe-

68                MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.


MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

iri eed hand' now searching for just such employment as
yeu ire anxious to tie1; and I need scarcely tell you that
they will always obtain the preference over a fellow so
young as you, unless you were fortunate enough to be
backed by stronger friends than I think you can bring to
the rescue. You hail better hold on where you are.
Casey &amp; tC, is a slow firm, but it is a sure one, and by
the tiie you can boast of as many years in their estab-
Ieliment as you can nsov count tnonths, you will find no
diffieulty in getting a berth anywhere else. Old S--I
know is a Tartar, and requires pretty shrewd management
to get along with; btt John P. Casey is a good titan,
stanch and genuine, and if its seems inclined to befriend
you, as you cay he does, 1-"
That was all there was. The rest of the paper,
including the signature, was torn away ; but
what I had read was enough-enough to con-
vince mae, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that
my husband had lied; that whether the horri-
ble story hinted at by 8-- were true or false,
the one black, inexcusable falsehood was there
before me, and could never be forgotten or ex-
plained away. I turned to look at the date of
the letter ; it was eleven years back, just one
year before John ihad entered the firm of Net-
tleby &amp; Son.
I gazed upon the fatal paper until my head
swam, and I felt sick and faint.
" What is the tuttter, Caroline ? has your
needle scratched you ?" asked Eddie, who had
just then turned towardti me, and noticed my
white face, as I sat with the tell-tale letter
clenched in my hand.
" No-Yes-I have hurt myself somehow,"
I managed to falter out, and quite unable to
give a more connected reply, unmindful of his
anxious inquiries, I rose and left the room.
Ilurrying to my own chamber, I turned the
key in the lock, and paced the floor distracted-
ly.  Had the news been suddenly brought to
me that John had asset with some fearful acci-
dent, endangering life or limb, my feelings
could not have been more acutely painful than
were they now.    My faith in him had been so
perfect, my reliance upon0 his integrity so entire,
that a blow aimed at his honor reacted with tor-
turing force upon my heart.     The truth was
too horrible. In desperate self-tlefense I strove
to argue it away, to reason     against reason.
Forget it I could not ; my too faithful memo-
ry cruelly brought forward every suspicious act
and word that had reference to the mysterious
event that was destined to destroy my happi-
ness.  A  maddening curiosity urged mte on to
find out all that had been hidden from me, to
discover the motives which had prompted that
dark falsehood, the sin and shatne which were

gagement, when John had put my affection for
him to so strange a test, by asking me if my love
could fail him were I to discover that his name
had been irremediably stained by some dishon-
orable deed. Well did I remember the earnest-
ness with which the seemingly unimuportatit
question had been asked. To be sure he lied
afterward assured me that his question was a
foundationless one ; but then, I thought with
bitter agony, he could lie now, was he likely to
have been more truthful then ? And then my
mind reverted to Frank Nettleby's strange tale,
and the question which had forced from my hus-
band the reply which my to-day's discovery proved
to be false. There could have been no motive
for falsehood, either in Frank or his strange in-
formant S    . Had the old man then really
made no mistake in his narration? had the
dark deeds of guilt which he imputed to John
Harrington been really imputed to the true
criminal?  Yet no ! no ! Dark as was every
thing before me, I could not go to the extreme
length of believing this. Accurate as were the
old man's statements, terribly convincing as was
the evidence against him in John's emotion
when hearing the story, I would not believe
that in the truth of the accusation lay the solu-
tion of the mystery. The lie was bad enough,
but if behind that lay still concealed some dark,
dishonorable secret, I could not hear it ; I must
surely lose my senses, or die of shame and grief.
Was there no way to exonerate him?  o pos-
sible solution to the enigma save through chan-
nels of darker disgrace?  Could I by 105pos-
sibility throw doubt or discredit upon the letter
I had that day discovered?  Was such poor,
puny evidence as that 4o crush forever my be-
lief in my husband's integrity?  At least let
me suspend my decision until my mind should
be in a calmer state, if that time could ever
again arrive, and until I should be able td think
less distractedly of the events which were threat-
ening to overwhelm me. If I could but sleep,
forget all, if only for a few short hours, I fan-
cied I should be able to see some gleam of light
in a less agitated mood, which still might dissi-
pate the shadows that were gathering so threat-
eningly around mue.
So I threw myself upon the bed, sliut my
eyes. clasped my hands over my ears, and en-
deavored with all my power to shut out thought.
The miserable hours sped away. Night came,
and I heard the tea-bell sounding below. Then
presently the light step of Agnes sounded in the

hidden behind it.                        f passage outside of my door, and after trying
Far back into the past my memory ran, to vainly to open it, she tapped lightly upon the
that quiet evening so shortly following our en- panels.

ri
h
'a
'
sO
a
a
c-s
'5
0a

70O


LASE COINAGE OF A SUSPICIOUS BRAIN.

"Supper's ready, Caro," she cried, "we are
all waiting for you."
Raising myself upon my elbow, I spoke in as
natural a voice as I could command, -
"Tell them to eat without me ; I have gone
to bed with a sick headache."
"Mercy on me! why did you not tell some of
us?  I may bring you up a cup of tea, mayn't
I?"
"No ! No !" and my impatient misery would
manifest itself in my voice; "I want nothing
but rest and quiet ; do leave me to myself."
So she went away, and I was left in quiet.
Alas ! was I ever to know rest again?  I knew
that John would come to me soon, so I rose and
unlocked the door, for I wished to avoid any con-
versation with him ; then, undressing hastily, I
crept into bed again, with my miserable thoughts,
that would not be banished for all my striving,
goading me almost to madness.
lie came soon ; stepping lightly, and opening
the door cautiously that he might not disturb me,
he- came to my bedside in the darkness and laid
his hand softly upon my brow.
"Asleep, Caroline?" he asked gently. I
made no answer, and after a moment's pause,
evidently convinced that' I was really slum-
bering, he silently withdrew, and again I- was
alone.
An hour later he came again to the door,
which he opened noiselessly, and stood listening
upon the threshold, but judging from the pro-
found silence within the room that I still slept,
he returned without speaking.
At an hour rather earlier than usual, I heard
the family retiring for the night.  Some of the
ascending steps paused at my door, and my ear,
preternaturally acute from the deal silence
which had reigned around me, distinguished
Jenny's voice saying-.
" Wait a moment, Agnes, I will go in and see
how Caroline is."
And then John's voice answered-
''You had better not ; it will only disturb her,
and she was sleeping quietly when I was up here
an hour since."
So then the others passed on, and John en-
tered the room alone. lie carried a lamp in
his hand as he approached the bedside this time,
and I did not dare feign sleep again, but with a
little sharp cry, I turned my head away and put
my hand over my face.
"What is the matter, Caro? are you suffer-
ing ?"
" Yes !" I cried, and oh ! how truly, for

"Can not I do something for you, my dar-
ling ?"
Then I could bear it no longer.
" Take that light away, it hurts me ; aud
please don't make me talk."
He stood watching me uneasily for a mo-
ment or two, evidently doubtful whether to
question me farther or not, but he was not by
nature either fussy or demonstrative, so finally
he turned quietly away, saying no more to me,
though his putting out the light almost instant-
ly, and his cautious, quiet movements as he
undressed in the darkened room, testiiel to his
sympathy for my sufferings.  IIe spoke no
word to me, even after he lay down by my
side, except to ask if I were warm enough, for
it was late in October, and the night was chilly
and stormy ; though I had not noticed either
cold or storm before. A brief ailirmative was
all the response I gave, and then silence and
darkness again reigned around me.
Soon by his deep, regular breathing I knew
that John was asleep, but still I lay, sleepless,
suffering, longing for yet dreading the day, and
the night was far advanced ere worn-out na-
ture at last conquered my misery, and I fell
into a heavy dreamless slumber from which I
did not awaken until quite late the following
morning.
To my great relief, I found that John had al-
ready arisen and gone down stairs, but know-
ing that lie would surely return to me before he
left for the store, if I had not descended, and
-thinking that it would be harder for me to meet
him alone than in the presence of others, I

arose, dressed hastily, and went down stairs.
The family were seated at the breakfast-ta-
ble when I entered the room, and John said,
when I had replied to the many kind inquiries
concerning my headache, which greeted my
appearance, "You were sleeping so soundly
when I left you, that I would not disturb you.
You must keep quiet to-day, or you may have
a return of your trouble to-night. What (do
you think brought it upon you ?"
"The prick of a needle, I guess," said Eddie
laughingly, "for until that misadventure oc-
curred yesterday afternoon she seemed well
and cheerful as usual. I thought at first, Caro-
line, when you left me so abruptly, that some-
thing I had said or done must have offended
you, or else that the coin which I gave you to
keep for me had proved to be  bewitched one,
and had acted     1 yo     some malignant
manner. Nay, you need not look for it," he

every tone of that gentle, loving voice struck continued, as almost involuntarily I turned to
agony to my heart.                         glance at the work - basket wherein I had

71

*

t,
¢,
,:,  ,


72                           MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
thoughtlessly thrown both the coin and its fa-  "Certain. Any message for' Frank ?" and
tal envelope, when I had fled from the room. he turned to leave me,
' I took it from your basket last evening to  "Nothing, except that I am much obliged
show to John, who has consented to bestow it for the fruit he sent me, and that I hope he will
upon Frank Nettleby, whom I know the gift soon come to receive my thanks in person."
will wonderfully please."                    Just as I finished speaking, the dining-room
And then I had fresh food for uneasiness, in door opened, and John came into the hall. Ed-
the dread that Frank too should see that tell- die was opening the front door at the time, and
tale letter, and learn from it the disgraceful I suppose did not notice him.
truth it had already betrayed to me.  I sat in  " I half hated to ask him to give this medal
torment, determined by somle means, no matter away," he was saying, though between the open-
how desperate, to prevent John's shame from ing of one door and the shutting of their other I
becoming known, yet feeling so stupidly miser- scarcely distinguished his words ; and he raised
able, that I could contrive no plan to avoid it. his voice as he continued, "I know that it will
At last when Eddie rose to leave the room, I please Frank, so I will give it to him if you hon-
asked, in a voice which I vainly strove to ren- estly think John wont mind."
1r quiet and natural-                       " Certainly he will not," I said, feeling some-
Shall you see Frank this morning ?"    what astonished at his'over-scrupulousness, and
'Yes," lie replied.  " I have some business then he left me, and I turned to John, jyio was
down town, that I am going to attend to now. putting on his hat and coat, also ready to start.
I shall call at his rooms on my way down, I I thought that lie looked flushed and angry, and
shall be sure to find him there at this hour," his voice was certainly sharper than usual, as he
and then lie left the room.                said-
I hesitated a moment, and then, regardless  "L Your business with Eddie was of a strictly
of appearances, I abruptly quitted my seat private nature, I suppose ?" and though the words
and followed him into the hall, carefully elos- were jesting, Iknew by his voice that he expect-
ing the door behind me.   Ile stood at the ed an answer.
liat-rack, buttoning up his coat, as I approach-  " I had no business with him, only that I
ed lhim.                                   wanted to see that coin again."
Eddie," I said, "let me see that coin   lie looked at me as I had never seen him
again before you take it away, if it isn't too look before. My face glowed hotly beneath his
inch trouble."                           glance, and I averted my eyes in angry iconfu-
" Certainly, ma'am," he replied gayly ; '' the sion. Ile did not say another word, but walked
only trouble it involves will be the rebuttoning past me abruptly and left the house, and I knew
of miy coat, and I certainly shall not object to that he thought I had lied to him. I turned an-
that to oblige a lady." And drawing the coin grily away.
from his vest pocket as he spoke, he handed it  '' What matters it," I thought, ''how poorly
to inc.                                    he learns to think of me?  What need I care
" But the paper in which it was wrapped for the confidence or esteem of a man who-"
-where is that ?  What have you done with and then I checked myself, appalled at the
it ?' I cried, forgetting prudence in my breath- change which that one night of misery had
less anxiety.                              wrought in my feelings toward my husband.
"LWhat ! that old yellow scrap ?  I threw it  I re-entered the dining-room.  Miss Jenny
sito the fire ; it was too much torn to use for was there alone, seated by the fire, drawing on a
the same purpose, and I saw no necessity for pair of india rubber boots, preparatory to ven-
having the coin wrapped up at all.  Was it touring into the wet and sloppy streets. I stood
noy thing of importance?-Surely - it was by the window, gazing out into the narrow
nothing in that whie could have caused your paved yard upon which it looked, watching the
sud demi illness yesterday ?' and an expression slow drizzling rain patter down upon the 'green
of mingled amazement and suspicion caie into crumbling bricks ; drumming irresolutely upon
his face,                                  the panes as I stood there.
I tried to laugh.                          At last, I turned toward her.
"Nonsense   ihat could put such an idea as  "JIennyv," I saidabruptly, ''was-" Iwasgo-
that into your head ? there was something writ- ing to say ''my husband," but the words choked
ten upton thie patper that-that I thought John me, and I continued-" was your' brothiei ever
might wish to keel) h ut it isi of nto consequence. iin the employ of John P. Casey and Co. ?"
Youi are sure yon burned it ?"               The reader amay remember that at the tinje the

THE DREADED TRUTH UNFOLDED.                                   73
conversation concerning John and his connec- honored name than any act of, John's could
tion with that firm had taken place, Miss Jenny impose upon it. This reflection, if it had come
had been absent' from the room ; sent from it to me, could not have influenced my conduct.
by John on a paltry excuse, purposely made, as I was maddened with fear and suspicion; the
I now thought, to prevent her from betraying the suspense, the terror of I knew not what, had
truth ; consequently she was ignorant of his de- wrought upon me to such an extent that I felt
nial of that fact.                          that I must find out the worst at any cost to
She gave a vigorous pull to the last boot, myself or to him. The state of insane frenzy
stamping her foot upon the floor as she spoke. to which my feelings were being gradually ex-
" Yes, lie was, for a few months ; it has been cited is the only apology that I can present for
a long time since, though.  Why do you ask ?" the sinful recklessness of my conduct at this
" Why did he leave them ?" again I asked, time.  White and resolute I sat alone in my
and I wondered that the hoarse choked voice in room hour after hour, pondering over all I had
which I spoke-did not attract her attention ; to thus far discovered, and sorely puzzled to know
me, it appeared as if I we'e listening afar off to what steps I must next take to find out what
the words which my own lips had uttered, so un- still remained behind. Jenny, I was convinced
natural did they sound ; but my face was turned by that morning's conversation, knew into more
to the window, and she was busily engaged in than she had told me; it was evident lie dis-
fastening up her dress, that it might run no risk graceful secret had been carefully hidden from
of being soiled by the mud and moisture of the her. From John himself it would of course he
pavements, so my strange manner passed unno- useless to try to discover any thing which it
ticed, and she answered sharp and quick as was to his interest to conceal, and the bare idea
ever--                                       of being compelled to listen to fresh falsehoods
"I have really forgotten, my dear ; he always from his lips, caused a cold shudder of horror to
was a changeable fellow, and he never was satis- run over me. Eddie must have been such a
fled in his life until lie found his present em- mere child at thetime the events had occurred,
ployment.  Now I think of it, though, I remem- that it seemed highly improbable that he should
her I was really provoked at him for losing that have been made acquainted with them, and yet,
place, for it was a capital opening for a boy like remembering the singular conversation I had
him.  It was his own doings, I suppose, for any had with himl but a few days before, I some-
firm would like to have kept so clever a fellow  how felt a strong suspicion that hbe was aware
as him in their employ. It all turned out for of the dark secret ; and the long I thought
the best, though, after all, for he is much better upon his words and manner, the more assured
now."  And then, at last fairly equipped for her I was that he had riot spoken without a motive.
walk, my sister-in-law bade me a cheerful good- Could that motive indeed have been a wish to
morning, and sallied forth, leaving me alone with prepare me for the blow that had now fallen ?
my anguish and my suspicions ; suspicions alas, It would be easy for me to ascertain if such
to which her unconscious words had given ir- were the case, for, with one so ingenuous, con-
revocable confirmation.                      cealment would be next to impossible; ani if
he were really master of the secret to which I
already possessed the clue, it would be a matter
CHAPTER     XNh.               of little difficulty to draw it from him.  If he
were not, then my only resource would le to all-
TIE DREADED TRUTH UNFOLDED.           ply to strangers ; horrible as was the idea of
I n-rn resolved to discover what dark secret exposing my shame and sorrow to unfeeling
in my husband's life that falsehood had been eyes, yet even that dread alternative I would

designed to cover, and in my mad wretchedness accept rather than suffer a continuance of the
I cared nothing about the nature of the means suspense which now tortured me.
I must employ to accomplish my end. All       An interview with Eddie was evidently then
scrupulous feelings and right judgment were ithe first thing to be sought; and to secure that,
fast becoming dulled in the agony I was ex- I improvised for Agnes an errand in the city
periencing. Determined as I was to find out which I knew would keep her from home for
the secret that had been hidden from me, I several hours ; then when she was gone, and
forgot, or would not remember, that in thus Eddie, according to custom, came to attend to
prying into my husband's affairs, by means the daily lesson-in French, he found me alone,
which I could not pretend to justify, I was and I knew that we should be able to converse
bringing more real disgrace upon my father's uninterruptedly for some time.

l
L
L
i
l
t
l
l
1
T
r
c
t'
r


74                           MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
"No Agnes, again, to-day ?" he said, in a I again spoke.  At last, fearing that my
disappointed tone, as he entered the room; and   strength would desert me, I desperately com-
then, as I briefly apologized for her absence, he menced.
drew his chair to the sewing-table by which I  "I want you to allow your memory to take
was seated, and placed his books upon it.  you back eleven years into the past, Eddie."
I had sewing materials in my hand, for 1 had  "To what particular epoch ?" said he, and
been obliged to keep up the miserable appear- though his words were quiet, I notieec1 that his
ance of employment, and lie noticed nothing face flushed perceptibly as he heard the ques-
unusual in my face or manner.             tion.
" A Hons! madame, noes coonencerous silvos  "He knows the secret, whatever it may be,"
plait," he said, gayly; but I threw my work I muttered to myself, and then with more con-
upon the table, and pushed it away from be- fidence I continued-
tween us.                                    " To the time when your brother was in the
"No ! no! Eddie," I said, " I am in no employ of Casey &amp; Co."
mood for study to-day; I want to have a long  "I was quite a child at the time: I am not
talk with you, and I want you to speak frankly likely to have a very clear remembrance of
and unreservedly to me, as I think it is your events that occurred so long ago."  And then
nature to do.  I have great confidence not with increased confusion he stammered, ''But
only in your discretion and candor, but in your are you not laboring under some false impres-
affection for me. I am in sad trouble, and I sion ?  Do you not remember the day Frank
have neither father nor brother to fly to for as- Nettleby dined here, some months ago?  I
distance, and in my distress I have come to think he asked some question about that firm,
you. May I depend upon you ?"             and John said that he had never been in its
" Through life and unto death," he said, employ. You have made some mistake.".
seeming strangely excited bty my appeal; but  "You are breaking your promise already,
his excitement and the boyish words with Eddie," I said, sorrowfully ; ''that answer was
which he had answered me, so much more fer- neither a truthful nor a candid one."
vid than the occasion apparently called for,  lie hung his head, and seemed to be in a
seemed natural and soothing to my present pitiable state of confusion.
feelings, and in mute gratitude I extended to  " What do you want me to tell you ?" he
Liii iy hand, which he clasped eagerly, and said.

after a moment's hesitation raised to his lips. I
drew it gently away.
" Nay, my lear boy," I continued, with a
faint smile, ''I did not intend to arouse your
chivalrous nature to such a pitch of enthusiasm
as this ; my troubles are commonplace enough,
and all the aid I ask from you is a truthful re-
ply' to such questions as I shall put to you."
lie was calm enough now, and seemed quite
anhamed of his previous gallantry.
"iely upon me, Caroline," he said in a tone
of quiet gravity.  "As far as help of mine can
benefit you, I am at your service now and
ever," and then he waited for me to speak.
But now that the time and opportunity had
arrived, I found far more difficulty in man-
aging the matter than I 1ad anticipated.  I
felt an unutterable repugnance to mentioning
John's name. I feared, if I did so, that I
should lose all the self-control which thus far,
by desperate effort, I had preserved ; and then,
too, I was ignorant of the extent of Eddie's ac-
quaintance with the dark business I was striv-
ing to unveil, and above all things I dreaded
allowing him to make any discovery of it
through me. So I hesitated for some tine ere

First," I continued gently, ''I want you to
understand that I have discovered that the de-
nial which your brother gave to Mr. Nettleby
was untrue.  I know this."V
" I)on't judge him harshly, Caroline," plead-
ed Eddie ;''you don't know how terrible was
the temptation which forced that falsehood
from his lips. John is a truthful nan, of late
years a remarkably truthful man. Do not let
that one dark error overshadow in your mind
his otherwise unimpeachable veracity."
I laughed, a hard, bitter laugh, wrung from
my wretchedness by pitiless scorn.
"Do not make yourself uneasy ; your broth-
er will fare well if he never meets with a
harsher judge than his wife will prove to be.
You admit the fact, then, and confirm the story
I have already heard, that eleven years ago he
was in the employ of Casey &amp; Co. In what
capacity, may I ask ?"
"Fourth' or fifth clerk, or something like
that ; he was the lowest in the office," was the
rather sullen reply.
" Why did lie leave the fixm ?" I asked, and
then I turned sick and white as I waited for the
answer._

THE DREADED TRUTH UNFOLDED.          75

i

Ecddie turned and fixed his eyes steadily'
upon mine, as he replied coldly-
"Do yosask this question, also, that my
words may confirm some story against him
which you have already heard ?"
"I have heard no story whatever either for
or against him, and I ask you the question be-
cause you are the only one in the family who
can tell me the truth, and the truth I must
know at any cost."
He rose from his chair.
"Mrs. Harrington," he said, with simple
dignity, "it strikes me that we are interfering
most unwarrantably with John's affairs; I shall
say no more. If you wish to learn the particu-
lars of that part of his life, you must refer to
him to discover them. For my part, I must de-
cline all farther interference."
And as he finished speaking he moved to-
ward the door. his voice was so stern, his
manner so haughty, that I could hardly recog-
nize in him the quiet, timid youth I had hither-
to known. I might have been awed by his
manner and shamed into silence, had not my
feelings by this time become quite uncontrolla-
ble ; the end must come now, for I could bear
no more. I respected the young man's ionora-
ble feelings, but I was none the less deter-
mined to wrest from him the secret which I
now was certain he held.   I sprang forward
and caught him by the arm.
"Stop! Eddie, you must not leave me thus.
The question has been asked and it must be an-
swered; all that yon say, all that you feel re-
specting the impropriety of my conduct, I too
have felt; judge then how powerful must be the
motives which impel me to persist in my course
spite of my own self-reproach, spite of your con-
tempt. It is of vital importance to me that I
s,     should be made acquainted with this dark
secret, and if you refuse me the information I
desire, I must seek it from strangers."
"Are you mad ?" he cried with agitation.
"No! I am not mad, but I shall soon become
so, if this strain upon my heart and mind is al-
lowed to continue. I can never rest until I
know all, and if no other source of discovery is
allowed me, I shall learn from Frank Nettleby
the address of that man S-, of whom he was
telling us, and from him discover all that has
been so wickedly concealed from me. I will do
this, I tell you, if you still refuse to answer me;
but you will not refuse, dearest Eddie, whom
I have learned to love as a brother; whose
kindness and affection I have turned to almost
instinctively in this my hour of shame and
misery. When you know how essential-it is to

ness and peace ?" I said despairingly.
Ie cname to me, and caught my hands passion-
ately in his grasp.
''You tempt me; you tempt me fearfully,
he said.
I gazed mutely, piteously into his face, but
made no farther attempt to persuade him.
" If I tell you," he said, still grasping my
hands, still gazing at me with an expression I
strove in vain to comprehend---" If I tell you,
will you promise me faithfully to conceal your
knowledge from John ?"
" How can I '?" I said. "Iis talent as an
actor has been denied to me.    'Thiough my
tongue should maintain silence, my voice, mx
manner, my very glance must show the change
that has been wrought in my feelings."
"Time will modify that; in a few days, when
the first effects of this revelation have worn
away, events will glide in their usual channel,
and you will soon be as you have hitherto been.
If John were to know that you are acquainted
with his disgrace, his own shame and distress
would'widen the breach between you, and per-
haps destroy irrevocably your chance of future
happiness. If that knowledge can  e concealed
from him, I do not know but that it would be
really doing a kindness both to you and to him,
to tell you the truth now. As you say, your
imagination may make the reality eves worse
than it is, and the truth I verily believe will in-
fluence you less than the suspicions and fears
which now you entertain."

F1

my happiness, to my very reason, that this mys-
tery should be elucidated, T know you will no
longer refuse to my prayers and tears the infor-
mation for which I am seeking."
He tore himself from my eager grasp, and
paced the floor distractedly.
" You know not what you ask !" lie said.
"Have you reflected that there may he shame,
disgrace, crime hidden behind the veil that you
thus madly strive to rend away ?"
"I know," I said hoarsely, "that no truth, no
certainty can be more terrible than are the suspi-
cions my imagination has already conjured up."
Heseemed nottohearme, buteontinoed wildly,
" And must I be the one to criminate him ?
must it be from my hand this fearful blow must
fall ? for, 0 Caroline ! you know what you are
to him, and how entirely his happiness depends
upon your esteem and love ; the hour they fail
him will be the darkest of his life ; God only
knows whether he would survive their loss; and
must it be my words that shall deprive him of
them ?"
" Alas! who is there to care for mq happi-

t
,  r


76                  MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

" You are right, Eddie," I cried eagerly,
" you are right, indeed ; it will be no act of
kindness to him to conceal from inc now the
whole truth. As I have told you, discover it
finally I must and will ; and surely it were
better for all of us that I should hear the story
from your loving lips, than from the uncharita-
ble ones of a stranger."
You are right," lie said. ''Give me your
promise, then, solemnly and unreservedly, that
you will endeavor by every means in your pow-
er to conceal your knowledge of your secret
from your husband, and above all things, that
vou will never let hi  know from whom you
(rived your information.  Poor John!" he
cried with a sudden burst of grief, and turning
fromi me abruptly, again he paced the floor in
agitation that he could not control. '' Poor
, olin! if any thing could add to your griefup-
on discovering that your Caroline's confidence
in you was lost forever, it would be to know
that I, your only brother, had thus betrayed
Even in that hour of my deep distress, I
could but notice and appreciate the sensitive
delicacy of this young man's disposition. The
distress which lie exhibited in being thus forced,
as it were, to violate the confidence which had
been placed in him, could never have been felt
by a mind less innocent, a nature less ingen-
ions than his own.  It is true, the specious
sophistry by which lie strove to comfort himself,
in exacting this promise of secrecy from me,
did not deceive my less charitable nature. I
knew, as if the spirit of prophecy had been given
to me, that John and I could never be recon-
ciled ; that no time, no circumstances could
obliterate from my mind the remembrance of
the deception lie had practiced upon me ; but
knowing this, what difference could it really
make whether or not he misinterpreted the
cause of my estrangement? I thought the con-
eealnieit a foolish and a needless one, but I
pitied the struggles in my companion's mind,
aind I hesitated no longer to give him the pledge
required.
"I promise you, Eddie," I said, " as far as
I can, I will conceal from John entirely my
knowledge of his dishonor; and rest assured,
that never, through me, shall he learn to doubt
the sincerity of the love you bear him."
''Take your seat, then, and 1 will tell you
all; but, Caroline, be merciful in your judg-
iment ; remember that all are not possessed of
your str'oiig nature, so stanch in rectitude, so
unassailable in pride ;nor do others view such
fats as his have beens in the extreme light

that you have been taught to regard them. The
crime, inexcusable as it was, has now been long
ago forgotten by all save the very fev whom it
most intimately concerns ; nor indeed has it
ever been known publicly enough to bring upon
the name you bear the scandal of the world-
The sin has been repented and atoned for, the
injured parties have long since forgiven the
culprit, and his wife is now the only one whose
judgment he will have to dread. Remember,
even while your judgment condemns him, your
love and pity are his due by every claim that
your duty or your heart can assert in his be-
half."
The first tears which had moistened my eyes
since I had read that fatal letter, now filled them
as I listened to the impassioned pleading of this
loving brother, but I brushed them hastily away,
ashamed that he should witness such an evi-
dence of weakness.
''Hush, Eddie," I said huskily; ''you mean
kindly, I know, but your words are torture t"
me now. Tell me all, and tell me quickly, for
my strength is failing me, and this suspense I
shall not much longer be able to endure."
lIe resumed his seat by the table again, as I
spoke, and at length with evident reluctance
began his story.
"You are aware, Caroline, that I am but
the half-brother of your husband. After the
death of his first wife, our father, Dr. Harring-
ton, removed to Boston with his two children,
and installing them in a boarding-house under
the care of a widow lady, whom he had en-
gaged as a governess, entered upon the duties
of his profession in this city.  That widow lady
was my mother ; she became his second wife,
but only survived her marriage a brief twelve-
month, and then she died, leaving me a helpless
babe, dependent for life itself upon the affec-
tion of my half-sister.  That affection has
never failed me.  Jenny, unselfish and ener-
getic then as now, from that time took upon
herself the double duties of housekeeper and
nurse, and gratefully do I acknowledge that
never have I felt the loss of my mother, since
she, my true-hearted sister, adopted me for her
own. When I was three years of age my fa-
ther died, and after that, the path we poor chil-
dren were forced to tread was' thorny enough.
We had a small property left to us at father's
death, and with the closest economy we were
able to live upon it until Jenny, when I was
old enough to release her from home duties,
obtained her situation at Netrleby's, land we
were afterward enabled to get along more com-
fortably. As soons as John was old enough,

he, too, began to look for employment. Thanks
to the public-schools and our own ambition, we
had early acquired the, rudiments of a good ed-
ucation, and so John, upon attaining his ma-
jority, found himself fully competent to under-
take the duties of a clerk. After a few years'
knocking around the world, first trying one
scheme, then another, lie was at last'fortunate
enough to obtain what we all hoped would
prove a permanent situation. As you doubt-
less anticipate, it was in the firm of Casey &amp;
Co. The senior partner, Mr. John Casey, had
been an old friend and school-mate of father's,
and it was through that friendship that his son
securgd this desirable opening. lie was only
with them three months-"  Here the speaker
stammered, hesitated, and finally broke down
altogether in his narration.
"Go on !" I cried, with fierce impatience,
and he commenced again.
"They were very careless in their money-
matters there ; Mr. Casey, in particular, was
culpably inattentive. The boy was so young ;
lie had been so hardly brought up ; so limited
in all his'expenditures ; so many needs were
pressing upon him and his loved ones, and the
temptations which surrounded him were so ter-
rible, that-that-I can't, Caro-1 can't tell
you."  And :stopping abruptly, Eddie's head
sank upon his arms as they rested on the table
before him, and his slight frame shook with
suppressed agitation.
1 could not speak ; I dared not even tell him
to go on, and so we sat in a wretched silence
that seemed to last for ages. At last Eddie
arose from his chair.
" I have a newspaper somewhere up stairs
that contains a full account of the whole mat-
ter," lie said hurriedly. " I will bring it to
you, and you can read it for yourself, for I find
it is impossible for me to give you the account
you -equire. I will go now and get it."  And
then he left the room.
He returned in a few moments, carrying in
lis hand a newspaper, which lie opened and
folded so that a particular column should be
exposed. He placed it in my hands, pointing
out as he did so the article which he wished
me to read. He was very much excited ; his
face was colorless to the very lips, and lie trem-
bled so that hie could scarcely stand. I was
calm enough now ; the agitation which I had
endured during the last twenty-four hours had
at length reached such a crisis, that I had be-
come apathetic from the very intensity of my
feelings.
\While Eddie threw himself into a chair from

pure inability to stand, I rose from         my seat,
and, with the paper in my hand, walked steadi-
ly to thie window, where I stood and read the
designated article from    beginning to end; slow-
ly, attentively, calmly; inset missing~ a word ;
understanding every cruel sentence ; feeling as
if the terrible information it conveyed were be-
ing imprinted upomi my brain with letters of
fire.   This was what I read:
YounFUa DErssviTY.-.An aggravated ease of    rim-
inahity hais this morning been brought to our notice, the
offender being an employee in Casey &amp; Co.'s mercantile
establisluuent in this city. 'Ihougli mot given t  is n
such a guise as to warrant us in publishing it opeitly ii
the column of local intelligence, we stilu feel iO to be a
duty which we owe to the public to expose, as far as we
are permitted to o, the   ugrateftl cilmiiet wuoiiir.
Casey, with, we think, cnulpaubhe indulhgenucc,stilh seems in-
elined to shield.
The youth in question is the son of the late 1. II
a phy iciaesof somi emiee timid nummoobtoothole
lived and practiced medicine for mudiy years imi omneo
our eastern cities. IHe removed to ioston sic- years ago,
ant mssy, perhaps, hesceousntcd fortmmtc in not having
survived to suffer the shame which mis soo      y s mvllamy
oould have bronmght iipoa himu. 'hlc' younmg manue, 0'' i'
told, was euployeca by Mr. Casey upon no other recom-
iendation thisms that of being the son of an old friend.
fever has kindness beets imo''ore   hlaooeio' my obiosl.
S1ail sms of isouey hov fri  (hue to tm e beeui mi.-
lug in the cstabishlment, yet stillus so u'picioi was at-
tached to young II
Upon the night of Monday oftht cus week, Mr. Casey hav-
ing occasion to pass by the (stre at a late hour of tle
night, was astonished to perceive a light in the building,
proceeding from the windmoy of is' own private office. Ity
means of a master-key which lit is accustomed it all
times to carry, Mr. Casey admitted himself into the build-
ing, and silently proceeded to the room trom whence he
had perceived the light. le stood at the door of the
apartment, shocked and speechliess, for some timne before
his presence was perceived by the young gentleman
whose felonious pursuits he thus interrupted. YVoun0g
11-   was on his knees by the open sae. A package oi
bank-notes which had been received by the Iirm the pre
viots day, too late to be deposited in tue obaik, woos in hie
bands, evidently upon the point of being cosiigmied to hi
own pocket-book. Iii the very act of doing this. iii ojir-
nlation from  Mr. Casey attracted hi attention, ic
springing to his feet, the villain confronted his employer.
For tm instant he stood pale and terrortricken ; the
nest, drawing a pistol from hi pocket, le took tliberat
aim .ut Sln'. Casey and fired, umiol(lite bullet emteralthish'
wall, not an inch from Mr. Casey's head.
incensed beyond measure at tlis atrociouso villainy,
Mr. C. sprang forar l and caught lii assailant by the
collar.  I--'s boyish form ts but a reed in the graosm
of a large, athletic man like bis employer, aond in a fees
seconds the young villain was brought to hois knees.
In viewc of till the it m'riom"(nccs, Mr. Casecy's lenuiency
sees to us almost incomprehensible, yet certati iti
that, moved by tlepiteous entreaties of his woud-b
asstssin, lie has coisenstel, fr'oii consileration for the famo
imy of his former friend, to reframn from sill legal pirocee'l
It     has a brother and a sister living in tuis city,
wlio e hearts have been almost broken by Ihis rascality.
By h is .osn confession it seems hue had intendeou ueavinig
(le cityasteeoon asois theft was accomplishud, ahlewing
his family to bear (he shame which moistniecessoariuy hitve'
fallen umuon tb-m. As muua, gaimbliag his liee nt reot
Wesincely hope (hat time clemency of Mm'. Causey moi'y

'I

THE DREADED TRUTH UNFOLDED,         77


MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

lead to the reformation of the criminal, yet we sadly
doubt it. The atrocity of the young reprobate's conduct
proves his hardened depravity, and we honestly believe
that a few years in the penitentiary now, might save him
from the gallows hereafter.
When I had finished reading I turned to the
table again ; Eddie still sat there, his head
buried in his arms.
Speak to me," I said; ''let your testimo-
ny confirm the evidence of my own senses. Is
this man of whom I have just read-this man
hereby proven a thief and a murderer-is this
man John Iarrington, my husband ?"
He looked up at tue with a scared, depreca-
ting look on his white face.
"Be merciful, Caroline ; you know not all
the temptations which lured my unhappy broth-
er to the commission of that fatal crime. No
parent's eye had watched his tempted youth ;
remember that.    When none were near to
warn or restrain, it is little marvel that evil
companions beguiled him into the paths of
error. He found himself inextricably involved
iii the toils which had been spread for him, al-
most before he had dreamed of danger ; and
then how bitter was his remorse ! how wild his
despair ! To free himself from those hateful
fetters lie stooped to theft ! The money was to
have been taken but as a loan, and would have
been repaid as soon as untiring industry and
launtless resolution should have given him the
means to do so. That deed of shame would
have been his last sin ; the morrow was to have
been the beginning of a new life. As for that
miserable pistol-shot, I swear to you it was ac-

cidental; the newspaper lies about it. There
was no deliberate aim, no intentional firing ;
the whole transaction was over in a few sec-
ouds, and the poor, trembling, guilty wretch
was at his master's feet voluntarily, almost be-
fore that master could realize the scene before
him.  Think of all this! Pity the agony he
must have endured, and remember how long
and manfully he has since striven in the paths
of duty and of honor.  Think of his youth-''
But here I interrupted him scornfully.
" llis youth !" I cried ; ihe was four or
five-and-twenty at least ; older than either you
or. I now are.  Had he been a boy of sixteen or
eighteen, yoetl might perhaps have been his
plea, but as it is--" I could say no more ; my
indignant tongue could find no words that
could fittingly express the contemptuous rage
that filled my soul.

entirely? Jenny herself is ignorant of it, I
know, from what she said this morning. It is
strange that you, of all others, should have been
your brother's confidant."
'' I was not made so by his will," he answer-
ed. "Like yourself, I, by chance, discovered
sufficient to awaken me to fearfully eager in-
quiry, and finally John consented to reveal to
me the whole dark story, sacrificing his own
pride to warn me of the dangers which he had
so narrowly escaped in-_yielding to the tempta-
tions of evil company and the love of gain."
" Ie told you this?  le, my husband, con-
fessed himself to be what this paper calls him,
a thief and a murderer? There can be no mis-
take ?-he confessed it ?" And I gazed into his
face as if I would have read his very soul.
Ie could not meet my imploring eyes; he
turned away his head, answering falteringly-
" Alas, yes ! Why will you force me to re-
peat the miserable truth ?"
It was enough. My last hope was shattered,
and I was obliged to confess that there was no
longer room for doubt.  Every proof that I
could possibly demand had been given to me.
I could realize, even then, the full force of
all that I had heard ; realize and act upon it.
My mind was clear enough now ; my heart
ceased to ache, my brain ceased to reel as I
stood there, stern and silent, before the trem-
bliung, white-lipped man, who dared not even
look upon my anguish. There was iio time
now for wailing and wringing of hands; all
the torture of suspense which had been racking

me for the last twenty-four hours was now for-
ever gone. A stolid composure was settling
upon me, and I suffered no longer. A feeling
almost of triumph was in my heart, and flash-
ed in my eyes as I recognized this fact.
I spoke to Eddie as I turned to leave the room.
"I have learned now all that I wish to
know. I will torment you with no farther
questions. For the part you have this day
acted toward me I shall be grateful to you al-
ways. Good-bye !" And I extended to him my
hand.
Ie caught it eagerly.
"You frighten me, Caroline ! Why do you
look at me so strangely? Why do you bid me
good-bye ?"
"Nay! you have no reason to be alarmed
now," I said.  ''I am calm, as I told you I
should be when once that fearful suspense was

A new thought occurred to me as I met the over.  I bid you good-bye because I am going
gaze of Eddie's appealing eves.             to my room now, and as I shall not come down
" How is it, I shen rply cried, '' that you to supper, it will doubtless be some time cre I
have learned this shamtefitl secret so fully and see you again."

78

1
i
s
F
J
t

a
w
aJ
CI
w
r!
r-
yn
,y
x
v
x
rI)
x
W
a
d
w5
zi
x
0
a
a
00


AN ATTEMPT AT FLIGHT.
My tone was quiet enough, and my hand lay edge that I left her rather under Miss Jenny's
cold and passive in his grasp, yet still he gazed protection than his. 1 was obliged to content
at me with terror in his eyes. Gently disen- myself by writing a few lines to her, bidding
gaging my hand, I bent over him and kissed her seek any immediate employment, no matter
him upon the forehead.                     how humble or uneongenidl, which would en-
'' I thank you, Eddie ; never forget that. I able her to maintain her independence, and free
thank you for the part you have this day acted herself immediately from all obligation to her
toward me."   And then, leaving the room, I brother-in-law.  This, to do her justice, she
slowly ascended the stairs, and sought my own had long been anxious to do, for she was by no
apartment.                                 means destitute of the Manvers pride, and she
had only been prevented from seeking, some
time ago, a situation as a teacher, by Johns
CIIAPTERiXIII.                 positive prohibition. I gat e her no reason for
my conduct, bidding her accept my absence as a
AN ATTEMPT AT FLIGHIT.           mystery, which was and ever must be insoluble
ONCE more alone, with the locked door be- to her. I bade her cling to Miss Jenny as to
tween me and the outer world, I sat down her best friend ; to follow her advice in every
to think. And I could think now ; my brain thing that did not actually conflict with her iii-
was clear, my will firm and resolute. If my dependence ; and again I charged her, above
heart was numb and heavy as lead in my bo- all things, to free herself immediately from tie
som, at least it had ceased to torture rie. I protection and assistance of John larrington.
suffered from no acute emotions of any kind;  "If God prospers me in my own future," I
only when I thought of again meeting the man concluded, "I shall soon send for you to come
whom I had once sworn to love and honor, a to me ; if not--if you should  erI hear from-
shuddering loathing crept over me. Save the me again, look upon these words as the last tre-
one intense wish to avoid such a meeting, I was quest of a sister who has loved you as sisters
recklessly indifferent to all else that could be- seldom love ; consider my wishes as sacred as
fall me. The suddenness, the intensity of the if they were those of the dying.  God bless
shock which I had received had deadened every and care for you ever, my child; bud may lie
nerve ; and at this time, when every natural in lis great mercy mete to you a happier lot
impulse which God had given me taught me to than lie has deigned to bestow upon"- Caro-
turn with horror from the man by whom I had line."
been so shamefully deceived, outraged pride  I could write no more ; I did not dare to
stood me in good stead; and with white lips and speak to her those words of yearning affection
steady nerves I sat, thoughtful and calm, en- which seemed meet for the occasion. My heart
deavoring to conjure up some plan that should was hard and cold now, and I dreaded that any
take me from John Harrington's presence now  softening thoughts should coeii to waken it
and evermore,       -- again to suffering.
Agnes was the chief difficulty in my way.  And then I took the pen to leave that ex-
I could not take her with me into the wide planation for John which I felt must necessari-
world, friendless and penniless as I was, even ly be given. Not that I felt it was his lime ;
were she willing to go with me, and of such not that I thought lie had the shadow of a right
acquiescence I was very doubtful. Affectionate to claim  another word or thought from ic.
and sweet-tempered as she undoubtedly was, lie had deceived mae, cruelly, premeditatedly,
she yet was possessed naturally of- a pretty from the first, and I felt not a particle of love
strong will, and it had been by no means weak- for him, or pity for his sufferings, that could
ened by the indulgence which through life have led me to give him the slightest clie to
had surrounded her.  Intuitively I felt that the cause of my changed feelings.  I miist
tar from joining her fate with mine, and leav- write to him because I knew he would seek me
ing forever the man who so long had been our out and strive to melt my obduracy, did he not
protector, she would be more likely not only to feel at once that all effort in that direction
refuse to accompany me, but to use every would be wholly useless, for John loved miie,
means in her power to prevent the course of supremely, entirelyT; I knew that full well; and
action which I had resolved upon1 for myself. a horrible exultation filled my heart as I an-
To lensve her dependent uponm John Hlaring- ticipated the sorrow that thle morrow would
ton's charity was galling enough to my pride, bring upon him. I must write to him too, for
and all that made it endurable was the knowl- Eddie's sake, for I hind miot forgotten the prom-


AN ATTEMPT AT FLIGhlT.               81

ti

ise I had made to hint of concealing the rev- aid.  I had heard his step in the eitry a few
elations which he had made to me from his moments before, and I knew that I should find
brother's knowledge.  If it were possible to do him in his own room. When, in answer to my
so, I would hide from him the real caasc of my hesitating knock, he threw open the door and
altered feelings, though, surely, his own con- stood before me, I was almost startled to see
science would supply to him an all-suflicient how white and haggard he still appeared, but
reason.  So I drew my desk toward me again, I had no time for other than selfish considera-
and wrote as follows :                       tions now.
When thee line, meet your rye, li John arrington, h  "'e I want your help again," I said, with a
wih piwned them will  i many miles away, never again taint attempt to smile. '" You must know how
to et with you if her own will en lirvent that issue. terrible a strain upon my nerves it would be if
It )no nsteek mue; if oue manly feelin°, one remorseful
thought for her vhose life you have bited,e till linger I were forced to meet with John to-night ; and
in your bom, gr.mut ue this boon: give me my ftre'edoi besides, I really need rest and sleep.  I intend
-it is all that is left to mie, and I swear to you if YOu to take an opiate, and go to bed immediately."
del'rive tue of thatt, I will kill myself.  I can not, I will
not yive with you longer. 'Ilie love which once I felt for  That was a lie, but falsehood and deception
you ha come a thing of the put, t lwie very remen- were rapidly becoming familiar to me now, and
tb tne craiusue me tto shudder. I give you no cause for I spoke on with unfaltering voice.
tli ; I mtorto miserable myself to eek to palliate your
di-tress. Jhelieve,ifryou will,that I have never loved you "Tell John and the others that I do not
-that I have learned to love aitnoliwr believe as you will, wish to be disturbed until morning.  If I need
ti accept at one, a w ttimt tin, inexorable truth, that I any thing I will ring, nd until I do so I hope
i vu you to ong se r, and them efore I have forsaken you,
they will let me alone.  Tell John to occupy
'ihls abruptly I stepped, for I could write the spare room to-night, for I intend to lock
no more, and tnsatioftctory as the letter would my door, and do not wish to opet it again un-
surely be l to him, I felt that I had said all that til morning. Try to make all seem natural
was really necessary for imy plrpeoses.  Had I and conmolplace to them, Eddie.  I trust the
written volumes, it could have been but a repe- arrangement to you ; I have no heart to con-
tition of the one thought, that I loved him no jure uip a more plausible story for my seclusion
longer, and that I would not live with him. So than the one 1 have given you.'
I hastily sealed amid directed the notes, leaving  "Rest easy," he said in a gentle, sympathiz-
them lying conspicuously tup1on my writing-desk. ing voice.  "I will shield you from all ob-
Thtus far my course had been plain enough, servation ; you do indeed need rest and quiet,
and these tasks performed, I was now able to tand your slumbers to-night shall be undisturbed
devote all iy' en ergies to the contrivance of a if any care on my part can keep them so."
iethlod by which I could leave the house un-  I only waited long enough to murmur a few
perceived anti lnlstspectetd, and keep my ab- words of almost inarticulate thanks, and then I
setnce undiscovered for some hours after,   fled back to my room, to endure with what pa-
We lived bit a few blocks disttlat front a tienee I could muster the long, long hours
railroad depot, and there was a train of cars that must yet intervene ere I could be free.
diat left Bostoll, traveling west, a little before  To reconcile to my own conscience the cx-
day-break every InorntiIg.  'Thtis fact I w'as cause I had given for non-appearance at the
fortunately well aware of, and I forthwith re- supper-table, as well as from really feeling the
solved to net upon it. 'lhere was a small sum  need of that rest, physical and mental, which
of money in my desk, which had been there at could only be procured by sleep, I partially
the time of my marriage, the small savings of disrobed myself, and lay down upon the bed.
the preceding years, which was all the fortune But sleep came not to my excited brain.  I
I had brought mIy husband.    lie had never could not even keep my eyes closed ; it seemed
allowed me to need it, and m my own mind it to me then, as if I should never be able to sleep
had long been destined for the purchase of Ag- again.  Every nerve in my body was strung
news' wedding outfit.  Now, however, it must to its utmost tension, and at times I felt an
subserve a far different end,                almost unconquerable inclination to scream
rIhis money I put into mIy purse, and clothed aloud, feeling that only some such hysterical
myself in the plainest out-door garments which ebullition could save me from insanity.  As I
my wardrobe contained; not event a change of have said before, my mental suffering was not
raiment would I take that had been provided acute ; I wondered, even then, with a sort of
for lme by John ILtrrington's money ; nd then stolid astonishment, at the total imdifirence
I left Iny room in search of Eddie, whose with which I viewved the fact that my husband,
frietndly serv ices I Itmust once moore catll to my thc 0one all-engrossing love of my life1 was lost

to me forever; that my life was completely
wrecked, and that all joy, and hope, and peace+
was henceforth forever blotted out of my ex-
istence. I realized it all, but it caused me no
suffering, no forebodings. Later 1 accounted
for this insensibility upon the grounds that my
physical system had received through the
nerves so severe a shock, that I was really in-
capable of feeling other pain.  TI'he torture
which I that night, and many weeks afterward,
endured from the excited condition of nerves
and brain, mercifully spa'red me the mental
agony which, if added at that time to my phys-
ical suffering, must certainly have proved in-
supportable.
Through the long, dark, silent watches of the
night I lay there, my head aching, my pulses
throbbing, my mind incessantly brooding on
wild, impracticable plans for the future ; that
dark, terrible future in which, strive as I
might, I could see no ray of light, no hope of
peace. I do not now remember what my in-
tentions for my after-life really were. Indeed
I much doubt whether any actual plans existed
in my mind, spite of all my weary thinking and
contriving. Vague, chaotic schemes of seeking
my livelihood among strangers, sometimes in
the crowds of a vast city, sometimes in the
loneliest wilds I could dream of finding, flitted
confusedly through my brain. Only one idea
was plain and clear through the mists that were
gathering over my mental vision, and that was
that I must escape from John by some means
or other, immediately and forever.  I shrank
with absolute terror from the thought of meet-
ing him again, and I felt that any step, how-
ever wild and desperate, which would carry me
far from him, would become to me feasible and

easy. The only part of my plans for the future longed-for time of action to arrive.  Wlhei
that I can now recall with any distinctness, three o'clock struck I rose and lighted a candle,
was that I had determined to start iln the train which I was accustomed to keep in my cham-
that left Boston at four o'clock, and travel by her, and proceeded noiselessly as possible to ar-
that to New York.  After that my ideas rapid- ray myself in the garments I had selected to
ly became confused and chaotic.   I do not wear. They were of dark, inexpensive miateri-
even know whether I had any plans ahead of al, and plainly made ; and with a thiek veil
that.  I suppose my mind was even then be- covering my bonnet, so arranged as to be
coming affected by the disease which, although drawn closely over my face when I chose to
I guessed it not, was already overshadowing wear it so, I felt that I might safely risk the
me ; but, though I was destitute of the power chance of meeting any one who would ie likely
of looking forward, though I certainly did not to recognize me during the journey.  I felt
realize the extent of the troubles which were sure that 1 was disguised beyond the dhiager of
environing me, the reader must by no means accidental recognition.
imagine that I was mentally incapable of act-  Thus equipped, I extinguished the light, atid
ing, in the present, with the full light of reason. silently quitted my room.  I am naturally very
Upon my course of action for that night and light of foot, and I had take the precaution in
the morrow, my mind was perfectly clear.  I this instance to draw on over my boots india
counted the money in my pur-se, and calculated rubber sandals, which helped to deaden the

So)                MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

how far I should be able to make it go, after
deducting the expense of the railway ticket,
with close precision and surprising accuracy.
I was clear-headed thieni as I had ever been ;
clear-headed enough to feel that the physical
distress which I was then suffering, and which
seemed hourly to increase, might perhaps be
the precursor of some terrible disease.  I ic-
quiesced sullenly to this unforeseen ailliction.
Let it come !" I muttered to myself; '" so
once I am  away from this hated place, once
free from his loathsome presence, I care not
what other evil shall befall me.  There are
hospitals, I suppose, in New York, to which
homeless vagrants, unable to care for hiemi-
selves, are conveyed.  T can stler no more
there than here ; so if disease be upoi me, let
it come ; and if unto teath-so muci the bet-
ter."
In consequence of my request and Eddie's
.clear management, no one came near me, or
disturbed my supposed slunbers that evening.
When John's foot came up the stairs he paused
for a moment at my door as if listening to hear
if there were any signs of wakefulness within.
All was silence ; and, with a heavy sigh, which
I could hear as plainly as if that barred door
had not stood between us, lie passed on into the
chamber adjoining my own, in which I hind uc-
quested that lie should sleep. 'In a short time
iall was quiet within the house, anid soon all
out-door bustle had ceased as well, and the
reign of the ' solemn sisters," Silence and
Darkness, was upon us.
A clock in the room beneath me kept mie
cognizant of the time, and as it chimed out
each successive hour, I seemed to grow mt-
mentarily more wakeful, more watchful for the


82                           MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
sound of my footsteps, and I was thus able to abouts. The clerk who sold me my ticket
descend the stairs and traverse the hall below gazed inquisitively at me, while he counted out
almost noiselessly.  I had some trouble in the the change for the money that I had given to
(lark in getting the hall-door opened, but I him.  There were several women in the sta-
finally succeeded. The last harrier was pass- tion-room, like myself, waiting for the depgirt-
ed, and I emerged into the clear, cold air of the ure of the train, but they were each surrounded
early morning with an exulting sense of deliv- by their boxes and bundles, with husbands, fa-
erance that made me forget for a moment the thers, or brothers loitering near to chat with
suffering I was still enduring.            them concerning their approaching journey.
It was a frosty, starlight night, or rather  1 alone sat gloomy and desolate, apart from
morning, in October. The cold air struck upon the rest, the cynosure of many curious eyes, the
my hot brow with a delightful freshness. I subject of many a whispered comment. I bore
drew a long breath as I stepped upon the pave- it all with stoical indifference ; I saw it all ; I
ment and the door closed behind me, like one knew all the unpleasant peculiarities of my p0-
who shakes off some horrible incubus, and sition, for, as I have said, my mind was perfectly
emerges from darkness and despair into light clear, and my resolution as undaunted as it had
and liberty. It was strange indeed that no ever been ; but I cared no more for these petty
emotions of grief should oppress me as I thus annoyances than I should have cared for the
tore away from my heart every tie that it had buzzing of a fly. It all seemed so insignificant,
ever felt precious ; even if I had ceased to love so contemptible, when I compared it with that
my husband and felt no pang at thus renounc- one great horror which had fallen upon my life.
ing forever his name and protection, still it was  Presently the shrill shriek of the engine an-
strangely unnatural that with hini I could give nounced that the train was in readiness, and
up Eddie, Jenny, Agnes, my once happy home, the passengers, bag and baggage, thronged to
all that I had hitherto so loved and cherished, the platform. Pushing and crowding, shouting,
without a tear or a sigh. Yet so it was ; in the directing, all moved onward, I with the rest,
one mad, desperate wish to be free forever from  though far in the rear, for I had no one to push
the man who had so unpardonably deceived me, and crowd for me, and those accomplishments I
I absolutely forgot all minor ties, and felt only had not yet learned to practice for myself; but I
wild exultation in my newly-acquired freedom. followed the crowd until we came to the cars,
There is  110hour of the night so still and and then I stood patiently waiting until the
solemn as that which immediately precedes the thronging crowd ahead of me would give me an
dawn. Never had that stillness and solemnity opportiity to enter them. Thus it happened
imrtpressed me as it did this night.  I felt no that all pushed on, unltil I was last upon the
fear.  I, a timid, defenseless woman, for the platform, and already had the impatient whistle
first time in my life outside of my hlome after given warning that the moment for starting had
dark without a protector, felt no more dread in arrived; when, just as I at last found opportunity
traverNing the streets of that great city att this to step pon tihe cars, a hand was laid upon my
unseemly hour, than I should have felt had it shoulder. I turned with a faint, startled cry,
been noonday.  Once or twice I was passed and found myself face to face with my iuisband.
by other wayfarers, who peered inquisitively at  For a moment I stood breathless, speechless,
111e through the darkness, ald one of them, a before himer ; then  the hoarse cry of "all
woman, a poor, simple creature, more iisera- aboard!" and the clangor of the bell, awoke me
1Le perhaps than myself, shouted after 111 somte to the consciousness that the train was in 1110-
(0015 expresion a1ts I glidedi by her.  Once, tion, and that I was about to be left behind.
too, I thought that I heard footsteps behind One mal, wild effort I made to escape.
m1e, as if some 1110ne were dogging my path ; but  " Let me go !" I cried, and would have
to 1n(11  of these ci'clumstnces did I give a sprung upon the moving train, had he not
m11omnt'1S 1e1d; the outside world and all its caught me by the arm, and forcibly pulled me
oclcupanlts seemed to me but the shadowy fea- back upon the platform.
tureI of a dream; I only, of all the world, was  "  Are you mad ?'' lie said fiercely  and
awake and alive. The only reality which life then the train was gone, and with it mly last
bore to me was the drad If being again forced chatne for freedom. And I stood trailing
to conifronlt my1 ihusbandt.               andl despairing, alone with tile man whom, at
T reilae the depot, an~d by tile light and1 that moment, I hated as muchb as I had ever
confust ion11111 whi suirrounded01 thle ticket-oflice, 10oved him.
found 11o il icltyf in discover-ing its where1- I"Leave me, John Ilarrington !", I criedl, ats

Ii
I

"I TURNED WITH A FAINT, STARTLED CRY."-PAGE 82.


AN ATTEMPT AT FLIGHT.
soon as I could command speech. "I am no length, turning toward me that stern, ireful
longer your wife, nor have you any right to con- visage, "I am ready to receive such explana-
trol me. You have forced me to lose this train, tion as you can give of this night's singular
but the detention can avail you nothing. I proceedings."
will wait at the depot here until the next train  "And what if I do not choose to give von
starts, and then I will leave the city in that."  any ?" I said sullenly, the terror with which his
" You will do no such thing," he said.  " I altered demeanor had inspired me fast giving
believe yon have taken leave of your senses, but place to anger.
at all events I shall take you home with me,  " In that case," he said savagely, ' I shall
and whether you consider yourself my wife or consider that your conduct proves you to be a
not, I shall take very good care that you do not fit subject for a lunatic asylum, and act accord!-
leave me again without my knowledge and con- ingly," and as he spoke, he looked both abb
sent. Come, I tell you!1" and an angry stamp and willing to carry out the threat his words im-
of the foot enforced the command.          plied.
I was literally terrified into obedience. So  Wild terror again took possession of me.  I
terrible vas the alteration made in the man by sprang to the door, crying wildly-
the fierce passion that raged within him, that I  "Let me go ! let me go ! I will not stay
shrank with fear from the fierceness of his voice here with you."
and glance. He dragged rather than led me to  His arm was around me ere I had advanced
the end of the platform, and there hailed a a dozen steps, and forcibly he detained me.
passing cab, into which he lifted me, half faint-  ' Be quiet '"lie said.  '' Are we not sufli-
ing, and springing in by my side, gave the di- ciently disgraced already?  Would you have
reaction of our residence to the driver, and the all the household know to what a pass our
vehicle rattled rapidly over the intervening matrimonial affairs are tending?  Come back.
streets.                                   I tell you," as stillI struggled wildly to free my-
The ride occupied but a few moments, and self. "You shall not go; you belong to me,
not a word was exchanged betw en us during and mine you are and shall be while I have lifi
the interval. He assisted me to the steps when and strength to hold you." And lifting me front
the cab stopped, and opened the door for me as my feet, lie carried me to the sofa from which I
silently as possible.                      had just arisen.
''Go to your room," he said in a stern whis-  Ie had caught my hand, as I endeavored
per.  "Make no more noise now than you did with all my feeble strength to push him from
in leaving the house.  There is no need of me, aid in his blind rage had grasped it so

scandalizing either your sister or mine with the
narration of this night's exploits, if it can be
avoided."
I obeyed mechanically, and while he dismiss-
ed the driver and silently re-fastened the door,
I stole up to my room, and groped my way in
the dark to the sofa, upon which I fell as I
reached it, totally exhausted, and almost in a
state of insensibility.
A moment later, and John had followed me.
He closed the door as he entered the room, and
turned the key in the lock.
"Where is your candle ?" he said ; and al-
most inaudibly I directed him to it. He light-
ed it, and, as the blaze of the match glared up,
I, for the first time since our meeting, caught a
full view of his face. Ie was deadly pale ; his
brow sternly corrugated with frowning lines,
his mouth compressed until the bloodless lips
were hardly distinguishable, and an expression
of dark and fearful passion disfiguring his face,
such as I had hitherto little dreamed that fa--
miliar countenance could wear.
"And now, Mrs. Harrington," he said at

forcibly that the sharp setting of a ring which I
wore upon it was forced into the flesh so as t
draw blood.
I gave a faint cry of pain.
" Oh ! John, don't ! you hurt me ; loosen my
hand !"
lie obeyed as soon as he comprehended my
meaning, and the sight of the blood produced
in him a complete revulsion of feeling.
" My God! what a wretch am I becoming!
Poor little hand that I have loved so well
And obeying the new impulse, he raised my
hand to his face, and covered it with passionate
kisses.
This evidence of love was more terrifying to
me, if possible, than his former anger had been
-the more so, that in my own heart the action
awoke a strange, wild throb of joy that too well
I knew sprang from the knowledge of his un-
diminished affection. I could not bear it. I
was not yet all ice, and, 0 my God! if love
should return to me now, how powerless I should
be ! I trembled from head to foot; cold per-
spiration bathed my brow, and I had barely

i
r
i
A
3
t
F
,1
,Z
r
2


84                   MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

strength enough to draw my hand from his pas-
sionate grasp.
Don't, don't," I cried piteously. " You tor-
ture me. There is a note on the desk there ;
read that. It will tell you all that I have to
say."
fe turned eagerly, and snatched up the paper
almost before I had ceased to speak. A fresh
storm of rage and anguish swept over his face as
he perused it. Throwing it angrily from him
he turned to ne again.
"'You confess it ! you dare to confess it!
The vows you took upon you before God's holy
altar yon thus daringly and shamelessly lisa-
vow.   Speak, Caroline ! can you really ac-
knowledge that the sinful words that note con-
tains were written by no mad impulse, no wild
infatuation, but are now as then the sober ex-
pression of your feelings ?" and, as I caught
the fierce gleam of the angry eyes that were
bent upon me, I thought, with a shudder, "It
was thus lie looked when he leveled the pistol
at his benefactor's head !" and I cried-
If they are not the expression of my feel-
iugs now, it is only because no words are strong
enough or bitter enough to express the hatred
that has crept into my heart toward you, John
Ilarriiinonu."
"'lthen God help us all !" he said, and his
face looked ghastly in the mingled light of the
sickly blaze of the candle, and the shadowy day-
light tliat was commencing to creep through the
curtains of the windows.     -
lie glared at me for a moment in horrible
silence ; then lie caine to my side, and laid his
hand heavily upon my shoulder.
Do you know there is murder in my heart
tlui moment ? Do you know there is a feeling
here''-striking his breast as he spoke-'' which,
if it conquers me, will bring the three of us to
a bloody grave-hirn first, and you and me a
moment later ?"
his words brought a new terror upon me.
IIe knew then of the share which his brother
had taken in betraying his fatal secret. Yet
how could I have hoped to conceal it?  his
own conscience must have told him the cause
.          of my behavior, and as l ddie was the only per-
son cognizant of his crime, it was only natural
that lie should iustinctively have fixed upon him
as my informant.
"0 John ! John !" I wailed in my bitter
agony, "if you could kill rue without bringing
fresh crime upon your own head, how unresist-
inigly, how gladly would I receive my death-
btlow from your hands!"
'I'he sight of may distress softened thre fierce

anger of his mood, and anguish and remorse
seemed to take possession of him.  ie sank
into a chair and buried his face in his hands.
" I thought I could make you happy," ie
said. "Ithought I had succeeded in doing so.
Why have you deceived me so long ?"
The injustice of the accusation roused me.
"I have not deceived you," Icried.  "You
knew my feelings before I married you. I never
strove to disguise them."
".But I thought it was all a girlish fancy, long
since forgotten. I thought that your true wifely
love for me, your husband, had long since ena-
bled you to overcome it."
"I shall never overcome it," I said passion-
ately.  "I could not and remain the woman I
am.   I had hoped to have avoided this fearful
scene of anger and recrimination, but now that
it has come, let us accept the issue as best we
may.   I must leave you.   You can see for
yourself that feeling as I do it is impossible that-
I should any longer fill the position of your
wife. Be merciful to me, John. You have
wrecked may life ; spare mue all farther conten-
tion, and give me my freedom."
lie rose and walked the room in violent agi-
tation for many minutes,  lie seemed for a
time quite incapable of speaking. At last he
came to me again, and his face, though white
and agitated, was free from the disfiguring traces
of passion which hitherto had marred it.
"Listen to me, Caroline," he said. ".As
God is my witness, if I believed that it would
conduce to your happiness to let you leae me,
Iwould set you free from me to-morrow, as far as
act of mine could do it. Did I not know your
proud temper so well, I would give y oi  your
liberty even though that liberty took you to the
arms of another.  But I know you better than
you know yourself, and for your own sake must
I refuse the boon you ask.  You will be better
able to endure the misery of living with a man
you do not love, than the shame which the
world will cast. upon the wife who is separated
from her husband."
his words were true ; I felt that ; yet still
every instinct in my nature cried out for free-
dorm.
"I can not, I can not be your wife !" was all
that I could say.
A spasm of pain contracted his features, but
with great effort lie controlled himself, and
in a still gentler tone continued-
"I will not ask it of you so long as yos feel
thus toward me. All that I do iskt is, that you
accept there shelter my name and protection give
you, and spare yourself thre agony which your

A YEAR OF PAIN AND CHANGE.                                85
pride must endure if the vile tongue of scandal compromise my self-respect thus far.  Is this
is allowed to make free with our unhappy disa- the future you wish me to accept ?"
agreement. Forget all that I have said to you  "It is all I will ask of you now," he said.
in my anger and distress. If I have been so un- " Your love I can not connnand, but mine is, as
fortunate as to bring despair and wretchedness it ever has been, devotedly and only yours ; and,
upon you, in the depth of your own misery have by God's help, I yet will prove to you the worth
som sympathy for me, for I, too, am suffering." of the affection you now so scornfully reject."
There was a depth of pathos inhis tone that lie caught my hands as lie finished speaking,
pierced the armor in which I had cased myself. and would have raised them to his lips, but
I started to my feet in an agony of apprehension. with quick abhorrence I drew them froni him.
Beyond all things I dreaded the awakening in  ''No !" I cried, ''this must not, shall not be!
my heart of that love whose powerful influence I will bear no word, no look that can mock me
I had such cause to fear. Love, pity, for him, with the remembrance of a dead and buried love.
the thief, the would-be murderer !  The bare Break but the letter of our bond, and I leave you
idea maddened me.                          forever."
"I cannot, I will not stay; O John! you   ''So be it, then," he said gravely. ''1 have
will break my heart !"                     no inclination to force my love upon you, and
He caught my hands in desperate pleading.  you shall have no cause of complaint against
"Caroline, I beseech you !  It is for your me in this respect in the future.  Yet I will
own sake, dearest. All that I ask is that you give you fair warning, that of howsoever poor a
shall hide our ignominy from the world. Say stuff your love has been composed, my emotions
that the fault is mine, as perhaps it is, for you are of a less evanescent character. If 1 have
were so child-like, so inexperienced when I mar- been deceived in regard to the nature of your
ried you, and I know that I ought to have given feelings for me, I have not mistakengay own for
you time to have studied more deeply your own you. Ilove you, Caroline, and I shil love you
feelings. I ought to have done so, but alas ! I so long as my heart continues to beat.  [ can
was so sure you loved me ! Grant that I am  not cast you off as a worn-out garment, as you
the guilty one, still you are my wife, and you would have me do. The letter of our boud I
too must share the penalty of my errors. Our will observe ; the spirit of it is beyond my con-
lots are cast together, and it is vain as well as trol."
sinful to try to separate them. Do not leave  How  mysterious are the workings of a
me. Again I bog you to spare yourself the woman's heart ! But a moment since I hated
scandal of an open rupture. For your father's the man as I hated an obnoxious reptile. I
sake ; for the sake of that proud old name, shrank from his touch with shuddering repul-
which, as you have so proudly boasted, his never sion, and could conceive of no lot so terrible as
known a stain ; my wife! amy wife ! for the sake that of being claimed by him as his wife. And
of our dead children ; by the memory of that yet, now, in spite of my despair, my anger, my
unspeakable joy and sorrow which we have pride, my heart was throbbing with a wild joy
shared together, I beseech you forsake me to hear those words of solemn, earnest love, and,
not !"                                     as my husband turned to leave the room. ain

I gazed into the excited face of the man I
loved, and read the intense devotion his eyes
expressed, and I became a weak, pitiable cow-
ard. I despised myself as I listened to him. I
felt that I was dishonoring the race I sprang
from; yet still under the influence of the pas-
sions then raging within me, had his hand been
raised against the life of my own father, I could
not have acted other than I did.
"I will stay with.you," I said.  " I will di-
rect your household, sit at the head of your
table, and in the eyes of the world I will con-
tinue to fill the station which, as your wife, I
have hitherto occupied, and in return for these
services, I will accept my maintenance at your
hands. Because of my marriage vows, because
you were the father of my dead children, I will

overwhelming iml)nlse came over me to cast
myself into his arms, and weep my life away
upont his heart.
Conflicting emotions blinded me ; my head
swam, my knees tottered beneath me. I thought
that I was dying. I tried to call his name, but
an inarticulate cry waus all my lparched lips could
utter. He turned at the sound, and 1 stretched
out my hands blindly, staggered forward, and
fell senseless into the arms that were opened to
receive me.
CHAPTER XIV.
A YEAR OF PAIN AN) oHttANGE.
THa month that immediately followed that
miserable night is all a blank to me. When

i
3
r
t


MY IIUSBANI)'S CRIME.

roused from the insensibility into which I had Many a day of sorrow would have been after-
fallen at the close of the exciting interview ward spared me, and the story of ny life's
which I have just endeavored to record, it was tragedy would have been near its close. But, un-
hut to stare stupidly around, mutter a few un- happily for me, my unconscious tongue, daring
intelligible sentences, ant then relapse again those weeks of crazy babbling, was true to nature
into stupor.  The physician who had been rather than to romance. The present, with all its
summoned, after a very brief examination, un- agony of passion and despair, was forgotten. My
hesitatingly pronounced me the victim of brain- suspicions, my suspense, the confirmation of my
fever, and such my illness proved to be.   worst fears, which the history of my husband's
For many weeks thereafter, I lay piostrated crime had been to me, my flight, and that long
by this terrible disease.  Oblivious of all things, scene of agony and excitement during which
talking, singing, praying, laughing, crying, my mind had succumbed to the disease with
night and day, with no rest save the unhealthy which it was now battling, all these events were
stupor, at long intervals produced by opiates, as completely obliterated from my mind as if
through weeks of suffering to myself, and of they had never caused me grief. Far back into
torturing suspense to those who loved me, 1 the days of my girlhood my mind rambled, and
struggled through a desperate contest with I babbled ceaselessly of " Sc," and "father,"
death, alnd even when I finally was proclaimed and "baby Agnes."  Then again I was back in
the victor, I brought from the encounter a mind Nettleby's store, and the names of the girls I
and body so shattered by disease, that my coi- had there associated with, and whom, perhaps,
valescence proved to he almost as serious au I had never seen or thought of since, were
affair as my-actual illness.               mingled in my vagaries with those of " Jenny,"
It is the fashion with romancists, when brain- ''Mr. Frank," and " the governor." I seemed
fever attas their hero or heroine, to cause them to have forgotten entirely that the latter had
to reveal-o the awe-struck watchers all the ever occupied a nearer and a dearer place in
most treasured secrets which their hearts con- my heart than that name entitled him to. In-
tain. The fashion is, to say the least, a con- deed, as they afterward told me, if any one in-
venient one, when the denouemen/ of the story cident of my actual life occupied a more promi-
can he thus dramatically and satisfactorily ac- cent place in my wanderings than another, it
comllished; yet it has this one objection-(a was that of Frank Nettleby and his big account-

serious one to me, for I am trying to tell an
" ower true" tale)-reality refuses to carry out
the idea.  Except in a romance, no brain-fever
patient ever made any revelation to which a
sane mind could be tempted to give credence.
Unintelligible muttering, broken, disconnected
sentences, plainly testify to the unnatural char-
acter of the thoughts which the diseased brain
conceives. If any central idea is harped neon
by the unconscious sufferer, it is seldom one that
the state of his mind at the time of his illness
might be supposed to call forth.   Very fre-
quently some entirely imaginary person or event
becomes the phantom around which his fancy
conjures up a thousand terrors. Seldom, if ever,
I suppose, does the memory remain sufficiently
alive to call into action the genuine sorrows of
the patient.  His ravings, however fierce, how-
ever imncessant, are utterly meaningless, and are
quite powerless either to attract attention or to
satisfy curiosity.
It is a pity perhaps for the artistic effect of

bool, into which I was copying, under his be-
wildering auspices, endless bills of sales that
would mix themselves inextricably together,'to
unfatlhom which, my tired brain would work
fruitlessly, hour after hour, until physical ex-
haustion induced the stupor from  which I
could only be aroused to relapse into fresh
delirium.
The only circumstance attending my illness
which testified that the late suffering I had un-
dergone still retained any hold upon my mind,
was the fact that throughout the whole time of
my delirium I refused to allow my husband's
attendance. His approach was always the sig-
nal for fiercer raving, more uncontrollable ex-
citement. I would take no medicine from his
hand, nor permit him to come near me, or wait
up1)on1 me in any manner.
Poor John ! Whatever his faults might have
been, his sufferings during those days and weeks
were intense enough to have balanced them.
Fortunately for both of us, my conduct toward

my story that the novelist's theory is not the true him was accredited entirely to the workings of
one.  had I, in my delirium, discoursed freely the disease, and to this day Miss Jenny tri-
of the troubles upon which my mind had been  umaphantly relates the circumstance as a proof
brooding the few days preceding my illness, of one of her favorite theories, namely : that in
matters would   have been vastly simplified, cases of brain disorder, the patient acts in a

86

,
e-
s
r
_
i
l r
-
1u
gY
;


A YEAR OF PAIN AND CHANGE.          87

manner precisely contrary to what he would do
in a state of health.
After many weeks of suffering, at length the
day came when reason again held sway. Not
clearly and thoroughly at first, but, little by
little, with my increasing strength, my mind re-
sumed its natural tone, and with returning rea-
son, alas ! came also returning memory, and I
wondered, in my impotent wretchedness, why it
had pleased God to bring me back again to a
life that for me had nothing but sin and sorrow.
I did not mend rapidly ; there was no desire for
life in my heart, and long after all active disease
was exterminated, did I lie upon my bed, nerve-
less and dispirited, gaining no strength either
in body or mind, simply and only because I
would not.
I saw very little of John at this time. Fear-
ing, I suppose, that the excitement of his pres-
ence would be injurious to me,.he troubled me
as seldom as possible with his company, and it
was easy to account to others for his conduct
on the grounds that the ill effect his presence
had had upon me during my delirium might
still continue while I was so weak as I still ap-
peared to be. But, though he came into my
room but seldom during the day, and made his
visits as short as they were rare, yet I was in-
stinctively conscious at all times of his incessant
watchfulness.
During my illness and convalescence, Miss
Jenny occupied by night a couch in my room,
and, during the time when I really required
her attention, a more untiring and faithful
nurse no mortal ever had. But when the time
of actual danger was passed, and I required no
attentions, save those which I could call for
when necessary, though she still persisted in
retaining her position as nurse, she found her
task a light one, and her night's repose was fre-
quently completely uninterrupted.
At that stage of my recovery I would lay,
awake at night, suffering no pain, in no want
of any thing that mortal aid could give me, yet
feeling, oh ! so unutterably wretched and for-
saken ! And it was at these times I became
conscious that I suffered not alone ; that my
sick-room  was haunted by the presence of a
love that never tired, a care that never slept.
Often, when waking suddenly from the light,
fitful slumber of the invalid, would I open my
eyes upon the care-worn face of my husband,
bending anxiously over me.   At such times,
with some faint attempt at excusing his pres-

ence there, he would withdraw abruptly from
my sight, leaving me to imagine, as he sup-
posed, that I was again alone. Yet, though I

made no sign acknowledging his presence, I felt
that he was always near me, and oh! of how much
misery and loneliness did that knowledge be-
guile me ! The subtle sophistries of pride vain-
ly contended with the power of nature in those
hours of unreasoning languor. The love that
I despised and rejected, was at once my com-
fort and my salvation. 1 should have died, I
think, even after the disease was conquered, of
pure disgust of life, had it not been for the
knowledge of that grand, unselfish sympathy,
the thorough conviction of my husband's de-
voted love.
One night, when I awakened to find him
bending over me, he did not retreat as lie us'mah-
ly did, but stood, still gazing at me, his anxious
eyes scanning my face, as if to read therein the
solution of a question which lie dared not ask.
'" You are more restless to-night than usual,
Caroline ; I fear you are getting no stronger."
" I know that I am not," I said, turning my
head wearily upon the pillow, as if to terminate
the conversation.  He saw and understood the
motion, but he persevered.
'Why is it ?  You have no disease ; the
fever has quite left you ; you are young, ener-
getic, elastic, with a constitution, your physi-
cian tells you, of unsurpassed vitality. Why
should you not grow stronger ?"
I turned my face toward him, and raised my
eyes sadly to his.
"I suppose it is because I have no desire to
live. I don't want to talk recklessly, Joln ;
I try not to feel so ; if it pleases God to raise
me up again, I will take up the burden of life
unmurmuringly ; but-but-you know how I
feel-I don't want to live."
"Do you know how it tortures me to hear
you say this ?" he said, aid his pale, haggard
face seemed to become still paler, still more
haggard as he spoke.  " You used to be kind-
hearted, Caroline ; I have seen you weep over
a dead bird ; and the sufferings of an over-task-
ed animal could once arouse your liveliest sym-
pathy. have you no feeling now for me?
Can you spare no pity for my sufferings? Look
upon me !" And snatching up the candle, he
held it so that the light fell full upon his face.
"Do you see the change the last few weeks
have wrought in me ?" And as I looked, the
first emotion that had touched my benumbed
heart since my illness, melted its torpor then,
and the tears sprang to my eyes as I gazed
upon the hollow eyes and wasted features.
" Poor ,John !" I said, with quivering lips,
" how selfishly blind I have been. You have
growns quite grey !" And I covered may eyes with

I

i
a
z
z
M
w
0
Q1
w1
z1
w.

I
"I

"7
Yz


88                   MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

my hand, that he might not see the emotion I
was too weak to repress.
"Ay !" he continued, "my grief has made
of mue a prematurely old man. have pity on
me, Caroline ; spare me farther suffering.
Throw off this sinful lassitude that is killing
you, and torturing me. It has pleased God to
spare you, and you are just as surely rejecting
the life he gives you by your indifference to it
as you would be by violently casting it from you.
I know, and you know, that the will to live is
all that is lacking to your recovery."
"IHow can I wish to get well ?" I said pit-
cously.  "Life is so dreary, so tiresome; all
joy- has gone out of it; I have nothing left to
live for."
"You have many things to live for," lie an-
swered with gentle tenderness.  "You have
friends who love you, and whom you love ; you
are yet young, and life with all its beautiful
possibilities is spread before you ; time will
temper the keenness of the sorrows that now
encompass you, and you will yet live to find
that the truest happiness earth can give, the
pleasure of making others happy, may still be
yours.  Yet more, Caroline; you have my
love, and little as you value it now, you will
find, when health returns to you, that it is by
no means a worthless offering. Oh ! my dear
one, do you not know how my heart yearns
over you? Not even in the days of your girlish
beauty, when so blindly I thought that I had
won your heart; not even in the days of early
wedlock, when I believed that neither earth nor
heaven could produce a being more beloved and
loving than my own dear bride; nor yet when
I saw my child within your arms, and the holy
light of mother love beaming in your eyes had
doubly endeared to me my wife ; nor even,
when sorrowing over that infant's tiny grave,
you wept upon my breast, though then I
thought I could not love you more;-never, no,
never have you been so dear to me as now-
now, when I know that I have lost you. Oh,
my love ! my love! Do you think I have not
sorrowed with you?  Do you think one pang
has wrung your heart that has not tortured
mine with sympathetic grief?  I have prayed
for death, even in the same breath that I prayed
for grace to aid me in withholding violent
hands from may own life, for I have thought
that with my death, happiness might again re-
turn to you-"
"t No, no! oh, no!" I gasped, interrupting the
paSssionate flow of words. " Oh ! John, you
could not think that!"
-" I will try not to think it again, love, for I

believe that I can make even my worthless life
a blessing to you, and that in God's mysterious
providence, even my rejected love may comfort
you. I ask for no return; God help me! I
know that can not be ; only your pity --only
your pity. Live, Caroline, live to bestow it
1upon inc."
He leaned against the bed-post, white and
exhausted ; powerless to say more, yet pleading
with me still with his eyes.  The tears were
running down my cheeks, and my heart turned
to him in his misery, until I felt that had he
then asked me for my love, I must have given
it to him, in spite of his sin and my pride.
" I will try to live, John, for your sake,"
I said, and then I turned my face away and
wept.
The tears did me good, I think ; they were
the first which I had shed since my sorrow ;
they broke up the torpor which encased me ;
they softened my heart from its selfish grief;
and as divine pity shed her radiance over my
distracted soul, I began to think more of others
and less of myself, and to remember that what-
ever John's sins might have been, I, too, had
been far from blameless.
I framed new resolutions for the life which
must henceforth be before me; I could no
longer be the trusting wife of the man who
had deceived me, but I would be the faithful
friend of the man who loved me; my soul
yearned over him in his remorseful sorrow, as
a mother's over her first-born. In that moment
of pitying tenderness, I began to frame excuses
for the crime which, in sterner moments, I had
pronounced inexcusable.  I began to think
less of the crime and more of the criminal, and
the more I pondered upon the miserable affair,
the more singular and incomprehensible did the
whole story become.   The cold-blooded vil-
lainy that characterized the hero of the news-
paper paragraph was so utterly foreign to the
nature of the man who called me wife, that even
the evidence of my own senses seemed insuf-
ficient to convince me in my calmer moments
of its existence in him. Treachery, deceit, in-
gratitude, love of money, a passion for gam-
bling-all these sins, so foul and degrading, so
contemptibly vile, were completely at variance
with a nature which, until now, I had consider-
ed chiefly admirable from its sensitive honor,
its truthful simplicity. If, in the days- of my un-
shaken faith in him, I had been asked of what
sin John Harrington would have been. least
likely to prove guilty, I should have answered
-" Falsehoodl." His nature had always seem-
ed to mec to he most singularly free from guile;

A YEAR OF PAIN AND CHANGE.                               89
his sincerity sometimes amounting to a blunt- this, in view of his devoted love, his unfeigned
ness for which I had often playfully chided remorse, his bitter suffering, I would do.
him. And who should have been so likely to   With this resolution solemnly engraved upon
judge him justly as I, the wife whom he had my heart, again I took up the burden of ,my
loved so devotedly?  At least there was no life, and uncomplainingly moved forward tinder
deceit there; with all my bewilderment and my heavy load, upon the dark and thorny path
distress I had never for one moment doubted that lay before me.
that I possessed my husband's passionate and  One very startling piece of intelligence greet-
faithful love. I believe that at that time, when ed me when I was considered able to resume
my mind and body were alike so weak, and my my position in the family circle.  John was
feelings, in consequence, more than usually out of a situation. IIe and Frank Nettleby
acute, I believe, had it not been for the down- had had a quarrel, and John. had resigned his
right falsehood I had heard him utter, and the position in the store. The angry shadow that
virtual acknowledgment of the charge which came upon John's countenance when this an-
his words and conduct but now had given me, nouncement was made to me, forbade my ask-
I should really have tortured myself to believe ing any questions then upon a subject which

the whole affair a base fabrication or an egre-
gious error. I could not reconcile the man
and the deeds ; had there been the slightest
room for doubt, I should have doubted then;
and it was only after long and painful consid-
eration of the matter, after viewing it in every
possible light, that I came to the despairing
conclusion that there was no room for doubt ;
that, by evidence which no rational mind could
dispute, I might almost say by his own confes-
sion, he had been proved guilty of actions that
must forever destroy my confidence in his in-
tegrity. I never could trust him again, and
that love which had been founded in my faith
in him had perished with it, and could never be
again resuscitated, however much I might learn
to pity and forgive.
And forgiveness was no light task for me,
even with the full conviction of his sorrow and
remorse fresh in my mind and heart. He had
wronged me cruelly ; he had linked my father's
honored name with that of an all but branded
felon; he had ruthlessly violated my dearest
and holiest affections ; and he had done all this
willfully and knowingly.  Well aware as he
was of the peculiarly sensitive pride which was
my most prominent characteristic, in the very
face of my avowal that I would never forgive
the man who should bring dishonor upon my
father's proud old name, he had married me-
an unsuspicious, confiding girl-with that dark
secret of shame and ignominy buried in his bo-
som; a secret which he must have known
would,if revealed to me, as certainly have pre-
vented my becoming his wife, as if I had dis-
covered him to have been the husband of an-
other woman. There lay the dark page of his
transgressions appallingly plain before me; I
could not overlook them, nor forget them, nor

was evidently, before him, a forbidden one; but
the first opportunity I could find, I assailed
Jenny with eager inquiries as to the cause of
this unexpected misfortune.
"Heaven only knows ; I don't," she said
crossly.  "A more different man from  the
Johin Harrington of six months ago than the
John Harrington of to-day, it would be hard
to find. I had thought all along that your ill-
ness, and his uneasiness about you, had been
the cause of his constant gloom and irritability.
but I can not say that his temper has improved
though your health has. He is sullen and mo-
rose as ever, and this quarrel with Frank Net-
tleby has been only one of the numberless
strange things 'of which he has lately been
guilty.  lie has actually forbidden Frank the
house, and he tried to persuade mac to leare
Nettleby's when he did. A pretty out I should
make of hunting for new employment at my
time of life ! I'd like to know where the bread
and butter is to come from if we all stop work-
ing. John's savings were not very extensive,
we all know, and your long illness and al the
consequent expenses, have made a pretty hig
hole in them alcady. Did lie give no reason
for his quarrel, do you say? not he ; nor would
Frank either, though I tried my best to get in
inkling of the matter from both of them. I
never believed Frank could be so wrathy as he
has managed to be at John; they have quar-
reled about something they are both ashamed
of, I'll guarantee that. Do you try, Caroline,
to find out what it was about. I still think
matters can be set straight, if one only knew
how to go about it."
And I did try to find out, in a faint, irreso-
lute sort of fashion. , I could not yet quite ree-
oncile my new relations with my husband with

excuse them; all that I could do was to pity, free and unembarrassed conversation, but I ven-
and perhaps some day to forgive- them; and tured to ask him, in a timid, hesitating way,

ii

I

s
'


STARTLING REVELATIONS.

whether there was no possibility of a reconcilia- that the estrangement between John and my-
tion between Frank and himself,            self, however successfully we might conceal it
None whatever," he replied curtly ; and from the others, was plainly visible to him ; and
then, when with desperate courage I ventured his sympathy for me was shown by an unselfish
to beg, spite of his sharpness, that the matter devotion that was almost lover-like in its pas-
might be sufficiently compromised to permit of sionate tenderness. My heart v armed toward
Frank's visits to us being renewed, even if in a the boy with an affection that 1 had not thought
less friendly manner than of old, he turned I should be again capable of feeling. Thrown_
fiercely upon me.  "He shall never enter my back upon myself as I was, deprived so sudden-
doors again. I wonder at you, Caroline ; you ly and entirely of that love and sympathy which
ought to know, and I am astonished that you do for years had been my reliance and my strength,
not feel, that all farther intimacy with him is I turned to this young man, whose merits it
out of the question."                      seemed to me I alone could thoroughly appre-
And then at once the thought occurred to ciate, with a gratitude for his sympathy and af-
me that by some means Frank, too, had become fection that could not have been more instinct-
cognizant of John's dreadful secret. No won- ive and unaffected had he been my own broth-
der he had discharged him from his employ ! er. My feelings toward him at this time were
No wonder that he could never again become- the warmer, perhaps, because I saw very plainly
the guest of such a man ! And, sick at heart, I that he too was suffering, and suffering I fully
turned away with no desire to hear more. I believed from the pangs of misplaced affection.
could guess the whole miserable truth now.  There had evidently been a misunderstanding
The changes which had been wrought in of quite a serious nature between him and Ag-
.John and myself were not the only ones in our nes ; and, though he seemed to be' resolute
family. Indeed, with the exception of poor, be- against taking any steps to terminate it, I knew
wildered, unconscious Jenny, who watched the that he was suffering none the less deeply front
transfiguration of all around her with perplex- its effects. I dared not interfere ; in my heart
ed and sorrowful eves, there was not a member I believed Agnes to be utterly incapable of ap-
of our small family who did not sceem complete- preciating a love so devoted as his; I believed
ly transformed within the past few months. that even did he succeed in winning her for his
John, morose, irritable, and sardonic; 1, cold, wife, the union would never be a happy one.
listless, and unhllappy ; and Eddie and Agnes, Sorrow had made me clearer-sighted than of
each as unlike their former selves as could pos- yore, and knowing as I did the utter uncon-
sibly be imagined. Eddie restless and variable. geniality of their natures, I began to think that
watching John and mue constantly with the my plans for uniting them were perhaps as n-
strangest interest, neglectful of Agnes, and al- wise as they were likely to be unsuccessful.
together behaving so oddly and unaccountably, Feeling this, I dared not interfere between
that I could not wonder that Miss Jenny enter- them; and though I tried by every means in my
tained serious thoughts of his sanity, as she con- power to convince Eddie of my sympathy with
fessed to me she did. I, who, in his case at his sorrow, I never mentioned Agnes's name to
least, was pretty well aware of the cause of his him; and as he was equally reserved, T had no
strange conduct, reassuredftier as best I could, opportunity of learning from what cause their
and, by redoubled kindness to him, strove to estrangement had arisen.
show that no bitterness lurked in my heart   Agnes too, as I have said, was sadly changed;
toward him. Anti to do John justice, he, too, the laughing, thoughtless, light-hearted girl
seemed actuated by similar motives. By the was metamorphosed into a quiet, pensive wom-
angry words lie had let fall when first he dis- an. She was evidently unhappy as well as the
covered Eddie's anlost involuntary treachery to rest of us, and seemed to feel the trouble be-
him, I had feared that he would have been ter- tween herself and Eddie much more than I had
ribly angry with his brother ; but his calmer imagined site would. At times, I fancied that
moments, I suppose, had taught him the in- she was anxious to make a confidante of me, and
justice of that feeling, for his anger seemed to that she only needed a little encouragement to
have worn entirely away, and lie treated his have drawn from her a full confession of her
brother with far more cordiality than 11e was troubles. But this encouragement I would not
wont to do before this trouble had come upon give her; I was beginning to feel very certain
us. I could plaintly see, however, that Eddie's that her fancy for Eddie Hlarrington was an ut-
- sensitive nature would not allow him to forgive wise and unsiuitable one, and, as with him, I
himself for tile part lie had acted; I could see dreaded to intterfere in any manner, lest I

should precipitate where I had really wished to
retard. So I shunned all opening for confi-
dential communications from her, much as it
pained me to see the poor child so perplexed
and unhappy.
And what shall I say concerning the state of
affairs between my husband and myself? a state
so unnatural, that many times I felt as if open
rupture would have been far less trying to both
of us; and had it not been for the sake of Jen-
ny and Agnes, I believe I must have given up
the hopeless task of glossing o'er our misery'
with the tinsel of fair appearances. low I
hated and despised the falsehood of our lives!
Like the whited sepulchre, so fair and pure
without, while inwardly full of foul corruption.
No conversation ever passed between us that
was not absolutely necessary. I never met his
eye if I could avoid doing so, and strive as I
would (for I saw the pain such conduct caused
him), I could not help the shrinking dread that
overpowered me whenever he approached me.
Yet, notwithstanding all this, never had his love
for me been so palpably evident as now; not
shown by words, of course, but by all those
thousand trifles in themselves so insignificant,
yet so powerfully convincing when looked back
upon in their unforgotten completeness.

CHAPTER XV.
STARTLING REvELATIONS.
Ix the summer of the year of which I am
about to write, Mr. Henderson died.   The
reader may remember that in the second chap-
ter of this eventful history I have recorded a
conversation which I held with him shortly after
my father's death. He was the gentleman in
whose employ my father had passed the last ten
years of his life. I saw the announcement of
his (Mr. Henderson's) death in the morning
papers, and though I had not met him for
several years, not, in.fact, since my marriage,
1 yet remembered gratefully his kindness to me
when most I needed friends, and I mourned his
death as sincerely if not as deeply as many who
had perhaps a better right. My surprise, how-
ever, may ho more easily imagined than de-
scribed when, shortly after learning this sad in-
telligence, I received from Mr. Henderson's
lawyer a letter which told me that he had be-
queathed to "Caroline Harrington, the daugh-
ter of my honored friend the late .Tames B.
Manvers, as a mark of respect and affection,
the sum of ten thousand dollars."
My kind old friend ! How little had I done
to deserve this mark of remembrance from his

His temper had grown strangely irritable, as hands ! My heart swelled with emotion when
indeed could little surprise any one, for, apart I remembered how entirely his kindness had
from the troubles between himself and me, the passed out of my memory, and how completely
fact of enforced idleness to a man so constitu- I had forgotten almost his very existence, until
tionally industrious and energetic, would in it- the sad tidings were brought to me that he was
self have accounted for almost any amount of no more.
nervous irritability; yet with all the trouble  Yet never did unexpected legacy come in
that perplexed and annoyed him, no cross word more propitious time than did this. Johiu had
ever passed his lips when addressing me,; nay, been unable despite his most vigorous efforts to
more than that: his voice invariably softened, obtain a permanent situation. A few odd jobs,
his words were ever more gently phrased in his laborious and poorly paid, had beei all that he
intercourse with me, than with any other mem- had been able to procure, an(d our small savings
her of the family. I can not tell exactly how  had been steadily drawn upon during the inter-
he made it apparent ; the ways were so nu- vening months, until now they were quite ec
merous and so trivial. A constant regard for hansted, and the coming winter stared us in the
my tastes ; habitual deference to my wishes ; face, finding us entirely luiprovided with any
ceasing care for my health; everywhere and means to meet its exigencies. Neither Jenny
at all times, by every means in his power, lie nor Eddie were in any situation to oiler us much
silently proved to me that the love which he help, even had John and I been willing to ac-
had once given me was still nnchangeably my cept it from them, which we were not. On one
own.                                       point at least we were of one mind. A certain
And so the days sped by, and the winter monthly sum, which they had always paid for
passed, and the spring followed swiftly after, board, was, of course, still continued, and now
and summer was again upon us, ere any event that was absolutely all we had to depend upon.
of more than ordinary importance occurred to Agnes had roused herself sufficiently from the
vary the dull and wretched monotony of our listless indifference into which she had lately
lives,                                     been sunk to insist upon trying to find employ-
ment, and as Iwas convinced thht steady, labori-
ous occupation would really be the best medicine

900

MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

91


STARTLING REVELATIONS.

her "sick mind" could receive, I quite agreed
with her as to the expediency of her trying to
do something for herself. John, at my request,
had sought and obtained for her a situation as
teacher in one of the public-schools, and she
would commence her labors with the first of the
ensuing September.
I, too, had felt very bitterly my enforced
idleness, and the necessary expenses my long
illness had brought upon my husband, and as
soon as I was strong enough to make the plan
a practicable one, I announced to John my in-
tention of trying to find something to do that
would lighten his expenses, and render me less
dependent on him.
"'Dependent on me:" lie cried in bitter
scorn.  " Has it really come to that, then,
aroline, that you can wantonly insult me with
such a speech?"
" You misunderstand me, Mr. Harrington,"
I said coldly.  "I mean no offense to you, and
von are over-sensitive to consider it as such.
So soon as you shall be able to work for us both
again, I will permit you to do so. In consent-
ing to bear your name, and remain under your
protection, 1 also conceded to you the privilege
of providing for my personal needs--but at
present, I think, and you must see yourself, that
it is far better you should be as little hampered
as possible with idle hands at home, who make
your burden of responsibility and ease just that
much heavier than it ought to be.  Let me try
to procure some needle-work or fine sewing. I
suppose, of course, you would object to my en-
tering upon any more public employment, but,
I think, among Jenny's acquaintances and my
own, I can surely find something to do that will
help us through this time of need. Every little
helps, you know ; and though I am painfully
aware of how very little it will be that I can do
to help you, still I shall feel musch better if I am
allowed to try."
I would have added farther details of the little
plan I had mentally contrived to provide for me
the work I was so anxious to commence, but lie
would let sme say no more.
''For God's sake, hush, Caroline ! you will
drive ue miad.  You going out as a sewing-girl!
yjou cringing and begging for the patronage of
some would-be fine lady, or supercilious aris-
tocrat ! I had rather work on the public roads
than permit you thus to degrade yourself. Do
not speak of it, or think of it again ; no, nor of
any other plan of the sanie nature. I forbid it
positively and entirely. Yet hold ; that haughty
glance woul tell mse I have no right to forbid
you. I will not, then ; hut be generous, Care-

line ! pity the anomalous position which I am
forced to occupy-my heart full of a husband's
love, yet in my hands none of a husband's au-
thority."
"'I will do as you wish, Mr. Ilarrington,' I
said, turning abruptly away, for I feared lest a
longer conversation might break down the com-
posure which I was now maintaining only by
the greatest effort. So I said no more about
helping to earn our daily bread, but I proceeded
practically to do it, for I dismissed my servant,
and turned very energetically to doing my own
housework, and I soon found that very little
time would I have had aside from that to devote
to fine sewing or sewing of any kind.
I was several days queen of the kitchen and
maid of all work, before John discovered that
my girl had left me. lie came upon me acci-
dentally one morning as I was carrying a scuttle
of coal up the cellar stairs.
He descended the stairs, meeting me half-
way, and took the scuttle from my hand.
''Why do you not let Sarah attend to this ?"'
he said reproachfully. ''It is surely her busi-
ness."
I am my own Sarah now," I said, striving
to treat the whole affair as a jest. "I am de-
termined to immortalize myself, and as you de-
clined to let me do it in any other way, I must
do it amid pots, kettles, and pans. And I think
I have thus far every reason to hope for success."
Tie gave no answering smile, but asked, as he-
set his burden down by the kitchen stove-
"When did you dismiss Sarah ?"
"Last Monday, I believe, but I have got along
so well without her, that I hardly remember
when she did go."
" Where does she live? do you know ?"
"Now, John Harrington," I cried tempesta-
ously, "you need be making no arrangements
to hunt her up again, for I tell you plainly, I
won't have her ! no, nor any one else, either."
"Just for a little while," he said beseech-
ingly. "I shall certainly get into some kind
of business in the course of the next month, and
it is so unnecessary for you to undertake this
responsibility. Let me get Sarah back again
for a few weeks only, and by that time I dare
say there will be no need of doing without her
at all."
I shook my head resolutely.
"No, I'll have none of her. If our circum-
stances warrant us in keeping a girl next month,
why next month you can get me one, but until
then I shall take charge of the house myself-
Don't make yourself ridiculous, John. There
is nothing to do but what I can get along with

MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

a 3
C
1
U
i t
S CF}
E
V

very comfortably. We will put out the wash-
ing as usual, and with a little help from Agnes,
once in a while, I-shall manage all the rest
without any trouble."
' "I can not allow it," he commenced, but he
checked himself as he saw the tears of real
vexation that sprang to my eyes. le turned
away and finished abruptly.  "God bless you,
Caro! do as you please. If you make yourself
ill by this extra exertion, I shall never forgive'
myself."
"No danger," I said, and thus the question
was settled decisively, no farther interference
on John's part ever troubling my domestic
peace, except I considered as interference the
fact that from that day he took upon himself
the burden of all the heavier household duties,
building fires, carrying coal, etc., and saving
my labor by every possible means that loving
heart could prompt and willing hands em-
ploy.
It was really singular how unfortunate John
had been in his efforts to obtain employment.
When he first left Nettleby's, I had thought,
and he too, that there would have been no
trouble at all in procuring another situation.
His having been so long in the employ of that
firm would have been sufficient recommenda-
tion in itself, we thought, to procure for him a
similar situation elsewhere. But, whether the
fact of his leaving Nettleby's so suddenly, and
without any assigned reason, was considered
suspicious; whether any inkling of that old,
dark tale of crime and ignominy had got
abroad ; or whether, as I was sometimes almost
tempted to think, there was some occult influ-
enee at work undermining his reputation ; cer-
tain it is that most discouraging results met him
in his every attempt to find work.
IIow much he suffered from these disappoint-{
ments that met him at every turn, none knew
better than I, bravely as he sought to conceal
his anxiety from me. And under all these cir-
cunstanees it may easily be understood with{
what a delightful sense of relief came to me the
tidings of Mr. Henderson's legacy.
John was not at home when I received the
letter, nor did he return until evening. I was
in the kitchen making preparations for tea,
when I heard his step in the dining-room. I
heard Jenny ask him her usual question at his{
return, as to what "luck" had met him in his'
day of weary search, and his customary answer,
in a tone which I fancied sounded more dis-
pirited than usual, "None whatever." Then,
without waiting for farther conversation with
her, he passed on at once into the kitchen, to

I

fulfill the many little duties that it had become
his undeviating practice to perform.
I almost forgot our estrangement at that
moment. Tossing the letter toward himI cried
gayly-
" We will have Sarah back again next week.
Read that letter and see how rich we have sud-
denly become."
His face lightened from its despondency as
he read it.
" I am indeed heartily glad for your sake,
Caro."
" Yes !" I rattled on, " you can take your
time now about getting to work. If peolule find
you are not so anxious, they will be readier to
employ you, and uow you can wait until you
find something that will really suit you. You
see Providence always provides a way for those
who are willing to help themselves, and though
I am very, very sorry fur poor Mr. Ilenderson,
I can not help but be glad about the money, for
you know, John, we really did need it so badly.
I suppose it is inot such a very great fortune,
but it seems to me now an inexhaustible sum;
a veritable purse of Fortunatus."
"Not quite that, my dear," he answered,
smiling faintly, " but still quite sufficient, it
properly invested, to secure you a competence
against all contingencies. If I may be allowed
to advise you as to its disposal-"
lie hesitated, but I cried indignianitly-
Why, John ! how can you ! you know it is
as much yours as mine"
" Not exactly, but I sluPpose I may consider
it such for all intents and purposes until it i.
receivett and disposed of. As J was about to
say, then, if you are willing, I will invest it for
you in some good, reliable stock, which you can
realize at a short notice if it is necessary, and
which will bring you in, as interest, a regular
and certain income. With this and the money
yot will receive from Eddie and Jenny for their
board, you will be able to manage very coms-
fortably until I am able to do something, better
for you. As your family after this will be one
less, your trouble and expense will be propor-
tionably lighter."
" What do you mean by my family being one
less?" I cried sharply.
" Only this, that as I have no longer any
hope of getting any employment that will suit me
in Boston, and as I shall now be able to leave
you in easy circumstances, I shall go to New
York as soon as I can get off, and endeavor to
find occupation there."
lie spoke very gesitly mand very kisndhy, b)ut
so resolutely that I sawv that Isis mind wams made


MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

up, and that the fact of his departure was with  "Nou could very easily receive benefits from
him a settled thing. My heart throbbed wildly the man who loved you, and who, you knew,
as I asked him--                          had the right to love and care for you. I should
"how long shall you be gone ?"          have no hesitation whatever, Caroline, in re-
"That of course depends upon my success. ceiving favors from my wife, if she loved me."

If I secure a situation, my absence will probably
be indefinitely prolonged. I take this step with
the less reluctance, Caroline, as I can but feel
that my absence will add to your happiness, at
least to your peace of mind, and it will cer-
tainly be deplored by no one, except perhaps
Jenny-poor Jenny !" and his voice faltered a
little.
As for me, I felt as if my heart were break-
ing, and yet I dared give no sign. At last, after
a long pause-
"Why must you go ?" I asked faintly.
More gently than before, he replied-
You know, Caroline, I must work for my
living, and I can find no work to do here."
"There is no hurry, I am sure," I persisted.
" As I said before, you can take your own time
for finding a place now."
He drew himself up haughtily.
"Live here a dependent upon your bounty,
Caroline?  Ueaven forbid !"
"John Ilarrington, I am ashamed of you !"
I cried passionately. "When I said something
of the same sort to you not long ago, you told
me I had insulted you, and now, how dare you
suggest such a thing to me!"
I think we had better not discuss the sub-
ject, Caroline. It can do no good, and you
only distress yourself needlessly."
his composure frightened me.    Could it
lie that lie would really leave me ?
"Oh, John !" Icried, "you begged e to be
generous, and I was. I sacrificed m11y pride to
your wishes, and I have said not a word on the
subject since.  Can you not be equally mag-
nanimuous ? Whatever our troubles, do not let
me feel that a mere despicable money-matter
can add to them ! Take the legacy as your
own andl use it just as you think best. You
/mor that whatever you see fit to do will be sat-
isfactory to me.  l)on't refuse me, John ! As
you said to me, 'be generous !' "
"' The cases are not parallel, Caroline,', he
said in a low, hesitating voice. And I, think-
ing that he was yielding, continued eagerly-
 They are; there can be no difference.
You thought it perfectly right that you should
* provide for my wants, and why, pray, should I
not help you in the same way?"      -
In my eagerness, I had advanced to his side,
and was gazing into his face as I had not done
since our estrangement, lie turned pale.

lie 1poved as if he would have taken my
hand, and his eyes gazed appealingly into my
own.   I turned sick and faint.  I could not, I
coudd not give him the'assurance he desired ;
1 shook my head and shrank away from his out-
stretched hand.  Ie sighed heavily, but his
voice was gentle as before when he spoke to me.
"You see I shall have to leave you, Caro
line."
What could I say? lie was only acting as
I myself should have done in similar circum-
stances. Nay, feeling as he did, I could not
wish him to act otherwise.   His honor was
mine, and I was proud for him as for myself.
So the question was dropped, and from that
time the fact of John's speedy departure was
considered a settled fact, and only the day was
still in abeyance.                 -
Just at this time, fortunately perhaps for me,
my mind was prevented from brooding over my
own private grievances, by the discovery of a
new trouble of very different character.
Agnes fainted one morning at the breakfast-
table.  No unusual symptoms had manifested
themselves until, with a faint apology to me,
saying that she felt ill, she rose to leave the
room. Ere she reached the door she staggered
and would have fallen had not John, who had'
been watching her very anxiously, sprang for-
ward and caught her in his arms.
He carried her to her room, and then, while
Jenny and I proceeded with the usual remedies
for restoring suspended animation, hurried off
to call to our assistance the nearest, physician.
Before he came, however, the faintness had
worn away, and save for her weakness and
pallor, she seemed really as well as usual. The
doctor, after the usual inquiries, wrote out a
simple prescription, advised out-door exercise
and cheerful company, and after assuring us
that there was really no cause for alarm, with-
drew.
I followed him to the front door.
" You are sure, doctor," I asked anxiously,
that there is nothing serious the matter ?"
" No physical ailment, madam, that I can
discern.  Your sister's system seems much de-
bilitatel from some cause or other, but I have
every hope that a proper course of treatment
will soon remedy that."
" rut why,'I persisted, " should her system
he debilitated? She has never been ill in her

to
I;i

94

i
Y
f


F'
i
ii
.a
."3
yt
Pf
a
F
1L
{4
i

"MY CIIILD ! MY DARLING ! WHAT IS ALL THIS ?"-PAGE 95.

STARTLING R]
life, and if, as you say, there is no physical ail-
ment, what can have occasioned a debility
which could produce such alarming results as
we this morning have witnessed ?"
The doctor answered hesitatingly-
"I hardly know, madam, whether I am jus-
tified in saying so without a farther acquaint-
ance with my patient-but, if my experience is
not strangely at fault, it is mental trouble of
some kind that is producing all these unpleas-
ant symptoms."
"Mental trouble ; impossible !'' I cried,
aghast at the idea.
"\Well, perhaps not," answered the gentle-
man, evidently afraid of compromising himself
by persisting in the statement. " I may possi-
bly be mistaken ; I shall be able to judge better
upon a second visit," and then with a polite
bow the doctor took his departure.
I returned to the sitting-room to relieve the
minds of John and Eddie, who were anxiously
waiting td hear the doctor's opinion concerning
Agnes. Jenny, too, came down the stairs at
the same moment, reporting the  ient to be
apparently quite recovered.  I g ye to them
the doctor's assurance that there was nothing
serious the matter, reserving from them, how-
ever, for evident reasons, the farther opinion he
had given ; then I hastened to return to Agnes.
I was more disturbed by what I had heard,
than I was willing to confess even to myself.
Though to the doctor I had denied all possibility
of mental trouble for my little sister, I was by
no means so certain myself on that point as I'
could have wished to be. That there had been
a misunderstanding between her and Eddie I
was very certain, but that her feelings were so
deeply interested in the matter, that it should
actually have undermined her health, I would
not believe. Bitterly did I reproach myself,
however, for not having possessed myself of her
confidence, and so have been able to have rem-
edied the trouble before it had proceeded to so
alarming an extent. I hurried to her room, de-
termined at once to know how far the doctor
had been right in his suspicions.
If I had had any doubts as to the propriety
of this course of action, they would have been
at once put to flight by my discovering when I
entered the room that Agnes was weeping bit-
terly. When she first saw me she endeavored
to repress her tears and conceal her emotion,
but the very effort in her present feeble state
hut produced a contrary effect, and for a few
moments hem' grief was almost hysterical.
" My child ! my darling ! what is all this ?"
I cried, soothing her excited nerves with all the

REVELATIONS.                             95
endearing appellations and tender caresses a
mother could have showered upon a weeping
child. " Speak to me, dearest; tell me what
it is that has thus distressed you."
She clung to me in a perfect passion of grief.
" I wanted to tell you," she sobbed, "you
know I have, all along.  I have tried to, a
hundred times, but you would not let me, and
now-"    She could speak no more.
"And now, my own precious sister, you shall
tell me every thing, and I will listen to you and
try to help you, and share your troubles, even
if I can not cure them," I said, scarcely less af-
fected than she was herself, for my conscience
told me that her charge was but too true. I
hid repelled her confidence, and even now,
though I felt that for her own sake I must let
her unveil her heart before me, 1 could form no
idea of what I ought to say or do to console her.
Encourage her feelings toward Eddie Harring-
ton I dare not, uncertain as I had lately be-
come of his sentiments for her, and to dis-
courage them would, perhaps, in her present ex-
cited state, be still more dangerous.
When she had become a little calmer, I said
to her-
"And now, dear, tell me what it is all about,
and let me see if I can not find some way to
make you happier."
" Oh ! you know, Caroline, you know. I am
sure there is no need for me to tell you; you
must have seen long before you were taken sick
that-that--I loved him." And her voice sank
to a whisper, and the sweet face that leaned
upon my shoulder was suffused with rosy
blushes.
"I am afraid that I did, Agnes ; or at least
I fancied I saw that he loved you, though I
must confess, my darling, that I had no idea
your feelings for him were any thing like so
vivid as this day's events have proved them to
be. But tell me, what has been the cause of
your misunderstanding? You forget that I am
quite in the dark in regard to that."
She raised her head from my shoulder and
gazed at me in unfeigned amazement.
" Why, Caro !  Of course it has only been
on account of the hard feeling between John
and him. Frank and I have had no misunder-
standing whatever."
"Frank and you !" I cried, echoing her
words in blank astonishment. "Why, Agnes,
is it not Eddie IHarrington whom you love ?"
"Oh, Caro ! surely you never thought that!I"
she said in a voice in which contempjt, indigna-
tion, arnd amazement were curiously mingled.
" Eddie Harrington, indeed ! I never liked him


EDDIE HAERNGTON'S PASSION.            97

much at the best of times, and since you were
taken ill he has grown to be absolutely insup-
portable."
"And can it be possible that you have loved
Frank 1\ettleby all this time, and I have never
suspected it ?" I cried, still incredulous, and
again the blushing face drooped upon my
shoulder as she murmured-
"how could you help seeing it? I thought
of course you knew."
"And he-does Frank love you?    I mean,
has he told you so ?"
" Oh, yes !' was the whispered response,
" ever since the night of that little party in his
rooms. Miss Jenny guessed what I felt, 1
know, for she walked off with Eddie that night
and let Frank take inc home, and it was com-
ing home that he told me. He asked me to be
his wife, and I told him yes, if you were will-
ing, Caro, you and John."
"And I was never told of this, Agnes," I
said a little reproachfully. " Have I deserved
Switch treatment ?"
" Indeed, indeed, I could not help it ; don't
yon renienber the day after the party you were
ill ? and the next iiwas the commencement of
your fever.  I had not the slightest chance to
tell you then, and sitice that you-you wouldn't
let 1m10."
how blind, how incredibly blind had I been !
Even yet I could not believe that all the fanci-
'ul fabric I had been rearing since Eddie liar-
riington's return was- absolutely without founda-
tiom .
And you really never cared for Eddie at
all?" I alked.
"I can't bear him," she rejoined pettishly,
Biut surely, Agnes, I cani not have been de-
ceived in thinking that he loves you ? Poor
boy !  le has been sharper-sighted than I, and
thk, then, is the cause of his constant melan-
eliolv."
Agnes laughed outright.
"Oh, you foolish, foolit Caro! What fun
it would be if his learned lordship could hear
vou. I think it would ruffle his imperturbability
if any thing could. What youhave been think-
ing about I can not imagine, but Frank and I
saw how matters stood long, long ago. Edwin
llarrington cares more for one of your raven
tresses than he does for poor foolish me, body
and soul."
I colored with indignation.
"Hush! Agnes, you forget the impropriety
of such language when addressed to ime. Tih
affection which I have no doubt liy hiusband't
brother really feels for me, is too sacred an eamo

tion to be made the subject of such indelicate
remarks. But we have strangely wandered from
our original theme. You have not yet told me
what it is that has changed my blithe Agnes into
the sorrowful maiden who so lately wept upon
my breast ?"
The bright face was again overshadowed.
"There is nothing that you can not guess
without my telling you. You know how angry
John is with Frank. Well, Frank is just as
much displeased with John. He says that
John has insulted him so grievously, that even
for my sake he can never come beneath his roof
again. He calls John such dreadful names, and
seems so determined never to be friends with
him again, that it makes me wretched to hear,
him. And then I get to see him so seldom
now. He can not come here, and, of course,
Caroline, I would not go anywhere to meet
him. And so it ha been only by chance that I
could see him at all, and it makes him so im-
patient and angry that he hardly seems like his
old self. And oh ! sister, lie has been urging
me lately to marry hit right away--not to tell
John any thing about it, but I would not to that
for the world.  See here, this is what has
troubled me so this morning," and slipping her
hand beneath her pillow, she drew forth a note
which she handed to me.
" Frank met me at church last evening, and
walked home with me. He gave me this note
to give to you, and lie says that this must decide
it all, for if you will not consent, and I will not
give up John Harrington, I must give up him.
I have been so miserable, you can't imagine,
Caro. I almost wished this morning that the
doctor might say I was going to die. I did not
know what I ought to do. I was afraid to give
you the note. He talks so dreadfully of John,
that I was sure you would be more angry with
him than ever. I am sure I can not guess how
all this terrible quarreling has come about."
And as she finished her incoherient speech, I
was again obliged to resume my own burden of
woe, which in the interest I had taken in her
story I had for the moment laid down. A fierce
anger against Frank Nettleby filled my soul.
How dared he blacken my husband's fame in
the eyes of this innocent girl! Against her at
least John Harrington had never sinned, and it
was cruel, wickedly cruel, to try to turn her

heart away from him.
I was careful however to disguise this feeling
from  Agnes, aisd opening the note, I read as
e follows:
s 1 v PAs usM. laSitH AneeoTo-My dear friend may I
- not call you ?-ffor such most fondly do I hope that you will

prove to be to me--Again do you see me before you in the
igtit of a nuiter. God giant that I may now be :More suc-
cesifut than I was of yore-"
"He told me all about your having been his
first love, Caro," interpolated Agnes, as she read
the note over my shoulder, "but I don't mind
it in the least now."

i
ti7
{i
r   {
{
i
y
1    '
t-
k.=
IS  '
S
jrt
, 3
; i
,
{
k
5'
. ;
k
'.
k.
P2  y
Y
!4
yy ,4
4*7'=3
' 1
A'
}'   :
XtT {
r "r jj}
$E
a
' i
+;2Njr
y} "
P'
k+
zy
z  {/
J-
Y. %
eF
i F
}
.

"I presume the trouble John his brought upon us all by
his ridiculous conduct, has been yet more severely felt by
you than by me, though, I assure you, the sundering of a
life-long friendship has fallen upon sue very heavily. Of
course I dare not express my indignation openly in ad-
dressing you, though he has wronged you even more than
he has myself, and knowing this, you cannot deny me your
sympathy. If I have been too blunt, forgive mae. Knowing
as you must how impossible it is that any intimacy can
ever again exist between your husband and myself, you
wil feetifor my embarrassing position,I know, and for your
dear sister's sake,if not for siiine, aid me in removing the
barriers that this miserable estrangement has built up
between us. Agnes will have told you that I love her,
though iat yo must have knoun before, for lioseutterly
imlpessible would it be to knoewv usd set to love lier.  ess
are the only one whose claims upon either her duty or her
affection I can recognize. To you then I say, give her to
se for my wife, 01ui1, witl God's help, I wilt mike les
iiappsy. My life shalt be devoted to the endeavor', cnd
never witl I cease to be grateful to you for the blessing with
which you thus will crown mylife. Dear Mrs. Harrington,
may I not call upon you, and in person plead my cause? I
had sworn that I would never set foot within John Har-
rington's doors again, but even that humiliation Iwillde-
scend to, rather than endure longer this maddening sus-
peise. Write me, I beseech you, if only a single tine, and
tell me when and where I can see you, and by so doing
command forever the gratitude, as you have always pos.
sessed the admiration and respectful esteem of
"FRAnK NETTLIrY."
"Do tell me, Caro, what has been the cause
of this dreadful misunderstanding ?" said Agnes
pleadingly.    "Frank will not, though I have
almost quarreled with him      in begging him    to
do so, and I only stopped questioning him be-
cause he said that it would not be proper for me
to hear.   And yet you know       all about it, it
seems. Do tell me, Caro ?"
"Frank was quite right.     The story is not fit
for you to hear, so I certainly shall not inform
you of it," I said, rising to leave the room, for
the shame and agony which overpowered me I
could not hope much longer to coirceal.
"At least," she cried, catching my dress to
detain me, ''tell me this muach--I must know,
indeed I must !-Was it Frank's fault?         Is it
any thing he has done?"
Justice both to Frank and to her demanded
that I should speak, though I felt as if I would
rather have died than done so.
"No !" I said,"Frank is not in the least to
blame." And the miserable confession wrung
from me, I rushed to my own room, there in its
friendly solitude to weep the bitterest tears that
outraged pride and wounded love ever wrung
from woman's tortured heart.,_

CHAPTER XVI.
EDDIE iAIRINGTON' PASSION.
IT was only after a severe struggle with my-
self that I could bring my mind to the task of
writing to Frank Nettleby. I could not do so
without virtually acknowledgii my husband's
crime, and the justice of Frank's opinion of him.
Yet for Agnes's sake it must be done. My hiap-
piness was wrecked, but hers I still could se-
cure, and I must do so at whatever cost to my~
self.
"After all," I murmured bitterly, "' the true
shame and disgrace consist in the crime itself,
not in its being known to Frank Nettlehv."
When I was cahiii enough to bring my iud
to the task, I descended to the dining-room for
the purpose of answering the note.' My own
desk was deficient in some article of stationery
.that I needed, so I seated myself at John's es-
critoire to write.
I re-read Frank's letter.  There was much
in it that had wounded me cruelly, yet upon a
re-perusal, I could but feel grateful for the
lenient manner in which my luusband's criie
had been alluded to, and though "ridiculous"
seemed to me a strangely inappropriate adjee-
tive to apply to a midnight burglary and an at--
tempt to murder, yet I was too thankful for the
delicacy that spared my feelings by avoiding
harsher language, to quarel with the words that
had been used. I hesitated for a long time how
to address my new correspondent ; his newly-dis-
covered relations to Agnes had given mite a right
to express the sisterly affection I had'long felt for
him, so after much reflection, I wrote ts follows:
DeAR FRANK--For dear you are and ong alvie been t
mue, scarcely more co now than heretofore, though to-day 1
learn, for the first time, that sim soon to claim you for a
brother-Unhesitatngly dte I comit mayett 's lesipi-
sies0 to your hands, alid the sipliet slay muy fsstsire i
can know, will be the one which makes her your loved and
honored wife. I shalt be disengaged to-morrow morning,
sand sball be glad tosee youe" i'I tik1can 1 eami n 0
that yomshetiil miiet no omie dumrimng your xioitsaves' Asies
and myself. with'warmest wis es for your myeappine
believe me, your friend,  Usnowisse htIiARuli(i)ON."
As I penned the last word, a heavy hamndh was
laid upon my shoulder. With a startled cry,
for I had been so absorbed in my occ ulation
that I had heard no one approach me, I turned,
and beheld my husband. his face was tbso-
lutely livid with rage, and his eyes glared upon
me like those of a maniac, while the hand that
rested upon my shoulder grasped me so forcibly
as to catso me actual pain.
" In Heaven's name, what is the matter wih
you?'' I cried, terribly frightened by his strange
dhemeanomr.

MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.


MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

"You dare-you dare-to write to that man!"
lie gasped, in a voice hoarse and inarticulate
with passion.
"Yes! I do dare," I cried, wresting myself
from his grasp, indignant at the tone lie assumed
to me. " I an sure I can not conceive why you
should hate Frank Nettleby so bitterly. At all
events Iwill not visit upon his head a fault that
has been wholly yours."
Beware ! Caroline, beware !" lie said, his
voice trembling with illy-repressed passion.
"There is a point beyond which endurance
must give way.   In my great love for you I
have borne and forborne more than mortal man
ever did before. But if I have pitied rather than
condemned, it has only been because I have be-
lieved you an innocent, even though a tried and
tempted woman. What must I think of you now,
when, knowing your own frailty, you dare sit
down in my house to pen your infamous letters
to that more infamous man ?"
I stared at him in terrified amazement. The
anger seemed so disproportionate to the offense,
that I could account for it in no other way than
by believing his brain was affected.
" How long have you been carrying on this
clandestine intercourse ?" lie furiously con-
tinued.
"Upon my word ! John IHarrington," I said,
as soon as I could find breath to speak, "I be-
lieve you have taken leave of your senses. I don't
know what you mean by 'clandestine inter-
course.' Frank wrote to me yesterday a mes-
sage, chiefly concerning Agnes, certainly an af-
fair which is no business of yours, and I have
answered him as I saw fit, and I do not choose to
consider myself accountable to you for the man-
ner in which I have treated my sister's private
aflhiirs."
"A lie! a lie! a base unwomanly lie ! In
the very face of that letter, in which mine own
eyes have read the confession of your guilty
love, you would fabricate this false story con-
cerning your sister to impose afresh upon my
credulity," and he pointed to the letter I had
just written, and my eyes following the direc-
tion of his hand, I read the first line of the letter,
"1 )ear Frank-For dear you are and long have
been to me-"

I stood like one awaking from a troubled
dream. Catching up both the letters, I thrust
them into his hands.
" What monstrous thought have you been
entertaining!  Read the letters ; read them
both, and then tell me, if you can, what there is
in them so terribly to excite you."
lie needed no second bidding. Passionately

he tore open poor Frank's uncomplimentary
note. He read first that and then my answer,
and then again turning to Frank's letter, read it
through the second time. As lie finished, the
papers dropped from his trembling hands. He
leaned against the wall, white and exhausted.
A stupid, bewildered look was in his eyes, and
he spoke like one asleep-
"I-don't-understand. Caroline, what does
it mean?"
''It means just what those letters say. Frank
Nettleby has proposed for Agnes, and I have
given my consent to their marriage."
"And you," he continued, in that same
strangely bewildered tone-" Have you so far
conquered your love for him that you can write
to him thus coolly concerning his union with
another ?"

My cheeks were scarlet with indignation, and
in a voice choked with shame and anger I an-
swered-
" How could I conquer a passion that I never
felt? You know I never loved Frank Nettleby."
A sudden change passed over his face. His
cheeks flushed, his eyes gleamed with triumph-
ant lustre.
"Say it again, Caroline ! tell me once more.
I can not believe it. This sudden joy has al-
most crazed me. Tell me again that you do
not love that man."
"Would I have rejected him when he asked
me to become his wife, if I had loved him?
Would I have married you, if to him I had
given my heart? And as to loving him since
-loving him now-oh, John ! how can you in-
sult me by so base a thought !" And over-
powered with grief and vexation, I buried my
face in my hands, and cried for very shame.
He threw himself on his knees by my side,
and cast his arms around me, while vainly I
sought to disengage myself from his embrace.
"My love ! my wife ! what is it then that has
come between us? If tso other man has won
your heart, why do you no longer love me ?"
I ceased my struggles to escape from him,
and turned to look him in the face, indignant
at his audacity.  I turned and met those
loving, beseeching eyes, whose counterpart had
once looked up at me from the face of my little
child-those eyes, whose loving light had once
been dearer to me than hope of heaven itself-
and wild with grief and passion, I started to my
feet and tore myself from his encircling arms.
I trembled for myself. My courage, my pride
was failing me. Another glance into that ten-
der, beseeching face, and I should have forgot-
ten all--all, save that I loved him.

1
T
1
F

ilk+                __ __ _ __ _      1
h                  /aI  ,           I  I

"READ THE LETTERS ! READ THEM BOTH !"--PAGE 98.

I

98$

:+
r

t
t
!'
r


EDDIE HARRINGTON'S PASSION.

"How dare you !" I cried. "How dare you house, as I knew by the opening and shutting
touch me, when you know how bitterly you of the street-door, and 1 had scarcely a (loub:
have wronged me! when you must know that but that he had gone instantly to seek his
Eddie has told me all."                    brother, while still under the influence of the
Scarcely had the words fallen from my lips, anger my imprudent words had aroused. What
when I would have given worlds to have called could I do?  How could I bear this torturing
them back. I had broken my promise ; and suspense and fear?    And so fully occupied
terrified at the possible consequences, I stopped were my thoughts with these distracting mim'
short in the indignant rebuke I was about to aginations, that I found no leisure to recur to
deliver, and uttered not another word.     the strange revelation my husband had just
"Eddie, you say? What has he told you ?" made of his own suspicions concerning me.
cried John eagerly. But I remained speech- There was food enough for contemplation in
less. From the entreating tenderness of love the subject, but I was in no condition now for
to the red flush of sudden anger, his county settled thought upon any matter save the all-
nance again had changed.    " The infernal engrossing one of the quarrel which I doubted
scoundrel!" he cried.. ''I-Ie is at the bottom  not was at that time transpiring between the
of all this, as I ought to have known. Aid to brothers.
think I have never suspected him !" And then,  An interminable hour dragged its weary
without another word, with no attempt whatever length along, and at length the sound of the
at farther apology or appeal, lie turned, as the street-door opening caused me to spring breath
passionate words escaped him, and abruptly less to my feet. A rapid step traversed the
quitted the room.                          entry, then the door of the room in which
The new direction his rage had taken, gave I had been sitting was suddenly thrown open,
me fresh cause for alarm. I was overwhelmed and  Eddie Ilarrington made his appear-
with self-reproach when I remembered the words ance.
that I had said.  I had broken my solemn     By the solemn thanksgiving that silently as-
promise to Eddie, and even as he had prophe- ended from my heart when I saw him stand.
sied, his brother's anger seemed disposed to ing well and unharmed before me, I realized
vent itself most unreasonably upon him. It the terrible nature of the fears that had oppress-
was poor consolation to me to know that my ed me during the past hour.
disclosure was an involuntary one, drawn from  With an irrepressible cry of joy I sprang
me in the excitement of the moment, asid re- toward him, anid the next instant he hatd clasp-
pented as soon as uttered. I had grievously in- ed me in his arms ; 1 felt the throbbing of his
jured my best friend; the one whose unselfish heart as it beat tumultuously against mine, and
devotion to me had brought upon him the evil I knew that lie was fearfully agitated, so for a
which of all others he most deprecated, his moment I permitted the embrace ; then, gently
brother's wrathful displeasure.  And what disengaging myself, 1 seated myself uspon the
would be the result of my thoughtlessness? I sofa, and motioned him to take the place be-
turned sick with apprehension when I thought side me.
of the effect that an exhibition of John's fearful  "You have seen John ?" I said, as soon as I
rage might have upon a nature so sensitive and could speak.
affectionate as Eddie Harrington's.          A shudder passed over his frame,-and his
"Yet, thank God !" I murmured, "there can lips could hardly articulate the mnonosyllable-
be no actual violence. Eddie's gentleness pre-  "Yes !"
vents all possibility of that ; and surely, when  "Oh, Eddie !" I cried in the greatest distress-
John becomes a little calmer, lie can but see as I marked his agitation, "can yourever for,
how unjust it is in him to visit his ire upon his give me?  I have broken my promise, but God
innocent brother.  Oh! if I could but have knows it was unintentionally done ; the words
told him a little more about the manner in slipped from me before I knew what I was say-
which I had discovered his guilty secret ! If I ing.  I can never forgive myself! What an
could but have told him how all but the bare ungrateful wretch you must think me!'
details had been known to me without any rev-  " Hush! not a word of reproach against
elation from Eddie, and how even the little that yourself. I Will not hear it. I think of you
ie revealed to me had been drawn from him re- only as the dearest, loveliest, kindest of women ;
luctautly and painfully by my urgent entreaties and if, in your service, I am called 1up1 to lay
asd distress." down my life, I shall sacrifice it gladly."
John, when he left me, had also left thme I forgot to notice the impropriety of his

99


MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

words and manner in the horrible idea they
suggested to my mind.
"What do you mean? What has passed be-
tween you and John ?"
"lie cane to my office an hour ago in the
most violent fury I ever saw a human being
give way to. I was alone as it chanced, and he
forthwith commenced showering upon me the
most abusive epithets that one man can apply
to another.  I was a traitor, and had betrayed
my nearest and dearest ties; I was a spy, and
had crept into his family but to create suspicion
and disturbance; I was a villain, who, from the
best of motives, had won from him the heart
of his wife, and had brought endless disgrace
upon my father's name.  In short, all that man
could conceive of crime and vileness, he ac-
catsed me of being guilty of; and for your
sake, Caroline, I bore it in silence. I could
iiot exonerate myself without accusing you,
and rather than do that, had lie then and there
raised his hand against my life, I should have
died and made no sign. My silence infuriated
him mnore than the angriest responses could
have done ; lie would have laid violent hands
upon rie had I not thrown open the window
that looked upon the streets, and given himn to
uiderstaid itlint if lie approached a foot nearer
to me, I would suimon the police to my assist-
wnce. This I could readily do, as he knew,
and in imupotenit rage lie finally left me, swear-
ing that lie would be bitterly revenged cre
twenty-four hours had passed over our heads.
And he will keep his word, Caroline," con-
tinued the young man, tremibliing with feverish
excitement, while I, white with horror, listened
to the terrible recital. ''lie had no weapon
about his person when he was in the office, or
1 should not now be alire to tell this tale ; buit
he will return again to the attack better pre-
pared to wreak his vengeance upon my devoted
head.  What shall I do ? advise me. If you
fail me in this extremity, I am lost indeed."
My horror was merging into incredulity; the
situation which he depicted was so dreadful
that it seemed impossible.
' There is some mistake here, surely !" I
said.  " You have been so excited yourself,
Eddie, that your fear has overpowered your
reason. However angry and violent John may
have been, 1 can not think there is the least
danger of his doing you any personal injury-"
He interrupted me.
"t I swear to you, Caroline, that what I have
said to von is the unexaggerated truth. Can
yon think that the mere base fear of death
could have thus excited me ? I am no cow ard;

poorly as you may think of me, could my death
bring happiness to you, I would stir not hand
or foot to save my life. It is for your sake-
yours and John's only-that I have felt the
terror which you seem to think has overpower-
ed my reason."
"I can not-I can not believe it !" I cried,
half crazy between doubt and fear.  " John
Ilarrington's hand upraised against his broth-
er's life ! It is impossible. You are putting
both yourself and inc to useless pain. I know
that you are deceived."
"Caroline," said Eddie, in a tone that made
me shudder, "you do not know John Harring-
ton as I know him. Be warned before it is too
late. Could any thing but the most direct ev-
idence have convinced you that once before,
for far less provocation than he this time imag-
ines himself to have received, lie raised his
hand .against a fellow-creature's life? Do you
know why lie is now so angry with me ? It is
not because he believes me to have betrayed
his trust-it is because he believes that you love
me."
His voice had sunk almost to a whisper as he
spoke the last few words, but as I hoard them,
the last lingering hope fled from my mind.
The violent anger which John's jealousy had
caused him to exhibit against Frank Nettleby,
and which I myself had witnessed, made me
realize with an agony of fear the danger which
might really exist, had he now taken it into his
head to be jealous of Eddie. In the former in-
stance he had little or no cause for suspicion,
and " trifles light as air" it had indeed been
that had then aroused his fury. But in regard
to Eddie it was far different. As I looked back
over the past year, and remembered how strong
a partiality I had always shown for the boy,
and how careless I had been in concealing the
fact, showing, too, that there was a secret be-
tween us, which a jealous man might easily
have suspected to have been a guilty one-when
I thought of all this, I felt as if my senses were
deserting me-that Eddie was indeed right in
his belief that his life was in danger.
"Fly !" I cried, starting to my feet. " You
must not stay here a moment longer.  Leave
the house!  Leave time city!  Hide yourself
anywhere from this unhappy man. My God!
what will become of us all !  Why was I ever
born for such a miserable fate ! Why do you
tarry? Do you not know that your brother
may return at any moment?   Go ! Do go, I
beseech y'ou !
He toe had risen to his feet, and in my wild,
unthinking terror, I had laid my clasped hands

100


"YOU SHALL NOT LEAVE ME !"--PAGE 101.

E)DIE HARRINGTON'S PASSION.

beseechingly upon his arm, and now stood gaz- I beseech you to fly with me!  Let us leave
iug into his face in voiceless agony. A strange this land of cold and formal propriety, and with
look of triumphant elation came into that face it leave all the sorrows and misfortunes of the
as I gazed. Not a trace was left of the quiet, past. Together let us seek a home in sonic
pensive  Eddie Harrington   I had   hitherto bright southern land beyond the sea, where,
known ; for the first time I saw in him a re- with love that only natures such as ours can
semblance to John ; his lips quivered, his feel, we shall revel in a happiness that even
cheeks flushed, and his eyes gazed into mine Paradise can not surpass. Caroline! my love,
with the same look of unfathomable feeling I my angel, say that you will be mine!" And
had so often seen in John's. He caught my with outstretched arms he advanced toward me.
hands with a close, passionate grasp in both of  Words would fail me to portray the emotions

his.

that swept over me while listening to this tor-

"I will go, Caroline ; I will obey you now  rent of passion. Amazement, scorn, and anger
and always, at whatever cost to myself; but- by turns possessed me; but when he ceased,
must I go alone?  My dearest ! my dearest ! I and I saw him approaching me with quickened
adore you; I can not leave you. I dare not breath and burning eyes, and knew that (save
leave you helpless in the power of that bold, foi Agnes in a room two stories above me) 1
bad man. Fly with me, Caroline-for I love was alone nith him in the house, wild terror
you as never mortal woman was loved before! overpowered every other feeling, and I sprang
Fly with me-leave this man who has deceived to the door, hoping to escape from the room
and outraged you in a way that no woman ever and fly to Agnes before he could offer me far-
could or should forgive ; he has canceled every ther insult. But he was too quick for inc.
claim; he has ruptured every tie ;.' he has Guessing my intention, lie intercepted my rc-
changed your love into hatred, and henceforth treat by placing himself before the door.
he can inspire in your bosom no feeling save  "You shall not leave me! you must listen
those of terror and disgust. Leave him, Calro- to me. For days and weeks, nay, for mouths
line! Leave him to reap the fruit of his own have I looked forward to this moment, You
doings ; to learn too late the value of the wom- are pale-you tremble ; surely you do not fear
an he has betrayed."                       me, Caroline?  My love ! my dearest ! do you
Indignation lent me strength ; I tore my not know that I would die a thousand deaths
hands from his,'and stood with flashing eyes rather than give you pain?  Have pity upon
and heaving bosom before him.  .           me ! If, in your cold, immaculate virtue, the
"How dare you-how dare you-" passion voice of passion sounds to you only as the voice
choking my utterance-" how dare you insult of guilt, even in your hatred for the sin, at least
me by such a proposition ! Leave the room, be woman enough to have pity for the sinner.
leave the house, this instant, and never let me If it be a sin to love you, then blame yourself
see your face again."                      that I am guilty, for you inspired the passion
He gave no heed to what I said, but contin- and nursed and encouraged the secret flame,
ned speaking more rapidly, more vehemently until now it has become unquenchable.  Do
than before.                               you iot know how I have sufeted-hliow I suf-
"You have thought me a boy ; you have be- for still ? You are not the icicle you would
lieved me cold and passionless as yourself, fain have me believe you. Tell me, is there no
Awake, now, to know that you have deceived instinct of your nature that can teach you to
yourself; that it is a man, with a man's heart pity the agony that you too are capable of feel-
and a man's passions, who stands before you ing?"
this day and tells you that he loves you. Ilold!  There was truth in what he said. 'L'oo late I
do not interrupt me. I will speak. It is no knew it, and marveled at my own blindness in
crime in you to listen, for you know and I having been so long deceived. I had encour-
know, that in the sight of Heaven you are di- aged him ; I could not deny it. I had sought
vorced from that man whose name you bear, his companionship and welcomed him to mine
Listen to me then, for I love you; madly, de- ever since he had been an inmate of my home.
votedly. I am proud, I am selfish, I am am- That I had done so innocently, suspecting no
bitious, but for your sake I will give up reputa- evil, dreaming of no danger, was also true; but
tion, fortune, fame, content to gain no other that could not exonerate me in my own eyes.
good in life than your love, for in that is com- Besides this, let those who read interpret the
prised all that life holds good to me. Again, acknowledgment as they will, he was also
Caroline, my glorious, peerless Caroline, again right in attributing to me that instinct which

:
z
;r
4
S

101


102                          MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.
bade me feel for his sufferings as if I too were express the indignation which your language
capable of experiencing the tortures of a guilty ought to excite in me. What might have been
love.  Alt! there was guilt in my heart as the result of your dishonorable wishes, were
surely as there was in his; as undisguiseable your premises correct, it is scarcely profitable
to my own conscience, though the world might to inquire. There is one error however in your
have viewed its existence with a lenient eye. argument which, when discovered, will, I think,
In my inmost heart I felt that to love John convince you of the fallacy of your conclusions.
Harrington as I surely did, despising his char- When I told you that I could not love a man
aeter, abhorring his conduct, loving him spite of whom I did not respect, I deceived yon; but
my reason and my principles, was to be guilty the deception was unintentional, for I did not
of as great a crime as that to which Eddie, liar- know my own heart. To my shame I confes
rington had but now confessed. That feeling it-never in the days of my firmest faith in his
made ine humble enough to answer him with virtue and goodness has my husband been so
comparative calmness.                      dear to me as now.  In spite of my pride-in
"If I have done you wrong, Mr. Ilarrington, spite of my reason-in spite of all that I have
I pray you to forgive mri, and in token of my professed and he has forfeited, I love him now
sincerity in making that request, I freely and with all the force and passion I am capable of
unsolicited grant you my forgiveness for the feeling ; and were he guilty of every crine that
grievous insult you have this lay put upon me. can disgrace his manhood-miserable weman
Let me pass now, and let this dreadful inter- that I am-I should love him still."
view fade forever into oblivion."            As I spoke the color gradually faded from his
He made no motion to stand aside, but be- face, and now as he gazed upon me his counte-
gan again his mad appeal.                  nance wore the ashen line of despair.  The
" Oblivion! Caroline, do you think oblivion solemnity of my tone carried conviction with it,
can ever again come to mc? While life re- and not for one moment did, he question the
mains, your image will ever reign supreme in truth of my asseveration. He bowed his head
my too constant heart. Do you remember upon his hands, and I could see that a mighty
the day that you spoke to me of woman's pride, struggle was going on within  his breast.
and woman's love ?  Do you remember telling Presently he raised his head, and when he
me then that the day that assured you of John's spoke his voice made me shudder, so strangely
unworthimess, would see the death of your love hollow and discordant had it become.
for him ?  'Well, Caroline, I loved you even  " I have staked my all upon this chance for
then. but up to that day it had been with a love, and I have lost.  Home-sister-friends
hopeless passion. That you loved your ius- -my dreams of ambition and my pride of in-
haud I knew, and that there was any possibility tellect alike have perished from my grasp. I
of effectimg a change in your feelings I could have made a great mistake, Mrs. Harrington,
not hope ; but from the moment you made to and perhaps have caused you notsa little pain.
me that acknowledgment, hope sprang up in I think I may safely promise you, however, that
my heart, for I knew him to be unworthy, if you from henceforth you shall find no fault in Ed..
did not. There is no need to dwell on these win iarrington.  One boon I still must claim
remembrances ; you discovered John's crime, from your hands. You may perhaps remem-
and by your own acknowledgement lie had for- her--" and as lie spoke a strange smile curved
feited your love, and then I fondly dreamed his white lips -'"that my life is in imminent
that I, perchance, might win his vacant throne. danger at the hands of that blood-thirsty gen-
l)o not tell me I have failed ! I am no fool, teman whose step we may now at any moment
and surely flattered vanity could not have de- expect to hear. As I told you, it is jealousy
ceived me into believing that I had been sue- that at present inflames his mind-a feeling
cessful, had not your every word and action for which you will doubtless be able very speedily
the past six months lured me to believe what I to relieve. But, as I did not tell you, he is still
had so madly hoped. If ever woman's conduct ignorant of the share I have taken in developing
was intelligilde to tman, yours has endeavored his guilty secret. Endeavored, and very success-
to prove to me that I was not indifferent to I fully I believe, to convince him that so far from
you."                                      knowing all the unpardonable details, you were
"I amn too weak and sitiful self, Mt. liar- Ionly aware of the fact that lie was at one time
ringtn," I said, forcing myself to speak stead- a clerk ins Casey's establishment, and that your
ily and distinctly, though the effort whitened anger has been the result of the lie he told in
miy lips atnd shook my frame, "to venture to denying it. Caroline, my request is this: that

EDDIE IIARRINGTON'S PASSION.            103

you will not undeceive him upon this point for
twenty-four hours at least. Will you promise
me?   Remember, I am but asking of you a re-
newal of the pledge you formerly gave me, and
which you have so grievously wronged me by
violating even in part."
This was true, and as I could see no possible
objection to renewing the promise for that lim-
ited time, I said so, and promised as he wished.
"Farewell, then," he said, extending his
hand. "We perhaps shall never meet again ;
at least let us part friends."
Very reluctantly I gave him my hand, and he
retained it with close pressure, spite of the un-
easy efforts I made to withdraw it.
"Good-bye! Mr. Harrington," I said. "I
shall try to forget this day's occurrences, and
remember you only as the friend you have hith-
erto proved to me."
"And that is all!" he said. "No sympathy
-no good wishes-not a single tear ! Yet this
is the woman for whom I have sacrificed every
hope of my life ; the only creature on God's
earth I ever loved-the only one I ever shall
love. I will not be so vilely defrauded ! If I
have sold my birthright for a mess of pottage,
shall that paltry pittance be denied me?  By
Heaven ! no !" And before I could guess his
intention, he had caught me in his arms, and
bending over me, kissed- me twice upon the
mouth, passionate, fiery kisses, that brought the
.blood in torrents to my face and neck. Then,
as suddenly, he released me, and ere I had re-
covered my senses sufficiently to comprehend
the insult I had received, I heard the street door
slam behind him, and Edwin Harrington had
left his brother's house forever.
CHAPTER XVII.
JOHN HARRINoTON S EXPLANATIONS .
IT was a fortunate thing for me in the present
excited state of my nerves, that I had no leisure
to ponder over the bewildering events of the
day. Active exertion did more toward re-
storing my mind to an even balance, than could
any other remedy have done. Sarah had not
yet resumed her sceptre, and I still was con-
sidered responsible for the smooth and regular
working of the household machinery. Know-
ing therefore that supper must be prepared,-and
that there was no one but myself to prepare it,
I was perforce obliged to exert myself, and the
effort brought with it its own reward. Common
sense returned to mc while fulfilling my homely
domestic duties, atid the utter absurdity of the

melodramatic fears which Edwin Harrington's
words and looks had conjured up, became very
clearly apparent. The idea of Johni larring-
ton--the sober, self-contained "governor" of
former days -my quiet, matter-of-fact hts-
band--lurking about the streets of Boston with
concealed weapons, ready to fall at any moment
with deadly onslaught upon his helpless brothi-
er, was so utterly and entirely unnatural, that,
spite of some very singular circumstantial evi-
dence, that would obtrusiiely present itself to
my mind, I dismissed the thought determinedly
and successfully.
Jenny's entrance, too, upon her return from
her daily labors, aided greatly in restoring ni
to composure. The overwrought feelings and
excited passions which I had been suffering
from in myself and others, were so utterly at
variance with her sharp, cheery voice, nid sitm-
ple, unaffected ways, that they could not exist
in her presence.  Bewildered and uneasy as I
could but be, I still, under the influence of her
society and my own occupations, rapidly set-
tled my mind into a tolerable state of compos-
ure.
" You need not wait tea for Eddie," she said,
as she entered the kitchen.  ''l1e caine to me
just as I was leaving the store, and told mue that
he was about to leave the city. Sonic business
;or one of his clients, I believe. At all events,
he bade sae good-bye very affectionately, and
said he would write to me from New York, tell-
ing me when to look for him back again."
Poor Miss Jenny! Who was to tell her that
"her boy," as she so often called him, had
gone from  her, not for days or weeks, but for
years, perhaps forever ? I would not, certainly.
lie should tell of his own sins if they must be
made known to her, for from no words of mine
should she learn the shameful story of that day's
proceedings.  Eddie Harrington had passed
from my life forever ; at least a hoped co. Yet
not the lightest of my many tr"oubles was the
thought of the sorrow that was brewing for my
sister-in-law, and I could not altogether rid my
conscience of an uneasy feeling that I was par-
tially responsible for it.
Agnes had by this time joined us. "A little
weak and shaky," she informed us, but feeling
otherwise more than usually well and cheerful.
And after waiting more than half an hour be-
yond the usual supper-time, and John not re-
turning, we three women took our places at the
meal without him.
" Howa long does he expect to be away?"
asked Agnes inidiffer-enitly, when informed bsy
Jenny of Eddie's departure.


rs

104                          MY HUSBA:
"lie did not say ; only a few days, I sup-
pose, though he kissed me good-bye as affection-
ately as if he expected to be gone for years.
how fond he is of me, the foolish boy ! I don't
believe he will ever learn to act and feel like a
man." .
"He may well love you, Jenny," I said, with
quivering voice, for I saw a deeper meaning in
that earnest farewell than was apparent to his
unconscious sister. " I should think but very
lightly of his heart if he could leave you without
some signs of emotion-even-I added some-
what hastily--" even for a few days."
"It has always amused me," said Agnes,
laughing, ''to hear you two women talk of Ed-
win as you do. To hear you, any one would
suppose that lie was some bashful, unsophistica-
ted boy of eighteen, instead of being, as he is, a
man wise enough, if not old enough, to outwit
you both."
" How old is Edwin, Jenny ?" I asked, sud-
denly prompted to the question by a strange
suspicion that flashed that moment into my
uiind.
"Why, hardly know ; let me see," she said
pensively.  " Twenty-three or four ; twenty-
live, may be."
" Nonsense ! Miss Jenny," said Agnes, a lit-
tle tartly. "lie is twenty-eight.  I saw the
record of his birth in the big Bible you keep on
your table, upi stairs."
" Well, my dear," Miss Jenny said placidly,
not a whit ruffled by the contradiction, " perhaps,
you are right. It only seems to ie the other
day, however, that he was a little fellow no
higher than my shoulder, and it is hard to be-
lieve the time has flown so quickly. I believe
I was mistaken, though ; let me see-lie was
born in 18--, yes ! that makes him twenty-eight,
sure enough. Who would have thought it,
though !'
"Not many persons, that is true," replied
Agnes. "IIe is certainly the youngest-looking
lerson for his age I ever saw. But there is
nothing of the boy about him except his face,
you may take my word for that."
Sharp-sighted  Agnes!  Where had    she
learned the wisdom that I had so utterly failed
to acquire ? I said nothing, while the two
chatted on, but the information I had just re-
ceived gave me fresh food for thought. How
moy cheeks tingled when Iremembered the man-
ner in which I had conducted myself toward
Edwin Ilarrington ever since I hatd known him !
It was small wonder that he, a man several
years my senior, should have easily misunder--
stood the condescension, the petting, the fa-

ND'S CRIME.
miliar freedom with which I had uniformly
treated him. What could he have thought the
occasion of it, except an undue interest in him-
self? I could have cried froh shame at the re-
membrance of my own folly. And with the
sound of his dishonorable words still ringing in
my ears, the fire of those insulting kisses still
burning on my lips, I marveled indeed that I
could ever have been so deluded.
I followed Agnes to her own room when she
retired that night.
"I want you to explain to me one portion of
your love affairs that has mystified me not a lit-
tle," I said to her, after first telling her of the
letter I had written to Frank, and setting her
mind completely at rest in regard to her own
future, so far as it lay in my power to influence
it. "I still can not understand how it is that
I was led so completely astray from the very
beginning, in thinking that you and Eddie were
lovers. I certainly had good grounds for my
belief at one time, for you were always talking
and whispering together at the most unseemly
times and places. I came upon you accident-
ally many times, to find him talking earnestly
and fervently, and you blushing and confused ;
and you would start away from him at my ap-
proach, shrinking from notice with every mark
of confusion. Now, pray tell me, if this conduct
was not caused by love, what did cause it ?"
'-It was caused by love," replied the girl,
laughing and blushing, " but not love for him,
my dear sister, I assure you. In those days he
used to be forever teasing me aboutFrank, whom
I had already begun to think a great deal of-
He used to always have some long tale to tell
inc of something Frank had said about me, how
much ie admired me, and all such nonsense,
and I liked to listen to it all very well, for of
course I believed it, though Frank has told me
since that it was all fabrication from beginning
to end, and that he never talked to Edwin lar-
rington or to any one else about his feelings for
me, until he had talked to me first. Do you
know, I used to have an idea then, that Master
Eddie wanted to make you believe he was in
love with me?  I had no idea what his object
was, and I haven't now, either.  Perhaps it
was all imagination on my part, but there is one
tIring certain, Caro, though I know you won't
believe it: Eddie Harrington is not nearly so in-
nocent as he tries to make people believe. He
is a real, downright humbug, that is what I
think of him, ansd I hsavo often wondered how
any one so clever as you are, can he so deceived
by him."'  .
|Oh, wise, wise Agnes!I Was not I growing

EDDIE HARRINGTON'S PASSION.

105

every moment more ready to confess that my nated forever the intimacy between Edwin lHar-
experience had at length taught me what your rington and myself. Not an insult which 1

maiden instincts had so long ago discovered?
However, I did not deem it expedient to en-
lighten her as to my present opinion, so after a
little more chat, I bade her good-night and
sought my own apartment.
It was some time after I had gone to bed be-
fore John came home. Since our quarrel, he
had occupied the room adjoining mine, and I
very seldom saw him of an evening if he went
out after supper, as it had been my custom, ever
since my illness, to retire to my room early in
the evening. This night, however, instead of
passing on immediately to his own room, he,
stopped at my door and rapped hesitatingly upon

had received would I conceal; and somehow, in
spite of all the harsh suspicions which had been
awakened in my breast by the singularity of
my husband's conduct, I yet instinctively felt
that he would give me no cause to repent my
confidence. True, Eddie had assured mue that
when under the influence of passion or jealousy
John was a totally different man from his ordi-
nary self-- that all reason seemed to desert
him, and that he could become a very fiend for
wickedness. True, I had myself seen him, from
the slightest causes, become so overpowered
with anger, that I could hardly help believing
that if he had really any cause for suspicion, lie

it.                                        might allow his anger to carry him to almost
" Are you asleep, Caroline ?" he asked, in a any length. Yet, in spite of all, I believed in
strange, eager voice.                      him; believed in his honor, his affection, his
"I have gone to bed," I answered, "but I good sense ; and I relied upon these qualities to
can rise again if you wish me to do any thing control him, even when he knew how terrible a
for you."                                  cause for anger he had against his brother. I
He was silent a moment, but then answered, relied upon them, I say, even while my reason
I thought, in a disappointed tone-         assured me that I had every cause to believe
"No ! never mind, I won't trouble you. I that my faith would ultimately be completely
had hoped to have spoken to you to-night, but overthrown.
perhaps it will be better to wait until morning.  So musing, I at length fell asleep, and it was
Good-night!" and then, before I had made up bright day-light ere I again opened my eyes
my mind whether or not to accede to what he upon life and its realities.
so evidently wished, he had passed on, and en-  .1 heard Miss Jenny moving in her room
tered his own apartment.                   overhead, and knew that she would soon de-
My conscience rebuked me very loudly for seend in readiness for breakfast.  So, ashamed
my selfishness, and yet it was not altogether of my tardiness, I hurried through my morning
selfishness that made me so disinclined to a toilet, and descended to- the kitchen to con-
tete-i-tote with him that night.  I was deter- mence my neglected duties. 1 was there met
mined that by no carelessness of mine should by the agreeable sight of a genial fire burning
the promise I had given again be broken, and I in the stove, while upon it the kettle was sing-
really feared for the firmness of my resolution, ing cheerily. The good genius who had thus
had it been put to the test of another interview  performed these earliest household duties, was
with my husband as exciting in its nature as seated in front of the stove with the morning
the one of the previous afternoon. Once the paper in his hand.
twenty-four hours to which I had pledged my-  "Oh, John !" I cried apologetically, "I an
self had elapsed, and I should be as anxious as so sorry. I really overslept myself this morn-
he for a full and clear understanding of how ing, and I am afraid I shall keep you all wait-
the ground really lay between us. I had re- ing for breakfast."
solved to place before him a full accent of his  "It is of no consequence in the world, so far
brother's conduct, humiliating as the confession as I am concerned," he said ; " you know I am
would certainly be to me. I felt that it was his a gentleman of leisure, and an hour or two lost
-due, so long as I bore his name, and accepted in the morning does- not trouble me much. I
his protection, to keep from him no secret which, am glad you slept Well, Caro ; I did myself,
as my husband, he ought to know, and nothing also ; better than I have slept in any night
would I extenuate or hold back. My innocent since Frank Nettleby'st;party."
encouragement of what I considered the broth-  I looked curiously a't him, and he laughed
erly affection of a boy ; my extortion from his at my evident amazement. Never had I seen
unwilling lips of John's fatal secret; my strange such a change in any one as had taken place
misunderstanding of Agnes's feelings, and final- in him during the past twenty-four hours. lie
ly the disgraceful interview which hid termi- looked ten years younger than he had yesterday

I,


106                  MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

EDDIE HARRINGTON'S PASSION.           107

done. His cheeks were flushed, his eyes spark-
led, and his voice was as joyous and light-heart-
ed as that of a boy. What had become of that
jealous monster, on murderous thoughts intent,
whom Eldie, but yesterday, had depicted to
mse in such frightful colors? Unconsciously I
heaved a great sigh of relief, and with that sigh
a mountain of care, of whose existence I had
hardly beei conscious, was lifted from my
heart, and I laughed too, I knew not why, as I
met his eyes.
" Yes !" he said, answering my mute inquiry.
" You are right.  I am changed indeed. The
blind, jealous fool who rushed from your pres-
ence yesterday will never  return to you.
Rieliard's himself again,' and can defy all the
ghosts of all the dead and buried passions that
ever disfigured either your life or his own, to
transform him again into the self-tormenting
wretch lie so long has been."
'But why- ?" I commenced, and again lie
answered, before my lips had formed the ques-
tion- -
" Common sense has returned to me. One
ray of truth has illumined the chaos of my in-
aginings, and now all is light and peace."
''You have grown poetical, I perceive, along
with all other changes," I said, a little crossly,
for I could not forget that however his mind
might have been illumined, mine was still grop-
ing in darkness ; a darkness that never could
be illumined while the barrier his crime had

reared between us mnaiitaiued its position.
" I have not the time to seek an explanation
of your mystical speeches now. help me lift
out the table, please ; it is Itigh time break-
fast was ready."
He obeyed my mandates in a fashion, that
is, he himself lifted the heavy table from its
position against the wall, and placed it in the
middle of the room, utterly disdaining the as-
sistance I stood ready to afford.
"(Get to your cooking if you are in such a
hurry.  I will try my hand at setting the table.
Spare mc those scornful glances, Mrs. Harring-
ton; I am quite competent to the task, I assure
you."
What could it all mean? I asked myself,
as, dreading my dignity should yield to the joy-
ous face and cheery voice, I yielded him the
occupation he sought, and busied myself with
other preparations for the meal.  Presently he
stood by my side again, and, as I hammered
viciously at a beef-steak, he re-commenced the
attack.
" Any thing else I can do for you, my dear?"
" No !" I curtly replied.

"Well, then, perhaps you will let me tell
you what I think you will consider good news.
Frank Nettleby and I are friends again, and on
Monday I resume my old position in the store."
"I am glad of that," I said, looking up at
him, with tears of joy starting to my eyes .
"glad, of course, that Agnes's lover and you
are friends, but still gladder to think that you
have at last found suitable employment. I
have felt so sorry for you, John, lately - I
could not help it, in spite of-"
" In spite of what ?" he questioned eagerly,
as I stopped abruptly ; but I paid no attention
to the question.
"Tell me all about it, can you ?-why you
quarreled, and how you have both succeeded in
forgetting your grievances ?" For surely, I
thought, if a knowledge of John's crime had
been the cause of the quarrel, he never could
have resumed his position in the store.
He flushed deeply, and his eyes sank before
mine, as he answered, at first somewhat con-
fusedly, but afterward rapidly and distinctly-
"I told you yesterday, Caro, you know, what
an absurd impression I had for months been la-
boring under. I know now how utterly founda-
tionless my suspicions have been, and what a
consummate fool I must have appeared both to
you and Frank. If you knew all, perhaps you
would not think me quite so mad as you now
must; but I can not tell you my excuses now;
indeed, they are no excuses, after all, and I shall
never offer them as such. The most I can hope
is, that they may serve to extenuate my folly a
little; excuse it, nothing can. I should have
believed in iyou, in spite of mischief-makers ;
and had I done so-but I see you are impatient
to hear of my interview with Frank, and ex-
planations of all that preceded it will come in
due time, for henceforth, Caroline, there shall
be no misunderstandings between us ; whatever
may be our troubles, I will have no more mys-
teries."
"That is my own determination," I said, as I
met bravely the honest eyes that so fearlessly
gazed iito mine.  "And I, too, will have a
story to tell at no distant day, that will per-
haps grieve and anger you not a little. But go
on with your own account now.'"
"When I left you yesterday, I went imme-
diately to Edwin-but perhaps he has told you
of what occurred between us? He promised
me that he would when I left him, though I
hardly believed at the time that lie intended to
keep his word."
"lie didn't," I remarked concisely ; for I
need scarcely say that to not cite syllable of the

graphic story with which Master Eddie had yes-
terday regaled me, did I now give credence.
And John resumed-
"I feared as much. Then that, too, is re-
served for me to tell, but the task must be de-
ferred until a later date. It was dark when I
went to seek Frank, for as I was desirous of se-
curing a private interview with him, I waited
until I knew that I should find him in his
rooms, and then I sought him there. I was
fortunate enough to find him alone, and in a
very few words I explained to him how the web
of misunderstandings which my blindness had
woven around our friendship, had been severed
by the discovery I had made of his feelings tg-
ward Agnes. I told him of my past sufferings
and my present remorse ; I humbled my pride
before him as I never thought I could have
done to a fellow-man, and entreated his pardon.
I pleaded my cause bravely, Caroline, for I per-
suaded myself that in winning his pardon, I
was also winning yours. And like the noble-
hear.ted, generous fellow he is, he granted me
unconditionally the grace Lsought, complete ob-
livion of the past, and a cordial renewal of
more than our old friendship for the future. I
communicated to him the purport of your let-
ter, inviting him in my own name, as well as
in yours, to call upon you at the time you ap-
pointed, which he faithfully agreed to do."
"You have told me nothing about the origin
of your quarrel with him, John ; whether it
was your fault or his, or when it transpired."
He looked a little foolish.
"I do not feel at all anxious to tell you,
Caro, I assure you; but as I have promised to
make a clean breast of it, I will conceal nothing
As I told you yesterday, the cause of our es-
trangement was the belief existing in my breast
(how impressed there is too long a story now to
tell), that you loved Frank, as you had never
loved me. Do not insist upon my telling more.
You can not guess the mortification which even
the bare remembrance of my folly now occa-
sions me. Your wifely purity I never for one
moment doubted ; hardly in that moment of
overwhelming ;passion when I discovered you,
flying from your home, as jealousy whispered,
to the arms of your lover. I believed even
then, mad with passion though I was, that your
mind was affected by the struggle you were un-
dergoing between your love and your duty.
The fever which had already seized upon you,
proved that I had partially surmised the truth,
and that for your actions that night you were
really not responsible. But though I could
feel no anger against you when your conduct

was thus explained, my ire against Nettleby
was all the more bitter. I sought hinuin the
first days of your illness, when I was almost out
of my senses with jealousy, rage, and the fear
of losing you; and branding him with every
epithet of shame and contempt that one man
could apply to another, I revealed to him the
base suspicions that were goading me to mad-
ness, and, deaf to remonstrance or explanation,
I declined all farther intercourse with him, of
whatsoever nature, and forbade him to comtmuni-
cate with any member of my family, under pai
of I know not what indefinite threat of vets-
geance. I do not suppose my threats would
have had much effect, had my suspicions been
true, or my accusations just ones; as it was,
imagining I dare say the mortification my in-
sane jealousy must be productive of to you, and
willing to save you all possible annoyance, lh
obeyed my behests as literally as if lie had real-
ly feared the mad threats I had made. That is
all I have to confess, Caroline ; and now tell
me that you have forgiven entirely all my stu-
pidity, for, indeed, it has been no worse, as you
villa know when you have heard all that I can
bring forward in extenuation ; yet, I have a
longing to hear you say that you will forget and
forgive all the wrongs my jealousy has inflict-
ed upon you, from your own kind and generous
heart, without waiting to hear my excuses, or to
judge the extent of my misdemeanors."
Ie looked at me so eagerly, yet so confident-
ly, seeming so certain of receiving the answer that
he desired, that my heart ached within me when
I remembered that, while all his.cause of comim-
plaint against me had been completely swept
away, msine against him still remained in full
force. I could not conquer the trembhig in
my voice as I answered-
Your sins of jealousy and suspicion, John,
I find no difficulty both in forgetting and for-
giving, for, until yesterday, I did not even know
that they existed. You unwst know-it can not
be possible that you have so long failed to know
that my alienation has sprung from a far dif'er-
ent, a far more serious cause."
He looked at me wistfully, and yet a little
perplexedly too, as lie said-
"Like yourself, I can not understand how you
have failed to know that it was jealousy of
Frank Nettleby that has caused my lmnEst un-
pardonable conduct toward you; and 11 ave as
surely thought that it was love of him which
had turned your heart from me. You say it is
not that ; you tell mec that you have never even
suspected my jealousy ; it Hleaveni's mnamne, what
is it then that eani so have altered you?"'


STRANGE DEVELOPMENTS.             IO

I hung my head mutely; not yet had come
the time for my confession, and I dared not say
a word, lest I should again unconsciously break
the promise I had given the day before.  John
looked at me, as I stood before him, with eyes
so eager, so questioning, that I felt as if they
were reading my very soul.
"I know you do not love another," he said,
in a voice whose pathos stirred my spirit to its
inmost depths.  "My wife, (do you not love
me?"
I turned my white face toward him; my eyes
looked into his, and the truth sprang to my lips
as so long it had been in my heart-
"God knows I do ; I can not help it."
His thee was lighted up as if by magic; every
shadow of doubt and perplexity vanished as he
looked at me, and in a voice quivering with ex-
ultation he said-
"'Then all is well. So long as we love each
other, my Caroline, no difficulties, no estrange-
ments can seriously impair our happiness. Tell
inc what it is that I have done to anger you?
Once brought to light, I know this hideous spec-
tre will prove to be the merest nothing that ever
an imaginative woman allowed to torture her."
"Don't force me to become your accuser,
John," I said, and the tears started to my eyes.
"Your own conscience must surely supply you
with an all-sufficient cause for my estrange-
sient."
lie looked puzzled for a moment, and then
s with a start, as if the idea had but just occurred
to him-
" Surely !" lie said, " you have not been al-
lowing that miserable affiir at Casey's to cause
all this trouble between us?  It was all hushed
up at the tine, you know, and I had hoped it
was quite forgotten ; I would have told you all
about it myself, long ago, had I not hoped to
spare you useless pain by keeping the knowl-
edge from you. Your pride must indeed have
been of a fiercer nature than I had ever dream-
ed it, if you are going to allow such a trifle as
that to influence you so long and deeply."
I was almost paralyzed at the audacity which
could speak of so heinous a crime in so flippant
a manner.   When I spoke again it was in a
cold, hard voice, that showed no signs of soften-
ing or relenting.
"A triple or not, Mr. Iarrington-and I sup
ppose by familiarity with crime we may learn to
1ook upon any deed, however horrible, as a trifle
I think voi will find it all-suflicient to hinder
se from ever again being, in asughit save the
iiame, your wife. My pride h as still enough vi
tadity to preserve me0 from aiiy comnpanionshlip

that I can avoid, with the man who has brought
dishonor upon my father's name."
"Nonsense !" he said, and he actually laugh-
ed, a joyous, exultant laugh that almost pro-
voked me to a flood of angry tears. "My dear-
est girl, if that romantic notion of yours is all
that is to intervene between me and happiness,
I do not despair of proclaiming myself, ere the
new year has come upon us, the happiest man
in Boston. By this, I swear it !" And placing
a hand on either side of my head, he lifted my
face to his, and, stooping, kissed me.
I was terribly indignant, but, fortunately for
him, the entrance of Agnes to inquire concern-
ing the mysterious non-appearance of breakfast,
caused my wrath to pass off speechlessly, and in
triumph and good nature my husband took his
place opposite me at the table.
No farther opportunity for a matrimonial tste-
a-fate did I afford Mr. Hlarrington that day. I
kept Agnes with me constantly while I went
about my household duties, and ere they were
all accomplished, Frank Nettleby made- his ap-
pearance. I will not detail the reader by a
prolonged account of the conversation which
then ensued. It was a painfully embarrassing
one to me in some respects, yet, relieved as I
was of the one great fear that he (Frank) was
cognizant of my husband's crime, all other
grievances seemed but minor evils.
Frank, himself, was only too glad to have the
course of his love affairs thus suddenly and
pleasantly made smooth before him, to quarrel
at all as to the manner in which the affair was
settled, and with his natural generosity of tem-
per, tacitly consented to forget and forgive, en-
tirely and immediately, all the disagreeable cir-
cumnstances which had occurred in the last six
months. Eager and enthusiastic as ever, Frank
Nettleby at thirty was as self-satisfied and con-
fiding a lover as he had been at five-and-twenty,
and his extravagant devotion to Agnes was dis-
turbed by no doubts as to the complete reciproc-
ity of feeling on her part. Nor do I think
he had any cause for doubt, for I fully believe
that then, as now, my little sister loved her
handsome adorer with all the strength and pas-
sion of her nature, which, if not a very deep,
- was as innocent and guileless a one as.ever was
possessed by woman.
Frank, in his old unceremonious fashion, stay-
ed to dine with us, and John, seeing no proba-
bility of quiet at home, and probably not yet
able to feel himself quite comfortable in his
friend's society, with a mnuttcred apology be-
- took himself to the streets, and I, heaviing the
lovers to their own devices, quietly sought my

room, to muse in quiet over the odd and excit-
ing events that had transpired within the past
few days.
CHAPTER XVIII.
STRANGE DEVELOPMENTS.
SOMETIME during the course of the afternoon
Mr. Nettleby departed, not however until he
had extorted from his fanc the promise to ac-
company him in the evening to some place of
amusement which he imagined held forth par-
ticular attractions. The coy lady had only con-
sented upon the condition that either I or Miss
Jenny could be persuaded to accompany her.
I proved obdurate ; but Miss Jenny finally yield-
ed to the joint persuasions of the lovers, so it
chanced, after tea, when the three had departed,
that John and I were left alone, to luxuriate
as freely as we pleased in the pleasures of a
confidential interview.
Mr. Harrington had accompanied the trio to
the door, and after fastening it upon them, he
returned to the parlor to find me standing by
the front window, gazing blankly into the gas-
lighted streets, longing for yet dreading the
coming explanations, which in my own mind I
had quite resolved should settle at once and
forever the future relations which were to be
maintained between us.
John's first act, upon entering, was to come to
my side, and pass his arm around my waist.
I pushed him away from me with all the strength
I could muster.
"Once for all, let me tell you, John Harring-
ton, this must not, shall not be.. If you persist
in forcing your affection upon me, spite of what
I have told you concerning the nature of my
feelings toward you, I will leave you immediately
and forever. I will, though my heart should
break in doing so."
He looked at me, gravely indeed, but with by
no means so submissive an air as I had intended
him to exhibit.
"Very well, my dear, I will do my best to
refrain from such demonstrations of affection if
they really displease you, but you must not ex-
pect me to act the part of a despairing lover, for
I tell you candidly I don't despair, by any means.
Be seated now, and let me hear the explanation
which you have been kind enough to promise
inc."
Now I had fully intended, in my mental antic-

which his dark secret had been revealed to me,
and finally winding up with an account of yes-
terday's interview. But somehow, when once I
started to speak of Edwin, my mind, still excited
with the disclosures of the preceding (lay, re-
verted continually to them, and before I knew it.
I found myself pouring into my husband's atten-
tive ear a complete description of the conversa-
tion which had so distressed me ; incoherent in-
deed, from tears and blushes, yet at all events
sufficiently clear to render the whole affair toler-
ably evident to my hearer.
He listened to me throughout in silence, a
contemptuous smile playing round his lips diu-
ing the account of the imaginary interview be-
tween his brother and himself; but gradually,
as I proceeded, a dark frown settled upon his
brow, while his compressed lips and hands in-
voluntarily clenched, told how powerful was the
restraint he was putting upon himself to repress
a more noisy demonstration of his wrath, until,
when I told him of the concluding words of my
would-be lover, and the insulting kisses which
he had dared to press upon my lips, then a sav-
age oath, the first I had ever heard him give
utterance to, burst from his lips, and springing
from his chair, lie paced the room in violent
agitation.
It was some moments erc he could suflicient-
ly control himself to speak to me again ; then
he came and stood by my chair, and said in a
voice more of sorrow than of anger-
lie is my brother, Caroline ; what can I
do ?'
Relieved beyond measure to find, that the
anger I had so much dreaded to arouse he was
certainly able to hold in suitable control, I re-
sponded hastily-
"Do ! you can do nothing, of course. There
is nothing to be done. I do not imagine that
Eddie will make his appearance before either
of us again at a very early date, and the wisest
course for us to pursue, for our oivn sakes and
for Jenny's, is to bury the whole affair in utter
oblivion."
" You are right," he said gravely, resuming
his seat as he spoke. "Any disturbance made
in the affair would bring more mortification
upon you than upon him. It is only one snore
count in the indictment against him. Ieaven
help him when it comes to be settled !"
"John," I said, a little timidly, after a mo-
ment's pause, "how happens it that you can

ipations of this moment, giving my husband a look upon this affair in so rational a light, when
complete synopsis of my intercourse with his you were so unreasonably angry with poor
brother, from the very beginning of our intimacy ; Frank for so much lighter a cause ?"
telling, in the course of the tale, the manner in  "It is your love I am jealous of, Caroline.

1 08                      MY IIITSBAND's CRIME.


110

MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

not theirs.   All the world may adore you if all o
the world pleases, and so long as I am satisfied i
you give no returning affection, it will disturb     e
me   not a whit.     Frank Nettleby I was fool
enough to believe you loved.      Edwin Harring-d
tol-'    lie stopped short, but thee ontemptu-~
ous shrug of his shoulders more than finishedI
the sentence.
" Ah ! you don't know all yet," I began, in-r
teilditlg then to tell of iny own  mistaken con-.
duct toward my brother-in-law, but I was in-
terrupted by a ring at the door-bell, which John
left the room  to answer.    Ile returned shortly,I
and tossed a letter into my lap.-      .
" A very bulky missive for you, delivered by a1
little ragged urchin, who sCanlltered off as soon
as he sad thrust ite document into my hands."
I tore opel the elivelope in some surprise,
and glanced at tlse signature.
Edwin Ilarrington-"
I could not repress an ejacilation of dismay,
which made John, who hsud picked up a news-
ptper over which he was glancing, evidently
determined to evitte no curiosity, look up at
rt rather allXiotlsly antd sty-w
Nothing wrong, Caro, I Hope ?"
" No," I replied briefly, and then turning to
the comn eteelne'nt of the letter, hogan eagerly
its perusal.  I did not finish it until sometime
later, for the  disclosure which     the first fewV
pages revealed to me, rendered me for a time
quile i-neasjlse of comprehen ing the rest.
For the saske of unity, however, I will tran-
scribe the precious epistle in all the perfection
of its audacious villainy,  It was dated the pie-
ceding cycning, and ran thus
Mv A si:tD ('Aisotsr Pe-For, spite of fate-spite of your
sib isand--spite of yourself even, that title I have a right
to use, and no one cal-  deprive se of the privilege-Ins
sty interview ye-terday with my stagacious bisrother, he
c's'te sifrmi me a promise that I would reveal to you the
itsguitus little tiain of circumstances, principally origi-
satl b hy stystlf, by whics I tisas induced to believe that
Mr. 1Et l-bysitiS thi honor of reigning supreme in your
atfc'stion  to this utter exclsiion of his marital claims.
With the charity t shih it is his custom to exercise in
judging of the timotivis and intentions of your humble
servant, he received my promise, so unesitastingly given,
wiith masked incredulity, and I readily saw that ie had
very little ideaI should keep my word. Consequently,
for the express purpose  of disconcerting Iis sage conclus-
sonstio  espeally is I can conceive of no earthly tmo-
ite' fr  sithshiolding from your knowledge a series of
stratagemsi of which 1 at not ua little proud), I will give
yot herein a true statement of thei fats in the case,'' noths-
ing extenuating , and sitting down naught in malice."
Butt first I have a little confession of my own to make,
which, when you are madis  acquainted with, I am sure
you will a'ree stith m e ins thinking osf much more interest
tash imprtalncsiie ltist ths' hiii'.story s-s' Iis jealousits stuspiciosa.
lit sevsalitsg lthie ps'ss-iou- little tmysiey of site, it will
Isit seeryvI tIntranport yous back ito te rcalmss of Clue
firty list ti us tisse whensu first I begans to hove yost; fsor
there isis ai thnse, ohi ! Ctrnure of msy hseart ! iwhesn I net

snly loved you not, but positively regarded you with feel-
ngs of veritable disdain. In those far-off days, when the
frit was still within my grasp, ere my blundering broth-
er had stretched forth his hands to pluck it, I considered
Miss Caroline Manvers a commonplace, inanimate doli, as
devoid of passion as of beauty; nor did I ever dream of
my deplorable mistake-the one mistake, mark you, of
my eventful career-until, upon my return from Europe,
I beheld in the woman who sat at the head of my broth-
er's table, and was called by my brother's name, the one
woman whom I could love; the one soul throughout the
universe of animate creation whose pulses I could have
taught to beat responsive to my own. I recognized this'
fact in all its appallmig intensity, and resolved from that
self-same moment to combat the decree. I commenced
with myself somewhat in this fashion: " The Lord who
made John IIarrington and myself, has seen fit to endow
him with home, friends, respectability, and the woman he
loves; to ise lie has denied these gifts, but in their place
He has given brains, and with them the steadfast deter-
mination and undoubted ability to win for myself the
woman whom I love. Thie odds are on my side, John
IIarrington, and I think I shall wim  the game."   -
From that moment I set myself to work to steal from
Isis arms the treasure I coveted, the woman whose posses-
sion would have mado of me any tliung she willed; whose
loss will make of me-that which I love you too well to
mention.
I have failed ; I have risked all and lost all; I ant not
one to struggle against fate ; still less am I one whso
soud rather destroy the jewel ie can not grasp 'than see
it sm the possession of another. Your love will never be
given to me; then what care I to whom it is given? As
well to John Iarrington as to any other man ; nay, I will
say still more; I iad rather it were given to him than to
any other man ; I owe him several good-natured turns,
and I imis not ungrateful; I will give sins back ius wife ;
would that he could appreciate her as she deserves ! Biut
that, beloved Caroline, no man save myself could do; and
me you have rejected.
That my love is far above all petty malice, let the fol-
lowing confession prove. To secure yosus happiness I draw
down unhesitatingly the blackest opprobriums upon my de-
voted head, and all that I ask at your hands itn return, is
an occasional sigh to the memory of one who, despite his
errors, loved you as only lie could love.
You were a very devoted couple in those days of my
first dawning love ; I will give you both credit for that.
I was obliged to watch long and sharply ere I detected a
lasw in your matrimonial armor. At last the fortunate
slay arrived. I guessed at it darkly during that memora-
ble dinner in whict lthe character of Mr. Casey's clerk
was so freely dilated upon. I might perhaps have drop-
ped the clse thus found from want of farther immediate
unravehnent, had not my worthy brother himself direct-
ed me to the light. The emotion whiclt John displayed
at that time was evident enough to yotr unsophisticated
eyes, and of csrs e did not escape mine. I had thought
myself pretty well posted in his private affairs, and, I con-
fess, such needless excitement puzzled me not a little. I
seized the first opportunity to ask him the cause.
"What affected you so strangely during Frank Nettle-
by's revelations ?  You only told the simple truth, and
Frank knew as well as yourself that it was purely impos-
sible that you should be the person alluded to by S."
And in guileless simplicity he responded-
" It was not Frank Nettleby's suspicions that I shrank
from exciting, but those of my wife. Site knows nothing
ashout the Casey affair, and I pray God site never may.
She is extremely highs-spirited and over-sensitive regard-
ing any stain upon our family honor. My agitatio was
caused by the dread that the knowledge of that shameful
.a.ir shod    noome upon lien unpreparedi, ans at such a
time and place."
"n Ohs," eaid I careliess-ly, ''I thought perhaps it seas be-
canoe yen wore a little sensitive conscerning the influence
Nettleby seems to exercise over lien."

VELOPMENTS.

111

s

STRANGE DE
"Nonsense!" was the impatient rejoinder. "Nettleby
and she are old acquaintances; it is natural that site
should pay him more than ordinary attention."
"Oh, of course, John. You know I would not dream of
suggesting that your wife cares more than shs ought for
Frank, bet you know, I suppose, as well as I do, that he
is madly in love with her. It was on her account, you
remember, that he left America when you were married.
Poor fellow I he is not wise to seek her society so constant-
ly now."
That was enough; I had now possessed myself of mate-
rial sufficient to have sown dissension between the fondest
couple that ever breathed. Jealousy on the part of the
husband, pride on the part of the wife-invaluable treap-
ons were these in the hands of so skillful a fencer as my-
self, and I wasted no time in setting to work.
You will doubtless remember the conversation I held
with you shortly after, in which you disclosed to ue wtshst
you imagined to be your sentiments concerning love and
honor.~ That I was fdol enough to take it for granted
that you spoke the truth, I sorrowfully admit.  Ican
only account for this unusual blindness on may part by
the plea that I was in love, and in my infatuation seized
eagerly upon an assertion that it was so much my in-
terest to consider true. I ought to have known that a
' woman of your strength of character possesses affections
as powerful and enduring as her nature ; that with such
a one, to love once is to love forever, in utter disregard
of the worthiness or the unworthiness of the msan upon
whom she bestows herself. Alt these truths are patent
to me now, but then I was scarcely more clear-sighted
titan yourself, and I suffered myself to be ensnared as
easily as the veriest shool-boy might have done. But to
return to my recital.
I rather disturbed your peace of mind in that interview,
did I not ? I flatter myself thdse seeds of suspicion were
very judiciously sown ; at all events, as you yourself can
testify, they were of rapid growth, and bore plentiful fruit.
There is no need for me to dwell upon the events of the
next few months. I was not such a tyro in the art of de-
eeption as to pour the calumny I meditated into unpre-
-pared ears; still less was it likely I, should shake your
confidence in my own guileless simplicity by open attacks
upon the character of the man whom I as well as yourself
was bound to love and reverence. I was prepared to
worship him se enthusiastically as did his charming wife,
could that worship in the end have helped me to win her
affections from him.
I made no char es, no definite assertions of any thing
concerning him; yet, if yous will do me the justice to re-
call those days, you will remember that not one of them
passed over our heads wherein my little scheme was not
dexterously forwarded. Now it was a covert insinuation;
now a broken sentence; now a sigh or a tear appropriate-
ly introdtuced, and applied by you as I intended it should
se. The half-spoken charge which I had brought against
himt upon that memorable day of our argument, I never
for one moment suffered you to forget. Doubt rankled its
your heart, and the wound spread and festered until you
became so sore upon the subject of John's honor and truth,
that you grew to imagine the most casual sentences re-
ferred in some indirect manner to the subject which so
-ineessantly haunted you.
So matters progressed, and at last I came to the conclu-
sion that yen were "ripe-for rebellion," and then I let fly
my thunder-bolt.
You of course have not forgotten the coin and its tell-
tale envelope? The shock yos then received affected my
sympathetic heart seaircely Icess titan it did your' owvn. Had
it only been possible to have west your love without tor-
tursing you in te process, believe me, dearest Caroline, I
should tsyself have bsrne tenfold Cte agony I was obliged
to infdict upon yen, tisat you msfighst have gene scathecless.
' et it could not be; thousghs I knew when I replaced te
, blank paper wichl hsad enfolded te coin withs te delecta-
ble letter which I that morning hsad ratnsacked boxes and
drawers to discover, and had mutilated to suit myputr-

pose, though I knew what suffering its contents nst
bring upon you and through you ttpos my ingeniousself,
yet I hesitated not in tiy intention, but withs steady
nerves accomplished my design nand by this seemingly
fatuitous discovery, your minsd readily received the is-
pression I had intended that paper to convey ; and all this
with no apparent intervention of mine, with not one
doubt awakened concerning my fraternal affection.
Was not that a tmaster-.troke of genius? / think it
was, and I consider myself quite a competent jtdge itt
these nice little Machiavellian msanouvres. However, it
is scarcely fair to expect that you should now appreciate
my talents as I could wish you to To, and as I know, msy
Caroline, that you are capable of appreciating them m;
but the day will comeiwhen'you will do se justhi e ; nt ien
you will turn with contempt from   the dlull, plodding
earth-worm, who claims'yos as his wife, to that soaring
soul, so tuned in unison with your ownt, whom now  so
madly you reject and disavow.
Witll more than tie blindness of Titania of yore, yos
fondly imagine that the realization of your ireamt ish
been found in the uncouth creation whom m sdeli  llhtly
you adorn with the glories ofyour own luxuriant itnsi-
tion-, and lost in tie magic spell which has thus bewilder-
ed your reason, you turn from Oberon, your king, your
mate, with a fatuity that for your sake ie can sto wOnly
hope may J indefinitely prlonged.
Ileave.s I t isen I remember those slays of bsi- -where-
in hour after hour I sat unc'hidiedby-your side, lbtking  i
the light of your glorious eyes, reading in vur glow in
face tie ardor that fired my ott impassioned brea-sta,
in words that great souls had written for souls like om s to
enjoy, I poured into your' listening car thoughts aid vie-
-ions never to be obliterated from your birain and hmeart;
when L recall those dastye, I could almost wish I had been
the fool yos thought me ; the pretty, amiable soy, looking
up to his stately sister-in-law withm l  iraculous blendinsf
of respect and tifection, suite unconscious of the exi ti-ei
of suc i monstrous possibilities as faithless u ive., jeslous-
husbands, and adorng lovers. There were times during
those few brief tmonsths that I wasactually happy; whises
I almost pso'uadei myself that virtue ws not a  ham;
s that happiness might inideedI se found in tme hloso m of
one's own family, etc., etc. ; and I even tried to turnip my
thoughts from you, Isy sisueens, tind to woindcrt whethse',
with wife and hsome of nmy ownm, I too might stot taste thso
iblessedness I envied Josts. I tried to imagine mv-elf a
Benedict, with the goldes-ihaired Agnmes for ty sp use; I
tried to inmaginte a fumtur of domestic love and peace w'illh
that pretty little puppet for my fireside angel. I-teally
had serious notions at one time of following tite hepath yost
so benevolently had marked oit for mte, ansd of maslking
for myself another claim upon your affection by marrying
your sister. But tdo not be indignant atthis seeming in-
constancy, Caroline, for I sre-r to you t wtst but seem-
lug. One tone of your voice, ont glance of your  ye, oe
touch of your dainty hand, and down would tts ppsle the
airy fabrie T had so virtuously been trying to Cerect, sdmi
mad wit love, I would prostrate myself (snce oisres  a
your feet, and vow that neither heaven nor shell : hould
stay ssmy course until you were 'con- or hope fosrevel,
But I do not flatter myself these fond recollection s
minie can possess usch interest to M's. Hlatrsrimgtoin, t=-
apologizitng for my brief digression, I resume the thread
of umy narrative.
The blow isad fallen ! IIsad cried you " checkI" That
Joln had lied to yost, you coisd no longer doubt; that he
had lied to you to conceal somse deed of sassme andm dtark-
ness that disfigured his early life, you fully believed ; and
what could you then do but fly to me for esnlighstenment
andl relief? There wstie no other ousrse for you to purse,
and that you ultimately did so reflects leas credit upos
my discernment than my ingensuity.     That appltssioCs
Jenniy, hse it rensarkeed ci enpasnt, was5 a i-sis-' sohes for
whlich I teas quite unpr-epared ; your turning Cets'm its
yours trouble santd bsewsiiermssent teas at s-sie so nsaturalss
asnd pr'obabhe an occurrence, sisal I hasd siuite overlooked
[


.
a
s
,,
"

STRANGE DEV   N T.

I i ;

112                                   MY IIUSBAND'S CRIME.
any possible reference to her. It was the movenont of a  Does this announcement astonish you?  Does it seem
pawn whoe exitence I had forgotten, and how it fail 4d  quite incredible to you that the individual whose bu'gla-
to save you, I even yet can not understand. It is trie  rious exploits so aroused your virtuous indignation, should
that Jeeny did not know much of the mysterious a f r have been a boy of the tender age of-let me see-four-
which perplexed you, but what she didn't know you dil, teen-ten-~ive-how old did you imagine ue to have been
and how, between ye, you did not chance to blunder n celen yeers ego ?
the truth, is a circumstoance at which I marvel to the wpre-  3y bew ildercd darling! I will trifle with you no more,
ent day. Tho devil tod by his own that day, howev r but tell you in very earnest that the guileless boy upon
he may hove deserted Ini since.                      whom you have lavihel during the past year a flood of al-
-o you calme to me for 1h11), so lovely in your tearle.us ino't oatereal affection tyousec I no longer deceive myself
agony, that again was I almst teimuipted to waver in imi asto the nature of your regard), is in reality a man who,
scheme' (; and again iii I tralupleIl omy ow (weaknes  oven at so early a (late as eleven-nay, twelve-ye ss
and lead you fo'ii rar t+ the goal of blis, evin though  V ago lul attained the venerable age of seventeen. Still
faithful breast cohoed your every sigh, andI ached witji too young, do you say, to have performed the part I
your every pang.                                       claim to have acted in the little drama of which we havn
Is ii nere.sary that I should recall that eventful inteol-1 been speaking ? Perhaps so, had I been an ordinary boy ;
view:   Is not every incidio.(t impre'e alus( indelibly upo  obut, without vanity, 1 think I may say that 1 scorn the
your iemiory a (u(1(01 (ie?  linow that it is; yet even imputation. Precocity was one of my failing', and I assnr
at the ri k of being considered t'diou:, I iuiist call yonu  you that my seventeen year old brain originated ideas and
attention to soine of its detail.s. 'Wien you learn ill, you schlenes which that ale-pated Joh'of yours is, even now,
may iasrsel pierhalpi, in ireealling the scene to your mBind  quite incapable of conceiving.
at the ishhtriouic powers I tht lie)' developed. I flatten  At all events the fact is indisputable, that it is I, and
myself that no actor that ver stalked before the foot  I alone, wrho am entitled to thes doubtful honor of having
liihit i   luid have portaiy'd monre accurately than did  distinguished myself and faimly in the manneryou wot
that day the varying (m'tins of astonilhrmeit, conscious  of. I ami not liroudl of the iaffir, as I told you; it was
confil iim, iidignation, fraternal solicitude, shami, syn  scaindaloiisly ill-managed, and altogether unworthy of so
pathy with your wrong', anid amiable defense of you   clever a brain as I imagine mine to be. My youth is all
liiih inl's crime,    and finally thie remorseful t hinges of a1  I en allege inl defense ; that and the feet of being almost
oveir-i-itive con-ience, which were developedl to ex Tdistraugit with thii difticulltios into which my cleverness
tract lium you the piomie of creicy, which you ro rus-lhau brought me, and from which I thus awkwardly tried
hiutantly gav'.  Yoi. u will be less antiihed, lioii'ver1 to extricate myself.
at the taltoats which I thus unii expectedly evinced, lwhn I  One other declaration I must make, whetlier you be-
tell you Itandidly thit lily cmotionI Were not aull feigiedi.  liev'e m  or not I swear to you that pistol shot was ai
1 to tlie atual loilt of revelation, I asiiro you it wast accident.  owthiie cuied thing went off I know no more
g ni  alolie tha t wasIi manife ted; lut when I cam1(e ti tihan you; but that it was a voluntary act on my part I
tell iii pain 1Ii  lih ''owor true tale," of which nt solemnly deny. That Mr. Casey himself took this viev
eve i I.with all niy  hil phy am particularly drit, I of the ease is evident from  thie fact that he instituted
c'nte- it wa  i uaititrtled hame that iulpede 'ld my  iti nu'- 11ilegal pr'oceedliure against me. John go me out of the
inee -rand hi(eni, after you haurd iead the extract I had scrapeo ill li 'bluiiude'ing way, and the affair was hushed
11 int +1ou(t to you, you turned to  me ini passionate scorn, uip so complex tely, that even Jenny never knew why I re-
lith  igh lteous indlinatinii buir'ing eln yoir brow, the  signed lly situation to suddenly, coil quitted the coun-
feelinig that prompted miy liesiie of the criminal was the try.
mu1o, ' genuine emotion I had cver expsieieed iin1 my life.  I rambhled over Euirope for two or three years, expe-
it ws the badis of truth whichundeli  rly tiel whole pulot liencinig, I ventur ' to say, ill that tim  more of the zest,
that iui it it ionlueiuu iv (ii i iprie.iv'e. fI might n si- of life, th1n manly a m1an1 aon gather in 10n existence of
ly have fabricated a more pluh10 ibl0pa   tory,  nd indeed, in alf a century.  Finally I got tii ii of that and came
thie ctart, I had intended doiig so; your own mistake home to Jenny again, 11it0cotented to settle  1on to
suggstcd the ilea I finally carried out. I thought the imy books in tin easy, innocent fislionl that was quite 10-
selome a very wilhid o e eni it first occurred to me, But freshiung after my Holiday. It was about this tiuume I fret
af-'cr  I had meditated upon the sub'et uund b'gun to look  became acquainted withi yell, andii 'inie then my career
up tli teiri' u n11ltial evidence V coIuilld bring to beair upon jhas been well knowni tio you. I shall return to Europe
the supposed criininal, I was really ahnos taCrtled to find  again now, a11d if my present impressions continue, I
how simple andi atural a farce my plot could be m C1de to shall never re-visit America. I have ties in the Ol
assum.*                                               World which I an not unwilling to renew,mand Ii I had long
Need I a"iy that the event proved th1e sagacity of my  eine1 m1ade upi my mind to return there at no very dis-
hdeu'isiol? And yet how small a part, after all, dih I take tant day, whatever night have been the result of the lit-
in your deception!  I never lie when I can help it; I tle project I have been nursinlg so long. Ilaid you been
think it a low, disgraceful practice, utterly unworthy a tile companion of my travels, as I hlad once so fondly
man of genius. h'llre are a thousand ways besides down11- hoped, vastly different from  my present anticipations
rigit lying by wiclh thes desired enudcill generally be would 11(ehuvee the life before me. As it is, the end and
accsmlphehled, and with fir less risk and discomfort to  aim of my life for some tille to come must be to seek ob-
you', elf than always accompanies tihe vulgarity of a lie.  livion, and the probabilities are that I shall not be re-
Note how beaitifauhhy mx shemue dei'vloped its'ilf in this m 'arkably particular a' to the ways and nenuls by wih
instance. John denied thliat he had ever been in Casey C&amp;  I strive to obtain it. But I shallconquer at last. Picture
Co.'s euphloy; you though lie uad spoken falsely, aind yet not to yourself, my tender-hearted Caroline, an aimless
it was the literal truth ! You thought the letter which  wanderer, heart-broken and despairing ; such a one would
you discovered revealed that lie to you, and so it would be unworthy of adoring you as I have done.  As the
have done had it been addressed to your husband, which  remembrance of a faulltlesspoem, or an exquisite pict-
it was not. Finally your accepted thl'e me, paper testiuo- 1ire, 1must Caroine henceforth be to mie.  Life, glorious
ny as conclusive evidele of his guilt, which it would have  healthy life is still before me, mand in te boundless joys
been, doulbtless, hd it referred to him at alh, whils it did  which youth and intellect offer to my grasp, the, memory
nolt ; for old b- s .ry, thie multilated~ ltter, ((ld thec oi crse hopec' defeated achiemes, aund lighted Iov'e
newsah)per pa~ragrap~h, muy dear, hasty C'aroulinec, referred  ohiall forev-er vanislhomto obhion.  . . .
not he Dlctour Iharrinugton's oldesot, bill to his y'ounge"st eon;  Again I crav-e yeur pardon foe this egotistieal digres-
net to your harmole.s' hou.band, hut to his unm~oiitidaedl shoe.  Let me briefly narirate to youl the balancee of the
scamdp ef a burotheor, thue indtIidu~tal Wrho10 loihs the honor 'omiance which has1 lately bhen enacted, and then I mueal
of addressing yeu.                                     "ive a few moments ho this fulfillmenet of mcy promise ho

Si
'I'
*Jl

Jolnl, and make for hin the excuses he is too clumsy to  expendel in the process. To be sure John wnsi t sucha
nidak' for hui.slf,                                  firm believe' in my immaculate simllhuicityo asws y'oulr
I ncver have beens able exactly to understand what took  own dear, confiding self; and I grieve to :'y that m1
place between you and John the nilit following your dis - imple afiriation, even whlenl uttered in the mol st 
covery of his sIppOised guilt. That you had an explana- fected ald lucasll waoly, sea-'s' received witI an incrduhllity
tion of some sort I was convinced, but whether enough to wiith whic'hll my reeios 'Caursiol iue could never have ins ull-
colpromlise me Or not, I Was for a long time doubtful. edme. I had to ell you to my alidno mny time,l01nd, in
tohil has a pecluhali' faculty of concealing li thoughts and  n1concious elf-devotion, you never failed to reihpond.
coelins il his own obtuse fashion, that ornetimes puzzles  Io you relielmbe th dloiy yu followed  mi tol hei Irot
even me, and this wa the case during those weeks that door to try to gaIl postessioll of That terrible let ter, whlih
lyou were ill. Imagine my feelings if you can, Caroline, you tleughlt betrayed o0 mIchI that it was not gLood fo
at that ullooke-for denouemtent of mny Plot! For the the world to know ? Do you remember alho h    dIw   olm in,
Cirst time in my life I felt what you riglltous folks, I terrupted our little t(t-ut-tIle jut in ti1e to hear WOr'
'uppoe0, would dlenommate remorse. HadI my anoounnvres that amlluily cor'roborated a itatelent thloa' 11t dayhbthtir'
)een successful in accomplishing the effects which I l d- lhad fallen from my thiolghtless lip ?  WhVltiwonde.
sirel, I should never have thought, save with parlonalble then, that hue lieed h eIis own senses  hen 1 afterwanl
pride, of the means I had used to effect them. That I laid before hii snot only the letter which you i hd that
Should fail at all wao bad enough, but that I should have morning privately request'dIn m  to convey to Mr. Ne ile-
your death up1)01bony conscience to boot, was altogether by, but iilio thea1e01 which tIr. Nettleby ilhequal
01ore than I had1 barguained for. \What I suffered luring  privacy had desired me to hand to you. 'Thlere wSi 'aino
thoe weeks of suinpense, mortal tongue can never tell! danger of the letters thes'lveo undeceiving hin.  ll~li
-    nYou may perhaps guess at the intensity of my feelings not spent half e the rI'eviol. night mi concocting th'lem t
when I tell yo that at the timge you were lowest, when all render' likely any sh hl clulsy lisadveni. iture. Anld what
Iops of you' recovery Was givenulip, I Iade1 to myself a  motive could he hosibly have for dod'u bting that th ver'y
olemn pledge to this effect : c That if your life were  natural story I told to hil, in such2 an affectionate, broth-
spared, I wodld( repair the evil I had lone, and restore you  erly fashion, of how I haul, with some little huioituaion,, con.
Cto happiness ; in my own fashion if it were possible to do  seated to convey your letter, feeling all colfidn'eliniii yu:
'so, but, if I Ollce beeoume convinced that my owin schemes low, after I received Frank's answer, I catue across y-,'ir
were impraetiealde, then I would undo the mischief I had  note to him, which he had aeeilelally dropped frum hi
'done, and-restore yon to your ' [ool's Paradise' again, at pocket, read it unthinkingly, and discovel'ed it to colltallin
whatever cost to myself, as promptly and entirely as it matters of such grave iliport, that lily Conscience woulh
was in my power to do."                                 not rest until I had placed  oth 1the letters in Iy brother' s
'This letter is the fulfilhnent of tha-t pledge; for, mark  hands; how could he doubt, with hue letters before hii,
you, I never break fitl with myself; a resohsit'in  nce that luy guileless tale was trute
male, a vow once uttered, with my own soul security for  Thuat heid idbelieve it I have his own word to prove,
its fulfillment, and I Iwould redeem the ndo ti tihe very  and Johli can'tlie; it is a feat utterly beyond his uintail
letter, though my dearest hopes must be sacrificed in so capacity; yet hadl hi not limts.elf said so, I nover to his
doing. That I so long have delayed in accomlplishing a clay10 ho lid have been quite certain that, i had succ(cded
0pronuse I held so sacred, you must attribute to the 'fact in onttwitting Ihim. 'he prepo-lroufs course of action
that I still hoped to insure your happiness by the 'ame  which luuit puued toward you fromh that day to this,
event that crowned my own, namely, your acceptance of  has been so utterly at variance with what m y own co11-
my love. Once convinced that I could never culed mIain  duct would have been c' nIder similar ci'cmlst'nices, thoat
that endeavor, I have lost no time, as you dsee, in making  he ho's succeeded iii keepi gal me in a mild state of h-
you happy in your owno way. I pity your blidllness, but 5wilderment ever since your illness. Alnd1 hui mIlly 'ill,
submitt to fate.  The deplorable bad taste you evinced  Caroline, tho.ugh I do not, really like to confe 'l  I I think
in becoming the wife of JohnIarrington was the only   you may cafof you thanlk your owi(n incomprehe'niible
flaw ever discovered in your perfection, my queen, and I tempers, rather than any olscming of mine-, for the long
oliall always believe that pity rather than love fist led estrangement that has existil het5wen you.
you to commit that lnoieountable folly.               And now my taslc is clone. I have pried to mlily ow
And now a few words coneernling 1John's affair., and I satisfaction that thuouIgh intrigue is my itiveC s lemulnt, I
lave finished. lIe came to me this afternoon i a vast am by noi iiais 'devoid of that noble .siiicity of chha-c-
state of excitement, requirmig the recantation or explanha- ter which enaoubles   man-if yo twill pardon thie inle-
lion of several little bits of romance with which I have at gont thoulghl forcible exprionu  1111 lull hi the truth andi
odd time. during the past year regaled ilm. I was be- hlamle the deail!"  I huave fc'onfesed my ownl  defeat,
ginnilng to be vastly tired of the existing state of affairs, and in return for my o sacrificee at the altar of fra'rnal t-
and concluded if a crisis were comuilg that now was a very  feetion, Iask but lone boou 1 n retun.  o hItappy; forget
proper tine for its arrival ; so, promising y m  confession  the pa-t; conquer  the asp1irations of your higher elf, ail
witli II request similar to one I' afterward nale to yol, strive to be colntitein he l r n l'lof s u10the0man nfromtwosuluim
I drew fcruom hmll a promise that for twenty-foulr Hours the  I have so vainly' en(davored to rescue you; ; nd if uiever
pacrti ulars of our mtlevshou1ld remain: a secret. T'Ilynl you bestow a thoiuglt umpa tthat, dreaull 'boy',".Edudic'
I announced myself in readiness to answer, trtlfully and  IIarrilgton, fyrg.'t not that hi.s isin 11er io'llmitidh :d, a.
in detail, any tinuetLion he night see fit ,tpropound-   t 10 we"'french .holoars say, '10111' 1 p uuuuuuu' m us c Is' cc
IIe hadl, by some means, at last hscooe asakened to the letr," and he accordingly lenient; and thao1t iii  11(maynever
astounding fact that you we moot i love with Frank Nit- meet agaiil y15 uored Clrolin fr your akc : a well 1a
tieby, ad the poolr fellow was so unconscionably re- hih 'own, prays your devoted brother-ilacw,
norseful for havig doubted your w1ifely allegiance, thatEltil'iii u'':,luu.
ot of the kimncs of rmy' heart I pronisedl him that you
shlouldll have a full and true account of the manner in
which hue had been led to nubibe that very sagacious idea.  I hiltd  com encdl reading    tills Jllgicl uilon
And really, Caroline, my dear, I do not think yo 11ll finI CtompiOflsi)fllo n lt nmIi1 rl111e  seriouss felin g  tlum
it in your heart to blame him whenl I tell you that I hadi. .
far less difficulty im persuading you that he was a thief Itbng 115 0.111 (151 Swith aIIt-
and a murderer, than I had in convciing him tlhat your  i sViagle iuelaSineCSS.  'Yet, asI 1ead(  ll, it 00111
a~ffecltion ' had veny naulghtily lietoiwed themmselves muon  rCeudily lie imoag5ined  hIowX thle inlsultinig hll'es
another mndisidulal lilac huis exclusive self.
'Pile result as aciheved finally, but1 1 really feehl soo  l~llied fol' me at fearfuld inittrist. lBrlitlh-
ashamed of nmyseif lwhlen I roeebe 1101w mch~ lying as  essly  desouredl the peges,1 scamrc' comprIehendu-


114                MY HUSBAND'S CRIME.

ing their terrible import, until doubt was n
longer possible, when, at length, the truth burs
upon me, in all its appalling magnitude, that
for months past I had been believing my lhus
band to be one of the worst of villains, and tort
touring both him and myself with the estrange'
nent that false idea had created, while I novw
learned that I had only been taught thus to be
hiexve by the xvilest falsehood ever concocted by
man, and that John had never for one moment
censl to be the honorable gentleman I had
thought him when first lie Won iy love.
't'he paper fell from mv trembling hands ;
could not speak, bit I stretched out my hands
toward  iy husband with a cry like that of

erfully than words, of the agony of remorse
which overpowered mue. Then my head swam,
the world seemed passing away from me, and
the next moment I had fainted away in the
pitying arms that so tenderly opened to receive
me.
When 1 recovered consciousness, I found my-
self lying on the sofa, with John's face bending
anxiously over me. All trace of anger and re-
proach had vanished from his countenance.
He was very pale, and more than usually grave,
but there was a love-light in his eyes that com-
forted my distracted soul as naught but that
could have done.
"What is it ? what does it all mean ?" I

some wounded creature driven to bay.        cried confusedly, raising my hand to my head,
in an instant he was by my side, and had which was drenched with the cologne water
caught iiiy outstretched hands in his.      that he had poured upon it in his efforts to re-
" What is it ?" he cried with anxious tender- vive me.
nes, his face becoming scarcely less pallid than  Ue lifted me in his arms, and laid my head
my owni, as lie marked the overpowering cemoe upon his shoulder.
tion that shook my frame and impeded my tt-   ''It means," lie whispered, "that the night
trance.                                    of our sorrow is ended-the dawn has come,
" The letter! the letter !" was all that my and once more I hold within my arms my own
choking throat could say.                   dear, loving wife."  And then he bowed his
le picked it np, glancing hastily at writing head tup)On1 mini, and I felt that tears not all my
and signature. An angry frown darkened his own were moistening my cheek.
fle.                                         'There was no need of farther explanation on
"Morc of that inifrnal villain's work !" le either side. Ineffable peace had come upon us.
miuttered.  " What is it, Caroline ? 'fell me And, as I clung to hil in passionate silence,
what new treacheryli he has perpetrated against pillowing my weary head once more upon that
you ?"                                      loyal heart, whose great love had borne and
" Oh, .John !"I eried, my voice broken withforeborne so much, I knew that my sorrows
tearless sob;, "1 have thought-h told me- had forevermore vanished, and that henceforth
that it was you who was clerk in Casey's store naught but death could part him and me.
twelve years ago - that it was you of whom old  A little later, when comparative calmness had
S     told Frank Nettleby-and that it was you returned to us, and we could speak in other
wvho aid rolled and tried to murder Mr. Casey, than broken sentences and whispered words, I
and had been such    a wicked, wicked man sat beside him, and with my head resting upon
alwavs. Oh, John ! lie told me so."         his shoulder and his arm encircling my waist,
Johni's dark face reddened to the very teim- together we perused Edwin Harrimgton's fare-
ples as he listened to iii incoherent words.  well message.
And you could believe this of me, Caro-  John seemed to feel nothing but cool con-
line ? lie said.  " You-my mwife-could credit tempt, and, with almost his usual composure,
so gross a cahiiiny, and never give me even the declared that ie found nothing in the abomina-
shuadow of a chance to exculpate myself?' and 11 ple reduction that in the least astonished him,
there were actually tears in his eyes as lie after the first astounding facts had been made
spoke ; tears of mortification aiid outraged af- apparent. But as for me, I raged and wept al-
fection.                                    ternately, until at last, when the final words
I saw his emotion; I heard his reproachful vere read, I cried, in a passion of indignant
words; I felt in my inmost soul the bitter  ears-
wrong I had done hima, and I had nothing to say  " I could forgive him all the torture he has
in self-defense. My blind incredulity seemed ;nade me endure, all the wrongs he has caused
then so utterly incomprehensible, my miserable ine to inflict on you, his insulting language to
suspicions so gross, so unpardonable, I could not  myself; even those horrible kisses-John, I
speak. I could only gaze mutely into his face  oiuld forgive even them-but I never, never
with wilu, appealing eyes, that told, miiore pow- vill forgive him for the manner in which he

s
i
i
i
T
{
P
{
i
s
t

-4f

STRANGE DEVELOPMENTS.                                115
speaks of you !" and my voice was drowned in own insignificance when comparing his nature
sobs.                                     with my own.
John fairly laughed at my vehemence.      A scarcely audible "Yes !" gave hin the re-
" My lear ! that is surely the very lightest quired permission, and lighting the papers by
of his misdemeanors.  Nay ! do not weep so. the lamp that burned upon the table, he threw
Can the contemptuous opinion of such an ego- them blitzing into the grate, ahd in silence we
tistical villain at all affect my actual standing watched them consume. Love and reverence for
in your, or any other right-minded person's, es- my husband so filled my heart that every angry
timation?  He thinks, and is by no means and revengeful feeling was crowded out of it.
backward in saying, that I am far from being  ''We will never speak of him again, John,"
so extraordinary a genius as himself. I con- I whispered, as the last fitful blaze died away,
cede the point-without any argument, and sure- and of the evidence of Edwin IIarrington's
ly you, my love, would not wish it otherwise, guilt naught remained but smoke and ashes.
and will never regret that your love has fallen  "Amen !'' was the solemn response. Anl
upon the commonplace John Harrington rather then, hand locked in hand, my husband and I
than his brilliant brother. Let me destroy this once more took up the burden of life, wiser and
guilty letter, and in its ashes let us bury all humbler from the tribulations through which
hard and vengeful thoughts of the poor, mis- we had passed -the vows which each at that
guided man who penned it. May I, Caroline ?" time invardly recorded being no less solemn,
Ahi ! great and noble heart ! so cruelly and far more sacredly kept, than had been those
wronged and yet so ready to forgive. Very, which consecrated our wedding-day, five mm-
very humble did I become, as I recognized my orable years before.
TIIE END,


                                                                      
             
         
       
   
