
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Cornelio, or, The False Vocation; and, Valentine .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6167
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     CORNELIO; 
                     OR, THE FALSE VOCATION. 
                   
                  
                     NEW YORK: 
                     P. O'SHEA, 104 BLEECKER STEEET.
                   
                  1863. 
                   
                  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1863, by P. O'SHEA, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. 
                  
                     C. A. ALVORD, STEREOTYPER AND PRINTER.
                   
                
             
             
                
               CORNELIO; 
               OR, THE FALSE VOCATION. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           We often confound with vocation 
                           The complacent dream of pride. 
                        
                      
                     -HOLDER. 
                   
                
                
                  I. 
                  Two centuries ago, there lived in Magdebourg, a family that presented a striking example of the effects of labor and economy. There was not one who did not know and esteem honest Wilhelm Grusner, the master-carpenter. All that he possessed was his industry and his two sons, Albert and Cornelio. Grusner had founded an establishment, if not sumptuous and important, at least honest and respectable. Of course, it will be supposed that he made his sons two aids-de-camp. Albert was particularly useful to him, and it would have been very hard to decide whether "Wilhelm or Albert worked the most assiduously at his daily task. So Albert, though only twenty-two, was as much esteemed as those who are many years older, and more experienced. There was not a mother who did not wish him for her son-in-law; his future life seemed clearly traced before him. 
                  It was not so with Cornelio, (baptized with this Italian name on account count of his having had for godfather a sign painter from Milan). Cornelio, who had attained his eighteenth year, had no particular inclination for his father's trade; he became more and more tired of the compass, the rule, the plane and the hammer. On the other hand, he conceived for painting a perfect enthusiasm. Had he any spare money, he quickly spent it for pencils and colors; then he would employ the precious hours that should be devoted to his work, at tracing out shapeless sketches-for the poor stripling artist had but nature to direct him, and in his behalf nature had not been as liberal as she had been to Carregio, Claude Lorraine, and other geniuses so richly gifted. Cornelio had more ambition than means to attain his end. In the first place he would have required a master, but he had none. Wilhelm Grusner was always furious whenever he found in his house a strayed paint brush, and he thrust his hand through more than one piece of canvas. 
                  "That's it!" cried the carpenter, "more daubings, more nonsense! Why lose so much time and money in things that will never be of any use? Believe the sense of a workman and the tenderness of a father; it is not right that you should have notions that later will be pernicious to you. Cease, then, your painting, and follow the example of your brother er. Ah! he is a workman, he is, and I predict that he will make his way." 
                  As one may well imagine, Cornelio, though respectful towards his parents did not want for excuses to oppose those paternal remonstrances. He always undertook to cite the example of artists crowned by fame, but he did not name such as had died either in misery or despair. In those kind of struggles, Cornelio was, it is true, seconded by his mother, who adopted, without reserve, all her son's ideas. So then, whilst the father was proud of the work and the practical skill of his Albert, Madam Grusner was puffed up with the artistic efforts of her Cornelio. 
                   
                  There came a moment when one should give up to the other: it was Grusner. And when he had a right to command, he swerved from his severity so that Mina; his wife, should not be afflicted. Cornelio is now at liberty to follow his inclination for painting. He multiplies the number of his sketches, his portraits, his frescoes, and there was not a wall in his father's house but what was covered with colors by the apprentice-painter. He felt very happy when an order was given for the first portrait. One of the wealthiest traders of the fair of Dantzick, Master Petrus Greinlich had confided to Cornelio the care of handing down to posterity his own remarkable effigy, and Cornelio nelio gave him the worth of his money. Petrus Greinlich was delighted to see that the artist had made him a superb velvet doublet, bound with orange-colored satin, a real lace collar, and a hat with feathers; the whole figuring on the perspective of a palace. 
                  "You will be a great artist!" exclaimed the brave trader, quite flattered at having it so cheap. 
                  "Now, you see, my dear," said Mina to the carpenter, "that I was right to favor our son's vocation." 
                  But the carpenter shook his head in token of incredulity. 
                  Some time after this, Wilhelm Grusner was struck with apoplexy, and he died whilst uttering those sorrowful rowful and prophetic words: "Poor Cornelio! poor Cornelio!" 
                  "Well," said Master Greinlich, one day as he entered the house of widow Grusner, "now there, my young artist, you must not be so grieved. You have shed enough tears, and you have sufficiently proved your filial piety. Work in its turn must take its place. Resume your painting." 
                  "But, my dear Mr. Greinlich, what can I do? I am so disheartened!" 
                  "I have good news to communicate to you. The respectable curate of our metropolis has seen my likeness, he is delighted with it, and he immediately determined upon confiding to you the decorations of a chapel." 
                   
                  "To me!" exclaimed Cornelio, moved and excited with joy. 
                  "To you, my dear friend, yes, to you. To-morrow you can begin the undertaking." 
                  With reason has it often been said, that men consider very little whether they are suitable for holding certain situations, as long as those situations suit them. So Cornelio accepted the good offer that was made, without reflecting if it were not more prudent to refuse it. To enter upon such a serious undertaking, thorough knowledge arid set rules would have been necessary, but where had Cornelio learned the science which the task demanded? Nevertheless he accepted it, As soon as the scaffolding was ready, he mounted it, full of ardor and vanity. Indeed it was curious to see his hair standing upright, his flashing eyes, his compressed lips, he having all the appearance of one inspired perhaps minus the inspiration. As he leaned on the edge of the scaffolding, he took care to look if he were observed, then he would assume an authoritative attitude. 
                  What a pity he made such bad use of the brush that he handled so well, and that he had but the hat and dress of Titian; otherwise let us pardon him his little extremes of vanity. It is next to an impossibility that the first success does not produce like effects. 
                  From morning till night Cornelio was there in his chapel, dabbling zealously against the walls, which would have probably complained if they had had a tongue. Our artist sought most assiduously the display of flashy colors; and neither did he spare sky-blue, chrome-yellow, or scarlet-red. At a distance you would have taken it to be an aviary of birds of paradise. From time to time good artists came and cast an ironical glance on the work, but Cornelio did not heed them, or else he attributed those demonstrations of criticism to pure jealousy. "Rivals!" cried he, "envious fellows! We well know what it signifies." And to put a stop to the underhand jealousy of those he called his enemies, he enclosed his chapel in vast draperies. He hoped by this means to obtain great success by surprise on the inaugural day. He had already conceived in his mind the praise he was to receive, and the words he would return in thanks. A conquering king would not feel more important on entering his capital. What disappointment for poor Cornelio, when the day that was to ring forth his triumph had come! 
                  A great crowd composed mostly of artists, writers, clergy, worldly men, were there in the body of the chapel, waiting for the painter to draw aside his tapestry hangings. The resounding bass-voice of Master Greinlich exclaimed: "See now if my protoge is not worthy of the honor granted him. Oh! when I interest myself about people, I take care to know them well, and esteem them according to their merits." 
                  The examination took place; we shall not say that there were various opinions, various criticisms, nor that they came to blows, nor tore each other's hair, to defend more or less the merit of the work. An unanimous opinion prevailed throughout the crowd; it was manifested by the loudest, the heartiest, and the most prolonged, laugh that had ever been heard in Germany. Petrus Greinlich himself, seeing the general hilarity, contrived, as he struck his big stomach, to laugh outright as the rest. 
                  Cornelio, pale, mute, and confounded ed, did not at first understand the nature of this demonstration; he was even at a loss to conjecture its cause. But he could not so far doubt of his own merit as to misunderstand the general feeling. A cold sweat trickled down his forehead, his knees bent under him, and the unhappy man sank down upon a bench that chance had very fortunately placed near him. The shouts continued to be heard, and Cornelio, as if moved by some sudden impulse, rose up, muttering in a groaning tone, "My God! my God!" He opened a small door, marked by the woodwork, and opening into a hall that led to one of the side entries off the church. The air of the street brought him a little to his senses. He ran on precipitately, and only stopped to breathe when he arrived near his father's house. 
                  There, again, Cornelio was struck with a novel sight, contrasting, however, with the one of which he had been a witness. On a little square on which was situated the house of the Grusner family, a crowd of people was assembled, their appearance was bold and picturesque, their costume simple, popular, and poetic. Those men wore beaver hats or caps on the side of their heads, and brown woollen cloaks on their shoulders. Their demeanor betokened a spirit of independence, and a stern gravity which did not exclude gayety. They all gazed towards the house, as if expecting ing some one or something. A window opened. Albert appeared on the wooden balcony, then the robust lungs of all those tradesmen shouted forth a thousand bravos, whilst the words re-echoed, "Long live Albert Grusner, the King of Carpenters!
                        In the Middle Ages, and even since that epoch, the greater number of associations of tradesmen elected a king on a certain day, which was generally on that of the patron saint of the parish.
                     
                   
                  In one group Cornelio heard these words, which mortified him exceedingly: "Albert is, indeed, worthy of the homage which we pay him. He is a good and brave tradesman! He has not his equal in all Magdeburg. He is not like his lazy brother, who shuns his father's trade to be an artist." 
                   
                  Yes," said another voice, "but I'm sure his behavior will bring him ill-luck" 
                  In Cornelio's present state of mind, this sorrowful prediction excited still more his exasperation. Forgetting all caution, he approached the group and exclaimed, in a voice full of terror and anger: "That your evil warnings may fall upon your own head, you fool! I am Cornelio, whose conduct you blame." 
                  The man thus addressed, coolly replied: 
                  "Your rage proves one thing, that you are in the wrong. If you had no remorse of conscience, you would not shout so loud." 
                  This sensible answer, instead of calming the artist, enraged him the more, and he cried: "Cursed be this town! cursed be its inhabitants! I shall go seek justice elsewhere! and never shall I put my foot into this house, where vulgar labor receives the honors due to genius!" 
                  As he finished this abrupt declamation, he retraced his steps, dashed through the crowd, and disappeared." 
                
                
                   
                  II. 
                  Indeed Cornelio had no particular view when he left Magdeburg-no thought for the future, and, we could add, no means. He had thought but of one thing-to escape from the scene of his humiliation-to hear no longer the sarcasms pronounced against his paintings, and the acclamations that welcomed his brother. Such feelings were condemnable: whosoever runs the risk of criticism, and flatters himself with high expectations, should endure animadversions patiently. Secondly, the success of a brother should rejoice, and not grieve the heart; hut so it was! Cornelio was deaf to all but the turbulent voice of his passions. 
                  He wandered away from his native city; he rushed on breathless and exhausted, insensible to the beautiful scenery and to the monuments which presented themselves to his view. What had become of this love of art, this desire to contemplate the masterpieces of great men? Since the hour of his departure, Cornelio had not entered a church. An irresistible movement led him on, not knowing what road he was following. 
                  Finally, the absolute want of money stopped him Exhausted, too proud to solicit public charity, our traveller sank down at the angle of a wall, determined to wait stoically that hunger which would deliver him from the wretchedness of this life. A rough voice made him shudder. 
                  "Well, what is it? said some one. 
                  "There's a fine looking fellow, pale and emaciated." 
                  Without answering, Cornelio raised his eyes and saw before him a robust personage of dark complexion, and of eccentric costume, his belt filled with daggers and pistols, like a corsair or highwayman. 
                  "I perceive," said this man, "that fatigue has overcome you. Drink first a little of this," and he handed him a gourd, "Then we shall make acquaintance." 
                  A little of this genuine liquor revived vived Cornelio, who, of a naturally confiding disposition, had soon made the unknown man acquainted with his sad experience. 
                  "In return," said the latter, "I shall also speak frankly. My name is Ralph Dickson; the sea is my country; with a few brave companions, I have undertaken expeditions and followed the glorious example of Christopher Columbus, Americus Vespucci, Vasco de Gama. Such a trade affords honor and profit. Each of our voyages would enrich a whole city, with the quantity of gold and precious stones we amass and bring back. It is the thirst of adventures, the hope of new discoveries that tempts us incessantly to risk our own lives. Just now I am charged to recruit, here and there, strong and able companions, who would replace those whom fever, fights, and storms have carried off, for I will not deceive you, there is great peril in our trade. You appear perfectly disgusted with the existence you have heretofore had, and you seemingly wish to shun your fellow-citizens. The best way then is to follow us. Take part in our undertakings and you will reap great advantage." 
                  The prospect of adventure pleased Cornelio, who made few objections to the shrewd manuvres of Captain Ralph. He consented to go. 
                  Two days after the above conversation, Cornelio embarked at Hamburg burg on the ship Pluton. She was a fine sailing vessel, and she was amply furnished with war provisions. Though our former artist was of a hardy and adventurous disposition, his inexperience in the art of navigation soon drew upon him the railleries of his companions. Those men who hardly pronounced a word without blaspheming, were ignorant of the first laws of politeness, arid they consequently threw aside all restraint. To live for pleasure, to obtain money at all hazards, to spend whilst on shore, to have always in hand, either a bottle or dice; such were their habits. Cornelio's mind was too refined not to suffer by this contact, and sometimes he would so far manifest fest his disgust as to wound the pride of the pirates, who sought in every way to take revenge; they handled him roughly, and more than one of them threatened to throw him overboard. If he then had ever been in a way of painting, it would have afforded him some consolation, but on the Pluton, arts were not spoken of; war and pillage were their only occupations. The whole crew had sworn a ferocious hatred to Cornelio, and such was his life when one night Ralph Dickson gathered around him all his men on the deck. 
                  "My friends," said he, "we shall now manuvre cleverly, to gain a stand in the little bay you see yonder, glimmering in the twilight. To-morrow morrow, at dawn of day, a rich Spanish galleon, the Trinidad, will pass this way to take in supplies. I am rightly informed. Like tigers we shall rush upon this promised booty; if we succeed in taking it, our fortune is made. Courage, then, and no quarters." 
                  "No quarters!" repeated the pirates. 
                  "Cornelio," resumed Ralph, "you are accused of being a coward. You dislike this life-in a word, you tremble before danger." 
                  "Who accuses me of that?" demanded Cornelio, whose eyes flashed with fury. 
                  "Never mind," said the Captain, "It is essential that you put a stop to this talk by your conduct henceforth. To-morrow you shall have the honor to be the first to attack." 
                  "Thank you, Ralph; I shall prove that I am not a coward." 
                  The next day, indeed, the Trinidad came in sight; the pirates manuvered tolerably well to ply windward, and to gain the broadside of the enemy, without any particular damage. The grappling irons were cast.... Cornelio, with axe in, hand, dashed forward, closely followed by his comrades, but no sooner had he put his foot on the Spanish vessel, than he uttered a loud scream and threw down his arm. 
                  "Wretch! traitor!" howled the pirates, and one of them struck his sword with all his might on the head of Cornelio, who fell senseless on the deck. 
                  However, the struggle raged on with inexpressible fury; life was at stake, and no one asked or had mercy. The clashing of irons, the reports of fire-arms, mingled with the horrible imprecations of the corsairs, the groans of the wounded, and the death agony of the dying. 
                  The beautiful weather, the splendor of the sun made a striking contrast with this scene of desolation. 
                  The right cause won. Repulsed on all sides, the freebooters were either obliged to plunge into the sea, or reembark precipitately. They had left but one prisoner in the hands of the Spaniards. It was Cornelio. The poor fellow, horribly wounded, seemed, as it were, not belonging to this world. From time to time he opened his eyes, feeling a little composed by the care that was given him; but he had no knowledge of the situation, nor of the place he was in. Thus the days passed on, and though slow, a change for the better took place. Sometimes a well-known voice would affectionately whisper in his ear, "Courage." This startled, but revived him. He heard them also say, "Do not yet show yourself; excitement would prove fatal." At length this mystery ceased when the sick man was nigh restored to his health. A man, who, by his appearance and his dress, seemed to be the doctor of the ship, approached Cornelio, and said to him in a kind tone: "My friend, yon were in very bad company, and in consideration of your being wounded and a pirate, our brave sailors would have thrown you into the sea, if it had not been that Providence sent you wonderful protection. Think over in your mind of the name of your liberator." 
                  "Indeed, sir, I cannot say." 
                  "You do not know," replied the doctor, with a smile. You are yet weak. I understand .... that nevertheless, think again-perhaps memory may aid you. What person in the world has your interest the most at heart?" 
                   
                  "Alas!" said Cornelio, sadly, "who could it be but my poor dear brother? But what chance is there of my ever seeing him-above all, here? My brother that I left stealthily-ungrateful that I am; for he was happy, honored-and vile jealousy entwined my heart with her serpents. Oh, my good Albert, that you may some day forgive me." ... 
                  "I forgive you," said a voice that, he had already heard several times. 
                  The convalescent screamed, opened his arms, and Albert was-folded to his heart. 
                  After this first and sweet emotion, a few explanations were exchanged. Cornelio accused himself unceasingly. 
                  "Hush! hush?" said Albert; "do not fatigue yourself; the doctor has forbidden excitement-listen then to me. At the moment of your sudden disappearance the greatest inquietude overwhelmed us. Having vainly searched for you in the town, we were convinced that you had left Magdeburg. New researches were fruitless. . . My mother was dreadfully grieved. But what was her despair when she learned accidentally that you had embarked on a pirate vessel! Seeing her wasting away, sick, in danger, I offered to leave, and go seek you, were it to the end of the world. God directed me, as I am now near you, and that I can take you back to her who awaits you impatiently." 
                   
                  Cornelio, overwhelmed with emotion, pressed his brother's hands. Another thought floated in his mind. 
                  "Tell me why you are so thoughtful," tenderly asked Albert. 
                  "Must I confess it?" answered Cornelio. "Indeed I dare not." 
                  "Speak." 
                  "Well then, I was thinking of the humiliations I experienced in our native place. Have I been sufficiently scoffed at? How can I ever appear before my fellow-citizens?" 
                  "Have a little more philosophy, brother; if you are the first to laugh at this mishap, no one will henceforth think of railing at you. In such cases it is best to meet jokes halfway. Besides, Magdeburg does not worry about the sign painter-Albert. 'Tis past, be calm, I shall say no more; and when we shall have arrived at home, you then will be at liberty to paint-I shall work for both of us." 
                  At this last sentence Cornelio became absorbed in deep reflections. 
                   
                  Three months after this event-for at that time vessels were not propelled by steam-the two brothers entered Magdeburg. Albert, so as to deal gently with his mother's sensitiveness, had already written to announce their speedy return. 
                  How their hearts beat as they knocked at the door! It was night. The house seemed to be illuminated in an unusual manner. The servant opened the door; at the sight of the brothers, she uttered a scream, and with one hand covered her eyes flowing with tears. 
                  "What is the matter?" said, at the same time, Albert and Cornelio. 
                  "Ah! Jesus-Maria! why have you returned?" 
                  "Speak! speak!" 
                  "My God! my God!" 
                  "Why, speak, then, wretched woman!" 
                  "Your poor mother-" 
                  "Well?" 
                  "Is dead!" 
                  A double groan responded to this distressing news. The two brothers ascended hastily, and as they crossed themselves they entered the room where Mina was reposing. Both fell on their knees sobbing, and sobbed out the words: "Mother! mother!" 
                  A man who was religiously watching the dead woman, extended his hand to the afflicted young men, and said, gravely, "Be strong, be resigned. Mina was tired waiting for you, and she has gone to protect you from on high." 
                  This friend, that Providence had sent there, was Greinlich. 
                  "Ah! my poor mother," said Cornelio, "I alone have caused your death. Wretch that I am, I have overwhelmed you with sorrow, and I arrive in time to behold the result of my faults." 
                  "Cornelio," said the old man, "God reserved for you this great lesson. Now you can understand how much you were in the wrong to despise your father's profession." 
                  O! Mr. Greinlich! O! my mother! and you, my dearest brother, I take you now as witness to my sincere repentance. From to-morrow I shall second you in your labors; never shall I murmur, and believe me, that the worthless painter will become an honest carpenter." 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     VALENTINE. 
                   
                  
                     NEW YORK: 
                     P. O'SHEA, 104 BLEECKER STREET.
                   
                  1863. 
                   
                  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1863, by P. O'SHEA, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. 
                  
                     C. A, ALVORD, STEREOTYPER AND PRINTER.
                   
                
             
             
                
               VALENTINE. 
                
                  I. 
                  ONE of the severest winters known was that of 1709. In the rural districts chiefly the poor were suffering from cold and hunger; thousands of families were seen wandering about, covered with tatters, and begging for bread, that public charity could not at all times grant them. 
                  It is in Lorraine, which was then under Austria, where we find the hero of the following story: 
                  At the age of ten, Valentine Duval was left an orphan; after the death of his father and mother, he was alone and desolate-having nothing to his name but misery. It were vain for him to solicit the pity of the villagers, for they were as poor and as needful as Valentine was himself. Nevertheless, with hope and courage, one meets if not fortune, some favorable chance. This thought strengthened Valentine. 
                  His village claimed him no longer.... "On the other hand, the world was wide before him. He set out one morning, but before leaving he entered the humble little church, and offered up one of those fervent prayers, which cannot fail to be heard by our Father on high. 
                   
                  Valentine is on his way. Alas! how cold is the poor little orphan; he shivers, his teeth chatter, his benumbed feet refuse to carry him, he is famished with hunger; and besides, an unknown agony is wasting away his frail existence. Twenty times is the weary little traveller on the point of stretching down oh the snow, and awaiting in its icy shroud, an inevitable death. But a secret voice, a divine presentiment urged him to take courage. 
                  "Oh, Lord! oh, Lord!" murmured the orphan-and he tottered on. At length he perceives a tiled roof; oh, happiness! a house-a farm-there is hope.... Valentine presses his steps,-he arrives, he reaches the gateway; he falls, exclaiming "Help! help! for God's sake." 
                  On awaking from his swoon, he perceived around him three or four persons, whose appearance was indicative of goodness and compassion. An aged man particularly fixed his attention. This man was endeavoring to warm Valentine's hands. 
                  "Unfortunate child," said he, "so young and so destitute! Whence do you come, my little friend?" 
                  Valentine told him the name of his village, that his father and mother were dead-and tears rolled down his cheeks. 
                  "When I found myself alone in the world," added he, "I had no other wish but to die. But our curate exhorted me to be patient, and he told me that Providence would not abandon me. I started then with the hopes of getting something, but shall I have strength to continue my journey?" 
                  The old man gazed at him with paternal tenderness, and exclaimed, "Oh, why am I in such a deplorable situation! otherwise I should have been pleased to adopt you, for you appear a good lad; but to-morrow my farm will be sold. To-morrow! after thirty years hard labor, Jacob Kauffmann will be driven from his old homestead! You can have hope, but I have none!" 
                  Whilst the farmer spoke, Valentine felt that inward pain which agonized him on his way; he uttered a stifled groan, and fainted. Valentine was attacked with small-pox; that dreadful malady was then snatching its victims by thousands; for Jenner, this benefactor, to whom there should be one hundred statues, had not yet made known his admirable discovery of vaccination. 
                  How could Valentine recover, cast as he was into the most abject misery, having for nourishment but hard crusts, steeped in water, and lying on an old pallet, with scarcely any covering?.... It was a mystery, and his recovery was probably the work of that Providence whom the orphan never invokes in vain. 
                  However, the young traveller was on foot, and he was on the point of his departure, so as to be no further charge to the good Kauffman, when the latter anticipating his resolution, said: 
                  "My child, you are now well, thank God. I have been able to care you a little, on account of my creditors allowing me time. Now I must, indeed, quit this farm, and hire myself out to strangers. Do you likewise think of earning your bread? At your age it is dangerous to live by begging; it inclines to habits of indolence." 
                  "Oh! that is not my intention, Mr. Kauffman." 
                  "'Tis well. Listen, then, to what I am going to say. There is, notfar  from here, a hermitage, where a few pious men have retired from the world to consecrate themselves to God and prayer. Their only riches is the possession of four or five cows, which afford them milk and cheese. Will you become the guardian of this little herd?" 
                  "Willingly." 
                  "I have spoken of you to those good fathers, of your gentleness, of your honesty; they are disposed to receive you. When you wish I shall take you thither." 
                  "I can accompany you now," said the boy, resolutely. He added, "It will spare you at least one meal." 
                  The farmer took his protg to the hermitage, where Valentine again was welcomed. When Jacob Kauffman went on his way home, the child's gaze followed him wistfully. He should ever love this excellent old man who had saved his life. 
                
                
                   
                  II. 
                  From the day that Valentine entered the house of the kind hermits, lie found the peace and happiness of a quiet life. He had bread to eat! It was not indeed the comforts of a home, which you enjoy, dear readers, but it was an easy, an honest occupation in the midst of nature's own quietude. Valentine began the day by prayer, he terminated it in the same manner; he never neglected his religious duties. He who had no father to protect him, no mother to care or caress him, what consolation lie found in the thoughts of God and the blessed Virgin, who is the true patron of innocence! 
                  In contemplating the beauties of Creation, he acquired the knowledge of a Being whom he venerated as the author of all things, the Master of life and of destiny. The employment of his time was well regulated. The young herdsman did not restrict himself to the driving of his cows from meadow to meadow; he found no pleasure in stretching himself upon the green sod, as those do who lead that life. Though he scrupulously fulfilled his task, his thoughts were elevated and noble. A great change was operating, as if unawares, on his mind: this change was a thirst for learning. 
                   
                  How had this simple child divined the invaluable possession of intellectual knowledge? How had the love of study proved to him that the science of the firmament is called Astronomy; that related events of nations were termed History; and that the form of the earth, the positions of countries, towns and rivers, were comprised under the title of Geography? 
                  We cannot say; and howsoever it may have been, he had not received those ideas from the lips of the hermits with whom he had been but so short a time. It is to be supposed then, that Valentine had learned by the greatness of his genius, by the intensity of his studies, all that professors have taught for centuries. 
                   
                  Admirable example of patience! There is a young man, who imposes upon himself a law of becoming not only a scholar, but a genius! 
                  Once having made inroads through the regions of intelligence, he lingers not on the way. In default of instruments, he invents; he constructs his own instruments and geographical maps. He learns something each day; each day he increases his stock of knowledge. 
                
                
                   
                  III. 
                  ONE afternoon Valentine was sitting at the foot of a tree, with his head bent over a species of map wrought in bark; he was so wrapped up in his own thoughts that he seemed lost to aught else around. Those words, "What are you doing there, my boy?" caused him a sudden start. He instantly looked up, and perceived a man dressed in an elegant hunting suit Not in the least intimidated by: the brilliant appearance of this personage, he quietly answered, 
                  "Sir, I am seeking the road to Quebec." 
                   
                  "To Quebec!" repeated the stranger, in utter amazement; "do you know what Quebec is?" 
                  "Why, sir, do you indeed suppose me so ignorant? Quebec is the principal city of Canada." 
                  "Well answered, my boy; you study geography then, during your leisure moments?" 
                  "Oh, sir, it is my passion. And astronomy, and history.... But I don't know Latin..... Oh! if I had books!... 
                  "You shall have them, my friend, you shall have them!" exclaimed the stranger. 
                  Then suddenly fifteen or twenty persons, all richly attired, came forward and exclaimed: 
                   
                  "Ah, prince, you are here! we were seeking you to finish the hunt; we were growing rather uneasy." 
                  "My horse carried me off, and led me astray; but I don't regret this incident, for it has furnished me an opportunity of making a wonderful discovery." 
                  "Which? which?" exclaimed all present. 
                  "The discovery of this herds'-boy." 
                  "Indeed!" murmured disdainfully some of the young noblemen. 
                  "Gentlemen," said the prince, sternly, "suspend your opinion. This boy whom you see will rise far above many who are placed high by rank and fortune. Instead of besotting himself by this life in the open air, by sleeping away the hours of life, while his herds graze he has appreciated the advantages of learning; he has aimed at becoming a scholar; and I confess that his answers have astounded me. Your name, my boy?" 
                  "Valentine Duval." 
                  "You will become illustrious. That name will yet be known. Come with me. The education which you have so well begun shall be completed." 
                  "But I belong to the hermits." 
                  "I shall send them one of my officers to apprise them of your departure." 
                  "No! no! my lord; I should be ungrateful to leave so abruptly. Allow low me to return with my herds, and bid them farewell. 
                  "Be it so, Valentine, you are as good as you are learned." 
                  The herds' boy whistled for his cows, and disappeared in the direction of the hermitage. 
                
                
                   
                  IV. 
                  THREE years of study at the College of M--, completed the studies of Valentine. After this novitiate, coming out as professor, the young man was nominated private librarian and professor of history, by one Leopold, at Luneville. Henceforth his fortune was assured. Here is the use he made of it: in the first place he sought out Kauffman; the poor man was yet living, but so miserably, that he hardly earned what would keep him alive, and that little was obtained by the sweat of his brow. 
                  "Do you remember me, Mr. Kauffman?" asked Valentine. 
                   
                  "No, sir." 
                  "I am that orphan whom you saved so generously, when you were depressed yourself, by reverses of fortune." 
                  The old man uttered a cry, and tenderly embraced his former protg. 
                  "Heaven has blessed me," resumed the young man. "A worthy prince gave me means of instruction, and has placed me near him. But I have not forgotten you. I have come to offer you the means of spending the rest of your days in comfort." 
                  A cottage, a little garden, and a pension drawn from the salary of Valentine, were the return of Kauffman's charity. 
                   
                  As to the good hermits, their exdrover boy had not lost sight of them. At his desire and at his expense, their pious retreat, which the inclemencies of the weather had in a decree impaired, was restored and built up. 
                  Valentine's fame became so great that the emperor Francis called him to Vienna to establish a cabinet of medals. There, in the midst of the great and the learned, Valentine lived many long years; the goodness of his heart remained unchanged, pride was unknown to his mind, and ambition had no place in his soul. 
                  An admirable model for those who propose seeking and acquiring knowledge, a bright example for those who possess it. 
                
             
          
       
   
