
    ----CITATION----
        Clemens, Jeremiah, (1814-1865). Tobias Wilson .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6074 wright2-0546
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               TOBIAS WILSON
               A TALE OF THE GREAT REBELLION.
            
            BY HON. JERE. CLEMENS.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
            
            1865.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT
                  & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for
                  the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
         
         
            To My Wife.
            IT is now, my dear Mary, more than a quarter of a century since we began the journey
               of life together. Both were infants in law, and children in reality; but the love and
               faith which were plighted then, with mingled smiles and tears, have never been
               blighted by adversity, or corrupted by prosperity. In joy and in grief, amid petty
               trials and in great afflictions, you have been a comfort and a support to me—robbing
               sorrow of its sting—relieving sickness of its weariness and pain, and ever pointing,
               from the gloom of night, to the brightness of the coming morn. What the future may
               bring forth, we cannot foreknow; for life is a Pandora's box from which strange and
               fearful things are forever winging their flight to homes and to hearts that are
               apparently the most secure. But the past is ours; and in the memory of
               that past I have thought it appropriate to write your name on this page
               of a work which records a love as pure and trustful as ever glowed in the bosom of a
               daughter of Earth, although its opening life was the fruit of troubled times, and
               blood and tears were witnesses to its maturity.
            
               JERE. CLEMENS.
               WEST PHILADELPHIA, January, 1865.
            
         
         
            
            PREFACE.
            WHEN the last work of the author was given to the public, he promised that it should
               be followed by a sequel. But in a few months the fires of civil war were kindled in
               the land. The mad ambition of a few unprincipled leaders, aided by the insane fears
               of the Southern slaveholders, brought about a rebellion which has no parallel in
               history, whether we regard the insignificance of the causes which led to it; the
               madness of engaging in it for such causes, or for any cause short of intolerable
               oppression; the immensity of the means and resources which have been developed on
               both sides; the grandeur and obstinacy of the struggle; the heroism manifested in a
               bad cause on one side, or the steady and dauntless courage, unflinching nerve, and
               unwavering resolution to maintain the right on the other.
            Located, as the author was, for more than three years in the very heart of this
               Titanic contest, steady devotion to
               literary labor was an impossibility. A few memorandums were made, a few notes taken,
               a few pages were written from time to time as opportunity offered; but, day by day,
               the subject diminished in interest as events of a more exciting character thronged
               the arena. After his removal from the theater of war to the quietude of this city,
               the work was resumed, but finally laid aside as better adapted to publication in more
               peaceful times.
            The characters of this story are real, though, of course, the names and locations are
               changed, so as not to wound the sensibility of the survivors, their friends, or
               relatives. Nothing is depicted here which did not occur as related, or which has not
               a parallel in some other actual occurrence.
            I remember that in a kindly criticism of a former work, written by a gentleman who is
               now a general officer in the army of the United States, certain passages were
               commented on as too extravagant for even the privileges of fiction. It so
                  happened that those very passages were literal transcripts from real life.
               He was young then, and I venture to assert, that if he were to write that criticism
               over again, in the light of his experience as an officer, it would be a very
               different affair.
            In what I have now written, and in what I shall write hereafter, for this book is
               only the first of a series, my object is to give a true and faithful picture of life
               during the first years of the rebellion, at least in parts of the Southern States.
                  Omnia vidi magna pars fui, if not literally true
               as to every incident, is true as to the greater part.
            It is impossible for any one who has not witnessed them to appreciate the wrongs,
               indignities, and outrages to which the Southern Union men have been subjected. Their
               property taken or destroyed, their persons constantly threatened with incarceration,
               if not assassination, and their sons dragged to the slaughter-pen; these were common
               occurrences, whose frequent recurrence deprived them of half their horror. The
               sending of our wives into exile, without the means of subsistence, and dependent for
               bread upon the charity of the people of the North, or of such chance refugees who had
               escaped under happier auspices,—this, too, in time ceased to be a subject of
               complaint. But there were a thousand acts of brutality which cannot be described
               without giving offense to the ears of decency. From a faithful picture of such things
               the eyes of a modest woman would turn away with unutterable loathing. From the
               present series all of these are omitted, and only such matter is introduced as may be
               read without a blush, unless it be a blush
               of indignation rather than of shame.
            One word more. In this volume, everything has been sacrificed to the painting of a
               correct portrait. If my readers look for other adjuncts to keep alive their interest
               in the tale, they will be apt to reap disappointment.
            
               THE AUTHOR.
               PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 9, 1865.
            
         
      
      
         
            Tobias Wilson
            TOBIAS WILSON.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               IN the wild and mountainous region of North Alabama, near the sources of Paint
                  Rock River, there lived, in the year 1860, an old man with a widowed daughter and
                  her only son. Time had dealt kindly with Robert Johnson, for although he had
                  passed his sixty-fifth year, he was yet strong and healthy, his bearing was erect,
                  his step firm, and his gray eyes clear and bright. His daughter, Mrs. Wilson, had
                  inherited the strong constitution of her father, and now, in the thirty-eighth
                  year of her age, her symmetrical but rather too masculine form betrayed no symptom
                  of decay. Her face had never been beautiful, but there was about it an expression
                  of quick intelligence and of frank good humor, which harmonized well with her
                  comely figure, and made her altogether a very pleasant person to look upon. The
                  boy, who was about eighteen years of age, bore little resemblance to his mother or
                  grandfather. He was light and slender, so much so that he appeared at least two
                  years younger than he really was. His originally chestnut-colored hair, from
                  constant exposure to sun and wind had changed to a dingy brown, and his features
                  were irregular and sallow, but they were lit up by dark hazel eyes as piercing and
                  brilliant as those of the hawk on his native mountains.
               
               Mr. Johnson had no neighbors properly so called. The valley in which his humble
                  cabin stood was one of the most secluded in that wild and thinly settled region.
                  If the reader will give me his (or her) attention while I describe it, the tale
                  which I am about to relate will be better understood.
               It is a little low spot, of not more than a hundred acres, shut in completely on
                  three sides by high and precipitous mountains,—among the loftiest and most rugged
                  of the Cumberland Mountain range. At the northeastern extremity, near the base of
                  the mountain, there is an unexplored cave, from the mouth of which flows a stream
                  of icy coldness. This stream runs along the eastern base of the mountain, and
                  finally makes its way out through a narrow opening, of not more than twenty yards
                  in width, at the south side of the valley. The only road by which the valley can
                  be entered by anything on wheels, is the gravelly bed of the stream. In the dry
                  season it is nothing more than a tiny rill. But in winter and the early spring the
                  volumes of water which rush down from the sides of the mountain convert it into a
                  deep and dangerous torrent. On the narrow strip of land between this stream and
                  the mountain side, and within a few yards of the cave from which the streamlet
                  flows, stand, or rather stood, the cabin of Robert Johnson. The dwelling was a
                  double cabin, built of unhewn logs, with a passage between. One room of the cabin
                  served Mrs. Wilson as kitchen, dining-room, and bed-room. The other room was
                  occupied by the old man and his grandson, and such rare visitors as sometimes
                  found their way to this secluded dell.
               It was early in October, in the year 1860, and on the day our story begins, there
                  was a political meeting in a large valley over the mountain, about five miles from
                  Johnson's house. There were speakers representing respectively ively the parties
                  of Bell, Douglas, and Breckenridge. At the close of the meeting, Mr. Johnson
                  cordially invited me to spend the night at his house, and, as by crossing the
                  mountain at that point I could save nearly twenty miles of my next day's journey,
                  I gladly accepted his invitation. A bridle path was the only road leading over the
                  mountain, and I knew it to be steep and rugged in the extreme; but I had been
                  accustomed to scrambling over such paths from my childhood, and felt sure that I
                  should be more than compensated for the fatigue by the glorious scenery through
                  which it led.
               There are few things in nature to equal the mingled beauty and sublimity with
                  which the Cumberland Mountains are wrapped when autumn throws its many-colored
                  robe about their giant forms. In other lands, and in our own, I have seen loftier
                  mountain peaks and reveled in the contemplation of landscapes as lovely and as
                  sweet; but in the one case it was grandeur alone, and beauty in the other. Nowhere
                  else is there such a mingling together of all that is soft and beautiful with all
                  that is grand and sub-lime. The day was clear and bright, and not a cloud darkened
                  the blue heaven above us. The sun was still above the western tree tops, and
                  poured a flood of golden radiance upon the mighty wall which rose before us with
                  its rugged sides adorned and almost hidden by living garlands of green and purple
                  and gold, scattered there in magnificent profusion by the prodigal hand of nature.
                  In that land the mountains are almost invariably covered with a thick growth of
                  trees and bushes, embracing every variety of the productions of the soil, and the
                  effect produced by the first frosts of autumn is indescribably beautiful. Upon one
                  tree the leaves have assumed a deep purple tint, another has changed to a bright
                  yellow, another has clothed itself in sober russet; upon yet another, the
                     foliage age at a little distance
                  presents the appearance of having been freshly painted white, and thickly
                  scattered among these the evergreen, pine, and cedar spread out their branches,
                  with seemingly conscious pride, to challenge the admiration of the beholder for
                  the brighter green which the cool days of autumn have brought to take the place of
                  the dull verdure they had worn under the scorching sun of summer.
               As we approached the mountain, the path gradually became so narrow that it was
                  necessary to ride in single file, an interruption to our conversation which I
                  hailed with joy, since it left me in undisturbed liberty to feast my senses upon
                  that glorious panorama. It was a scene upon which a great poet or a great painter
                  might have gazed forever, not only with undiminished, but increasing rapture.
               We had ascended a little more than half way when we reached a bench of the
                  mountain, upon which my companion halted to breathe his horse. When I reined up by
                  his side, his first remark satisfied me that he had been drinking in the rapturous
                  delight I had fancied was all my own.
               "It is not often, Mr. ——," he said, pointing to the valley below us, "it is not
                  often that such a picture can be found in the galleries of the greatest
                  masters!"
               "Not often!" I exclaimed; "say rather NEVER. No human hand can paint, no human
                  tongue can justly describe it!"
               He looked at me for a moment in some surprise, I thought, at the enthusiasm of my
                  words and manner.
               "I thought," he said, in the tone of one asking a question, "that you were a
                  native of these mountains."
               "So I am. I am too proud of my birth-place to conceal or deny it."
               "Then you must be familiar with sights like this, and yet you speak of it with as
                  much enthusiasm as if you had discovered a great treasure, or drank for the first
                  time from the cup of a new joy."
               "I have been, indeed, familiar with such sights from a period which dates further
                  back than memory will serve me. I even think that I know some points in this range
                  of mountains from which the view is more striking than this; but it
                     is a new joy, as you term it, nevertheless, for it is one with
                  which the soul can never be sated."
               "I think you are right," he replied. "When I came to this country, some ten years
                  ago, and enjoyed for the first time the wild beauty of its mountain scenery, I
                  thought that after awhile it would become so familiar as to be indifferent to me;
                  but years have passed, and the sensations it creates are still the same."
               "But," he continued, "we must be jogging on. We have barely time to reach my cabin
                  by sundown, and it is far more pleasant to gaze upon these mountains by daylight
                  than to wander among them after nightfall."
               This was an assertion which my experience did not allow me to contradict. Some
                  such idea seemed also to have taken possession of our horses, for when their heads
                  were again turned up the steep ascent, they moved forward of their own accord at
                  such an increased rate of speed as gave unmistakable proof that shelter and food
                  would be as agreeable to them as to their riders. Much of the beauty of the
                  scenery still lingered about us, but the words of my companion had afforded me
                  other themes for thought. I could not doubt that he was an educated and cultivated
                  man, and that he had been reared in a different society from that about him.
               Was he one of that not uncommon class who, having "seen better times," wither away
                  at the first breath of misfortune, and become ever afterward alike useless to
                     themselves selves and to society? No;
                  he was clearly not a man to give way to despair. There was in his tone and manner
                  no symptom of discontent. His whole bearing was free, easy, independent, without a
                  trace of that weak and unmanly spirit which goes about begging for even the
                  sympathy of strangers. I had been told that he was a farmer in humble
                  circumstances, how humble I did not know, but it was apparent that his situation
                  was one over which he shed no tears himself, and for which he asked the sympathy
                  of no one else.
               When we arrived at the summit of the mountain, the shadows had already deepened in
                  the valley below us. The sun was still shining, but its beams were completely shut
                  out from the little glen by the lofty mountains which everywhere hedged it in. The
                  domestic fowls had long since sought their roosting places, and, as we descended,
                  we were greeted by that peculiar twittering of birds and insects which gives
                  notice that they have settled themselves for a night's repose. A little lower we
                  perceived the glimmering of a light through the window of the cabin, and heard the
                  barking of dogs, not exactly in anger, but rather in doubt. It was a notice to the
                  inmates that some one was approaching, but whether friend or foe, these canine
                  sentinels had not yet decided. Before we reached the gate, however, they came
                  bounding over the slight impediment of a rail fence which surrounded the premises,
                  whining and leaping upon their master's horse in the exuberance of their joy. Soon
                  afterward, the boy who has been described in the preceding pages emerged from the
                  cabin, bearing an iron lamp to light his grandfather to the house.
               "Here, Tobias," said the old man, "take our horses, and when I have shown this
                  gentleman in I will join you in the stable."
               I demurred to this arrangement at once,—insisting on taking care of my own horse.
                  It was so settled at last, and all three proceeded to the stable. After the horses
                  had been well fed and rubbed down, we passed on to the cabin. Here we found Mrs.
                  Wilson busily engaged in preparing the supper. She suspended her occupation for a
                  minute or so when I was introduced by her father, but almost immediately resumed
                  her household duties. A large fire of logs was burning on the ample hearth of the
                  adjoining room, and much to my satisfaction I was soon seated before it, enjoying
                  to the full the animal comfort it imparted. Here the idea that my entertainer had
                  been accustomed to more polished society than was to be found in these mountains
                  again occurred to me. I would not be guilty of the rudeness of putting direct
                  questions upon the subject, but I did not hesitate so to direct the conversation
                  as to bring it out, if he was disposed to be at all communicative. I cannot tell
                  whether or not he suspected my object, but, at all events, he said nothing to
                  gratify my curiosity, and I sat down to the supper-table not a whit wiser than
                  before. As usual in that country, the evening meal was a bounteous one, consisting
                  of ham, eggs, venison, butter, biscuits, corn cakes, coffee, and milk. My mountain
                  ride and the keen air of an October evening had given me a voracious appetite, and
                  I feasted to excess upon the solid food before me. Mrs. Wilson retired early after
                  supper, but the old gentleman and myself talked long and earnestly of the
                  threatening aspect of the times.
               "We are passing through a fearful ordeal," he said, "and I am not ashamed to
                  confess that I am alarmed beyond measure. You heard those men who were shouting
                  for Breckenridge to-day. They are honest and well-meaning citizens, but their
                  minds have been poisoned by the devilish arts of those who have crept into their
                  confidence by preaching democracy, and they are now being blindly led on to the commission of a terrible crime, which
                  must be followed by an equally terrible retribution."
               "I admit," I replied, "that there is great danger; but let us work to avert it,
                  and still hope."
               "Work! certainly!" he exclaimed; "but hope is not altogether a
                  creature of the will. I have tried to hope, and cannot. I suppose that other men's
                  neighbors are in all essential particulars like mine, and that they are equally
                  liable to be operated upon by like passions and like motives. Tell a Breckenridge
                  Democrat that there is danger to the Union from him and his leading supporters,
                  and he will believe in his heart, if he does not tell you to your face, that you
                  are trying to cheat him out of his vote by practicing a Whig trick upon him. To
                  the minds of such men there is no avenue for the entrance of unprejudiced reason.
                  They must taste the bitter fruit before they will believe that it exists.
               "I assume that the great body of the democracy in the Southern States are like
                  these, and as they constitute a large majority, we may look for the worst. They
                  are not prepared now to take the irrevocable step. If it was proposed to them they
                  would shrink back with horror; but they will be led on by their wily leaders from
                  one act to another, they will so fetter themselves by the adoption of threatening
                  resolutions, and so commit themselves to resistance upon the happening of this or
                  that contingency, that at last it will be easy to persuade them they cannot
                  retrace their steps with honor, and that the only hope of a peaceful settlement is
                  to be found in presenting an united and determined front."
               "Well," I asked, "may not good come from that union? May it not lead to an
                  understanding which will effectually secure us against dangerous quarrels in the
                  future? Is it not better that the South should present an united front in whatever
                  course it takes, at least until the sword is drawn and the dark stain of a
                  brother's blood discolors the soil, and cries out to heaven for vengeance on the
                  wrong-doer?"
               "Undoubtedly," he said, "if our leaders were honest, and there was really any
                  wrong to be redressed, the unanimity of the demand would increase the chances of a
                  peaceful settlement; but what wrong has the Government of the United States ever
                  done to us? What is there to be settled? Individuals and communities throughout
                  the North have spoken and acted in a manner hostile to slavery. Be it so. The
                     Government is not responsible for that. It has discharged its
                  whole duty and more than its duty in this respect. There has never been a time
                  when our peculiar institution was hedged round with so many defenses as it now is;
                  and yet we are on the verge of a revolution, whose results no human wisdom can
                  foresee, from no other cause than a vague and undefined fear that slavery may be
                  destroyed by the Government which is, and has been, its only protector. But these
                  are matters I need not discuss with you. I know that you are as fully alive to the
                  danger as I am, and far better informed as to its causes. I supposed that you
                  wished to hear the opinions of a clod-hopper like myself, and I have
                  therefore expressed them freely."
               I assured him that I had been alike interested and instructed by his remarks, and
                  I entered a decided protest against the application of the word "clod-hopper" to
                  such a man.
               "I did not need," I continued, walking up to some rough boards, in a corner, on
                  which his books were arranged, "I did not need this tell-tale witness to convince
                  me that you had been accustomed to very different society from that which is to be
                  found among these mountains."
               "You are right in your conjecture," he replied. "I was once better off, in the world's view, than I am
                  now; but as my story has nothing in it which is romantic, criminal, mysterious, or
                  unaccountably unfortunate, I will not bore you with it. There is your bed, sir.
                  You must be content to share this chamber with my grandson and myself."
               I went to bed, but not to sleep. My thoughts were for a long time occupied with
                  questions and conjectures concerning my host. How came that educated and polished
                  gentleman in the garb of a common laborer? What was that clear and strong
                  intellect doing in this seclusion? Why did he not go out into the world and battle
                  with his kind for those posts of honor which he was so well calculated to adorn?
                  His daughter, too, though strong and healthy, could never have been mistaken for
                  anything but a lady, and the household drudgery which she now went through with so
                  much ease and grace, must have been in former years a deep mystery to her. But
                  notwithstanding the great change which it was clear had come over them, the most
                  acute physiognomist would have failed to detect a single line of discontent upon
                  the face of either the father or the daughter. I tried in vain to find some
                  probable solution of the enigma. First one, and then another was called up,
                  examined, and dismissed. In the mean time the effects of the heavy supper I had
                  eaten, and the warm fire still burning on the hearthstone, began to be felt. I
                  knew that my faculties were clouded, that I did not have the full use of my
                  reason, but still I was awake, or thought I was. After awhile I saw a large dog
                  push open the unlatched door, and coil himself down before the fire, then another,
                  and then the fire seemed to grow dull and indistinct, and all the various objects
                  in the room became mingled and jumbled together. There was a strong impression
                  upon my mind that I was not sleeping, only a little drowsy. How long I remained in
                  this state I do not know. Suddenly, as it seemed, the drowsiness passed away. It
                  was summer. I was standing upon a mountain side whose summit the rising sun had
                  just begun to gild. There was a lovely valley below me, through which a little
                  stream flowed gently toward the South. A cluster of log cabins on one side were
                  the only signs of human habitation. Stacks of oats and wheat were standing in the
                  field from which they had been cut, and a little farther off there was a field of
                  Indian-corn, which extended around a spur of the mountain that jutted into the
                  valley, so that the upper part was invisible from the place where I stood. Then an
                  old man, followed by a boy with a rifle on his shoulder, came out of the principal
                  cabin and proceeded to the stable, from which they soon emerged, the old man
                  leading a horse geared for plowing. The boy let down the bars, and, putting them
                  up again when his companion had passed through, shouldered his rifle and turned up
                  the mountain, where he was soon lost to view among the thick undergrowth which
                  covered its sides. I watched the old man in his progress to the field until he had
                  turned the spur of the mountain, and was also lost to sight. For some time after
                  his disappearance I remember nothing. Then, by one of those changes common in
                  dreams, I was transferred to the opposite side of the valley. It was near noon. I
                  could now see that part of the corn field which had been concealed by the spur of
                  the mountain, and the old man I had noticed in the morning was busily plowing in
                  the luxuriant corn which almost concealed both his horse and himself. Not far off,
                  to the right and behind him, three men were stealthily creeping through the
                  bushes. They were armed with rifles and knives. Entering the corn-field, they
                  followed rapidly along the furrow the old man was plowing, until near the end of
                  the row, when two of them, dropping their rifles, sprang suddenly upon him and
                  pinioned his arms behind him. His face
                  was now, for the first time, turned toward me, and I recognized the features of my
                  host. The next step was to bind a yellow bandana handkerchief over his eyes. This
                  made a stronger impression upon me, because it was an article of great rarity in
                  that country, and because I did not remember to have seen it used for years by any
                  but members of the Pedo-Baptist Church. He was then hurried up a narrow gorge,
                  cut, for the most part, out of the earth by torrents created by the winter's rain.
                  Within thirty yards of his own corn field they halted, two of them stepped back
                  six or seven paces, raised their rifles and fired. One or both balls must have
                  touched the heart, for he fell with that peculiar doubling up of the limbs, that
                  absence of catching for support, which, to a practiced eye, is an unerring
                  indication that life is utterly extinct. At this horrible sight I uttered a
                  fearful cry and sprang upright in my bed. My host and his grandson were both upon
                  their feet in a moment, eagerlyinquiring what was the matter. For awhile I was so
                  confused and bewildered that I could give no explanation, but at length I made
                  them understand that it was nothing more than a bad dream, produced, no doubt, by
                  the inordinate supper I had eaten. Again we addressed ourselves to sleep, and
                  again that horrid dream, without material variation, haunted my pillow. This time,
                  however, I did not awaken my room-mates, but rising, and drawing a rough arm-chair
                  close to the fire, prepared to pass the night in a sitting posture. I must have
                  slept soundly, for when I awoke it was long after daylight, and Mr. Johnson was
                  more than half dressed. The boy was not in the room; he had gone to look after the
                  horses, and I heard Mrs. Wilson making preparations for breakfast in the adjoining
                  room. In that primitive land no time is wasted upon the toilet. Ours was soon
                  concluded, and, at the suggestion of Mr. Johnson, we stepped out to breathe the
                  fresh and bracing air of an October morning. The first glance at that lovely vale,
                  and its magnificent mountain inclosures, made every drop of blood in my veins run
                  icy cold. It was the valley of my dream.
               
               The reader will remember that the shadows of night shrouded the place when I
                  descended from the mountain on the previous evening. I could not catch even an
                  outline of the landscape, and although I had often traveled in that neighborhood,
                  it so happened that I had never seen this secluded spot. I had looked upon it for
                  the first time in a dream. Yet there it was, clear, vivid, distinct. All its
                  marked characteristics were burned in on my memory as if with a brand of red-hot
                  iron. There was the stream, the spur of the mountain, the little nook hidden from
                  view where we now stood, and when I looked up I again saw the very ledge of rock
                  on which I was standing when the old man came forth to his daily labor. I
                  shuddered, and perceiving that I was observed, muttered something about the
                  coolness of the morning, and returned to the house.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               NEITHER at the breakfast table, nor before, was any allusion made to the emotion
                  which I was sure had not passed unobserved. I could not help feeling that it must
                  have appeared very singular to my host,—but how could it be explained? Silence was
                  the only course to be pursued. It was far better to submit to the suspicion of
                  some extraordinary weakness than run the risk of wounding the feelings or
                  darkening the anticipations of my kind entertainer. But, under the circumstances,
                  conversation was necessarily restrained, and almost immediately after the meal was
                  concluded I expressed a desire to resume my journey. Mr. Johnson interposed no
                  objection, only remarking, with winning politeness, "I know your engagements, and
                  suppose you must go; but it is hard for one situated as I am to be so soon
                  deprived of the most agreeable society he has enjoyed for years."
               I expressed my sense of the compliment he had paid me, and very soon afterward I
                  bade adieu to Mrs. Wilson and her son, Mr. Johnson having agreed to pilot me
                  through the narrow opening in the mountains, and over the rough country
                  immediately beyond, to the public road. At that point we parted with mutual
                  expressions of good-will and hopes of meeting again before long.
               For hours I could not drive that dream from my thoughts. How could that valley
                  have been so faithfully and distinctly painted in sleep when I had never seen it,
                  never heard of it,—was in fact totally ignorant of its existence? In vain I
                  pondered upon this unaccountable phenomenon. Once the idea crossed my mind that
                  although I could not remember to have visited that place before, I must have done
                  so and forgotten it, and that memory had at last recalled it in a dream; but the
                  place was too peculiar, too remarkable, and my own organ of locality, as the
                  phrenologists term it, was too well developed to admit of this solution. I ran
                  over in my mind all the stories I had ever heard or read of strange and
                  unaccountable visions, and for most of them I could find some
                     possible explanation; but here there was none, and I determined
                  that the best thing to be done was to dismiss it from my thoughts. It was easier,
                  however, to resolve upon this than to perform it. Do what I would, it would come
                  back at the most unexpected times, for weeks and even for months. At length I
                  related it to a friend. He laughed at me, as I expected he would, but could give
                  no reason for his avowed belief that it was nothing more than a common nightmare.
                  Those were times, however, in which real events were beginning to crowd upon us,
                  more strange and fearful than any of the creations of fancy, and the memory of my
                  dream was gradually fading away. The tide of war had rolled southward. Gen. A. S.
                  Johnston had been driven from Bowling Green, through Nashville, Huntsville, and
                  Tuscumbia, to Corinth, the junction of the Mobile and Ohio with that of the
                  Memphis and Charleston Railroad. At Corinth he sustained a defeat and lost his
                  life. With considerable skill and ability, Beauregard had withdrawn his army, no
                  one knew exactly where.
               It was at this period of time that I again met Mr. Johnson and his grandson.
                  Referring to our conversation when I was his guest in the fall of 1860, he said:
                  "You see, sir, I was something of a prophet."
               "Not much," I replied. "The probable consequences of the mad career that some of
                  our friends and neighbors were then
                  running were too palpable to require a prophet's ken to foretell them."
               "True," he answered. "And yet many who are wiser than I am, and much more in the
                  habit of mingling with the world, were deceived. Worse even than that, they will
                  not profit by the lesson, which is now before them, full of humiliation and of
                  anguish as it is. They will persist in believing that the efforts of the
                  Government to re-establish its rightful supremacy over its own subjects are
                  nothing more nor less than a brutal exercise of power and a wicked invasion of
                     their territory, for the purpose of reducing them to the condition
                  of vassals or serfs."
               "I know it, "was my response. "I know it. And I know too how difficult it will be
                  at such a time to obtain a hearing for the voice of reason. Still it must be
                  attempted, unless we are content to remain idle and inactive, while those who love
                  us, and whom we love, are rushing madly to destruction."
               "The effort must indeed be made," he said mournfully; "but I have dark forebodings
                  of the result. I do not deceive myself as to the danger. It may be a prison, a
                  scaffold, or murder without the forms of trial. To all of these, be assured that
                  every Union man is liable wherever the Confederate Government has power, or a
                  secession population predominates. I may escape. I may find in obscurity an
                  immunity which those who are better known can hardly hope for. But danger
                  threatens us all."
               I told him that his apprehensions, though certainly not groundless, were
                  nevertheless unduly excited; that the Anglo-Saxon was not a blood-thirsty animal,
                  and took no delight in taking away the life of an unresisting enemy. France 
                     "Got drunk with crime to vomit blood;"
                   but we were of a different race, and I thought that those who remained
                  peacefully at home need fear no personal violence.
               "Remain peacefully at home! Will they let us? Will they allow us to enjoy our own
                  opinions? Will they let us express those opinions by our firesides, or the
                  firesides of our neighbors? If they do leave the old and the infirm at home, will
                  they not drag away the children upon whom we lean for support? Will they not rob
                  us, and then say that we ought not to complain because they are fighting for our
                  rights—our rights in the Territories, and our rights in slave property,—rights
                  which we do not believe are in any danger, and for which, perhaps, we would not be
                  willing to dissolve the Union if they were? Will they not do this, and more than
                  this; and if we raise a voice in remonstrance, proclaim us as traitors, and turn
                  loose the off-scourings of their camps to prey upon or murder us at will?"
               To these rapid and energetic questions I could find no answer satisfactory to my
                  own mind, and contented myself with replying, "I hope not!"
               "Hope not! So would I if I could, but I can find nothing upon which to hang a
                  hope!"
               "At all events," I said, "we can avoid much that might be both disagreeable and
                  dangerous by prudence and moderation. We must not parade our opinions in places
                  where we know they will be offensive, or engage in acts of opposition which will
                  only endanger us without promoting the cause of the Union, or smoothing the
                  pathway to peace. We can wait until a time comes when action promises
                  to be useful. Through the bloody vista before us I think I can see the dawn of a
                  new day. The old Union will never be restored, but a better union will spring from
                  its ashes. War, like fire, is a terrible agent, but it purifies as well as
                  destroys, and not unfrequently burns out from the body politic the putrefying sores and loathsome cancers
                  which are eating its life away. As much as we loved and gloried in the old Union,
                  it is impossible to deny that some of these things were beginning to make their
                  appearance upon it, and it may be that this war has been sent in mercy, not in
                  anger. It may be that it will so effectually remove all cause of disagreement in
                  the future between the two sections, that the sights and sounds of fraternal
                  strife will never again be heard on the North American Continent."
               "God grant that it may be so," he fervently rejoined; "and if my old blood is
                  needed as a sacrifice toward bringing about that glorious end, oh, how cheerfully
                  will it be offered upon the altar of my country!"
               "I think," he continued, "that I understand your meaning. You believe that this
                  war will destroy slavery, and when it is gone there will remain no other cause
                  sufficiently powerful to arm our hands against each other's lives."
               "Yes, that is my opinion; but it would not be prudent to proclaim it from the
                  house-tops."
               "No, indeed! The time for doing that is yet afar off!"
               It was late before we parted for the night, and when we did, the memory of my
                  strange dream came back upon me with startling power, and it was long before
                  slumber visited my eyelids.
               The next day he returned to his home, and shortly afterward the Union army, under
                  Gen. Buell, were drawn away to repel the invasion of Kentucky by Gen. Bragg.
                  Scattered troops of Confederate cavalry were roaming through the country, but as
                  yet they had committed few outrages, and, indeed, with the exception of helping
                  themselves to whatever they needed, they furnished the citizens with few causes of
                  complaint. But another class of marauders were gradually making their appearance
                  under the name of partisan tisan rangers. The worst materials in the Confederate
                  army were rapidly absorbed in these irregular bands. They were generally employed
                  as quartermasters' and conscript officers' guards. There was not even a semblance
                  of discipline among them. They went where they pleased, stayed as long as they
                  pleased, and returned when they pleased, living at free quarters wherever they
                  went and committing whatever outrages their devilish fancies might suggest. The
                  citizens were, for the most part, unarmed, except those who were their
                  accomplices, and often partners, in the robberies they committed. In the spring of
                  1863, when Bragg was preparing to place the Tennessee River between himself and
                  the army of Rosecrans, these bands infested almost every part of North Alabama,
                  and no citizen residing beyond the limits of a town or village could lay his head
                  upon his pillow with a feeling of security. The secluded dell in which Mr. Johnson
                  lived had been an effectual protection against their visits, and as he rarely went
                  from home he had thus far been unmolested. But one day, by some untoward chance,
                  three stragglers found their way to his dwelling. They were hungry, they said, and
                  asked for something to eat and a feed for their horses. This was promptly
                  furnished. While eating they talked of the war, of the cowardice and brutality of
                  the Yankees, and boasted loudly of their own exploits. Mr. Johnson was disgusted,
                  but prudently held his tongue. When their hunger had been appeased, they went to
                  the stable to saddle their horses. One of them immediately proposed an exchange
                  for a fine gelding belonging to Mr. Johnson. His own horse, he said, he knew was a
                  great deal the best animal, but his back was badly hurt, and as they had some hard
                  work before them it would be cruel to ride him in that fix if it could be helped.
                  Mr. Johnson was satisfied of the excellence of the trooper's horse, but preferred to keep his own for various
                  reasons, one of which (though he did not express it) was, that he had heard the
                  doughty warrior, within the last half hour, boast that he had taken him from "a
                  d—n—d old Union traitor in Tennessee."
               The unwelcome visitors rode away. When out of hearing, as they supposed, a tall
                  and powerful man of not more than twenty-two years of age, whose smooth and almost
                  beardless face contrasted strongly with the hairy visages of his companions, and
                  whose bearing denoted some kind of authority over them, drew up his horse and made
                  a rapid survey of the locality.
               "By jingo!" he exclaimed, "this would be a glorious spot for Captain Walter's
                  headquarters, if Stanley's d—n—d blue-bellies ever get down here."
               "Yes," answered one of the men, "it's mighty purty, but in gineral I keeps an eye
                  out for safety, and I don't think this place would suit me edzactly."
               "Safety! why, Bob, that's just what I was thinking about. I was born in seven mile
                  of this hollow, and I have knocked about these mountains considerable in my time,
                  and I never knowed about this place before. It would take a regiment of Yankees
                  three months to find it if they didn't have nothing else to do but to hunt for
                  it."
               "I mought agree with you in that, and I don't know but I do. But just tell me,
                  Sergeant Miller, what is to keep that d—n—d old rip up yonder," pointing to the
                  house, "from telling 'em!"
               "A pistol-bullet or the end of my horse's halter would do that if he showed any
                  signs of trying to make us uncomfortable. But I don't think he would if we did not
                  impose upon him too much!"
               "Well, sergeant, for a lad of your experience, and I will, say cuteness, too, you
                  are mighty easy to be fooled. Or, may be, you was watching that good-looking woman
                  too close to have an eye on her dad. As sure as gun's iron, he's a dead out Union
                  feller; and if you want to sleep safe, don't spread your blanket down in his cabin
                  when there's a company of Yankees in ten mile of it!"
               "What did you see, Bob, to make you think so? I never noticed anything amiss. Did
                  you, Tom Simmons?"
               "Yes," said the individual thus addressed, who was a coarse, heavily built man, of
                  forty years or upwards, with shock hair and beard, and keen blue eyes set deep in
                  his head, which were always alive with watchfulness and yet always seemed to be in
                  repose. It was a common remark among his companions, that, although Tom Simmons
                  was never known to look a man in the face, he was never in company with any one
                  for five minutes every feature of whose face he could not describe even to the
                  most minute peculiarity. This remarkable faculty made him extremely useful as a
                  spy or a scout, although his thieving and plundering propensities sometimes
                  rendered it hazardous to employ him, since he never failed to gratify these, no
                  matter what neglect of duty or what danger of detection it involved.
               To the question of his officer he answered deliberately. "Yes. I watched him when
                  Bob Jenkins was bragging about things there warnt no needcessity for telling,
                  supposin' them to be true, which all on 'em wasn't, and if he didn't think we
                  three ought to be hung in short order, I'm no judge of snakes!"
               "Ah! is that so? Well, the Yankees are not here yet, and in the mean time we can
                  make the most of the good feeding and foraging we have found!"
               "And if I don't capture that gray horse," said Simmons, "before another week is
                  out, I shall consider myself in d—n—d bad luck!"
               "So be it!" said Sergeant Miller; "but now we must be traveling. Trot! We must get to Maysville
                  tonight!"
               Tobias Wilson had been hunting that morning, and, returning a little footsore, he
                  had taken off his shoes and seated himself under a ledge of rocks to bathe his
                  feet. While engaged in this operation his grandfather's departing visitors had
                  reined up within ten feet of the place where he was sitting, and he had listened,
                  securely hidden by the rocks, to the whole of the foregoing conversation. As soon
                  as the horsemen were out of sight, he ran to the house, and related what he had
                  heard to his mother and grandfather. As the boy proceeded with his story, Mrs.
                  Wilson's face became ashy pale. With her father it was different. At first his
                  features betrayed no unusual emotion, but as his grandson went on there was a
                  stern knitting of his brow, and the lines about his mouth grew deeper and firmer.
                  For a minute or more after the story was ended, not a word was spoken. The silence
                  was broken by Mr. Johnson.
               "I feared it would come to this, my daughter, and I have been thinking of removing
                  you to Nashville. Tobias can go with you, and after you are comfortably situated
                  he can return to me. We must not leave the crop untended. I have barely enough
                  money to support you for a twelvemonth, and no source to look to for a new supply
                  except our growing crop."
               "I cannot leave you, father," firmly replied his daughter. "If you are in danger
                  here, I must share it. I should feel more uneasiness when away from you than by
                  your side; and besides, I do not see how you could get on without me. If you and
                  Tobias could do your own cooking and washing, you cannot weave your own cloth, or
                  make and mend your clothing. If you have any apprehensions for my nerves, dismiss
                  them. I am not a fine lady now, whatever ever I may have been, and if the worst
                  comes I can mould bullets, as my grandmother did when Bean's Station was attacked
                  by the Indians."
               In that family there was no affectation of any kind. What one said the others were
                  persuaded was said in earnest, and it was rare that either argument or
                  remonstrance was resorted to for the purpose of changing an opinion once decidedly
                  expressed, or a resolution once taken.
               Mr. Johnson did not seem to be surprised at his daughter's determination, and made
                  no effort to overcome it. After a brief time given to reflection, he said:
               "Be it as you will, Margaret! though I had much rather that you left us. My heart
                  would be lighter if I only knew that you were safe!"
               "Safe, father! what danger do I incur by remaining at home? and who is likely to
                  injure me?"
               "You may be safe from personal danger, my child, and I think you are; but you are
                  in danger of being called on to witness that which will be very painful to you.
                  Yet even that is uncertain, and, with God's blessing, we may escape."
               But little more was said at the time, and the subject of their conversation was
                  not again referred to until the next morning at the breakfast table, when Mr.
                  Johnson abruptly asked his grandson if his rifle was in good order. Upon receiving
                  an affirmative reply, he continued: "I have not used mine lately, and it needs
                  cleaning up. After breakfast, I wish you to wash it out for me and oil the lock.
                  See, too, that the powder horns are filled, and that there is a good supply of
                  bullets in our pouches."
               When the morning meal was finished, Mr. Johnson geared his own horse and went out
                  to the field, saying to his grandson:
               "You need not come to the field this morning, Tobias. When you have put the guns
                  in order and moulded the bullets, you can
                  chop out the weeds and grass from the potato patch. I shall stop work at twelve
                  o'clock for the day."
               Mr. Johnson conjectured that his dangerous visitors would not return before the
                  succeeding day, and perhaps he might not hear of them for a much longer period,
                  but he was certain that they would come sooner or later, and as he could not tell
                  what time they would select, he thought it best to be always on his guard. The
                  next day passed, a week went by, and no footsteps had pressed the lonely glen
                  except those of its owner and his little family. Mrs. Wilson, with the usual
                  hopefulness of woman, believed that the danger had gone by, if, indeed, it ever
                  existed. Not so her father. He knew it would be just as rational to expect that
                  the bloodhound would lose the scent within a hundred yards of his prey, as that
                  these marauders would fail to return to a place where they knew that there was an
                  abundance of provision and forage to be had, and at least one remarkably fine
                  horse to be stolen. He had made up his mind that they should not again trespass
                  upon his hospitality, and that any attempt at force should be met by determined
                  resistance.
               Tobias Wilson was well aware of his grandfather's feelings and intentions, and
                  equally as determined that the first indication of violence should be the signal
                  for sending a leaden messenger to the heart of one of the robbers. The years which
                  had passed since he was first introduced to the reader had added to his stature,
                  though he was still slender and apparently delicate. Any one, however, who
                  calculated upon this seeming feebleness of body, would have been grievously
                  disappointed. His limbs, though small, were muscular and firmly knit, and they had
                  been hardened by that kind of labor and exercise best calculated to develop the
                  physical man. His grandfather had been celebrated as an amateur wrestler and boxer
                  in his youth, and believing that these attainments might be of service, and could
                  be no disadvantage to a peaceable and well-disposed youth, he had not failed to
                  impart all his knowledge to his grandson. Added to these physical advantages,
                  Tobias Wilson carried in his bosom the heart of a lion. At the age of twenty-one
                  he could remember nothing he had ever feared except the half-angry,
                  half-reproachful look of his mother, when he had said or done something which was
                  not in accordance with her strict notions of the conduct which best became a
                  Christian and a gentleman.
               His grandfather had been his teacher in everything, but he was so gentle and so
                  indulgent in his own family, and his reproof was always so mild, that the idea of
                  punishment, as connected with it, had never found a place in the young man's
                  breast. He was almost as ignorant now as he was when a child, of the deep and
                  concentrated passions which, in other years, had struggled long and fearfully with
                  the better nature of his parent, and which were still so far unsubdued that they
                  were at any time liable, under great provocation, to break out with the sudden and
                  destructive violence of a West Indian tornado. But of this the boy, as both mother
                  and grandfather called him, was ignorant. He felt a little awed, as no one of his
                  age could help feeling, in presence of that strong and decided nature, but that
                  awe was unmingled with fear. A new leaf was now opened for his perusal. A stern
                  and relentless purpose had settled in the old man's bosom, and the evidences of it
                  could not be entirely suppressed, either in the tones of his voice or his general
                  demeanor. Tobias Wilson observed the change, but as he felt well assured that it
                  boded no opposition to his own resolves, he made no comment and asked no
                  questions.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               NEARLY two weeks had passed. Mr. Johnson was standing in the passage of his house
                  just after the mid-day meal, when he observed three men riding up the bank of the
                  little stream, of whose identity he had no manner of doubt. They were yet more
                  than a quarter of a mile distant, and as his plan of proceeding had long since
                  been fully decided upon, there was ample time to make the few preparations which
                  he deemed advisable. Locking the doors and barring the windows of the room in
                  which he was accustomed to sleep, he went with his grandson into the room occupied
                  by his daughter. This room was then carefully secured inside, loop-holes had
                  already been made by removing, in places, the "chinking and daubin'" from between
                  the logs of the cabin. Their rifles were taken down and examined; their
                  bullet-pouches and hunting-knives slung over their shoulders, and then Mr. Johnson
                  placed himself at the little square opening dignified with the name of window,
                  while Tobias seated himself on the floor, his rifle resting in one of the
                  loop-holes which commanded the approach to the stable. Everything had been
                  arranged beforehand, and their dispositions were made with a quiet celerity not in
                  the least resembling nervous hurry, but which, nevertheless, precluded
                  conversation while it was progressing.
               When the riders stopped at the bars through which admission to the
                  yard was obtained, the closed doors and the stillness within and about the cabin
                  led them to believe that it was untenanted.
               "Hello!" shouted the sergeant.
               "What do you want?" was the answer from the window.
               "Something to eat for man and horse; we have had a hard ride to-day, and we are
                  tired and hungry!"
               "You will have to ride still farther, for you can get nothing here."
               "We'll see about that!" answered the sergeant, deliberately dismounting from his
                  horse and tying him to the fence. "I suspected you of being a d—n—d old traitor
                  before, and I know it now!"
               "I give you fair warning," said Mr. Johnson, in a raised and angry tone, "if you
                  cross that fence with a hostile purpose, you are a dead man!"
               The freebooter had the reputation of being a bold and daring man, but as he had no
                  inclination to throw his life away, the tones of the voice that now addressed him
                  were sufficiently determined to make him hesitate. His companions had also
                  dismounted. Taking the precaution to keep their horses between them and the cabin,
                  they held a brief, whispered consultation with each other.
               "He's got help in thar," said Tom Simmons, "or he wouldn't talk so big; but it
                  can't be no great deal, or he wouldn't lock up and fortyfy hisself. Let's divide;
                  if he's got friends in thar we'll find it out, and then there's nothin' for it but
                  to leave and wait until some night when we catch him asleep!"
               This plan was at once adopted, and while Sergeant Miller remained in front,
                  sheltered by the fence and the horses, the other two made a circuit and approached
                  the cabin from different sides. On his side Bob Jenkins met no opposition: Tom
                  Simmons had gained the rear of the stable, as he supposed without attracting
                  observation; but as he came around in front, within twenty yards of the house, a
                  sharp voice commanded him to "halt!" The redoubtable Tom was a little startled at first, for this was
                  not the voice of the man who held the brief colloquy with his sergeant, and it
                  verified his suspicion that the old man was not alone. He detected the loop-hole,
                  and saw at a glance that he could, by a quick movement, easily avoid that danger,
                  but he did not know what he would encounter on the other side, and thought it best
                  to come to a parley.
               "Well, I am halted! What'll you have?"
               "That, sir, is what I wish to know of you!"
               "Haven't we told you we were tired and hungry, and wanted something to eat?"
               "Yes, and you were told that you could get nothing here; and now, sir, if you have
                  any regard for your safety, you had better be off!"
               "Ef I could only git you out'n that cabin, my chap, its more'n likely you'd be
                  thinking on your own safety; and may be I'll have a chance yet to larn you how to
                  treat soldiers who are fighting to save your truck from the d—n—d
                  Yankees who are rampaging over these here mountains this very day."
               "When we want your help against the Yankees we will let you know it; but until
                  then we do not intend to be plundered and robbed by every——"
               Tobias Wilson's speech was cut suddenly short, for Tom Simmons, who had been
                  gradually and almost imperceptibly moving toward the door of the stable, now
                  sprang suddenly within it, and, resting his revolver in a crack between the logs,
                  fired with a quick but certain aim at the loop-hole through which the foregoing
                  conversation had been carried on. Tobias Wilson saw the motion, and at once
                  divining what it meant, fell with his face to the floor. It was well for him that
                  he did so. The delay of an instant would have been fatal to him, for the ball
                  passed directly through the loop-hole and buried itself in the logs on the
                  opposite side of the room.
               While the foregoing conversation was progressing, Sergeant Miller had led away the
                  horses of the party, and secured them under the steep bank of the stream. Mr.
                  Johnson might have interfered very effectually with this proceeding, but he was
                  determined to act only in self-defense, and shrank from firing the first shot.
                  When the attempt upon the life of his grandson was made, it was too late; Sergeant
                  Miller was safe, and Jenkins, by making a wide detour, was able to rejoin him
                  without risk.
               Both of them now unslung their carbines, and, availing themselves of every
                  sheltering object, again cautiously approached the house. On his side Tom Simmons
                  was in doubt whether the silence which followed his shot was the stillness of
                  death, or whether his intended victim was watching an opportunity to return it.
                  Acting upon a sudden impulse, he had brought matters to a point where no
                  compromise was possible, and nothing more remained to be done but to take the
                  cabin by storm, or retreat. He might set fire to the cabin and shoot down the
                  inmates as they were driven out by the flames, but that did not suit his own views
                  or the views of his comrades, since it involved the destruction of the booty they
                  designed appropriating to themselves. While thus cogitating, his eye rested on the
                  gray steed he so much coveted.
               "Well, my beauty," he said, walking up to the horse and patting him on the neck,
                  "I'll make sure on you this time, and when I come agin, we'll try for the rest!"
                  So saying, he took down a plow bridle, the only one in the stable, and put it on
                  the noble animal. In his approach he had "let down" the fence at the back of the
                  stable, and there was now no obstruction between him and the wood which skirted
                  the mountain. Mounting the horse, and lying flat on his neck, he rode through the
                  door, turned the horse's head toward the mountain, and put him at once almost
                     to the top of his speed. But Mr.
                  Simmons's motions had been watched by an eye as keen and vigilant as that of the
                  lynx. The horse had not made twenty bounds when the sharp crack of a rifle
                  reverberated along the mountain sides. The lawless freebooter, who, as he sped
                  away, had raised himself to a half-sitting posture, now rose straight up; in a
                  moment his head dropped upon his breast, his hand relinquished its hold upon the
                  rein, and he fell heavily to the ground. The horse made a few more leaps forward,
                  until finding itself unrestrained, it turned rapidly toward the stable.
               Miller and Jenkins were in full view of Simmons when he fell, and did not for an
                  instant doubt that he had received his death wound. They were too familiar with
                  such scenes to entertain a hope that he would ever join in another marauding
                  expedition. The number of assailants and defenders were now equal, and with the
                  advantage possessed by the latter, the robbers despaired of a successful
                  termination of their enterprise. A retreat was inevitable. This was easy; but it
                  involved the abandonment of their comrade, which they were not willing to do,
                  partly, let us suppose, from a touch of human feeling still lingering in their
                  bosoms, but chiefly because his arms and accoutrements were valuable, even if he
                  had nothing else about his person, and they felt accordingly no disposition to let
                  them fall into the hands of the victors. After some delay, Sergeant Miller called
                  out to Mr. Johnson:
               "You have murdered a Confederate soldier rather than give us a meal's victuals,
                  and the consequences must be upon your own head. Do you mean to let us carry him
                  away peaceably, or must we burn your infernal den and bury him by its light?"
               "You can do what you please," was the answer, "outside of my yard; but if you
                  cross my fence, or lay a finger on my property within rifle range, I shall serve
                  you as he has been served. Take him away as soon as you can. I hope he is not
                  dead, but he deserved it if he is. I give you half an hour to carry him off!"
               Miller and Jenkins promptly availed themselves of the privilege accorded them, and
                  in less than half the time mentioned were on their way down the little stream with
                  the dead body of Simmons lashed to his horse.
               That night her father again addressed Mrs. Wilson.
               "It is certain, my daughter, that you cannot now remain here in security. There is
                  no telling at what hour of the day or the night we may have a band of robbers upon
                  us. Tobias and I may escape to the mountain, but you will certainly be subject to
                  insult, and it may be to worse things. You had better prepare to go to Nashville
                  to-morrow."
               "I shall stay with you, father, be the consequences what they may. I will not deny
                  that I am a little frightened at what may follow from this sad day's work, but I
                  will stay, nevertheless, and hope to be of service rather than an
                  in-cumbrance."
               For several days Mr. Johnson and his grandson carried their rifles to the field,
                  and one of them watched while the other worked. A neighbor, so called in that wild
                  region, though his house was some seven miles distant, had been on a visit to
                  Huntsville, and on his return, finding that he could not reach his own house
                  before nightfall, took "the short cut" through the valley and over the mountain by
                  Mr. Johnson's house. It was not much past seven o'clock, but the darkness of night
                  had settled upon that secluded spot, and not liking to undertake a journey across
                  the mountain at such an hour, he called to ask a lodging for the night. From him
                  Mr. Johnson learned for the first time the story which had been spread abroad in
                  relation to the death of Simmons. It was said that he, Simmons, had called in a
                     peaceable able and orderly manner with
                  his comrades, to obtain some refreshment, after a hard day's scouting, and had
                  been shot down in cold blood by some one inside of the cabin. He further learned
                  that the neighbors had been only deterred from executing Lynch's law upon the
                  inhabitants of the little valley by the presence of Union cavalry in that
                  vicinity. Mr. Johnson was advised by his neighbor, who happened to be a strong
                  friend of the Union, to change his residence at once, and was offered shelter in
                  his house, which he thought more secure from the fact of being in a thickly
                  settled country.
               "I thank you, Mr. Rogers," was the reply, "both for the information you have given
                  me and for your kind offer. And I beg that you will not consider it uncourteous if
                  I do not accept it. This house is mine. When the great secession orator, Mr.
                  Yancey, traveled through this country, he told us that every cabin was a castle,
                  from which we had a right to expel any intruding foot. It was about the only thing
                  in his speech with which I agreed, and I am resolved to put it to the test. I
                  shall harm no one except in my own just defense; but here I shall stay, at least
                  until my crop is gathered, and those who interfere with me must take the
                  consequences. I shall be very grateful, however, if you can persuade my daughter
                  to go with you."
               "I will try, Mr. Johnson. And I tell you further, that there is a plan on foot to
                  arm the Union citizens for their own defense. I saw Gen. S. yesterday. He will
                  supply us with arms, and we can then protect ourselves against such roving parties
                  as have visited you, even when aided, as they are, and will be, by some of the
                  worst of our neighbors."
               At this point Tobias Wilson for the first time joined in the conversation. It was
                  his custom to listen in grave and respectful silence to the utterances of his
                  grandfather; but he could not restrain himself when he heard that arms would be
                  furnished to such Union citizens as would use them in their own and the country's
                  defense.
               "Tell General S.," he said, "that if he will give us guns, and powder, and ball, a
                  thousand loyal hearts will thank him, and a thousand loyal hands will be found
                  ready to use them."
               "I shall do so," was the reply of Mr. Rogers. "But he will be in this neighborhood
                  in two weeks, and you can see him yourself. That is, if you will go with me to a
                  place of greater safety. If you remain here, I do not think that your grandfather
                  or yourself will be among the living this day fortnight."
               "It may be so," answered Mr. Johnson, again taking up the conversation. "God only
                  can foreknow the future; but I will not leave my house to be burned, and my crops
                  destroyed, by a band of thieves and robbers, who desecrate the name of my country
                  by calling themselves its defenders. I will perish upon my own doorsill before
                  even the pittance I am able and willing to give in charity, shall be wrested from
                  me by violence, or extorted from me by threats."
               "You are right, Mr. Johnson, in one sense, but wrong in another. Perhaps two
                  others, for there are two views of this matter which do not seem to have struck
                  you. The first is, that probably no open attack will be made upon you. Your house
                  may be fired at night, and you may be murdered while trying to escape from the
                  flames. You may be shot down while at work in your field, or disposed of in many
                  other ways, without a chance of resistance. On my honor, I believe you to be in
                  great danger of some such fate every hour that you abide in this out-of-the-way
                  place, where murder is so easy of accomplishment, and detection of the criminal so
                  difficult. The other view is, that even if openly attacked, you may, in your
                  defense, destroy the life of some one who
                  is guilty of being found in bad company certainly, but in reality innocent of any
                  intention to commit robbery, or shed blood, except under circumstances which in
                  his view of the law would justify the act."
               "I understand your first suggestion," replied Mr. Johnson, "and admit its force.
                  My resolution was taken after long and anxious thought, and this was a contingency
                  too palpable to be overlooked. I know that it is one which cannot be effectually
                  guarded against, supposing your enemy to be wily and determined; but I calculate
                  somewhat upon my own and my grandson's vigilance, and the watchfulness of our
                  dogs, and still more upon the over-confidence of those who may be disposed to do
                  us an injury. Your second suggestion I do not think I clearly understand. I have
                  never thought of taking the life of any one who does not come here with a robber's
                  or a murderer's purpose; and do not see how I can incur the risk of shedding
                  innocent blood."
               "I did not say innocent blood," was the rejoinder. "My remark was
                  comparative. I neither say, nor believe, that any innocent man will come here upon
                  an errand of violence. But comparatively good men may be deceived by false
                  representations. We know not a few who were honest and kind-hearted
                  in other days, but who are the companions of robbers and murderers.
                  They have not lost their horror of the crime,—they are only blinded to the
                  brutality of the criminals, because those criminals are called Southern
                     patriots. Such men may be reclaimed: nay, more, many of them have been
                  reclaimed, and the scales are daily falling from the eyes of others."
               "God speed the good work," said the old man, fervently. "No one shall be more
                  ready than I to aid and encourage them to the extent of my poor means. But," he
                  added more sternly, "they must give evidence of repentance before fore they can
                  expect to be separated from the bloody crew with whom their lot has been
                  voluntarily cast. When they become good citizens I will extend to them the right
                  hand of fellowship. Until then, I cannot allow them to inflict injury upon me or
                  mine with impunity, because I have hopes of their future repentance. If they come
                  here it can be for no good, and I shall make no distinction between visitors whose
                  errand is the same."
               "Nor would I have you to do so, and I must have expressed myself poorly to be so
                  understood. What I mean to argue is, that by getting out of the way for the time,
                  you may be spared the necessity of a mortal contest with men who, I believe, will
                  before long discard their errors, and become valuable auxiliaries in the cause of
                  right and of liberty. I do not ask you to spare, but to
                     avoid them."
               "And that, unfortunately, is just what I cannot do. If I leave here, my crop goes
                  to waste, even if no strolling vagabond should take a fancy to appropriate it to
                  himself. Everything I have exclusive of my crop would not support my daughter and
                  myself for more than a twelvemonth; so you see, Mr. Rogers, I must stay or starve.
                  Take my daughter with you, and I shall be very grateful; as for Tobias and myself,
                  I believe we are of one mind, and that is, to brave the worst."
               The kind-hearted Rogers went into the opposite room, and with some difficulty
                  persuaded Mrs. Wilson to take up her abode for some time at his house. She would
                  not be far removed from her father and her son, and she reasoned, rightly, that
                  they would feel more at ease, and be more at liberty to concert measures for their
                  security, when they knew that she was beyond the reach of immediate danger.
               And so the next morning, Mr. Rogers departed with Mrs. Wilson in his company,—a
                  single horse, besides the one she rode,
                  being sufficient, to "pack" her small wardrobe over the precipitous path they must
                  needs traverse.
               Another week had been added to the cycle of the year. The warning they had
                  received had not been neglected. Everything had been done, which could be, to
                  guard against surprise, and, in case of overpowering necessity, to secure a safe
                  retreat. Resistance to the death was the fixed and unalterable purpose of both the
                  old man and the young; but neither of them had any intention of throwing away
                  their lives in a useless struggle. They had accordingly discussed and agreed on a
                  place of safe retreat in the mountains, in the event of being assailed by
                  overwhelming numbers. In the mean time, they watched and worked by turns in the
                  daytime, and watched and slept by turns at night. Their immunity thus far did not
                  at all abate their vigilance, and they allowed nothing to separate them until
                  their stock of meal was exhausted, and it was necessary that it should be
                  replenished.
               Early on a bright summer morning in July, 1863, Tobias Wilson set out for the
                  mill, some six miles distant, with a bag of corn under him and his rifle across
                  his knees. It was long past noon when he returned. Riding up to the cabin, he
                  found the doors fastened as they were that morning when he left home for the mill,
                  after his grandfather had gone to the field. Looking under a slab of wood where it
                  was their habit to leave the key, since his mother had taken up her residence with
                  Mr. Rogers, he found it where he had placed it in the morning. The doors were
                  locked as usual, and nothing about the place indicated that it had been visited
                  since morning. A vague feeling of apprehension crept over him. He went to the
                  stable; his grandfather's horse was not there, nor were there any indications that
                  the stable had been entered by any one during the day. The dogs came whining and
                  leaping ing for joy around him. The barn-yard fowls were scratching in the dirt,
                  and a couple of calves were munching at a stack of fodder. "Something is wrong,"
                  he murmured. "Grandfather has not been home to dinner. Where can he have gone and
                  what has taken him away?"
               Then a fearful suspicion crossed his mind. "My God! can he be murdered?" After a
                  moment's thought, he shook off this impression. "No," he said, "no; in that case
                  they would have robbed the house, and probably burned it. No; I don't think they
                  have killed him, but may be they have captured and taken him off. I must see."
               So saying, he started to the field which he knew his grandfather intended that
                  morning to plow. As he walked on through the springing corn and across the
                  "turning rows," the stillness which everywhere reigned had its influence upon his
                  spirits. "God preserve me," he murmured, "from this trial! I promised my mother
                  that I would always try to be gentle and good. I have tried to keep that promise.
                  When I went to the 'Musters,' and other boys called me 'Miss Nancy,' I have turned
                  away without touching them, although I knew I could break every bone in their
                  bodies. I have borne this, and I can bear more; but if I find that old man's white
                  hairs stained with blood, may God forsake me if I do not pay back every drop with
                  tenfold interest."
               After turning the spur of the mountain, he had not walked fifty yards before he
                  saw his grandfather's horse, with the gear on him, and still attached to the plow,
                  lazily feeding upon the growing corn. To the young man this was a painful
                  indication that the animal had been long at liberty. It would not have been
                  grazing so leisurely if its appetite had not been nearly appeased. Passing by the
                  unconscious beast, he walked on, following the direction of the latest plowed
                  furrow. Before he had proceeded ceeded
                  many steps, it came abruptly to an end. There were the marks of a struggle, and
                  the indentation of many feet in the newly turned up ground. There were also
                  unmistakable indications that the horse, neglected or forgotten in the struggle,
                  had turned about and afterward roved at will over the field, dragging the plow
                  after him. The footprints led toward a gorge in the mountains, and there, within a
                  hundred yards of the spot where the struggle had taken place, and just beyond the
                  field, he found the body of his grandfather. Two rifle balls had passed through
                  his body, either one of which would have been fatal. There he lay, still warm, and
                  the expression of his face varying but little from that he wore in life, in his
                  serious moods. For many minutes the young man scarcely moved, but gazed in
                  speechless agony upon all that remained of what he had most reverenced in the
                  world. Then he stooped and kissed the corpse. He did not feel the pulse. He did
                  not put his hand on the bloody breast to see if the heart still beat. He knew
                  instinctively that naught but a dead body was lying before him. Slowly he went
                  back, unharnessed the horse, led him to the spot where the corpse was lying, and
                  with the plow line tied it fast upon his back. Then carefully but moodily he led
                  the animal to the now desolate cabin. Arriving there, he lifted the body from the
                  horse, and laid it gently upon its accustomed bed. Going out again, he put his own
                  horse and that of his grandfather in the stable, and fed them well. He had eaten
                  nothing himself during the day, and finding no cold meats in his mother's
                  "cupboard," he broiled some ham and baked a "hoe cake." After this frugal meal was
                  concluded, he called his dogs into the house, barred the door, and placing his own
                  and his grandfather's rifle (which he had picked up on his way home) near the head
                  of his bed, prepared to pass the night alone with the dead.
               What were his thoughts during that night of horror? No one ever knew. When I saw
                  him afterward, he told me many things, but nothing of that night's vigils,
                  slumbers, resolves, or struggles. I could only guess from what followed, that
                  during that night of companionship with his grandfather's corps, a stern,
                  relentless, merciless purpose settled upon his heart, whose appropriate fruits
                  were blood and tears.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE next day, leaving the dead body in the cabin, he mounted his horse, and rode
                  across the mountain to the house of Mr. Rogers, where his mother was now residing.
                  He seized her hand when they met, and almost crushed it in his nervous grasp.
                  "Mother," he said briefly, sternly, and without a word of preparation, "grandpa is
                  dead." For a minute or more his mother sunk under the terrible announcement. Her
                  first exclamation was, "Oh, my poor father!" A flood of tears gushed from her
                  eyes, and her almost Amazonian form drooped and shrunk as if the winds of winter
                  had swept over the lily in its bloom. Then she murmured, "Dead! dead, my son! How
                  did he die?"
               "He was murdered; murdered by assassins."
               "Murdered by assassins!" she answered fiercely. "Murdered! and you with him when
                  the deed was done, and you are now here to tell it! My God! can it be that a son
                  of mine stood by and saw those gray hairs dabbled in blood, and yet lived to tell
                  the tale?"
               "I was not by him, mother. I was no witness to the bloody deed, but I
                     know it was murder. And, oh! mother," he continued, striking his
                  hand upon his breast, "if you knew the hell that is burning here, you would
                  tremble for the consequences which may follow the words you have now spoken. My
                  thoughts were dark and bloody enough before. God grant they may not lead me to a
                  retribution He will not pardon!"
               "Forgive me, Tobias, if in this terrible agony I have uttered words to wound you.
                  I know not rightly what I said; but I know you well, my boy, better, oh, how much
                  better than all the world beside! I know you to be true and strong and braver than
                  the lion in his hungry mood. I did not mean to rouse you to revenge. It would be
                  deep sin to take into our hands what the Lord has declared is His own, and avenge,
                  according to our poor notions, deeds which He has himself promised HE 'will
                  repay.' It may be sweet, but it should be enough for us that it is forbidden."
               "Yes," he replied gloomily, "vengeance is forbidden, but not justice.
                  I must have justice."
               There was more in the tone, than the words, to create apprehension in the deeply
                  religious mind of his mother; and looking at him now attentively for the first
                  time since they had met, she read in the stern lines which had settled on his face
                  something which made her shudder. He looked ten years older than he had done the
                  day before, and she felt instinctively that there had been a mighty change within
                  as well as without. How far it had already progressed beyond her guidance, she
                  could not fathom. The tears were streaming from her eyes, but his were dry. She
                  wiped them away, and again looked fixedly upon him before replying.
               "That is a dangerous mode of reasoning, my child; but we will not talk of that
                  now. Tell me all, at least all you know of this sad business."
               So saying, she led the way to her own room, and listened with quivering agony to
                  all her son had to relate. When the dark story was ended, she threw herself on the
                  bed buried her face in the pillows, and sobbed as if her heart would break. The
                  young man watched his mother in silence, but even while he watched, the bloody
                  thoughts which had been coming and going in his mind like shadowy visions, took
                  form and substance, and settled themselves in his heart forever. Rising slowly, he walked from the room
                  without disturbing her, and making his presence known to the family, inquired for
                  Mr. Rogers. When that gentleman was called in, he shook him warmly by the hand,
                  and then said in a husky voice:
               "You will be sorry to learn, Mr. Rogers, that your friendly warning has proved to
                  be of no avail. My grandfather was murdered yesterday while I was at the
                  mill."
               "Good God!" ejaculated his kind-hearted friend. "Is this so? Has my old neighbor
                  been really murdered on his own doorstep? What devil from hell could have done so
                  foul and unprovoked a deed?"
               "It was not exactly at his own door. He was surprised in his field, and dragged
                  into the hollow of the mountain, where I found him with two bullets through his
                  body."
               And then with stern calmness he repeated the story he had related to his mother a
                  few minutes before.
               When he had ended, Mr. Rogers said, "Two bullets! Were there but two of the
                  assassins?"
               "I think there were more, but I did not examine the footprints in the corn field
                  particularly. I shall do so when I return, and measure them besides. Trust me that
                  I shall neglect nothing which will lead to a detection of his murderers. Upon that
                  matter, however, I will confer with you to-morrow. My present business is to beg
                  your aid, and that of one or two of your neighbors whom you know to be
                  trustworthy, to assist me in burying the body."
               "Of course you shall have it. We can bring him over the mountain before sundown to
                  my house, and bury him to-morrow at any hour to suit your mother."
               "I need not say how sincerely and earnestly I thank you; but, Mr. Rogers, he must
                  be buried there. I want that grave by me as long as I am able to watch over it. If
                  you will come over to-morrow morning with one or two of your friends, a surgeon
                  and a minister of the gospel, bringing my mother with you, I shall be deeply
                  grateful. I have brought his horse for her to ride over."
               "Everything shall be as you wish, my young friend."
               "Thank you, sir. And now if you will allow me to have some conversation with my
                  mother, I will ride back to keep a solitary vigil by the dead."
               "No, Tobias, that must not be. My son Thomas shall go with you. He has an
                  excellent rifle; he is young, strong, and fearless; and if these devils should
                  come back to finish their bloody work, they will be apt to find it a more
                  difficult job than murdering an old man in his field. Go in and see your mother; I
                  will have him ready in twenty minutes."
               "I do not think they will come back; but, nevertheless, I shall be glad of Tom's
                  company."
               Mr. Rogers went to call his son, and Tobias Wilson sought his mother's room to
                  explain the arrangements which had been made, and bid her good-by.
               In less than half an hour the two young men were riding slowly toward that
                  solitary glen, which but one short day before had been stained with so foul a
                  murder. Turning the sharp angle of a corn field which ran up some distance on the
                  side of the mountain, they suddenly encountered a horseman approaching from the
                  opposite direction, who had been completely hidden from view by the thicket of
                  weeds and bushes which grew along the worm fence. He was a man of about fifty
                  years of age, with a countenance which would have been pleasing, but for the
                  shaggy brows which overhung the eyes, and eyes themselves that never by any chance
                  emitted a ray of gladness or of kindness. The whole face betokened resolution and
                  strong common sense. In different times and with different training he might have
                  made a hillside preacher, such as would have won the heart of John Balfour, of Burleigh. As it
                  was, he had passed thus far through life without having established any other
                  character than that of a zealous Baptist, bigoted, intolerant, and unforgiving. He
                  had never been known to express the slightest respect for any man's opinions when
                  they differed from his own, and he firmly believed that every politician who was
                  not a Democrat, was a knave, and every Christian who was not a Baptist, was a
                  hypocrite. He was well known to Thomas Rogers, and Tobias Wilson had met him at
                  more than one public gathering during the exciting times of 1860. The path was
                  barely wide enough for two horsemen to pass, and Thomas Rogers, who stood not a
                  little in awe of his stern acquaintance, reined his horse to one side, and bowed
                  his head respectfully as he said, "Good day, Parson Williams." "Good day, Thomas,"
                  was the rejoinder. "I hope your father's family are well." He had never checked
                  his horse for an instant, and had not deigned to look a second time at Tobias
                  Wilson, or acknowledge his presence even by a nod. By this time he had passed the
                  young men, and rode on without once turning his head. It might have been better
                  for him if he had done so. Tobias Wilson did not follow his example, but, halting
                  his own steed, turned in the saddle, and honored both horse and rider with a keen
                  and searching gaze, which was not removed until they were hidden by the
                  intervening bushes. Had Parson Williams observed that look and guessed the
                  suspicions which caused it, he could hardly have ridden on in such seemingly
                  conscious security.
               A little higher up the mountain, Tobias Wilson, speaking for the first time since
                  the unexpected meeting with the Rev. Mr. Williams, said:
               "What can that man be doing here?"
               "I have been trying to think," answered Rogers, "but I cannot. Nor could we have
                  found out by asking him. I did not ask, because I knew I should only get some
                  surly answer, such as, 'Mind your own business, boy,' or the like."
               "I am glad you did not ask him; but that need not hinder us from asking one
                  another, and indulging in such speculations as our observations may suggest. This
                  path leads nowhere but to my grandfather's house, except that there is a cattle
                  path on the top of the mountain which leads around to Jim Biles's cabin. You know
                  every foot of these mountains, Tom, as well as I do. Is not what I say true?"
               His companion mused a moment, and then replied: "It certainly is. He must have
                  come from Jim Biles's, for you know he would as soon put his foot in a den of
                  rattlesnakes as to pass within fifty yards of your grandfather's house."
               "True enough, Tom,—unless it was to kill him."
               "To kill him! Why, what on earth do you mean? Parson Williams is known to be
                  bitter and unforgiving; but he lived here before we were born, and in all that
                  time there has been no whisper against his character as an upright and law-abiding
                  man."
               "Don't I know it? Don't I know that he has been held up as a pattern for the
                  rising generation by every gray-haired fool in the neighborhood? But let me get
                  through with my questions, and then we can the better form our own conclusions.
                  Did you notice his horse?"
               "Certainly. I have known the horse for four years. Everybody who knows Williams
                  knows old Scuball."
               "So much the better. Did you notice that he had lost a shoe?"
               "No. But," he continued after a brief pause, "now that I think of it, I did notice
                  that he limped."
               "Exactly; and the reason was that he had lost a shoe. There is no smith on that
                  side, and the horse fell lame in crossing
                  the mountain with one bare foot. Another question,—did you notice his gun?"
               "Yes, particularly; for I had never seen him carry a gun before. It was an
                  old-fashioned, smooth-bore yager, which carries a bigger ball than a musket."
               "Well, now you have answered all the questions I desire to ask at present, I will
                  give you my thoughts, conjectures, suspicions, or whatever you please to call
                  them. There is within ten miles of my grandfather's house but two members of Mr.
                  Williams's church, both of them bitter and malignant secessionists. Both of them
                  with sons in the Confederate army. Both of them known enemies of my grandfather,
                  who they have often been heard to declare ought to be hung, as a traitor, to the
                  nearest sapling. There are but three entrances to the valley in which we live. One
                  up the stream, which is too public to be traveled by assassins in broad day, and
                  besides, I myself went out and came in on that road that very day, and neither in
                  going nor coming were any horse tracks visible. If there had been any, I should
                  have seen them; for we had been warned by your father, and I never moved a step
                  beyond our yard without careful examination of the ground. By that road then they
                  did not enter our field. Another road is the one we are now traveling. I examined
                  it this morning as closely as if my soul's salvation depended upon the discovery,
                  but it exhibited no sign of the footstep of man or beast. The other leads down the
                  gorge from Jim Biles's cabin, some seven miles away. That one has not yet been
                  examined. But stop; we are now at a point where some further discovery may be
                  made. There is the path to Biles's. Tie your horse, and let us follow it a little
                  way."
               They dismounted accordingly, and tying their horses to some bushes, proceeded
                  along the narrow pathway, not treading directly in it, but each keeping a little
                  on one side. The ground was hard and dry, and though there were several places
                  where it seemed to have been very recently disturbed, it was impossible to decide
                  positively that the disturbance had been caused by a horse's feet. In about two
                  hundred yards they came to a small open space, on one side of which a large
                  chestnut-tree was growing out of a mossy mound. The attention of Rogers was
                  attracted by something at the root of the tree: approaching hastily, he picked it
                  up, and found it to be a torn fragment of a newspaper. It was greasy in places,
                  and crumbs of bread were sticking to it. There could be no mistaking the use to
                  which it had been put. It had been wrapped around some bread and meat, and had
                  been left on the ground by some one after his "snack" had been eaten. On further
                  examination, the paper was discovered to be "The Baptist Record."
               "Put it away, Tom," said Wilson sternly, but in a voice so low as to be almost a
                  whisper; "put it away carefully. And here," he added, stooping and picking up
                  something from the mossy bank, "here we have something else."
               It was a cow's horn, well boiled and cleaned, but without being trimmed or
                  ornamented in any way. There was a hole bored in the small or solid end, and a
                  strong leathern string run through it.
               "It's the drinking cup from the spring!" exclaimed Rogers. "The rascal has brought
                  it here, and when his meal was finished he was too lazy to carry it back. Many's
                  the sweet drink I've taken from that horn in the last five years, and if we had
                  not come along, it would have been lost, all from that cursed fellow's
                  laziness!"
               "Perhaps he had darker things to think of. But come along, we will take it back
                  for him and hang it in its old place on the red-berry sapling."
               Walking to a rocky cliff some thirty yards distant, they came to a remarkably cool but very small spring
                  trickling down the face of the rocks. The cattle raisers had placed boards in such
                  a way as to gather all the water from the little spring into two large troughs,
                  and in this way managed to keep a supply for their stock in the driest season. The
                  ground about the troughs was soft, though not absolutely muddy, the scanty supply
                  escaping from the troughs not being sufficient to do more than keep the earth
                  moist. Here the horse's tracks were distinctly visible. The rider appeared to have
                  ridden directly to the trough, and to have dismounted while the animal was
                  drinking. His footprint where he had alighted was plainly visible. It was a large
                  and rather broad foot which had been incased in coarse boots or heavy shoes, with
                  iron tacks on the inside, from the ball of the foot to the toe, seemingly placed
                  there to prevent the sole from wearing away at the point of greatest attrition.
                  The horse's feet were equally well defined in many places, and it was plain that
                  he had on but three shoes. When these discoveries had been made, the young men
                  gazed at each other in silence. It was broken by Thomas Rogers, who said:
               "Come, Tobe, we have got enough! The Devil himself could not raise a doubt that
                  Parson Williams has been here this day. Let us take a drink from our old friend
                  here," patting the horn, "and be off. There is much yet to do to-day!"
               "Wait a moment, Tom! I want you to examine all the peculiarities of this human
                  foot, and see me measure it exactly, both in its length and breadth."
               "I don't see the use of it. We've got enough without it, and besides, I once heard
                  a lawyer in Bellefonte argue to a jury that the print of a man's foot was the
                  weakest of all evidence, because a man deliberately intending to act the scoundrel
                  or the murderer, would be sure to put on shoes of a different size and shape from
                  those he usually wore. Still, if you wish it, I shall do as you ask, of
                  course!"
               "I do wish it! No matter what the lawyer said, it is evidence, and,
                  besides, I expect to put it to another use, at least to make it help other
                  evidence if it is not evidence itself."
               Thomas Rogers gave close attention to all the peculiarities Tobias Wilson pointed
                  out, though, to tell the truth, he thought in his heart some of them were no
                  peculiarities at all. He saw the foot measured across the heel, across the ball of
                  the foot, across the toe, and from heel to toe. When this was done, and the
                  accuracy of the measurement tested several times, they each took a long and hearty
                  draught from the horn, walked back to their horses, and rode slowly down the
                  mountain to the chamber of the dead, which was watched only by the faithful dogs
                  he had fed and caressed in his lifetime.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               THEY found the dogs locked within the house. Nothing had been disturbed. After a
                  brief survey of the dead-room they locked it up as before, fed the dogs and
                  horses, and started to the scene of the murder. There was now not more than three
                  hours of daylight, and they could not afford to waste any part of that in
                  preparing refreshments for themselves. Going directly to the point where the old
                  man had begun his last furrow, they followed it toward the place of the last dread
                  scene of his life. About half way they discovered where three men had entered the
                  row behind the plowman, and cautiously followed his steps. Rogers proposed to
                  trace these tracks to the point where they had entered the field, but Wilson
                  interposed a decided negative.
               "We will follow them," he said, "when we come back, but I wish to make a full
                  examination yonder while the day lasts," pointing forward as he spoke. "We shall
                  find the strongest 'signs' there, and if we put it off until tomorrow it may rain,
                  and all the traces be obliterated."
               While speaking, he had cut down four or five stalks of corn, and piling them,
                  standing on end, against one another, formed a kind of stack to mark the
                  place.
               At the point where the furrow stopped they observed all the marks of a violent
                  scuffle. The old man must have resisted his captors manfully. There were the
                  prints of many feet deeply indented in the soil. The corn was broken here and
                  there, and there was an appearance like that which would have been made by the
                  falling of a human body on the soft earth. There was some torn clothing, but
                  nothing of a kind to be clearly identified,—it was white, and only showed that
                  both assailants and assailed had probably been in their shirt-sleeves. Near by
                  they picked up a heavy hickory club, but this could lead to nothing, for it had
                  been fresh cut, and was probably growing upon the mountain side not an hour before
                  the deed was done. Tobias Wilson made an earnest but unsatisfactory examination of
                  the footprints. The soil was too loose and dry to retain well-defined
                  impressions.
               "I see it all," he muttered almost inarticulately. "He fought until they knocked
                  him on the head with this murderous club, and then they dragged him into yonder
                  hollow, where they thought he would not be found for many days, and shot him. Let
                  us now go on to where the last act in this bloody tragedy was enacted."
               They did not fail to scrutinize every foot of the way; but no further discovery
                  was made. The ground where the body had been found was soaked with blood, but
                  there was no other witness to tell that from hence a soul had winged its way to
                  eternity. Up the ascent of the hollow there was a comparatively level space, over
                  which the water in the rainy season did not rush in one compact volume, but spread
                  out on either hand for many feet, gathering consequently much of the rich loam
                  which was washed down from the mountain sides by the winter rains. Except near the
                  middle of the plain, where the bed of the torrent was in wet weather, and which
                  was a cattle path in summer, it was covered with a heavy undergrowth of paw-paws,
                  hickory bushes, and the tall rank iron weed. To this place Thomas Rogers made his
                  way, while his companion was still groping about his grandfather's death couch.
                  The sight of the blood seemed to have unnerved him, and the quick intelligence which had marked
                  all his movements up to this time, had fled. Those blotches of red on the leaves,
                  those clots of purple jelly on the hard, dry ground had almost converted him into
                  a woman. He was roused by his companion's voice: "Here, Tobe; here the whole
                  damnable story is written."
               Springing to the side of his friend, he grasped his arm and exclaimed, "Where?"
                  "There!" was the reply, as he led him a few feet forward. "Don't you see where
                  three horses have been tied to these bushes? Don't you see where they have bitten
                  the leaves and stamped the ground? Don't you see that the middle horse had
                     three shoes, and the farther horse none? while the nearest one to
                  us was well and freshly shod? Don't you see where that hickory bush has been cut
                  down? Now try the bludgeon in your hand, and see if it does not fit the
                  stump."
               It did fit, and Tobias Wilson rose from his knees, saying only, "It is enough."
                  "Yes, it is enough; but there is more. Look at this track where the middle horse
                  was mounted. Here are the iron tacks on the inner side only. Pull out
                  your measure and see how it corresponds in other respects."
               The same foot had made the two tracks beyond all doubt.
               "We are not done yet," continued Rogers, leading Wilson to the torrent's bed, in
                  the middle of the thicket. "Look at these three pools of water which the deep
                  shade has prevented the sun from drying up. The lower one is still bloody. It was
                  here they washed their bloody hands. Just over there, under that large limestone
                  rock, you can see where they knelt down and drank themselves, and here, in this
                  larger one, is where they watered their horses. Afterward they rode through
                  it,—you can see where they went out and took up this hollow, which leads nowhere
                  but to Jim Biles's house. And look here," he added, exhibiting a yellow bandana
                  handkerchief, "I found this on the rock by the pool where they had kneeled down to
                  drink. It is soaked with blood—probably they spread it out on the rock to dry, and
                  forgot it when they rode away. A man can't have all his senses about him when
                  engaged in such a damnable 'spot of work' as this. It has no mark upon it; but
                  when did you ever see a handkerchief like this in the pocket of any man but a
                  Baptist?"
               "I do not understand it yet," said Wilson.
               "Don't understand it? What the devil is the matter with you? Why don't you
                  understand it?"
               "Because this evidence is satisfactory only as to two men, and we know that there
                  were three. I don't understand who the third one could have been."
               "Fiddle-de-dee! Why, man alive, where are your wits gone to? Didn't you tell me
                  to-day that there were but two Baptists in ten miles of your house?"
               "Yes, and that is certainly the fact."
               "You needn't tell me who those two are, for I know them myself,—Jim Biles and Josh
                  Wilkins. One of the horses hitched yonder was a gray, for he rubbed himself
                  against the sapling and left a part of his hair upon it. That horse was shod all
                  around. Jim Biles owns no gray horse, and lives too far away from a shop to have
                  him regularly shod if he did. He has been riding all this year a sorrel colt,
                  raised on the mountain, which has never had a shoe nailed on it. That well-shod
                  gray was, therefore, not his; nor could it have been Parson Williams's, for we
                  know that his horse had on but three shoes, and is a scuball. Josh Wilkins rides
                  an iron-gray, and a splendid one he is. He is a conscript officer, and it is
                  therefore necessary that he should keep his horse well shod; and besides, it is
                  but little trouble, for he has a smith's shop at his house. And now, if you can't trace out every
                  link of this infernal business, you can't read the print in my sister Sophy's
                  Bible. It has been brewing for some time, and I would have ridden over to warn
                  you, if father had not told me he had already done so. I knew more than he did,
                  though I never suspected Parson Ben Williams; but I see it all now. I told my
                  father what additional particulars I had gathered, and asked him whether I should
                  go and tell you; but he said 'no,' that you knew enough to put you on your guard,
                  and that it was unnecessary to distress you more."
               "Your father was right," interrupted Wilson. "He judged rightly, and acted, as he
                  always does, prudently and kindly. We could not have adopted any further
                  precautions, unless we had moved away altogether, and that grandfather never would
                  have agreed to. Your father did perfectly right."
               "Well, I believe so. But let me go on with my story. After what he said I was
                  afraid to blab a word even to Sophy; but I kept a sharp look out, and hearing
                  nothing new, began to think it was dying away. Last Saturday I heard that there
                  was to be a Baptist preaching in Hog Hollow, close by Parson Williams's, and I
                  asked Sophy to go there with me. She refused, partly I think because she don't
                  like the Baptists, and partly because she does like to be always with
                  your mother. So, as I had no one to go with me, I concluded to stay at home
                  myself. I wish now that I had gone, for it was there that this devilish murder was
                  concocted. I think I can see old Williams now (d——n him!) sitting in his back
                  porch, with pious Josh Wilkins and snuffling Jim Biles, drinking peach brandy and
                  honey, and talking about the great glory they were going to render to God and
                  their country, by murdering a Union man, and an anti-Baptist. I know just what
                  they said and how they said it, and how they agreed to meet at Jim Biles's house
                  on Wednesday, and spend the night in drinking, and praying, and perfecting their
                  plan of murder. Jim Biles's house was fixed on, because that was the only way in
                  which they could get into this valley, in the daytime, without attracting
                  observation, and they must have suspected that you kept regular guard at night.
                  Well, yesterday they rode down to this place early, and tied their horses. They
                  did not expect, in my opinion, to find your grandfather here, but somewhere else
                  in the field. So they crawled along the side of the mountain, outside of the
                  fence, watching like blood-thirsty panthers for their prey. If you had been with
                  him, they would have shot you both from their cover; but you were not
                  with him, and this doubtless delayed operations for several hours. If they shot
                  the old man, you might be near enough to come up before they could get away, and
                  you had furnished them proof, in shooting Simmons, that in that case one, at
                  least, of their horses would go back without a rider. It is my belief that they
                  waited until somewhere near twelve o'clock, and then, fearing that the old man
                  might 'turn out' at the end of the next row, and go home to feed his horse, they
                  fell upon the plan of following after, (which was easy enough from the rustling
                  noise made by the plow and horse in the high corn,) and pouncing upon him when he
                  neared the woods. I do not suppose he made any cry for help, because he knew there
                  was none at hand, and therefore they did not use the bludgeon until they found his
                  resistance greater than they expected. They naturally supposed his horse would go
                  back to the stable, and, if they could get the body up this hollow, it would be
                  weeks before it was found. Thus the few individuals they might chance to meet
                  outside of their own murdering crew, would by that time probably forget so common
                  a circumstance, and nothing would be left
                  to connect them with the deed. But, thank God, we have proof enough to hang two of
                  them, and I trust we shall get enough to hang the other."
               Here Tobias Wilson broke in with a bitter, sneering laugh.
               "Hang a conscript officer and two original secessionists! Hang them before a
                  Confederate judge and jury! Oh! Thomas, Thomas, it is you who are moon-struck
                  now!"
               "You think," exclaimed his astonished companion, "that they will escape with all
                  this evidence against them?"
               "Assuredly I do."
               "Then what have we taken the trouble to collect it for?"
               "For my own conscience' sake. But come, the sun is below the mountain top. We must
                  get back to the house, and feed the stock. The poor brutes must not suffer because
                  we are in trouble. We can talk further as we walk on, and the night is all before
                  us. I fancy that neither of us will sleep much."
               Shouldering their rifles, and taking the bludgeon and the bloody handkerchief
                  along with them, they turned their steps homeward. They passed the little stack of
                  corn which had been made to mark the point where the murderers entered the field,
                  but neither of them noticed it. They knew all that any further search could
                  reveal. Each was busy with his own thoughts of the future,—so busy that they even
                  forgot the suggestion that had been made to hold further converse on the way.
               In the same silence they reached the cabins, unlocked the door of the kitchen, and
                  deposited their rifles within. Then Tobias Wilson went to feed the stock, and
                  Rogers set about building a fire to cook their evening meal.
               Tobias Wilson had not tasted food during the day, and Rogers had eaten nothing
                  since sunrise, (that being the breakfast hour in his father's house,) so that,
                  notwithstanding ing the great grief which had fallen upon them, and the
                  troublesome nature of the thoughts which afflicted them, both did full justice to
                  the plenteous meal prepared by their own hands.
               Supper over, lights were placed in Mr. Johnson's room, and the two young men
                  seated themselves by the fire, (which is always agreeable at night among those
                  mountains,) and resumed their conversation.
               "You must not suppose, Tom," said Wilson, "that I would have put you, or myself
                  either, to the trouble we have this day taken, if I had entertained the remotest
                  idea of permitting a Confederate court to sit in judgment upon my rights or my
                  wrongs. The idea of hanging those criminals, when tried before such a tribunal, is
                  utterly preposterous. Not a hair of their heads would be touched if an angel came
                  down from heaven to testify against them, and an archangel to plead the cause of
                  justice. No, my friend, you must dismiss that idea!"
               "What, then, do you intend to do?"
               "Kill them myself. Send them, before the ground has drank up his blood, to meet
                  him at the bar of God's justice,—not of man's."
               "In that case, Tobias Wilson, allow me to observe, that if you expect to kill all
                  three of these men yourself, you are most damnably deceived."
               "I know that there is danger and difficulty in the undertaking. I know that they
                  will be backed by many friends, and I do not shut my eyes to the probability of
                  losing my own life instead of taking theirs. But, nevertheless, I shall try the
                  venture."
               "That is not what I mean. I mean that I shall take a part of the job off your
                  hands."
               "You!" answered his friend with a surprised look; "you! why, what was my
                  grandfather to you that you should imperil peril your life, it may be your soul, in this desperate adventure? No, Thomas,
                  you must not interfere here; you have nothing to avenge!"
               "If I have nothing to avenge, I have a friend from whose side I am not mean and
                  cowardly enough to shrink in the hour of his greatest need. Nay, he is something
                  more than a friend, for he loves my sweet sister Sophy and she loves him; and as
                  they have both been foolish enough to tell me of their love and of their future
                  hopes, you must submit to a little brotherly interference and accept a little
                  brotherly assistance in a matter which I think very deeply concerns her
                  happiness."
               Tobias Wilson felt as if an ague fit had laid its icy hand upon him. He bowed his
                  head upon his bosom, and for a moment strong traces of irresolution were visible
                  upon those hitherto marble features. By a mighty effort he drove them away, but
                  they soon returned, and, fixing an eager gaze upon young Rogers's face, he
                  said:
               "Tell me, Thomas, and tell me honestly for the love of Heaven, what will she say
                  when she comes to know (for she shall hear nothing of it before the deed is done)
                  that my hands are stained with the blood of those who deprived me of a
                  parent?"
               "What will she say? Why, I hope she will say what she did when you shot Simmons,
                  and a brainless old woman ventured to call you a murderer in her presence. She
                  will say that you did what a brave man and a dutiful son could not help doing, and
                  that those who gave the act the name of murder were themselves the worst of
                  murderers, since they were impelled by no motive but to destroy the characters of
                  those who were a thousand times better than themselves."
               "Did she say that? Did the brave girl thus defend the absent? It is like her; just
                  like her. But I never heard it before!"
               "No; for the foolish thing made me promise not to tell you. She said you would be
                  hurt to know that rude people had spoken of you in terms of such injustice."
               "Like her again! But suppose, Thomas, my mother should tell her that
                  it was her duty to break off an engagement made with a man who was innocent at the
                  time, but who had since sold his soul to Satan for revenge."
               The bold, frank brother, firm as his nerves were, turned pale at the question. He
                  hesitated, stammered, and fidgeted uneasily in his chair, but at last he caught an
                  idea.
               "That is a new view of the matter, and a puzzling one. I was foolish to overlook
                  it. But your mother will never be such a bigoted ninny. It's a downright
                  impossibility. Putting aside her love for you, she loves Sophy too much. It can't
                  be. It's sheer folly to think of it!"
               "But suppose she should?"
               "Then, Tobe, if you will have it, as God is my judge, I believe Sophy would break
                  her own heart and yours and mine rather than disobey your mother's warning voice
                  in a matter of conscience and religion. It would kill her, but she would obey in
                  the case you put. But why ask me? You know her better than I, or at least you
                  ought to do it. You have given her your heart, your soul, everything you had to
                  give, and a great deal, which, as a responsible being, you had no right to part
                  with. She could make you turn traitor to your God in an hour. Before putting such
                  absolute trust in a woman, you ought to have known her well enough to decide with
                  certainty what her conduct would be in any and every contingency."
               "I think I do know her as far as a nature like mine is capable of
                  comprehending one as sinless as hers. I have often thought that there were degrees
                  of purity and perfection even in heaven; that there were beings so high, so pure,
                  so holy, that they were no more capable of being comprehended and understood by the lesser angels,
                  than we are capable of being comprehended and understood by the lower animals of
                  creation. In this light your sister always appears to me. Her dutiful conduct as a
                  daughter, her kindness as a sister, her charity as a friend, her gentleness, and
                  the sweetness of her disposition, I understand; for these are qualities which are
                  common to others of her sex. But these are not all which is requisite to make up
                  the highest order of character. There is something above and beyond this.
                  Something which I feel and worship, but cannot describe.
                  And therefore I turned to you. I had a hope, a faint one it is true, but still
                     a hope, that you, who had watched her in infancy, petted her in
                  girlhood, and stood by her side as a strong tower of defense in the days of her
                  blooming maidenhood, might somehow have obtained a glimpse of that knowledge which
                  is forbidden to me. I see that I was mistaken, and I acknowledge to a kind of
                  selfish satisfaction in making the discovery. It would have pained me, I fear, to
                  learn that the highest and noblest, though not the loveliest attributes of her
                  nature, were better understood by another than by myself. That
                     scratch, at least, I have escaped. It may be that other and more
                  dreaded wounds may be avoided as easily. But as we are not likely to arrive at
                  anything satisfactory by a further discussion, let us change the topic. In a few
                  days we may think of some form of putting the question to her or to my mother,
                  which will enable us to find out what we wish to learn without exciting suspicion.
                  My hand will not be fit for the work that is before it until that question is
                  solved. If I have reason to think that she will approve—no, not that,—for I know
                  that she will not approve, but that she will not utterly condemn me,
                  I shall go forward cheerfully as to a God-appointed task. If she condemns—why,
                  then I shall know the worst, and may draw upon despair for the firmness and
                  calmness necessary to the performance of my task."
               The last words, solemn as they were in themselves, and still more solemn in their
                  utterance, had, strangely enough, excited a smile of quiet satisfaction upon the
                  lips of Thomas Rogers.
               "That's it exactly, Toby! Get Sophy's opinion somehow. I don't care in what way
                  you go about it, but get her opinion by all means. And, in order that I may
                  hereafter enjoy some little reputation as a prophet, I will tell you beforehand
                  what it will be. She will tell you that it is somewhere written in a certain book
                  which sleeps every night under her pillow, 'Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I
                  will repay.' And if you go to arguing about the wickedness of allowing such men as
                  the murderers of Robert Johnson to go at large, she will put her pretty little
                  hand upon your arm and answer, 'We must not do evil that good may follow,' and
                  then you will look down into the depths of those sweet blue eyes, sweeter and
                  lovelier than any which were ever shaded by the eyelashes of an angel, and your
                  very soul will go out from your keeping. You will kneel at her feet, call her your
                  guardian angel, and fling vengeance to the bottomless pit. You have never kissed
                  her, Tobe! I know it; for one day last week when you came to see your mother, I
                  tried to tease her after you were gone, and asked if your parting kiss was a sweet
                  one. She answered quietly, that you had never offered to kiss her, either at
                  parting or at meeting. When you give up your proposed vengeance for her sake, and
                  at her bidding, that will be the time to make up for what you have lost in the
                  last three years. Kiss her, Tobe, and then kiss her again, and again. I will
                  answer for it that, at such a time, she will submit as gently as a sucking lamb.
                  Kiss her as often as you please, and then," he added, suddenly dropping the
                  bantering tone in which he had spoken,
                  and clinching his hand, while his brow grew dark, and his eyes lurid with inward
                  fire, "and then thank God that you have a brother-in-law, or at least a friend who
                  expects soon to be one. Sophy shall not go down to the grave with a broken heart,
                  nor shall you lose your revenge. Instead of taking a part of the
                  contract, I take it all. In six weeks from this date, Ben Williams,
                  Josh Wilkins, and Jim Biles will be rotting under ground, or Thomas Rogers, Jr.,
                  will be foresworn!"
               The look of displeased annoyance with which Wilson had listened to the foregoing
                  part of this speech, now turned to one of blank astonishment and dismay.
               "Good God!" he exclaimed; "this must not, cannot, shall not be!"
               "It must; it can; it shall!"
               "But reflect, Tom, upon the terrible disgrace—"
               "I shall reflect upon nothing," interrupted Rogers impatiently, and almost
                  fiercely, "but the plain and palpable fact, that if I let you and Sophy alone, you
                  will either dig untimely graves for yourselves, or you will permit three tiger
                  cats, in human shape, to prowl over the land and gorge themselves with innocent
                  blood. How do I know that the next victim may not be my own father? He is as
                  obnoxious to them as Robert Johnson was."
               "But why take the worst view and assume its correctness at once? It might happen
                  that although she would oppose the deed before it was committed, yet after it was
                  done she would forgive me, and our engagement would remain unbroken."
               "Jesus, God! man, you will make me angry if you repeat such a supposition! What!
                  Sophy take to her bosom a man whom she would regard, in such a case, as a betrayer
                  of her love, as well as a sinner against God! I tell you that if the universe was
                  rocking on its foundation stone, and such a husband was presented to her, with the
                  assurance that the mere-answer, 'I will,' to the query of the
                  minister, would save it from annihilation, she would clasp her hands, commend her
                  soul to God, and wait for the shock in silence. But, pshaw! what is the use of
                  allowing myself to get impatient! You know, Tobe," he continued coaxingly, "as
                  well as I do, that I am speaking truth. You never could have won her love if you
                  had not appreciated her principles. Give it up at once, like a good and brave
                  fellow as you are. You must come to it."
               "Never! never will I consent that any man, and you the last of all men, should
                  encounter the peril, and incur the guilt, which by right belongs to me, and me
                  alone. I will give up your sister's love, though in doing so I give up heaven, and
                  go forth an avenger, all the more dangerous and merciless, because no hope is left
                  him, either here or hereafter."
               "Poor fellow! from my soul I pity you, and I would to God that I could save you
                  from the struggle now going on in your bosom. I wish I could save my sister, too,
                  for she also will have a fearful trial. But we are in the meshes of fate, and must
                  each fulfill the part assigned us. If you go and tell my sister that you intend to
                  kill those wretches, she will forbid it, and you will obey her; for
                  you can no more look into her eyes and say no to any request of hers,
                  than you can leap to the top of yonder mountain. If you kill them, or any one of
                  them, without telling her your purpose beforehand, you may calculate that she will
                  break off your engagement, and that will kill her, and you too, and
                  go a long way toward killing me, for although my heart is a pretty tough one, I
                  don't think I should ever be good for much after laying your heads in the grave.
                  The only thing you can do is to let them alone."
               "But will you let them alone also?"
               
               "Not I! If I did, in the first place, you would lose your revenge, which I have no
                  mind to balk you in. In the second place, I have a strong suspicion that if I did,
                  Thomas Rogers, Sr., would some day before long be served just the same way your
                  grandfather was. Therefore I shall not let them alone!"
               "But if my taking the law into my own hands be so terrible, why
                  should not the same consequences follow from your doing so? Will the
                  act not be as much reprehended by your sister when committed by you, as it would
                  be if committed by me? Will not the consequences be the same at last?"
               "By no means! She does not love me as a husband but as a brother. To that tie she
                  is not called on to say yes or no. It is one which nature has made for us. She
                  will be shocked, mortified, and terribly hurt, I know that. But she will
                     forgive me soon. So she would forgive you. The terms, however,
                  will be separation. To you that would be death, to me very different;
                  and, as I should have you here, with a husband's rights, to plead for me, I think
                  I may calculate upon an early restoration to favor."
               The absorbing nature of their conversation had prevented the young men from
                  observing that they were in nearly total darkness. There was a kind of red glow
                  cast by the dying embers through the room, and sitting where they were, close to
                  the hearth, their shapes, though not their features, were visible to each other.
                  Just as Rogers concluded the last sentence above quoted, two rifle shots rang
                  sharply from the base of the mountain, and rolled up its sides. Springing to their
                  feet, their rifles were in their hands in an instant, and taking opposite sides of
                  the room they listened keenly. The dogs, which had been lying in the passage,
                  rushed toward the outer fence with furious barking. This served them to good
                  purpose, for it pointed out the exact spot from which the firing had taken place.
                  Directly they heard a yelping among the dogs, which showed that one of them had
                  been stricken, most likely with a stone. Wilson was satisfied that the attention
                  of those who had fired the shots would be occupied for several minutes by the
                  dogs, and, walking over to Rogers, he said:
               "Let us leave here. They are too busy with the dogs, and it is too dark for them
                  to see us. We will get out where we may have a fair chance, or rather where all
                  the chances will be in our favor, since we know their whereabouts and they will
                  know nothing of ours."
               In the daytime the more prudent course would have been to remain within the
                  shelter of the cabins, but this was reversed at night. Then, no matter whether
                  they wished to seek safety by flight from overpowering odds, or prepare to do
                  battle with equal, or nearly equal numbers, it was the dictate of prudence to get
                  into the open air as speedily as possible. Tobias Wilson and his grandfather had
                  often discussed this point, and weighing well every possible contingency, had
                  deliberately planned the mode of defense to be adopted in each separate case.
               "We must not separate, Tom," whispered Wilson, as leaving the house by a side
                  door, they moved stealthily but swiftly toward an angle of the fence which
                  commanded both the cabins and the stables. "Keep close to me, or we may get to
                  shooting each other in the dark."
               The noise made by the dogs had changed a little, and was now nearer the house,
                  showing that the assailants, whoever they were, had no idea of flight, but were
                  cautiously approaching. About the same time the lights gleaming through the cracks
                  in his grandfather's room attracted the attention of Wilson.
               "We have had a narrow escape, Tom, and those lights have probably saved our
                  lives," whispered he to his companion
                  panion. "On the other side of the house there is a window, which I left open when
                  we lighted the candles. On the slope of the mountain from which the firing came,
                  everything in that room would be visible through the open window. They have seen
                  the dead body on the bed, and supposing that he was merely asleep, have fired at
                  it. What surprises them now, and makes them approach so cautiously, is that they
                  hear no outcry from my mother. In a short time they will suppose she is absent,
                  and will approach more boldly. Now let us move our position to where we can
                  command the window. We will get a shot before long, depend on it."
               As they moved around the fence to a point within twenty yards of the open window,
                  Wilson made his comrade observe every obstruction or inequality in the path, and
                  pointed out the place where a branch pathway led across the little stream to the
                  road.
               "By this path," he said, still speaking in whispers, "it is not more than fifteen
                  yards to the spring branch. If they have tied their horses about the
                  stable, as I think they have, for the greater convenience of carrying off ours,
                  they must ride over a hundred yards before they can reach this point, and we shall
                  have no trouble in intercepting their retreat."
               They had now reached a part of the fence which was built upon a small ledge of
                  rocks, some three feet high. By sitting down behind this ledge, they had before
                  them an impenetrable natural breastwork, just high enough to enable them to rest
                  their pieces on the lower rails of the fence. They placed themselves, as before,
                  so as to be able to fire from adjoining panels of the fence. One of the dogs had
                  run yelping away, apparently badly hurt; the other still kept up a continuous
                  barking, but was "fighting shy." Pretty soon a rock or some other missile struck
                  him, and he too sought protection under the cabin. All this had not occupied more
                  than three or four minutes, and the two watchers drew their breath hard, for they
                  knew the time for action was at hand. They were in full view of the window, from
                  which a strong light was calmly streaming. Directly a dark object could be
                  discerned moving on the outer edge of the light. Then another. They were evidently
                  puzzled, and came on slowly and cautiously. Taking a few steps farther forward,
                  they halted and held a brief consultation, then advanced directly to the window.
                  One of them laid his hand upon the sill, and looked in. Now was the time. Two
                  rifle shots, in quick succession, rang upon the still night air. One of the
                  marauders fell heavily to the ground; the other discharged his gun in the
                  direction of the ambushed party, and then bounded toward the stable.
               "Quick!" said Wilson. "Load quick, Tom; we shall catch him at the spring
                  branch."
               To men who had been accustomed to the use of the rifle from the time they were
                  able to raise it to their shoulders, and who in their pursuit of game, and in
                  encounters with the bears and panthers which infested that wild region, had often
                  found celerity of loading essential to the preservation of life itself, this was
                  an operation which occupied scarcely a moment of time. Besides, on the present
                  occasion, they had anticipated its probable necessity, and everything was in
                  readiness. Their guns were loaded, and they were within ten feet of the point
                  Wilson had designated, before they heard the clatter of a horse's feet at full
                  speed coming down the road. "Let him pass," said Wilson, "before you fire. The
                  road here runs nearly straight for forty or fifty yards. We can hardly miss him if
                  we fire right down it."
               On came the horseman at reckless speed. He passed unconsciously within a few feet
                  of his ambushed foes. Again the guns were raised to their shoulders, and again the quick, sharp, deadly report of the
                  Kentucky rifle echoed in the valley and rolled upwards along the mountain side.
                  For a few bounds the rider kept his seat, then reeled in the saddle, dropped the
                  bridle, clutched at the mane of his horse, missed it, and fell heavily to the
                  ground.
               "I think," said Rogers, reloading his gun, "that we have done for them both;
                  though this fellow isn't dead yet. I hear him groaning. Go to the house, Tobe; I
                  guess you will find that other fellow's horse hitched to the fence. Bring him
                  down, for I have no idea of toting yonder carrion on my shoulders. In the mean
                  time I'll just walk up and ask him what hurt him."
               Thomas Rogers spoke lightly and recklessly, but he did not act in the same manner.
                  He crossed the spring branch, and proceeded cautiously on the opposite side from
                  the road. The banks were almost everywhere high and steep, and he had no
                  difficulty in keeping pretty well under cover. He thought the fallen man might be
                  only slightly wounded, and if so he would seek to revenge himself for the injury
                  he had received upon the first one who approached him. He knew that these
                  marauders always carried their pistols belted about the person, which made it
                  improbable that it would be lost in falling. When immediately opposite the spot
                  from which the groans proceeded, he leaped over the narrow branch, and, sheltering
                  himself by the high bank, said in an ordinary tone of voice:
               "Who are you, and what's the matter?"
               "Water!" gasped the wounded man; "for God's sake give me water!"
               "But who are you?"
               "James Miller, Sergeant—th Tennessee Cavalry. Water! water! Will you let me die of
                  thirst?"
               Satisfied that no danger was to be apprehended, Rogers now leaped over the bank
                  and approached him, saying as he did so:
               "Give me your cap."
               The wounded man raised his hand toward his head, but let it fall with a cry of
                  pain.
               "I can't; take it, and be quick."
               Rogers attempted to do so, but it was fastened under the chin to prevent it from
                  falling off, either in flight or pursuit.
               Kneeling down to unloose it, he bethought him of the pistol, and instantly laid
                  his hand upon it.
               "I'll just appropriate this article first. You may be a very good fellow, but I
                  have heard of men who were repaid with a bullet through the brains for just such
                  services as I am about to render you."
               The wounded man made no reply. The water was brought, and he drank greedily. Then
                  drawing a long sigh, he murmured, "Oh! how sweet!" It was probably the first time
                  in years that pure element would not have been exchanged by him for a more fiery
                  liquid. "Please give me some more." It had been many a day since that word
                  "please" had passed his lips; and never before to a Union man and a civilian.
                  Another capful was brought, and greedily swallowed. By this time Tobias Wilson had
                  come up with the horse.
               "Where are you hurt?" he asked.
               "My leg is broken and my shoulder is badly hurt; but I do not know whether it was
                  from a bullet or by the fall."
               "Can you ride, with one of us to walk by and hold you on?"
               "I'm afraid not; but if you will lift me up, I'll try."
               He was lifted on the horse's back, and carried to the house with but little
                  trouble. One of the candles was brought from Mr. Johnson's room, and the wounded
                  man deposited in the kitchen. They then went out and brought in the body which was
                  lying under the window. He was dead.
                  While they were straightening and composing his limbs on the floor, and examining
                  the wounds which had sent him to his long account, the wounded prisoner, who was
                  also lying on a blanket in another part of the room, considerably strengthened and
                  refreshed by a hearty draught of brandy from a flask in his haversack, indulged
                  himself in a muttered commentary on all he saw and heard. His first exclamation
                  after the body was brought in was:
               "He's as dead as a door nail."
               As the examination progressed, his comments were muttered from time to time
                  somewhat in the following strain:
               "Hit in the head, and shot through under the left arm! He never kicked; he
                  couldn't have felt it, that's some comfort. Poor Bob! he was as true a comrade as
                  ever went out foraging, and now he's gone; and Tom Simmons before him, and I'm
                  laid up to dry. It'll be six months before I can ride a horse again, even if these
                  fellows don't hang me, or turn me over to them as will. I wonder who it was we
                  shot at in t'other room! They seem to be mighty easy about him, and yet I'll bet
                  my revolver to a one dollar Con-fed note, that he's got two three-quarter ounce
                  balls through him. They've not said a word about him, and I'm thinking it would'nt
                  be exactly prudent for me to broach the subject."
               By this time Bob Jenkins (for it was he) had been decently laid out on the floor,
                  and a counterpane spread over him. The two friends now approached the
                  prisoner.
               "Let us see what we can do for you, sir," said Rogers; "for although you deserve
                  to have been left like a dog on the road, we must not let you suffer any more than
                  we can help."
               "You may begin with this," he replied, coolly enough, though he must have been
                  suffering greatly, and pointing at the same time to his left leg.
               A straw mattress was taken from under the bed, his clothes were stripped off, and
                  he was laid upon it. A basin of water and some towels were placed on the floor.
                  Two other candles were lighted and set down, one on each side of him. Rogers
                  washed away the clotted blood as carefully as if tending a friend. He saw at once
                  that the bone was badly shattered, about three inches below the knee.
               "We can do nothing here, Tobe, but bind it up and wait for Dr. Griffin to-morrow.
                  This must have been my ball. Yours is not large enough to have shattered this bone
                  so effectually."
               "True enough," said Wilson, stooping down and examining the wounded limb. "How are
                  we to bind it up? It is an awkward place to bandage."
               "I saw Dr. Griffin do up a fracture of this sort once, and I think I can manage it
                  after a fashion, if you happen to have such a thing as a pasteboard in the
                  house."
               "Yes, there is. My mother bought one not long ago to make a sun-bonnet, but did
                  not use it, thinking her old one would last through the summer."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *It is very common in the mountains, where people cannot go to a store for
                     every little thing they need, to keep always on hand articles of this sort,
                     for household use. The farmers, too, will often purchase and put away
                     articles they do not expect to use for months. Thus many things of
                     convenience or necessity are frequently to be found in cabins where no one
                     would look for them,—a circumstance which the reader may have occasion to
                     notice several times in these pages.
               
               "Then get it. Get also an old sheet to make a bandage."
               When the pasteboard and sheet were produced, Rogers directed his friend to cut off
                  two wide slips of the pasteboard, about eight inches in length, so as to extend
                  above and below the knee, while he himself tore off, and made a roll of bandage of sufficient length. Beginning at
                  the toe, he bandaged the foot and ankle up to the place to which he wished the
                  pasteboard to extend. Then applying the pasteboard on each side of the fractured
                  limb, he continued his bandaging process until it extended high enough above the
                  knee to render the joint immovable, remarking as he did so:
               "It is like enough that I may have more of this sort of work to do, and I may as
                  well get my hand in."
               The other wound was through the right shoulder, where bandaging was out of the
                  question; but he managed to fasten a bat of cotton tolerably securely on the
                  orifice where the ball entered, and another where it came out. Then arranging his
                  patient as comfortably as possible on a straw mattress, he proposed to Wilson that
                  they should get some wood and make a fire.
               "This fellow," he said, "has lost blood enough to make him feel a little chilly,
                  and I want to question him when he is quite at his ease. I suppose there is no
                  further danger of being shot at to-night. At all events, we can make all safe by
                  closing doors and windows. It cannot now be very far from daylight."
               A cheerful fire was soon made, and Rogers, seating himself with the air of a
                  Supreme Court Judge, began his examination.
               "I think I know you, Mr. Sergeant Miller."
               "If you live in these parts, it's like enough; though I don't remember you. I was
                  raised in seven miles of here."
               "Your father is a Baptist?"
               "Yes, sir; do you know him?"
               "No; but I have heard of him as one of Parson Ben Williams's flock of lambs. He is
                  a special pet of the Parson's, I believe,—one of the chosen vessels."
               "Not by a darned sight. Dad is a Union man, and old Ben thinks that's the next
                  worst thing to bein' a Methodist. Dad belongs to his church; but there's no love
                  lost between them, 'specially when they gits on politics."
               "Ah! then how came you in the Confederate army?"
               "That's easy told; but if you mean to ax me many questions, you must give me some
                  more brandy. I'm mighty weak."
               The flask and a cup of water were handed him.
               "Never mind the water. I never spiles good liquor by weakening it, and this is
                  good. It come from Gen. Hardee's own jug." He took a drink of raw spirit from the
                  flask, and laid it on the bed beside him.
               "Jest leave this here, so I can take a sip as I needs it, and then drive on with
                  your questions,—I'm ready."
               "I asked you how it happened that you, the son of a Union man, (and one who must
                  be a true one, to have stood out against his church,) should be in the Confederate
                  army."
               "'Cause dad never took no papers but Parson Graves's Baptist paper at Nashville,
                  and hit was so keen to save our souls, hit forgot to
                  tell us of danger to our bodies."
               "I am afraid I don't understand you. What do you mean?"
               "Well, you see, Parson Graves never gived us no information about the Conscript
                  Act of Congress, and as I had never heered anything about it, I was
                  glad when mammy axed me to take a meal bag full of bacon over to Winchester, where
                  we heerd the soldiers would swap sugar for it. Well, I got there and made the
                  swap,—a pretty good one as I thought, for we had a plenty of meat, and was
                     afeered the soldiers would find it out and take it from us, as dad
                  was suspected of being disloyal to the Confederacy. After that I went to buy two
                  quart bottles of brandy for dad, which he had charged me partickler to get good.
                     Old Ben Grimes showed me a sutler's
                  store where he said I could get the best 'old peach' in the State. The store was
                  full of people buying everything they could see. When I axed the feller for the
                  'old peach,' he looked as black as thunder, and said he'd give me to understand he
                  was a law-abiding man, and if I wanted to buy forbidden things I must go somewhere
                  else." (Here Sergeant Miller took a sip from his flask.) "I went out mad as a
                  hornet at old Ben Grimes for fooling me in such a fashion, and when I found him I
                  began to curse him black and blue. At first he didn't know what was the matter,
                  but when he understood the thing, instead of trying to knock me down he burst out
                  laughing. 'Why, you great goose,' he said, 'what else could you expect when you
                  axed for 'old peach' with a store full of people? Come with me. I'll fix it, for I
                  likes your daddy, and I'm sorter dry myself.' When the feller seed me come back
                  with old Grimes he understood it all in a minute. 'Well, my young one,' he said
                  mighty perlite, 'what will you have?' Old Grimes put in, 'He wants some doctor's
                  stuff, Mr. Murray, his mammy's got the di-ar-ree, and them d——d Yankees has busted
                  all the 'pothecary shops. Aint you got something that'll do the old ooman good?'
                  'Of course I has. It's a mighty common complaint among the soldiers, and I always
                  makes it a pint to have a good lot on hand. But it aint here; wait a minit. Tom
                  will be in directly to tend the store, and I'll go to the warehouse with you.' Tom
                  was not far off. I found out afterwards that he never was on such occasions.
                  Throwing the bag with the bottles on my shoulder, me and Murray and Grimes went
                  over to what had been the smoke-house of the old tavern. He opened the door, and
                  following us in locked it on the inside. We had a heap of chat, and took several
                  drinks round before I would agree to give his price, (four dollars a quart.)
                  Finally, he agreed to fling in a pint flask, and fill it for my own private use.
                  But he charged me partickler never to tell no one how cheap he had let me have it.
                  I know'd he was a swindling me, but I didn't let on. The fact is, I was bought up
                  by that pint flask and the within. I had never had so much liquor
                  before in my life. Murray locked his door and went off to the store, but old Ben
                  Grimes stuck to me like a leech. I thought he wanted some of my liquor, and
                  instead of letting him keep me in town, I hurried off quicker than I meant to do.
                  He had sent a runner for a conscript officer, and was trying to keep me 'till he
                  come. But he didn't. I saw he was nearly crazy to keep me in town, and I was
                  determined not to be kept; not that I suspected him of having anything to do with
                  conscription, for I didn't know the meaning of the word, but I suspected him of
                  wanting to drink my liquor. So I mounted, and rode off in a trot. When I got home,
                  dad and the old woman were so well pleased with my sugar trade, that they
                  overlooked the liquor business, especially as the brandy was really very good, and
                  dad was furnished with an excuse for shortening my allowance. It was late, and by
                  the time me and the old man had fed the stock, the gals and my little brothers
                  come in from work. I was the oldest of the family. The three next to me were girls
                  and the other two boys. I was then just twenty. All the heavy work was done by dad
                  and me. The old woman cooked, and on washing days my oldest sister helped her.
                  Besides, she always came to the house a little earlier than the others in the
                  evening, to milk, bringing my younger brother with her to help keep off the
                  calves, while she milked the cows. We were all healthy and willing to work, and
                  were getting along in the world contentedly and well. We had prayers every night,
                  and if they did me no good at the time or since, it was not dad's fault. I
                     believe that I should have been a
                  good, sober, industrious man, as dad is. He loves his dram, and takes it regular
                  in his family; but he is honest, hardworking, and religious, and never lets the
                  liquor git ahead of him. I believe I should have been too, if this d——d war hadn't
                  come along, busting up everything, making men who were tolerably well off, poor,
                  and poor men, beggars; making honest men, thieves, and kind-hearted human beings,
                  blood-thirsty panthers. I wish the men who brought it on were in the bottom of
                  hell, and Jeff. Davis the lowest of the lot." (After this outburst he took another
                  sip from the flask, and resumed.) "But to go on with my story. The children came
                  in and dad made a sweetened dram for them all round, when we sat down to supper in
                  the best kind of humor. The little ones were still eating, and the old woman was
                  scolding them and helping them by turns, when we heard the tramp of horses' feet,
                  and the jingle of cavalry spurs and sabres. It was an unwelcome sound, but none of
                  us had the least idea of what it portended. It was a conscript officer with a
                  party of five, a corporal and four privates. Old Ben Grimes had put them on my
                  track. They had a led horse which they had pressed on the way, and I
                  was hurried off with the corporal and two men, while the officer with two others
                  remained to take supper. Dad seized the chance and pleaded, and pleaded in vain.
                  He told him our fix,—that there was no one but me capable of doing a good day's
                  work. He pointed to the helpless children huddled in a corner, to his own gray
                  hairs, and told him that they must come to want if I was taken away from them; but
                  it did no good. The d——d hypocrite pretended to be affected even to tears, but his
                  duty was imperative, he had no discretion. What could he do? The Government was
                  just at this time in the greatest need of men, and Gen. Bragg would take no excuse
                  for any lax enforcement of the conscript law. He had private advices from
                  Richmond, which was carefully kept out of the papers, and only entrusted to
                  confidential officers like himself, that Gen. Lee was preparing to strike a blow
                  that would astonish the world. In three months Washington would be ours, and the
                  war over. His son, that is me, would then come back to him covered with glory, and
                  all the girls in the county would be envying my sisters. To all this, got by
                  heart, and repeated a hundred times before, dad made no reply. He was not fooled
                  in the least, but he saw it was useless and said nothing. That's the way, sir, I
                  came to be in the Confederate army."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The main facts here stated are literally true. Hundreds of just such cases
                     may be easily gathered up. Nay more, every county in the South
                     has its list of victims to the conscription, and there is not
                        one in which cases more infamous than this may not be found.
               
               "And did you stay in that army willingly after such treatment as you have
                  described?"
               "Surely not! I was outrageous at first. I beat old Ben Grimes until every bone in
                  his body was sore. This brought on punishment, and then I was closely watched. I
                  was sent away to East Tennessee and drafted into a cavalry regiment. By degrees I
                  began to like my associates. I found that most of them were fellow-victims. Then
                  there was attraction in the constant excitement; the license which is always
                  allowed to the cavalry soldier in the Confederacy, had its charms. From being only
                  endurable, it became pleasant, and I remained from choice where I had been placed
                  by force. I would have deserted any hour of the first two months and joined the
                  Yankees. I have had hundreds of chances since, but I did not go nor think of
                  going. I don't know how it may be hereafter, for I am likely to have a long time
                  for reflection, and I have never yet
                  knowed reflection to do the Confederate cause any good."
               "You are right in that, at least," said Rogers; "but tell me, did your family
                  suffer, as you expected, for the want of your assistance?"
               "No! But that was no fault of the Confederacy or its officers. They did nothing to
                  avert the suffering which dad and I looked for in the family. But I came back from
                  East Tennessee comparatively rich. I had my pockets full of Confederate money. I
                  had over two hundred dollars in State bank notes, and nearly fifty dollars in
                  gold. I gave it all to dad, except about a hundred dollars in Con-fed. But I
                     didn't tell him how I got it. I told him to use the Con-fed money in
                  hiring help, but to save the State money and the gold, and never spend it under
                  any circumstances. I said I wanted the gold for a wedding gift for my youngest
                  sister, Lilly, and the State money to educate the boys whenever a time came in
                  this country that a school could be opened. When I came back from Gen. Bragg's
                  raid into Kentucky, I brought a hundred and eighty-two and a half dollars in gold,
                  five hundred dollars in greenbacks, fifty dollars in Kentucky, and seventy-five
                  dollars in Tennessee bank notes. Besides five thousand dollars in Confed, which I
                  gave to dad, and had more than enough to do me besides. I told him to keep it all
                  safe for various uses which I pretended I wanted to put it to hereafter, except
                  the Con-fed, which he could use as he pleased. But, in truth, I only wanted to be
                  certain that he and the wimen folks and little ones had a good 'nest egg,' if I
                  should happen to get knocked in the head, or meet with some such accident as this
                  of to-night. It was more money than he had ever seed, and I had some trouble to
                  make him believe that I came by it honestly. But he did give in, and put away the
                  funds for safe keeping, and pocketed the Con-fed, when, if he had known the truth,
                  he would have burned it before my face, and driven me from his doors."
               "What is the truth, pray? That is, if you have no objection to telling me. I
                  suppose I know, but I had rather hear it from your own lips."
               "I should have objected yesterday. But a man feels very different with a broken
                  leg and a bullet through his shoulder to what he does when in strong health, and
                  mounted on a splendid horse. I feel sorter as if it would be a relief to me to
                  tell. I got every dollar of that money, and a good deal more which I now have, and
                  a lot which is quilted in my saddle, by stealing and robbing. Stealing money when
                  I could, and when I couldn't find money, taking watches, horses, mules, and
                  everything else that would sell. I sold one horse I stole in Kentucky for two
                  thousand dollars, one-half in Con-fed and the other half in State money."
               "You seem to have made your conscription profitable in the money line at
                  least."
               "Yes! but I lost character, honor, humanity itself. I'm a d—n—d brute! Leastways I
                  would be, if I did not sort of reconcile the thing to my conscience by thinking
                  that the old man and the old woman would have been in the poor-house, and the
                  children, God knows where, but for my robberies!"
               "That is something to human view, but not much, I am afraid, in the eye of Heaven.
                  But tell me, did your comrades generally prosper as you did?"
               "No, sir-ee! They did as much robbing it may be, some of them more; for the
                  cavalry generally gits all that is going in that way; but they gambled, loaned
                  money to needy acquaintances in the infantry, and wasted it on worthless women
                  whenever they had a chance. I saved all. I had one object before me, and I kept it
                  always in mind. I was determined that if
                  I went to the devil headforemost, my brothers and sisters should not be compelled
                  to follow after me by hunger. They are safe now, and that's a comfort anyhow!"
               "Mr. Miller," said Rogers, "your story is an interesting one, and I must hear more
                  of it another time. But there is a more pressing matter about which I should first
                  like to have some information. Be good enough to tell us what brought you here,
                  and why you sought to murder people who had never harmed you, and were too poor to
                  excite your cupidity? Did you have accomplices or instigators?"
               "No; none but the dead. We entered this valley by accident. I found there was
                  plenty of eatables for man and horse. I thought, too, that it might some day prove
                  a place of safety if we should be hard pressed by Yankee cavalry, and I made up my
                  mind that it should be my halting-place when I was in this neighborhood. I never
                  meant that another thing, not so much as a pewter spoon, should be taken from the
                  family, except just what we and our horses might eat. It is true that Tom Simmons
                  threatened more than once to capture the old man's gray horse, but I didn't mean
                  to let him. I did not oppose him right out, for it wasn't necessary to quarrel
                  with him about a thing he might never have a chance to try. But I just made up my
                  mind that, if he ever put a halter on that horse's head, I'd take it off; and he'd
                  been in my company too long to make any fuss about my proceedins,
                  when he knowed I was in earnest. I could see plain enough that it was to my
                  interest to make a friend of the old fellow what lives here, and I meant to do it
                  if I could fix it up any way at all."
               "He does not live here now," interrupted Wilson, in a voice hoarse with emotion;
                  "he is dead."
               "Dead!" exclaimed Miller, with real feeling, trying to turn over on his straw
                  mattress. "Dead! and that, I suppose, is some of my work. That's another account
                  added to the list I've got to settle hereafter!"
               "You did not hurt him. He was murdered the day before."
               "Thank God for that! Not for his being murdered, but that I did not do it. Two
                  days ago I should only have thought of cursing myself and Jenkins for the idiotic
                  folly of taking a corpse for a sleeping man; but some of my old feelings are
                  coming back on me, and I'm not sure I'm sorry it happened as it has."
               I have strong hopes," said Rogers, "that it will turn out to be much the best
                  thing that could have happened to you. But go on with your story. You
                  shall hear his before long."
               Miller took another and a larger drink of the brandy, for he had lost much blood,
                  and was very weak. He then resumed.
               "I wanted to make a friend of Mr. Johnson because I intended to stay about home as
                  close as possible, as long as any of our boys were in the neighborhood; for I
                  knowed they were none too good to rob my dad, if they could do it
                  without my finding them out. I wanted to watch them at any rate, and as it was
                  certain the Yankee cavalry would soon be swarming over the country, I judged it
                  best to have a good hiding-place away from home. Well, we was gone some weeks, and
                  in the mean time somebody warned the old man against us. When we came back we
                  found the house locked up, and him, and another feller that was with him, gave us
                  to understand that if we got any dinner here we'd have to fight for it. I began a
                  palaver with him, intending, after making a show to satisfy the boys, to retreat
                  and come back some other time when he was in a better humor. I've thought since
                  that if I'd had the sense of a cat I'd have gone off at once. But I didn't have time to study it over then. The first thing
                  I knowed, Simmons blazed away at somebody who was in this here room, and then his
                  cussed horse-stealing habits made him try to mount the gray and gallop off. He
                  hadn't got twenty yards before a bullet overtook him. He had rid his last time on
                  horseback."
               "It was I who fired that shot," said Wilson.
               A shade darkened the brow of Miller, but it was only of momentary duration. When
                  it had passed away, he continued.
               "You fired it! and I owe you too this hole in my shoulder, and Bob Jenkins there,
                  the worse hole in his head. There was a time when it would not have been prudent
                  to tell me this; but I hope that is over. But I can't tell," he added, shaking his
                  head sadly; "I don't know rightly how strong a hold the Devil has got upon me
                     yit."
               After another sip of the brandy, he continued his narrative.
               "We made terms with the garrison, and carried Tom Simmons to the thicket just
                  outside of the gap. We would have buried him there, but we had no tools, so we
                  waited until dark, and took him to the house of a sure friend. We dug a hole for
                  him behind the stable, and there he is now.
               "I had no chance for friendship with Mr. Johnson after that day's work. But I
                  still wanted a hiding-place to retreat to in case of need, and I determined to
                  have it. I concocted a story of his murdering Simmons which I thought might drive
                  him from the neighborhood, but it didn't. I tried on several other
                  schemes. They failed to frighten him off, if he ever heard of them, which is
                  doubtful, and then I came here to settle the matter myself, after the usual
                  fashion of Gen. Wheeler's cavalry, or partisan rangers, as Jeff. Davis calls them.
                  You know the rest."
               The exhausted man took another sip of brandy, and then lay perfectly still and
                  motionless. The candles paled before the broad light of day. The two young men
                  rose and left the house to perform the necessary duty of feeding their horses.
                  When they returned with the materials for an early breakfast, as a preparation for
                  the labors of the day, Sergeant Miller was sleeping as soundly as a tired infant,
                  with its dimpled cheeks pillowed on its mother's breast.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               THAT morning a small but sincere party of mourners might have been seen struggling
                  up the steep mountain path which led to the dwelling of the late Robert Johnson.
                  It consisted of Mrs. Wilson, Mr. Rogers, and his daughter Sophy, the surgeon, Dr.
                  Griffin, and the minister, Parson King. The surgeon and the minister rode a little
                  in advance, and occasionally exchanged a word or two in low and solemn tones. The
                  remainder of the party followed in silence and in tears. When they first came in
                  sight of "the cabins," a violent sob burst from Mrs. Wilson, which was echoed by
                  her fair young companion, but no exclamation, no word, was uttered by either.
               The young men had passed the morning in making a rude coffin of planks, in which
                  they placed the body of Mr. Johnson, leaving it, however, uncovered. In the little
                  garden they dug a grave, and made all the necessary preparations for his burial.
                  The same sad offices were then performed for Bob Jenkins, except that his coffin
                  was nailed up at once, and his grave was dug some distance off. These tasks had
                  not long been finished when they saw the party of mourners descending the mountain
                  side. Locking up the kitchen door, in which the wounded prisoner was lying by the
                  coffin of his dead comrade, the two friends walked out to the bars which gave
                  admittance to the yard. Mrs. Wilson and Sophy Rogers were gently lifted from their
                  horses, and led in silence to the chamber of the dead, where they instantly threw
                  themselves upon their knees by the side of the coffin, and gave vent to a flood of
                  tears. Thomas Rogers, in the mean time, touched his father's arm, and leading him
                  outside of the house, related briefly the night's adventures. Mr. Rogers, Sr., was
                  amazed. He had regarded it as a certain thing, and had so spoken of it to several
                  of his acquaintances, that Robert Johnson had been murdered by the soldiers who
                  had twice called at his house for no good purpose, and were at last only driven
                  off by the slaughter of one of their number. It was now plain that they were
                  innocent of his death in fact, however guilty in intention. Who then could have
                  done the bloody deed? He started as if stung by an adder, when his son, in answer
                  to his look of eager inquiry, said in a stern whisper:
               "Parson Williams, Josh Wilkins, and Jim Biles are the murderers."
               "Impossible!" he exclaimed. "Impossible! I do not love either one of the three,
                  but they are not so wicked as that."
               "So I thought," answered his son, "and so I said; but we have proofs that, before
                  an honest judge and jury, would hang a saint. We will talk over all that, however,
                  another time. The matter which presses most is, how are we to get the 'women
                  folks' away from here without letting them know that there are two
                  dead bodies instead of one under that roof, and another who may be, for all I
                  know, in a fair way to join them. Wait a moment until I call Tobe; we will then
                  walk off a short distance together and consult."
               Tobias Wilson was soon brought from the house, and the three men, moving out of
                  hearing, seated themselves on a ledge of rocks to confer with each other as to the
                  best course to be pursued under the difficult circumstances in which they were
                  placed.
               
               "Thomas and I thought, Mr. Rogers," said Wilson, "that after grandfather was
                  buried, we would get mother and Miss Sophy to their horses at once, without
                  returning to the house, that you and Parson King could ride on with them, while we
                  kept Dr. Griffin with us upon some pretext or other, and when they were gone, he
                  could examine the wounded man, while Thomas and I buried the dead one down in that
                  hollow where the grave will not attract attention."
               Mr. Rogers listened attentively to his young friend, and thought deeply before he
                  replied. At length he said:
               "It won't do, boys! It won't do! Your mother, Tobias, will never leave here
                  without going through the house. She said this morning that she had some
                  arrangements to make, after the funeral, for your comfort, and even spoke of
                  remaining here all night. I can see nothing for it but to go and tell those here
                  present all that has occurred, and I am not sure but that it is the best policy.
                  It will serve to distract your mother's mind somewhat, from thinking of her
                  father, and thus lessen her grief. It will relieve her too from a part of the
                  anxiety she would feel on your account, if you remained here to-night without
                  giving her a good reason for it. You must tell her, and the best way is to make no
                  secret of it. Go into the house and tell her at once in the presence of our
                  friends."
               It was apparent from Thomas's countenance that he coincided with his father.
                  Wilson was staggered. He felt that the advice was good, but he had an
                  unconquerable repugnance to telling, in the presence of her he loved, a story of
                  violence and blood in which he had himself so large a share.
               "I—I would rather not," he stammered; "won't you, Mr. Rogers, be so good as to
                  tell it for me?"
               "No, silly boy. I do not know the facts. Thomas has only given me an imperfect
                  outline. Why should you hesilate? You have done nothing to be ashamed of."
               "I don't think I could get through with it, sir. I—"
               "Never mind," interrupted Thomas Rogers; "come on to the house, I will tell it
                  myself."
               When they returned they found Mrs. Wilson still in tears, but much calmer. The
                  minister of religion had been reminding her of the sinfulness of unmeasured grief,
                  and the ingratitude of thus reproaching the Almighty for what HE permitted to be
                  done. "The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the
                  Lord." The words found an echo in her heart, and the sorrow which, without
                  religion, would have maddened her, became only a gentle chastening in the presence
                  of that heaven-born ejaculation. If grief was not banished from her bosom, it was
                  softened and subdued, and there was no longer danger of any violent outbreak.
                  Thomas Rogers broke the silence which followed their entrance, in a low but
                  distinctly audible voice:
               "I am afraid, doctor, that in mourning for the dead, Tobias and I have forgotten
                  the duties of humanity. There is a wounded man in the next room who much needs
                  your help."
               "A wounded man!" exclaimed the doctor. And all eyes were turned upon
                  the speaker as if to read in his countenance the meaning of his strange words.
               "Yes! A badly wounded man."
               He then went over rapidly, but distinctly and clearly, the events of the preceding
                  night, omitting only the subject of the conversation between Wilson and himself,
                  and their suspicions of the persons who really murdered the old man now lying in
                  his coffin before them. When the story ended, the doctor, followed by the
                  gentlemen present, walked into the kitchen to minister to the hurts of Sergeant
                  Miller, while Mrs. Wilson and Sophy went into the garden to gather some of the few flowers blooming there to decorate
                  the grave of her parent. They had not plucked more than a dozen, when Mrs. Wilson
                  clasped her hand on her heart, and exclaimed:
               "I must—I must—I must tell some one, or my heart will break. Sophy, my love, come
                  here. Did you notice Tobias when your brother said, that although he at first
                  suspected these bad men of murdering my father, he was now satisfied the deed was
                  done by some one nearer home, and he hoped they would soon be overtaken by a
                  retribution swifter than the law."
               "No, dear madam, I think I was too much frightened, thinking of the danger they
                  had escaped, to notice anything."
               "I did, Sophy. I watched him closely; and the glance of his eye
                  brought a horrid fear upon me. He spoke some words yesterday which disturbed me
                  greatly; but to-day he looked as if the fiend already had possession of him. Spare
                  me, oh Lord! in mercy spare me this last and deadly blow!"
               "What do you mean, Mrs. Wilson?" asked the trembling and now thoroughly frightened
                  girl. "What cause is there for this new anxiety? In mercy's name, what do you
                  fear?"
               "Revenge, my child. That black and deadly sin which has sent so many
                  souls to perdition, and is yet so sweet that the best of earth's children are
                  never safe from the danger of its indulgence."
               "Revenge! I do not think I know exactly what you mean."
               "I mean that Tobias Wilson has forgotten the teachings of him who is now gone, and
                  is contemplating a bloody and fearful vengeance upon those who murdered his
                  grand-father."
               Trembling like an aspen, and turning as white as the lily before the sun has
                  kissed the dew from its leaves, the young girl caught her companion's arm and
                  almost shrieked:
               "Oh! Mrs. Wilson, do not say so. Do not believe that one so gentle and good can
                  dream of throwing away his soul for the gratification of a fierce and wicked
                  passion. It cannot—cannot be."
               "Alas! I cannot be deceived. If the Evil One is not now rioting in his bosom, I do
                  not know the face of my own child."
               "Then save him, madam. Oh! save him from this horrid fate."
               "I shall try, Sophy, for it is my duty. I shall weary Heaven with prayers,—but I
                  have no hope. Father and son both gone! The one will soon be in the grave; the
                  other—worse. Oh! God, strengthen me to say, 'Thy will, not mine, be done.'"
               "I will save him!" exclaimed Sophy Rogers, with sudden vehemence,
                  while a rosy tinge of heavenly beauty spread over her cheeks, and her eyes
                  brightened with a gleam of light as holy and as pure as that of the star which
                  shed its radiance o'er the cradle of the infant Redeemer. The shadows of the
                  mountain rested upon the spot where she stood; she had lifted the straw bonnet
                  from her head, and the spirit of the summer wind, as it swept through her dark
                  chestnut curls, uttered a mournful sigh because it could not linger there forever.
                  Hers was a shape and form upon which Nature had lavished all its choicest gifts,
                  and then the angel, the archangel, and the cherubim had come, one after another,
                  to touch it with their heavenly hands, adding a line of beauty here, a glow of
                  softness there, and spreading everywhere in every lineament, and in every limb, a
                  mingled grace and sweetness, of which no poet had ever dreamed, and to which no
                  painter's aspirations had ever been
                  lifted up. But it was not the mere perfection of form and of feature which
                  extorted the wondering admiration of the beholder. It was not even that higher
                  loveliness of expression which springs from the union of intellect
                  with the exact and perfect chiseling of the statuary. It was something more lofty
                  and more holy—more sublime, and yet more gentle and sweet. It was
                  RELIGION. That splendid creature; that being of unapproached and unapproachable
                  loveliness had contemplated the Godhead so often, and with such deep fervor, that
                  a portion of its glories had descended and settled upon her.
               "I will save him!" repeated the young and sinless enthusiast: "no
                  matter what it costs, I will save him."
               "Thank you, dear Sophy, for your good-will; but if he will not hearken to the
                  voice of the mother who bore him, there is little chance of his listening to
                  yours, sweet and musical as it is."
               "Let me try at any rate, madam. Do let me try!"
               "Let you try! yes, surely; and my prayers and thanks shall go with your efforts.
                  That boy is very dear to me."
               "And to me too," answered Sophy with a blushing cheek, but a frank unembarrassed
                  tone.
               Mrs. Wilson wondered, but said nothing. They walked back to the house in silence.
                  The dressing of the wounded man's hurts was completed, and Mr. Rogers, Sr.,
                  suggested that it was time to fasten down the coffin-lid, preparatory to
                  depositing the body of Robert Johnson in its last resting-place.
               Tobias Wilson addressed Dr. Griffin:
               "I sent for you, doctor, for the purpose of getting you to examine the wounds
                  which killed my grandfather. Since then we have collected a mass of testimony
                  which makes it superfluous. Still, as you are here, I think the examination may as
                  well be made."
               "It will be more satisfactory, I think," replied the doctor; "if it proves nothing
                     you do not know, it may prove something to others."
               The body was removed from the coffin, and the ladies left the room; kindly going
                  in to say some words of sympathy to Miller, and inquire whether anything could be
                  done to make his situation more comfortable.
               The two wounds inflicted on the corpse by Miller and Jenkins were not examined by
                  Dr. Griffin. The other two were of unequal size, one very large, larger than would
                  have been made by a musket bullet; it had been discharged from a smooth-bore gun.
                  Dr. Griffin thought it was a shotgun, as he knew of no other fire-arm which would
                  carry such a ball. Tobias Wilson and Thomas Rogers exchanged glances of
                  intelligence, but said nothing. The doctor's task was ended. The body was replaced
                  in the coffin, the lid was nailed down, and all were ready to move on to the
                  grave, when Sophy Rogers, with a burning cheek, but a firm and steady step, and an
                  eye beaming with conscious rectitude, walked over to Tobias Wilson, and, taking
                  him by the hand, led him to her father.
               "Father," she said in a voice so little tremulous that no one noticed it but her
                  brother; "father, before we leave this room I have a secret to tell you and a
                  favor to ask."
               "A secret, my daughter! I thought I knew all of yours long ago."
               "You did, indeed, with this one exception. It is the first I ever had from you; I
                  hope it will be the last. A little more than two years ago this young man told me
                  that he loved me, and asked me to promise that I would some day be his wife. I was
                  only a little girl then, and he nothing more than a boy. It was folly for us to
                  think of marrying then, and I would not bind myself by a promise which I might
                  some day have good cause to break. But
                  he had won my little heart, and before we parted he made me confess as much. He
                  did not gain much by that, though, for I was ashamed of it as soon as the word was
                  out of my mouth. I hid my face with both my hands and began to cry. He tried to
                  soothe me, but I could not stop crying for some time, as foolish as I
                  knew it to be. When my tears at last ceased to flow, I made him promise that he
                  would never speak to me again of love or marriage until he was twenty-one years of
                  age. Last spring, the very day he was twenty-one, he rode over to tell me of it,
                  and to offer me again his hand in marriage. He little thought that I knew his age
                  that day as well as he did, and had looked forward to its coming as often and
                  thought of it as anxiously as he had. It ended by my promising to become his wife
                  in twelve months, if you and Mrs. Wilson consented. There was no telling what
                  might happen in these terrible times during those twelve months, and we concluded
                  that it would be better to keep our engagement a secret. Still, to have no
                  confidant at all, wore a clandestine aspect which I did not like. I suggested, and
                  Tobias readily agreed, that we should tell my brother, which we accordingly did.
                  Until this hour I do not think any one else knew or suspected our engagement.
                  That, father, is my secret. Do you forgive me for not trusting you with it before,
                  and will you accept my chosen husband as a son?"
               During this frank confession, the face of Tobias Wilson underwent as many changes
                  as there are colors in the rainbow. At first it was suffused by a deep flush,
                  which spread over the whole body, even to the tips of his fingers, and imparted to
                  it a burning glow which made him feel as if a raging fever had seized him. That
                  faded away, and an ashy paleness took its place. He shivered and trembled as if
                  suddenly exposed to the fierce blasts of a Lapland winter. His head swam, a film
                  came over his eyes, and all things about him were mingled and jumbled together
                  beyond his power to separate them. Yet through all, in every change and mood, the
                  fever flush, the ague chill, and the dull suspension of sight and sense which made
                  objects indivisible and indistinct, and left him powerless to realize where he
                  was, how he came there, and what strange part he was playing,—through all,
                  pervading his whole being, there was spread a vivid consciousness of unutterable
                  bliss. The clasp of her soft hand thrilled every nerve with ecstasy. He could not
                  catch her words, he did not try; but he felt, felt to the inmost core
                  of his heart, that it was her voice, and he knew instinctively that the sweet
                  music of its tones, upon which he could have hung entranced forever, was breathing
                  a confession of love for him. Oh! what is there in this world of ours that he who
                  has once loved would not exchange for one moment of a rapture like this! And she,
                  too, what is there about the holiest shrine in heaven more sweet than the gentle
                  love which found its trembling utterance from her lips? And would it always be
                  thus? Would no sin darken, no change come to steal away the brightness from the
                  golden letters with which the angels recorded the touching and simple tale of a
                  love till now unspoken, and whose intensity, even now, she never dreamed of
                  attempting to paint? If those questions had been suggested to her, the heart would
                  have instantly responded, though her lips refused to shape the response into
                  words. She could not change, for her love was the essence of her existence, and
                  inseparably blended with her religion. Sin could not darken it, for the first
                  breath of sin would blast that lovely form and sink it to the grave, as surely and
                  as speedily as the summer rose would wither and die in the icy grasp of winter. To
                     him there would come a change, a change sent by the God of nature
                  in mercy, not in anger; for no human frame could long endure the wild rapture
                     now throbbing in his veins. Other
                  changes too might come; for man's love is a riddle we may not always read, and
                  man's heart is but too apt to become stained in the rude, and sometimes degrading
                  trials through which it must pass. But we are dealing with the
                     present, and his love was pure now, pure as it was fervent. 
                     
                        "Ah! would that we were sure
                        Of hearts so warmly pure,
                        In all the winter weather that this lesser life must know;
                        That when shines the sun of love
                        From a warmer realm above,
                        In its light we may dissolve like the spirit of the snow."
                     
                  
               
               When Sophy Rogers had concluded her brief "confession," and, turning on her father
                  the warm light of her eyes, asked in her sweetest tones, "Will you accept my
                  chosen husband as a son?" that father caught her in his arms, folded her to his
                  bosom, and impressed a tender kiss upon her forehead.
               "Gladly, my child," he answered, "most gladly. I do not think I could have had the
                  heart to thwart your wishes even if you had chosen unworthily. But my judgment
                  approves your choice, and Tobias has long had a warm place in my affections."
               "Thank you, my kind, good father. But I knew it would be so. For worlds I would
                  not have formed an engagement which I believed you would disapprove."
               Then, turning to Mrs. Wilson, she said:
               "And you, dear madam, will you accept me as a daughter? Will you love me, and
                  guide, and instruct me, so that I may become, at some distant day, almost as good
                  and as saintly as you are?"
               There was a brilliant flash of joy and gladness in the tearful eyes of the
                  bereaved woman. She clasped the lovely girl to her throbbing heart, and kissed her
                  again and again, before she murmured, or rather sobbed—but it was the sob of
                  happiness:
               "You are better than I am now, darling; better than all of us."
               Then, clasping her again to her bosom, she continued:
               "Let me hold you here, dearest child, here against my heart. Its beatings will
                  tell you how happy, how very happy, you have made me."
               With one arm still encircling the waist of her future daughter-in-law, she called
                  her son.
               "Come hither, Tobias. You must share a mother's embrace and accept a mother's
                  kiss."
               Drawing them to her, she imprinted kiss after kiss on the lips of each by turns,
                  and only released them when Mr. Rogers advanced, and said:
               "You must accept my congratulations, also, Tobias, upon having won the love of the
                  sweetest maiden in Alabama!"
               "In the world!" said Wilson, grasping the extended hand, and giving
                  it a strong and grateful pressure.
               "Well, I am old enough and foolish enough to agree with you."
               Sophy was standing by her lover's side, when her father relinquished his hand, and
                  laying her own gently on his arm, she looked up at him tenderly, while a blush
                  suffused her cheek, so deep that it spread a roseate hue over neck and shoulders
                  and bosom. He could see, too, that the long lashes drooping over her eyes were
                  moist with suppressed tears, and his own flowed freely in sympathy with hers. The
                  severest trial she had imposed upon herself was now to come. She trembled, and
                  with difficulty kept back the tear-drops which were struggling to escape from
                  their crystal fountain. But strong in her guileless love, strong in her convictions of duty, and stronger still in
                  the firm belief that a human soul was that day intrusted to her keeping, and would
                  be lost if she exhibited signs of weakness or wavering, she shook off her painful
                  emotions, and said, almost gayly:
               "Confess, Toby, that you would give your right hand to kiss me now."
               "I would give my life, Sophy, if you asked it."
               "Well, I do not think I should like a husband with one arm, and I know I would not
                  like a dead one; so you may kiss me without sacrificing the one or the other, if
                  you will promise to be a good boy and mind all I say to you. Do you promise?"
               "Yes, yes; anything, everything;" and, without waiting for further permission, he
                  eagerly pressed his fevered lips to hers, and for the first time drank in the
                  nectar that was treasured there. In the delirium of his joy, he kissed her again
                  and again before she could release herself from his embrace. At length she put her
                  hand before her mouth, and said:
               "Stop, sir, stop. I gave you a kiss, but you have taken three. You have broken
                  faith, Mr. Toby, and shall pay for it. It will be a long time before you get
                  another chance to serve me in this way."
               While the scenes I have attempted feebly to describe were being enacted, there was
                  but one pair of dry eyes in the room, and those were the eyes of Thomas Rogers,
                  Jr. Not that there was anything displeasing to him in the frank confession of his
                  sister's love, or in the exclamations of satisfaction, or the cordial exchange of
                  greetings which followed it. But he knew there was something more to come, and he
                  dreaded it. He was satisfied that his sister would never have been induced to act
                  the painful part she was going through, without some high object, and under the
                  influence of some strong and powerful motive. He had studied her character more
                  thoroughly, and understood her better than his father or Mrs. Wilson; and as for
                  Tobias, he was so much absorbed by his overpowering love, that he could see
                  nothing but what she told him to see. Thomas Rogers knew that his sister had said
                  nothing which she did not feel; that she had not used one expression, or performed
                  one act which did not spring from the heart, and yet he knew that she was acting a
                  part. Not that she was deceiving any one, or meant to do so. She was only telling
                  them, or allowing them to see, the plain, unvarnished truth. She had not
                  exaggerated, she had curtailed rather; she had suppressed the strong expressions
                  of her love, which he could see had more than once trembled on her lips. He would
                  not have been surprised to learn that she had told it in secret to her father and
                  Mrs. Wilson. But why tell it in the presence of others? He knew her timid,
                  sensitive modesty, and he actually shuddered for what he felt she must have
                  suffered, when making up her mind in accordance with some settled plan, some
                  dictate of duty, to offer her lips to be kissed by Tobias Wilson before so many
                  witnesses. What, he thought, could she be after? That she was discharging what she
                  regarded as a high and imperative duty, there could be no doubt. What was it? She
                  knew nothing of the consultations between Tobias and himself. He did not question
                  her ability to extract that, or anything else from her lover, if an opportunity
                  had offered. But there had been no such opportunity; they had not exchanged a
                  dozen words with each other during the day, and Tobias was evidently taken
                  completely by surprise, though he was too happy to show perplexity, or, indeed, to
                  think of it at all. These and kindred thoughts were running through the mind of
                  Thomas Rogers all the time the coffin was being transported to the grave and lowered into it. But there and then
                  they were superseded by a new perplexity. Just as the minister was about to begin
                  the funeral rites, Sophy Rogers broke the solemn silence which sealed the lips of
                  all present.
               "Father," she said, "and you, mother," addressing Mrs. Wilson by that endearing
                  appellative, "you have been very kind to me to-day, in giving your sanction to my
                  union with the man who won my affections long ago, and whom I love with a fervor I
                  have not ventured to express to you, or to him. Standing in the relation we do to
                  one another, is there anything inconsistent with maidenly modesty, in asking the
                  privilege of kneeling by his side, while the prayers of the minister are ascending
                  to Heaven for the soul of our murdered parent?"
               All were surprised, and Mrs. Wilson hesitated to answer; but Mr. Rogers, whose
                  kindly instincts prompted him to gratify his daughter in everything, and who
                  moreover firmly believed that it was absolutely impossible for her to cherish a
                  thought or a wish which was not strictly and religiously right and proper, at once
                  answered the unlooked-for question.
               "There can surely be no objection if you wish it, my daughter. You are betrothed
                  to him with mine and his mother's free and glad consent. It will be a great
                  comfort to him, poor fellow, to have you by his side in this hour of distress. If
                  you were his wife, it would be your duty to take your place there, and I am not
                  sure that it is not your duty as it is. What say you, Parson King?"
               "I say that no one has a right to hinder her. That it will be a goodly and a holy
                  sight, to see these pious children kneeling in humble prayer by the grave of their
                  departed parent, and one which will be blessed of God, and sanctioned by all
                  right-thinking Christians."
               "And you, mother?" pleaded Sophy, turning her eyes, from which the tears now
                  flowed unrestrained, full upon Mrs. Wilson.
               "Why, I think that what you wish, and your father and God's minister so decidedly
                  approve, needs no sanction of mine. Nevertheless, dear daughter, you have it. It
                  will do him great good, I am sure, to mingle his prayers with one so sinless as
                  thou art."
               "Come then, Tobias," she said, taking his arm and leading him close by the side of
                  the minister; "here is our place."
               A hymn was sung; a few appropriate and feeling words were spoken, and then the
                  little congregation knelt in prayer. When it was concluded, they rose to their
                  feet, and Tobias Wilson would have risen with the rest, but Sophy's arm rested on
                  his shoulder, and her head was pressed upon it. Slowly she raised her face,
                  luminous with a glory borrowed from the throne of the Eternal.
               "Promise me, Tobias, before we rise from this sacred spot, by all your hopes of
                  salvation hereafter, that you will not seek to avenge the murder of the good man
                  lying here, by any means but those which the law allows."
               For a moment Tobias Wilson was petrified. Then every nerve in his manly and well
                  knit though slender frame quivered as if torn by pincers. He clasped both hands
                  over his face to hide its fearful workings. The strong man became a helpless
                  child. Low, heart-rending sobs swelled his bosom and burst in agony from his lips.
                  Sophy read, in the fierce tempest which shook him within and without, the whole
                  horrid truth,—the demon was there in all his might and power. She now
                  comprehended, for the first time, the full extent of his dreadful danger. She had
                  anticipated a struggle. She had not flattered herself with the hope of an easy
                  triumph; but this was something more terrible than she had calculated to
                  encounter, and she felt a momentary
                  sinking of the heart as she watched the fury of the struggling passions which
                  assailed and overmastered both mind and body. She uttered a fervent prayer to the
                  Almighty for aid, and her momentary weakness disappeared. The angels rested from
                  their avocations in heaven, and looked down with approving smiles upon the brave,
                  truehearted girl, who alone and unaided was battling with the prince of evil and
                  his attendant fiends. She raised her arm from the shoulder whereon it rested, and
                  threw it lovingly around his neck.
               "Promise me, my own love," she murmured, in a voice sweeter than the melodies of
                  heaven. "You would promise me, I am sure you would, if you only knew
                  how happy it would make your betrothed wife."
               He was still silent, but there was an enchantment in the clasp of that lovely arm
                  around his neck, and a strange, soft music in the words, "your betrothed wife,"
                  which penetrated to his inmost soul, and left the citadel of his heart at her
                  mercy. The violence of his sobs abated, and the strong frame was no longer shaken
                  by uncontrollable passion. With her disengaged hand, she removed one of his from
                  his face, and held it in her soft and loving clasp.
               "You are ill, my love, and it makes my heart ache to see you suffer so. Drive away
                  that wicked spirit, whose feasts are of blood, and peace and happiness will
                  return. For your own sake, for your mother's, for mine, promise that you will not
                  do it."
               He was now completely vanquished, and the baffled fiend that had rioted in his
                  bosom fled away forever.
               "For your sake, dearest," he whispered, so low that the words were
                  inaudible to any ear but hers, "for your sake, I will promise
                  anything."
               She clasped her arm more tightly about his neck, and her little fingers closed
                  upon his with fervent gratitude, mingled with triumphant gladness. Her rosy lips
                  were brought very, very close to his ear, and she breathed, rather than spoke:
               "You are the conqueror at last, my own love; but you must keep my secret for a few
                  days, until the recollection of this trial ceases to be painful. Now, make the
                  promise you have made to me so that your mother can hear it distinctly, and you
                  may yourself name the day which makes me your wife."
               There was a light touch upon his cheek, as if it had been gently brushed by the
                  leaves of a flower; but the blood which tingled through his veins, and danced in
                  joy to his heart, was stirred by something softer than the rose's leaf, and
                  sweeter than the honey of Hybla, or the dew that descended upon the mountains of
                  Zion.
               His eyes were now sparkling with rays as brilliant as those which glitter in the
                  pearly drops upon a grassy lawn when the rain cloud has passed away, and the
                  bright sun comes to gladden creation with his presence.
               "And you will not make me wait that dreary year, to which you had doomed me?"
               "Not an hour beyond the time that you yourself shall name. I am yours, now and for
                  evermore."
               "I am, indeed, the conqueror," was the joyful response. Then in a
                  louder voice, clear, distinct, and firm, he said:
               "I call Heaven to witness that, although I believe my grandfather to have been
                  foully murdered by those whom the law will not touch, I dismiss all thoughts of
                  personal revenge, and here freely and solemnly promise, over the dead body of one
                  parent, and in the presence of another, that I will not seek to harm them for this
                  cause, or for any other cause, except in just defense of myself or others; leaving
                  their punishment to the law, and to HIM who has declared 'Vengeance is mine.'"
               
               "Thank God!" exclaimed Mrs. Wilson, leaning heavily for support upon Mr.
                  Rogers.
               "Thank God!" repeated Sophy, burying her face in her hands, where she was still
                  kneeling by the side of her lover.
               "Let us pray," said the minister; and, kneeling on the bare ground, a prayer of
                  mingled thankfulness and supplication went up to the throne of the MOST HIGH, as
                  fervent as any which ever ascended from the scaffold or the cross, on which the
                  early Christian welcomed the sentence which sealed his MARTYRDOM for his
                  FAITH.
               The trial was over. The victory was won; but the victor sank exhausted by the
                  almost superhuman exertions she had been required to make. As long as there was a
                  doubt, while anything remained to be accomplished, she had borne up with more than
                  the fortitude of a martyr; but when it was over, when the danger had passed away,
                  and her lover stood by her side freed from the temptation to sin, her strength
                  failed her, she could not move or speak, but hung in helpless weakness upon the
                  arm of her father, only saved from falling by the strong support it afforded. Mrs.
                  Wilson approached her in much agitation, saying as she did so:
               "Nobly, my child, nobly have you redeemed your promise to save him; and as sure as
                  there is a just and merciful God in heaven, you will reap a rich reward."
               "Thank you, mother," she replied with difficulty. "But do not speak of it now. I
                  am so weary."
               The lovely head was bowed upon her bosom. The gentle form drooped lower and lower.
                  "Hold me, Toby dear," she murmured, and then her senses fled. She had fainted.
               They bore her to the house, and laid her gently on a bed. The proper restoratives
                  were applied, and as soon as she opened her eyes, the surgeon promptly dismissed
                  all the party from the room except Mrs. Wilson. In half an hour he came out
                  himself, and said cheerfully to the anxious group who were awaiting his report
                  with torturing impatience:
               "All is well. A deep sleep has fallen upon her, and in a few hours she will be as
                  strong as usual. But," he continued, "she cannot bear the fatigue of crossing the
                  mountain to-day. She must remain here until to-morrow."
               Mr. Rogers was not surprised at this, for he had expected as much, and was too
                  much gratified to learn that nothing worse was to be anticipated from the
                  relaxation of the high tension to which her nerves had been strung, to fret at
                  this trifling annoyance.
               Mr. Rogers was a widower, and for several years the care of the household had
                  devolved on his daughter. Of late she had been assisted by Mrs. Wilson, a
                  circumstance which afforded Mr. Rogers no small gratification, as it not only
                  enabled his daughter to devote a part of each day to the cultivation of her
                  intellect, (of which he was even more proud than of her unequaled beauty,) but
                  secured to her, in the person of her friend, an instructress far superior to any
                  whose services could be engaged in that section of the country. In addition to a
                  strong and masculine intellect, Mrs. Wilson possessed many feminine
                  accomplishments. Her husband, in his lifetime, was proud of her attainments and
                  fond of showing her off to his friends and even to strangers.
               He had been reared in the lap of plenty, and surrounded his young wife with books,
                  music, paintings, implements of art with which she herself made experiments, with
                  everything in short that a taste like hers, at once refined and intellectual,
                  could desire or suggest. His own habits were extravagant, and the consequence was
                  that pecuniary embarrassment
                  barrassment soon followed. He knew nothing of business, and resorted to all the
                  shifts that such men usually grasp at, and which usually end in ruin. He committed
                  the folly, also, of concealing his real situation from his wife, and she went on
                  squandering sums upon intellectual and social enjoyments, which, judiciously
                  husbanded, would have relieved him of many embarrassments; while he was beset by
                  duns from day to day. At length a time arrived when concealment was no longer
                  possible, and she waked from a dream of wealth to find herself but little better
                  than a pauper. Instead of indulging in reproaches or regrets, she wrote at once to
                  her father, soliciting his presence and assistance. One glance into the affairs of
                  his son-in-law satisfied Mr. Johnson that he was hopelessly insolvent. That
                  son-in-law had never had the courage to go over his own accounts. He had attempted
                  it several times, but each time became discouraged and gave it up. Mr. Johnson
                  took hold of the business with the resolution of a man determined to know the
                  worst. The accounts were audited, those which were fair and honest were marked for
                  settlement, and those which were exorbitant or dishonest, rejected. Everything was
                  then disposed of at public sale, except a portion of the household furniture,
                  books, music, implements for drawing and painting, and certain articles of
                     virtu which Mr. Wilson had collected for his
                  wife. The money thus obtained was promptly applied to the payment of the most
                  necessitous creditors, and Mr. Johnson removed his daughter and son-in-law to his
                  own house, in an adjoining State. In a few months afterward Tobias Wilson was
                  born; but the gladness which this event would otherwise have caused, was
                  overshadowed by apprehensions for his father. Mr. Wilson had never recovered from
                  the stunning effects of his misfortune. His wife had at once accommodated herself
                  to their changed circumstances. But he lost all energy, and gave himself up to
                  despair. From being the gayest and most light-hearted of human beings, he became
                  pensive, gloomy, discontented and querulous. His wife alone had power to chase the
                  gloom from his brow, and the peevishness from his heart. Whenever he was out of
                  her presence he became disagreeable, if not absolutely rude to every one about
                  him. Mr. Johnson had tried in vain to correct this unmanly fault. Finally he
                  concluded that the best treatment would be to let him alone, in the hope that in a
                  year or two the grief which afflicted him would wear itself out, and he might yet
                  become a useful member of society. The good effects of this judicious treatment
                  had just begun to manifest themselves, when a new cause for anxiety arose. His
                  health began to fail, and the physicians pronounced his disease consumption. In
                  six months after the birth of his son, John Tobias Wilson was in his grave. His
                  wife had loved him dearly, and her grief for his loss was deep and sincere. But
                  her father allowed her little time for its indulgence. With the prompt decision of
                  his character, he sold out his own property, never very large, paid off the
                  remainder of the debts of his son-in-law, and settled himself upon a smaller
                  property, where he still had all the comforts and most of the luxuries of life.
                  The education of Tobias Wilson may almost be said to have begun in his cradle. He
                  had no teachers but his grandfather, but he was a competent and
                  indefatigable one. And as the boy grew in years, his mother and his grandfather
                  congratulated themselves upon the high promise of future usefulness which at an
                  early age began to manifest itself in his conduct and deportment. Years went by,
                  and each returning season saw that little family contented and happy. About this
                  time a new and virulent disease broke out in the neighborhood. It was called the
                  "black tongue." They had read of its
                  ravages in other places and were greatly alarmed, especially on account of the
                  boy, who now constituted the sole link between them and posterity; but they were
                  so situated that they could not fly, and probably would not have done so if they
                  could; Mr. Johnson saying he had often observed that persons fleeing from the
                  pestilence, after they had once breathed its malaria, were more liable to be
                  stricken down than those who remained. His family was among the last that were
                  visited. But when it did come, it made amends for the delay by added malignity. He
                  was himself "taken down," and hovered long on the confines of life and death. He
                  recovered to find that all the most valuable of his servants had been carried off,
                  and almost the whole of his year's crop was lost for the want of hands to
                  cultivate it. One year's experiment satisfied him that he could not recover his
                  losses, or continue to live in the style to which he was accustomed, if he
                  remained where he was; and he determined to make a journey to the Southwest, in
                  quest of a new home. When he returned, he announced to his daughter that he had
                  purchased a secluded farm in the mountains of North Alabama. Without a word of
                  objection she made her arrangements to accompany him. The few servants who
                  remained were emancipated, and a piece of ground reserved for their support.
                  Everything else was sold, except the bedclothes and such household articles as
                  they could carry with them. The property which Mrs. Wilson had reserved from her
                  husband's estate was carefully packed up and left in the custody of a merchant in
                  the neighboring town.
               "You have no daughter, Maria," he remarked to Mrs. Wilson, "but these things will
                  make a handsome and useful present to your son's wife, when he is fortunate enough
                  to get one. To you they will be henceforth useless, as we are not likely to have a
                  house fit to contain them, nor is it probable that you will have the leisure to
                  amuse yourself with them."
               It was thus that Robert Johnson became a resident of the little valley where he at
                  last met his death at the hands of three blood-thirsty assassins.
               In the double character of assistant and instructress to his favorite child,
                  during the short time she had been under his roof, Mrs. Wilson had become very
                  dear to Mr. Rogers, and as he thought indispensable to his family. He looked to
                  her for advice and assistance in all things that concerned his family affairs.
                  When the inability of his daughter to return home that day was announced to him,
                  he was delighted to know that she would be in the care and company of Mrs. Wilson,
                  and made arrangements for his own return without a thought of uneasiness. It was
                  decided that Parson King should accompany him,—the two young men remaining to
                  finish the day's work of burying the dead, and the doctor to watch over his sweet
                  patient, and to note the symptoms that might develop themselves during the night
                  in the wounded guerrilla.
               As Mr. Rogers and his companion ascended the steep and rugged sides of the
                  mountain, the body of Jenkins was borne by the strong arms of Thomas Rogers and
                  Tobias Wilson to the grave they had dug for its reception. But few words were
                  spoken until their work was done. Then Thomas Rogers, leaning on his spade, and
                  plunging at once, without any prefatory remark, into the middle of the subject
                  which occupied the thoughts of both, addressed his companion with evident sympathy
                  and condolence.
               "You had a fearful trial, Tobe, and I pitied you from my soul. I pitied you the
                  more because I knew how it would end, and I thought what a terrible thing it was
                  to suffer so much, and yet have to 'give in' at last. But you battled manfully,
                  far better than I thought you could I
                  thought she would not be three seconds in getting your promise, whereas you held
                  out so firmly, that even I began to doubt whether she would get it at all. You
                  didn't win, for that was impossible, but you made a glorious fight. I felt proud
                  of you, Tobe, even while crying like a baby over what you suffered. I held up till
                  then, but I couldn't stand it any longer."
               "I thank you, Thomas, sincerely thank you. But, really, I do not believe there is
                  a man in America over whom his friends have less cause to weep than mine
                  have."
               "That may be so now; but it wasn't so an hour ago, when you were shivering and
                  trembling and groaning and sobbing as if somebody had taken a mallet and mashed
                  your heart as flat as a pancake. Good God! man, I never saw such suffering before,
                  and I hope I may never see it again; and I could see plainly enough that she
                  wasn't much better off than you were, as hard as she tried to hide it!"
               "I trust in God she may have suffered no more!" said Wilson, a sudden and dreadful
                  apprehension seizing him; "it would kill me if anything serious happened to her
                  from this day's work!"
               "No fear of that. Sophy is not a thing of gossamer threads. She is as strong and
                  healthy as she is brave and high-hearted. The worst is over. All she needs now is
                  a good sleep and a little petting by your mother, which she is sure to get. And
                  you seem to have recovered wonderfully quick from your troubles. What was it she
                  whispered to you that made you stop crying and sobbing so suddenly?"
               "Ask her; or, if you can afford to wait patiently for a day or two, I think she
                  will tell you herself in that time."
               "No, she won't; for I have no idea of giving her a chance. After witnessing the
                  ordeal through which you were compelled to pass, I have not the slightest
                  inclination to subject myself to such a trial. She is my sister, and cannot be my
                  wife; she cannot therefore torture me as she did you. But I love her enough to
                  make it very hard to say no when she tells me to say 'yes.' Enough to
                  enable her to wring the blood from my heart-strings if she should take it into her
                  head to make the experiment. I have seen enough this day to be certain that she
                     will do so if she gets a hint of what I am about to do, No, no,
                  Tobe, you don't catch me putting myself in her way until all is over."
               "Thomas," said Wilson, very seriously, "we have known and loved each other for
                  more than ten years, and that is a lifetime to people as young as we are. In
                  looking back upon the past, your friendship is the one single ray which illumined
                  my solitary boyhood——"
               "You forget Sophy's love," interrupted his companion.
               "No, I don't. Nor my mother's, nor my grandfather's, nor your father's. But that
                  is not what I mean. I do not mean to say that I have been without love or
                  sympathy, or that I have been unhappy, or even felt my lot a sad one, or my
                  situation irksome. I mean that of young persons of my own age and sex, you are the
                  only friend I ever had. That friendship is the one cherished memory of my boyhood
                  and youth, and it has made you very dear to me. Before long I shall have the right
                  to call you brother as well as friend. Sophy told me to-day that I might myself
                  name the day, and even the hour, for our wedding."
               "Did she?" again interrupted Rogers; "then she took a most unfair advantage of
                  you, and your promise to her isn't worth a straw. It was bribery and corruption of
                  the rankest kind. That temptation would have lured an angel from the skies. She
                  didn't give you a fair chance, or for that matter, any chance at all, and I hold
                  that you are not bound by the promise you made her. You were not a free agent, no more than if you had been
                  under the influence of mesmerism."
               Wilson could not help smiling, as he had often done before, at the enthusiasm of
                  his friend's admiration for his sister, and the frank and guileless manner in
                  which he allowed that admiration to appear on all occasions when her name was
                  mentioned. But his thoughts were too serious to admit of the presence of more than
                  a transitory gleam of melancholy humor and pleasantry.
               "I did not promise her alone," said Wilson; "I promised the dead, my mother, and
                  my God. I cannot break that promise, nor do I wish to do so. A few hours have
                  wrought in me a great change. Your sister is my guardian angel. She has saved me
                  from myself. Not only the demon of revenge, but all other demons, fled away at her
                  bidding, I trust never to return. Oh, Thomas! if you love me, if you love her, if
                  you care for your own salvation, tell her what you propose to do, and at least
                  listen to what she has to say."
               Thomas Rogers was affected by this appeal more than he chose to acknowledge. He
                  had made up his mind, and, in his own opinion, he had made it up rightly. From
                  that opinion he knew his sister and his father would both dissent. He had no wish
                  to argue the point with them. He was satisfied that they could not change his
                  purpose but they could make it very painful for him to adhere to it. By
                  extinguishing, at once and forever, all hope in the mind of Tobias Wilson, he knew
                  that he would secure the silence of his future brother-in-law, and thus prevent
                  any imprudent communication or hint from him which would lead his relatives to
                  suspect the dark and deadly deed he meditated, and the plan of which he had
                  already nearly matured. With an affectation of lightness, he replied:
               "I claim the credit of being a prophet, Toby. I told you that you would use the
                  very language you have now employed. I told you that whenever you spoke to Sophy
                  on this subject you would come to regard the object you had most at heart as
                  irredeemably wicked, and that you would call her your guardian angel, for
                  preserving you from doing the very thing you most wished to do. I knew too, though
                  I did not say it, that you would give her credit for being able to control me as
                  she has done you. But it will not do, my friend. If there was another girl in this
                  world just like her, who was not so nearly related to me, I might surrender as you
                  did,—I am sure I should; but that is not the case, and any discussion between us
                  would only give pain to both, without altering, in the least, my fixed resolution.
                  I beg, therefore, that you will not intimate, in any manner whatever, anything you
                  may know or suspect of my part in any little tragedy which may be enacted in this
                  neighborhood. You will also please to consider this prohibition as extending to my
                  father. I shall conceal what I intend to do from them, both before and after it is
                  done. If they find it out in spite of me, I must take the chances of being able to
                  justify the deed."
               Tobias Wilson did not reply. He knew it would be useless. His eyes were apparently
                  fixed upon the fresh clods of the newly closed grave before him. But in reality he
                  saw nothing. He was running over in his mind the chances of his friend's success
                  or failure. Then he shud-deringly admitted the disagreeable conviction, that
                  whether he succeeded or failed, he was preparing a bounteous crop of grief for his
                  relatives, and of unutterable woe for himself.
               Thomas Rogers, too, was lost in thought. He was, however, the first to recover
                  himself.
               "Your promise, Toby, honestly construed, prevents you from assisting me, or any
                  one else, in the accomplishment of the
                  object which yesterday you had so much at heart. I would not have you depart from
                  its spirit or its letter by one hair's breadth, and I am certain you would
                     not if I were base enough to ask you. Keep it in its widest sense. Keep
                  it for Sophy's sake; for it would break her heart to suspect you of being capable
                  of a meanness. But your promise does not bind you to refuse me your assistance if
                  I should get into trouble."
               "Certainly not. Nor does it bind me not to defend you if at any time, no matter
                  from what cause, you should need the presence of a friend at your side. Count on
                  me in every such emergency,—you shall not be disappointed!"
               "I thought so, and I thank you. There is one thing more which I must say before
                  this conversation ends. I would not have you to think that I am governed in this
                  matter by a mere spirit of revenge. Mr. Johnson was my father's friend and mine.
                  He had always been more kind to me than any one I ever knew, except my own father.
                  It is my sister's fault, or her good fortune, whichever you please, which prevents
                  his only male descendant from administering justice upon his murderers. The task
                  is thus, in some sort, rightfully devolved on me, and I have no disposition to let
                  his blood cry out from the ground in vain. That much is true. It is also true that
                  I am a Union man, as decided and uncompromising as any other within the limits of
                  this broad Republic, at the North or at the South, and being so, I have no
                  disposition to permit a good man to be shot down upon his own premises for no
                  other sin than that of loving his whole country better than a section. So far as
                  these two facts may be supposed to prompt me to revenge, I plead guilty. Yet these
                  alone would not be sufficient to induce me to undertake what I have sworn to
                  accomplish or perish. I am persuaded that a great and pressing danger threatens my
                  father and you and me, and the few other Union men in this immediate neighborhood,
                  from the same source.
               "The ice is now broken. The first murder has been committed. If the perpetrators
                  are allowed to escape unharmed for a few weeks, they will be emboldened to repeat
                  the tragedy. Other actors, too, will appear upon the stage. Arson will follow
                  murder, and it will soon become impossible for any Union man to live in these
                  mountains unless he turns traitor and becomes a cut-throat himself. The best and
                  surest defense often consists in striking the first blow; and I propose to shape
                  my action in accordance with that policy. And now that you understand me fully,
                  let us drop the subject for 'good and all.' Whatever you see, whatever you hear,
                  whatever you suspect, say nothing. Keep my secret. I have seen to-day how you
                  could hold out when your heart was breaking and your frame quivering as if
                  shattered by a thunder-bolt, and, as my sister cannot make you any more promises
                  of marriage, I shall feel tolerably safe if you will only give me your word not to
                  betray me."
               The pledge was given and accepted, and the two friends returned to the house,
                  where they found Dr. Griffin sitting by the side of the wounded soldier. He said
                  that Sophy had awakened from her sleep much refreshed, and he did not think it
                  probable she would again require his services. His report of Sergeant Miller's
                  case was not so favorable. Fever had supervened, and he had been at times
                  delirious. Amputation might become necessary, though he hoped not. He could tell
                  better in the morning. He added that it would be necessary for some one to sit up
                  with him during the coming night, and, as the young men had not slept at all the
                  preceding one, and had labored hard during the day he proposed to take that duty
                  upon himself. It still wanted something like an hour to sunset, and he calculated
                  that he could get enough sleep by the
                  usual bedtime to enable him to get through with the night's vigil without
                  difficulty. Throwing himself upon the bed, he charged Tobias Wilson not to wake
                  him for supper, but to wait until nine o'clock, adding a strict injunction that
                  his coffee, in the mean time, should be kept well heated.
               By the time the various little things requiring attention about the farm was
                  looked after, the sun went down. Cheerful fires were lighted. Mrs. Wilson
                  undertook to prepare a little tea and toast for Sophy Rogers and herself; and
                  Tobias, who was no mean cook, employed himself in getting a more substantial
                  supper for his masculine guests. At the appointed hour the doctor was roused from
                  his "nap," and drank his coffee with a high degree of satisfaction. His patient
                  had slept heavily, but it was that dull, leaden sleep which brings no refreshment.
                  The doctor pronounced him worse, but after administering a dose of medicine he
                  sent the young men to their beds, saying that he would call them during the night
                  if he needed assistance.
               What visions thronged about the pillow of Tobias Wilson that night, when for the
                  first time the woman to whose keeping he had surrendered his very soul slumbered
                  beneath his roof-tree! Did the spirit of evil flap his somber wings above his
                  head, and take a malignant pleasure in calling up phantom shapes to torture the
                  helpless sleeper, and darken the love, whose birth-place was a purer orb than
                  this? Or did the good genii, who had leaned in breathless anxiety from the
                  battlements of heaven to watch the stern and bitter contest of that young and
                  inexperienced heart with the powers of darkness, did they gather around his couch
                  to color his dreams with anticipated happiness, and sweeten his slumbers with a
                  foretaste of the raptures he had so nobly earned? Alone and unaided, save by the
                  prayers of one gentle and tender girl, he had won that mightiest of victories—a
                  victory over himself. A strong human heart, strong in its original sinfulness, and
                  rendered doubly strong by the natural promptings of filial affection, and the
                  mistaken conception of filial duty, had been vanquished in fair fight by a mere
                  youth, whose only stay and support was the good seed sown in early life, and the
                  hallowing presence of her upon whom all the wealth of his affections had been
                  lavished, and who divided with his God the worship of his soul. Was it sin thus to
                  place an earthly idol on an altar dedicated to the MOST HIGH, and mingle
                  veneration of the CREATOR with adoration of the creature? Oh! no.
                  Religion itself is born of love! Implicit obedience to the law was too hard an
                  ordeal for human nature to pass through, and therefore a merciful Redeemer
                  substituted love for himself and the Father, instead of obedience, as a condition
                  of salvation. No matter what may be the crime which bars the soul from Paradise,
                  that love is an all-sufficing atonement. Then why should not its virtues be
                  increased rather than diminished, when it encircles alike in its warm embrace the
                  brilliancy of the Godhead and the gentle and tender glories which He himself has
                  imparted to the purest and the loveliest of his creations? Yet why should we
                  trouble ourselves with questions whose solution belongs not to us? Why speculate
                  upon what we can never know with certainty until the Supreme Ruler of the universe
                  has taken his seat upon the judgment throne, and the great book is opened, and the
                  law expounded for eternity? Let us rest contented with the knowledge which is not
                  forbidden, and be assured at all times that it is not in the field of reason but
                  in the instincts of the heart that we must look for a guide to pilot us safely
                  over the dim and shadowy pathway which leads to the unknown HEREAFTER!
               To his own heart Tobias Wilson put no questions. He had no doubts to solve, and was troubled with no
                  vain imaginings. Almost as soon as his head touched the pillow, he slumbered
                  soundly. The day's fatigue, added to the loss of sleep the preceding night, acted
                  as a powerful opiate, and for hours his slumbers were undisturbed and dreamless.
                  His first consciousness was that of a rosy light, which seemed to fall in mingled
                  glory and beauty around him. Slowly, but clearly and distinctly, two forms were
                  shaped upon the outer border of the luminous atmosphere in which he seemed to be
                  submerged. It was his mother and Sophy Rogers who stood by his bedside, looking
                  down upon him with unutterable love and joy. That vision faded away, and he saw
                  himself standing in the middle of a small room, with a veiled figure by his side.
                  She wore no wedding garments but the long veil which covered her head and fell in
                  wavy folds over her neck and shoulders. But before him, with an open book in his
                  hand, stood a minister whom he recognized right well, and around him were all
                  those he loved best on earth, while the background was filled up by a group of
                  soldiers leaning on their muskets, and apparently completely absorbed by what was
                  going on before them. This also faded away. He was once more in his own secluded
                  home: Sophy Rogers was there arranging his scanty household furniture, but her
                  face was grave and serious; and his mother went from one room to the other, with
                  an anxious and troubled look. A shadow was upon his own heart, a vague feeling of
                  impending woe, and this was increased as he saw a horseman coming up the narrow
                  valley at headlong speed. What more his dream might have revealed we cannot tell,
                  for at that moment he was rudely shaken by Dr. Griffin.
               "Get up!" shouted the doctor; "it is broad daylight. Get up and attend to your
                  business. My patient is doing much better than I expected, and I shall sleep until
                  breakfast."
               The two young men rose and left the house. By the time they returned, the female
                  inmates were also dressed. Meeting them in the passage, Sophy greeted her brother
                  with a sisterly kiss; but though she only extended her hand to her affianced
                  lover, there was a soft light in her eyes and a rosy tinge on her cheeks which
                  told more eloquently than words how dear he was to that guileless heart, and how
                  gladly she would welcome the hour which bestowed upon her the holy name of
                  WIFE.
               Breakfast was over. It was decided that Tobias Wilson should accompany the doctor
                  and the ladies to the other side of the mountain, while Thomas Rogers remained to
                  watch over the wounded soldier.
               As soon as they were gone, Rogers took a seat by the bedside, and held a long and
                  earnest conversation with the patient. The two guns carried by Jenkins and the
                  Sergeant, and which were dropped by them on the night of their discomfiture, had
                  been brought into the house, and, together with their revolvers and accoutrements,
                  thrown carelessly in a corner of the room. During the conversation, Rogers rose
                  and brought one of them to the bed. It was a Spencer rifle. He had never seen one
                  of them before; but its merits, and the manner of using it, were soon explained.
                  There were some fifty cartridges already made, but this did not satisfy him, and
                  he inquired somewhat anxiously for the moulds.
               "In my haversack," was the reply. "We picked up these guns upon the battle-field
                  of Perryville. We got some four or five moulds with them, and a large amount of
                  cartridges. I kept a pair of moulds and Simmons kept another, though we thought we
                  had ammunition enough to last us for a year. Simmons's is at the house where we
                  buried him, and also his gun and a wallet of cartridges. Mine is in
                  my haversack there, for I always carried it with me. As soon as I am able to ride, I will get
                  Simmons's gun and moulds and cartridges from the place where they are hid."
               "It will be better to do so on many accounts," replied Rogers. "Though with one
                  pair of moulds I can make cartridges enough to last a company for the war."
               The gun was replaced, and Rogers again seated himself by Sergeant Miller. It was
                  evident that a good understanding had grown up between them, and Rogers soon
                  learned all he wished to know of the habits of Capt. Joshua Wilkins, Confederate
                  States Conscript Bureau. Although he was one of the conscript guard, Miller knew
                  very little of Parson Williams or Jim Biles. He had seen Parson Williams once at
                  Wilkins's house, and might have seen Biles, but he did not know him, and could not
                  say they had ever met. He communicated to Rogers the further information that
                  Wilkins was making arrangements to move on the south side of the river, and had
                  given orders for all of his guard, who were scattered over the country in pursuit
                  of recruits for Jeff. Davis's army and plunder for themselves, to report at his
                  house in ten days' time.
               "Ah!" muttered Rogers. "Then I have no time to lose!"
               Addressing the wounded man, he said, slowly and emphatically, watching at the same
                  time with keen interest the expression of his countenance:
               "You tell me, Sergeant Miller, that your father is a strong Union man, and that
                  you yourself were dragged from an honest and respectable home, and forced to
                  become a robber, in order to save those you loved from poverty and want. You
                  surely cannot feel any great attachment to the usurping government which has
                  brought you to this."
               "Attached to the Confederacy! Good God! what have I to thank it for? I've fought
                  for it as I've seen thousands of others do, not because I wanted to, but because I
                  was in the ranks, and didn't like to be whipped. Many and many is the time I would
                  have run away rather than fire a gun, but I was afraid they would say I ran from
                  cowardice; and then there was the plundering privileges to reconcile me to the
                  service. But still, I never loved it, and I hate a conscript officer as I do the
                  horns of the Devil!"
               "Will you keep of this mind, sergeant, when your wounds are healed?"
               "To be sure I shall! I wish to God I had never seen a Confederate flag. I should
                  have been poor, but contented and honest. I would not have been
                  afraid to look my father in the face, for fear he would see signs of thieving
                  there. If I ever willingly look on it again, it will be when I am standing face to
                  face with those who are carrying it, with a good rifle in my hands and a Bowie
                  knife in my belt!"
               "If such are your feelings, I think we shall be good friends hereafter, and it may
                  be, have work to do together. When you are able to ride, I will tell you more.
                  By-the-way, your horse only ran a short distance after you fell. We found him the
                  next morning in the field: your saddle and everything about him was uninjured. He
                  is now in the stable."
               "And my saddle, where is it?"
               "Hanging up in the passage. You told us there was money quilted in it, and we
                  brought it to the house.
               "There is something more than money. Please bring it here, and put it under my
                  head. It has been my pillow many a night, and I shall rest easier upon it than
                  upon these feathers."
               Tobias Wilson rode slowly enough until they reached the place of separation, for
                  he was by the side of her who was the world to him, and listening to that voice in
                     which all the music of earth was
                  gathered. But no word was spoken of that which was nearest to the hearts of both.
                  She seemed to dread any allusion to the events of the past day, and kept so close
                  to his mother and Dr. Griffin that he could find no opportunity for alluding to
                  them. When they reached the bench of the mountain which had been designated as the
                  place of separation, she held out her hand to him, and said with an effort at
                  gayety:
               "Good-by, Toby. Do not come to see me to-morrow. I shall not be strong enough to
                  talk to you. And besides, I wish to have a long, long chat with our mother."
               
                  Our mother! There was a balm in those two words which almost healed
                  the wound her first sentence had inflicted. He seized her hand in his, pressed it
                  twice to his lips, murmured "Good-by," and without a word to his mother or Dr.
                  Griffin, wheeled his horse and rode madly up the steep mountain side.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               TOBIAS WILSON returned to his own dwelling in some perplexity as to what
                  disposition should be made of his prisoner. He could not be removed in his present
                  condition, nor was it certain that any of his secession friends would take him in,
                  provide for his wants, and secure proper medical attendance. Yet Tobias felt a
                  repugnance to sheltering in his house one whom he believed to be a lawless bandit,
                  as unprincipled as he was dangerous. He thought of riding down to Paint Rock
                  Station, and reporting the facts to the U. S. officer who was superintending the
                  erection of a bridge over the river of that name. When he mentioned the subject to
                  his friend, he was surprised to hear him declare warmly, that Sergeant Miller was
                  not half so bad as Tobias thought him. That he had been forced against his will
                  into bad company, and though he had certainly been contaminated by the examples
                  about him, he was, nevertheless, honest and true at heart, and there were strong
                  reasons to believe that if he ever recovered, he would yet serve the Union
                  faithfully and efficiently. Tobias had no doubt of Sergeant Miller's ability to
                  render excellent service to the good cause, but he did doubt his willingness to
                  abandon the rebel cause. He thought that with returning health, his evil
                  propensities would also return. He was satisfied that the only safe course was to
                  surrender him to the United States troops, and thus place him in a situation where
                  he could not, at least until regularly
                  exchanged, again associate himself with the lawless bands under Wheeler's command.
                  Thomas Rogers assented to the propriety of reporting the facts to the nearest
                  Union commander, but vehemently protested against the bad opinion his friend
                  entertained and expressed of the sergeant. In conclusion, he said:
               "He will turn out all right, and you'll see it. To-morrow I will ride down myself
                  and make a report to Colonel ——. You can stay at home and get some of the grass
                  out of your crop. It has been neglected enough of late to need it. I will be back
                  to-morrow evening, and will stay with you a week or so to help you. Father does
                  not need me at home, and I have no particular desire to have his eyes, and those
                  of your mother and Sophy, all three watching my movements or reading my thoughts
                  in this tell-tale face."
               In accordance with this suggestion, Thomas Rogers the next day paid a visit to the
                  quarters of Colonel ——. Tobias noticed, but without making any remark, or indeed
                  entertaining any suspicion of the cause at the time, that his friend had put on
                  the accoutrements of Jenkins, and carried one of the Spencer rifles, instead of
                  his own. That evening Thomas Rogers returned, as he had promised; bringing with
                  him a paper which exempted Sergeant James Miller from arrest or capture; and
                  another, reciting that Thomas Rogers, Jr., was a loyal citizen of the United
                  States; engaged in its service; and as such entitled to the protection and
                  assistance of Union soldiers whenever it was demanded. Tobias thought he was
                  uneasy about something. His manner was hurried; and once or twice he stopped in
                  the middle of a sentence, as if his mind was occupied by more engrossing thoughts.
                  These things did not pass unobserved; but as he was sure full confidence would be
                  reposed in him at last, he did not attempt to extract tract it by questions, which
                  he was convinced would now be disagreeable.
               Placing an opiate by the side of Miller, where he could easily reach it if needed
                  during the night, and bidding him call them if he required assistance, the young
                  men retired early to rest. In a few days they had gone through much that was
                  calculated to weary the mind and exhaust the body; but there is a vitality in
                  youth and health, a recuperative power, which we never realize until years have
                  come to shake the system with its enervating grasp, and make us wonder why it is
                  we cannot bear up under fatigues from which in earlier life we would have deemed
                  it unmanly to shrink. The wearing away of the mind is slower. It will bear up
                  under harder tasks and a more prolonged exertion. But both mind and body will give
                  out at last, and each succeeding tax upon their powers lessens the ability to
                  recover their original tone and strength. Tobias Wilson and Thomas Rogers were
                  upon the very threshold of life. Fatigue and exertion only brought to them a
                  sweeter sleep when the day was gone, and night spread its mantle over the earth.
                  There was no restless tossing on the bed, no turning of the pillow heated by a
                  fevered cheek. Still and calm and stirless they lay clasped in the arms of
                  Morpheus, unconscious of the toils and cares of life, its griefs, its promises, or
                  its hopes. There were many things which weighed upon the thoughts of both,—alike
                  in absorbing interest, though widely differing in character,—yet both were wrapped
                  in a deep and moveless slumber, until the shrill voice of the barn-yard
                  chanticleer proclaimed the coming of the day king, with his fears and anxieties,
                  his joys and his duties in his train.
               Sergeant Miller had also slept soundly and well. The fever had left him, his
                  appetite had returned; and when Tobias Wilson set out on his tacitly promised
                  visit to his mother and his affianced
                  wife, he was able to carry to Dr. Griffin the assurance that his patient was in a
                  much better state than could have been expected, and promised soon to be able to
                  dispense with his visits.
               "We must not jump to conclusions too hastily," replied the doctor. "To-morrow
                  there may be a change for the worse. I will come over in the evening, and remain
                  all night. Make your preparations accordingly; and be good enough to remember that
                  I have an excellent appetite, and that I am fond of being made comfortable
                     generally, which, by-the-way, I am never sure of when there is no
                  woman to overlook things about the house."
               Tobias was warmly greeted by his mother and Mr. Rogers. By Sophy he was welcomed
                  with a smile so winning that he felt himself repaid a hundredfold for the brief
                  banishment she had imposed upon him. Mr. Rogers did not remain long in the house;
                  and Mrs. Wilson, who had not forgotten her own days of youth and love,
                  conveniently remembered something she had promised to look after in the garden,
                  and, taking down her sun-bonnet from the place where it was hanging, walked out,
                  and left them alone. One hour before, Tobias Wilson would have given a world for
                  the blessed privilege of pouring out the deep flood of his feelings, unchecked by
                  other eyes or ears, before her who was 
                     "The ocean to the river of his thoughts."
                   But that opportunity came so soon, it was so unexpected, and it seemed so
                  strange that it should thus have offered itself without maneuvering or effort on
                  his part, that he was completely overpowered. Then his embarrassment was increased
                  by the very consciousness of its existence, until it deepened into a feeling very
                  nearly akin to fear. His tongue clove to the roof of his mouth. He could not have
                  spoken a word if his life had depended upon it. Ashamed of his weakness, and
                  dreading that she might discover it, he made a desperate effort—drew his chair
                  nearer, and took her unresisting hand in his. Sophy had not once looked toward him
                  since Mrs. Wilson left the room; she did not now raise her eyes from the silk
                  apron on which they seemed to rest, but she knew what was going on in his bosom,
                  and felt so much for the embarrassment from which he was suffering that she tried
                  herself to break the painful yet blissful silence. The effort was in vain; the
                  syllables failed to shape themselves into words, and died away in inarticulate
                  murmurs upon her lips. That, however, was enough to break the spell which tied her
                  lover's tongue. The deep love that had become the essence of his life, and whose
                  free expression had been so long restrained by the injunctions of his mistress,
                  now found a voice, and with the rich eloquence which always flows from lips
                  sincerely earnest, he painted the first buddings of that tender passion which
                  glided gently, with timid loveliness, into his heart, and made it a resting-place
                  forever. He described how it grew and flourished amid doubts, and fears, and
                  anxieties, with now and then a ray of gladness, when a soft word or a tender look
                  excited hopes that he did not love in vain. Then came the stormy struggle which
                  followed the conviction that his love must be spoken, or the torturing suspense of
                  the heart would sting the brain to madness. He told with what humble self-distrust
                  his confession had been made; meekly, and with unfeigned lowliness of mind, he
                  acknowledged how daring were his aspirations, and confessed how poor and mean he
                  felt while kneeling before a shrine at which the winged cherubim might have joyed
                  to worship. In a firmer tone, but still with a voice in which timidity was mingled
                  with exultation, he proclaimed how he had been lifted from earth and translated to
                  the seventh heaven, when the secret of
                  her heart was wrung from her lips, and with tears and blushes she confessed that
                  his love was returned, and his presumptuous dream was a crowned reality. Again his
                  voice changed, and his speech became hesitating and tremulous, as, with guileless
                  unreserve, he told how his heart had yearned for one soft pressure from the lips
                  which had just made him the happiest of created things. And yet he dared not ask a
                  privilege which seemed to him too great for mortal enjoyment.
               "I have read somewhere," he added, "though I do not believe it, that every cloud
                  has a silver lining; that, no matter how black and thunderous it may appear, there
                  is always a ray of light to relieve it of a portion of its gloom, and satisfy the
                  beholder that all is not darkness within. The reverse of the picture is more
                  likely to be true. We see more frequently the tear follow the smile, than the
                  smile succeeding to the tear. The silver lining of the cloud is not always
                  visible, and sorrow often visits us without an antidote for the poison it infuses
                  into the heart. On the other hand, joy never makes its appearance unless
                  accompanied by some dark shadow to sadden the sunshine it cannot altogether
                  destroy. Even so was it with the rosy beams which fell around me in showers of
                  radiance when those lips confessed that I had won the priceless treasure of your
                  love. In that blessed hour, at the very moment when the feelings which were
                  swelling in my bosom would not have been exchanged for the raptures of heaven,
                  suddenly and unexpectedly came the shadow and the night. I was loved. I knew it; I
                  saw it; I felt it. I was loved, and of that consciousness I could not be deprived
                  until the soul, as well as the body, had undergone the sentence of annihilation.
                  But with that consciousness came the bitter injunction that I should cease to
                  worship, or, at least, that I should worship in silence and afar off, when my soul
                  was yearning to pour forth its burning tale at the feet of the object of its
                  idolatry."
               Sophy Rogers had listened to her lover's rhapsody with an interest whose intense
                  delight was akin to pain. It was a delight too pure for gratified vanity, too
                  sacred for the presence of a selfish thought. Occasionally she raised her eyes to
                  his; for a moment they would meet his gaze, into which was thrown a pathos and a
                  pleading eloquence that words cannot describe; then they would sink again, while a
                  warmer flush tinged her cheek, and her little hand could just be felt to tremble
                  in the strong grasp that held it. At other times the long silken lashes would
                  droop until they were closed as if in slumber. In every change of feature he could
                  read her thoughts as plainly as if they had been written upon a scroll illuminated
                  from above. She believed all, hoped all, trusted all. He saw it, and his soul was
                  drunk with happiness. If love like hers could be repaid with answering love, oh!
                  how lavishly was the price thrown at her feet! In his opinion the incarnation of
                  the poet's dream would have been cold and lifeless when placed by the side of a
                  beauty which was all his own. Imagination was powerless to draw a picture which
                  would rival the reality. Even the words, whose strong spirit of devotion had
                  impressed them on his memory, now seemed tame and lifeless, as he inwardly
                  repeated the lines: 
                     
                        "Her soul's a spotless pearl—
                        And when she throws her shining hair
                        Back from her brow of light,
                        There's nothing, nothing half so fair,
                        So clearly, purely white.
                        And then her breath, the warm south wind,
                        Long nestling in the rose,
                        May somewhat image to your mind,
                        Its sweetness as it flows.
                        
                        The nectar of that sinless lip—
                        The incense of that breath,
                        E'en were it poison I could sip,
                        And joy in drinking death."
                     
                  
               
               There was a brief silence when he ceased to speak, the silence of unalloyed
                  happiness. It was broken by her:
               "And did you believe, dear Toby, that injunction cost me no pain? Oh! it was a
                  bitter, bitter trial, but it was a duty; and if our duties were always pleasant,
                  there would be small merit in their performance."
               "You were right, dearest, and I was very wrong to murmur. Pardon the error, for it
                  sprung from love for you; a love too blind and headstrong to heed the voice of
                  reason."
               "Not so, Toby. That is not the love I have hugged to my heart of hearts with a
                  fervor equal to your own. My love is based on reason. From that fountain comes the
                  invigorating draught which gives to it a deathless existence."
               "I am rebuked, justly rebuked," he replied; "and yet if I had consulted reason I
                  should never have sought to win your love. There is so wide a gulf between us. You
                  are so pure and sinless; standing upon a pinnacle so high above me, that if I had
                  stopped to reason I should have turned coward, and lost all."
               "You will spoil me, Toby, if you flatter so. If such thoughts come into your mind,
                  keep them to yourself. I fear they are already too sweet, and, coming from your
                  lips, I am too willing to listen to them. If I hear them much oftener, they may
                  breed other thoughts which are surely sinful."
               Thus the innocent girl, with gentle modesty, sought to turn the conversation from
                  herself, and, leading the way to other themes, endeavored to direct her lover from
                  compliments ments which she deemed extravagant, and language which made her little
                  heart beat quicker with pleasure, even while she feared it would foster the sins
                  of pride and self-righteousness.
               But his thoughts were too full of that one subject; the temptation to dwell upon
                  the story of his love, after the long prohibition which had sealed his lips, was
                  too great to be overcome by a reproof so mild; and several times in the few
                  minutes which succeeded, the fault was repeated, and each time the rebuke which
                  followed was less positive and decided. There was still one subject upon which
                  they had not touched. It had doubtless occurred to the minds of both more than
                  once during their conversation. To her it was prohibited by maidenly reserve, and
                  he shrank from it with that inconsistent timidity which so often, in every-day
                  life, makes us hesitate to speak the wish that is nearest to our hearts, and dread
                  the utterance of a request we would not fail to prefer for all the rubies of
                  earth. It was not without a strong mental effort that Tobias Wilson at last
                  abruptly "broke the ice."
               "You promised, Sophy, to become my wife whenever I should ask it, and that blessed
                  promise has been to me a joy no tongue can express. I give up my right to name the
                  day, and wait to hear it from your lips. If you love me, dearest, as I love you,
                  let the time be brief."
               "I will not pretend," she replied, "that I did not expect this proposal to-day. I
                  expected you to make it the first opportunity you had of doing so, and in truth I
                  should have felt hurt if you had thought so little of my promise as not to have
                  recalled it. I have therefore thought it over, with all its consequences, as
                  calmly as I could; and in spite of my earnest wish to think otherwise, I cannot
                  help feeling that our marriage now would be imprudent. Will you not agree," she
                  continued, laying her hand upon his arm
                  and looking up with a pleading look into his face, where she could plainly see
                  that a cloud was gathering, "will you not consent to postpone it until happier
                  times shall come to bless this distracted and divided land?"
               "No!—no!—a thousand times no. You surely do not mean to break the pledge you
                  freely gave!"
               Her eyes fell, and a shade of sadness settled on her face. Her tone was
                  reproachful, but her voice firm and steady, as she replied:
               "Did you ever know me, Tobias Wilson, to break a promise once given, or to seek to
                  evade it by indirection? What have you ever seen in me to justify the cruel
                  suspicion you have just allowed yourself to express? I did make that promise
                  freely, as you have said, and it shall be redeemed this hour if you demand
                  it."
               Humbled and abased he threw himself at her feet.
               "Pardon me! Pardon me! if I have said anything to wound you. I would not bring a
                  shadow upon that brow for all the stars that glitter in the dome of heaven. Nor am
                  I base enough to forget that your promise was given to save my soul from
                  perdition, and that it would be the act of a wicked and ungrateful coward to hold
                  you to it. You are absolved from it fully and entirely. Decide this matter
                  according to the dictates of your own heart. I do not even ask you to remember the
                  impatience of mine."
               "Not so, Toby. I will not take advantage of your generosity. My father and your
                  mother shall decide for us."
               She extended her hand as she spoke; he clasped it in his, raised it to his lips,
                  and, still holding it, led her into the garden where Mrs. Wilson was seemingly
                  engaged in "putting to rights" plants and shrubs that an indifferent spectator
                  would have supposed required no attention.
               The object of their coming was soon explained. Mrs. Wilson called them her dear,
                  good children, blessed them fervently, and promised to decide with an eye single
                  to their happiness. But she would give no opinion until the return of Mr. Rogers,
                  who was not looked for until nightfall. It was arranged that Tobias should remain
                  to dinner and then return home. In a few days he was told that he might ride over
                  and hear the decision. Sophy noticed the dissatisfied expression of his
                  countenance when his mother repeated the words, in a few days. He had
                  calculated upon an answer the next day at furthest. But he said nothing, and
                  Sophy's faint smile was the only commentary upon his evident impatience.
               The mid-day meal was nearly concluded when Mr. Rogers rode up to his gate. His
                  daughter met him at the door.
               "Welcome, father! But we did not expect you so soon!"
               "No; nor did I expect to return before night. But the gentleman I went to see had
                  been summoned on a coroner's jury, and I only remained long enough to hear the
                  news."
               "A coroner's jury!" repeated Mrs. Wilson. "Who is dead?"
               "Joshua Wilkins, the conscript officer for this district, was shot in the road
                  yesterday within a mile of his house. He was a bad man, engaged in a bad cause, a
                  relentless executor of a merciless law, and few will mourn his death, though many
                  will pity his family,"
               "Who shot him, and what was it for?" asked Mrs. Wilson and Sophy, speaking eagerly
                  and at once.
               "As to what it was for, he has given cause enough to many a father in this county
                  to take away his life. Who did shoot him is a mystery. No traces were
                  discovered of his slayer. It is said, however, that the ball that killed him must have come from a soldier's
                  gun, as no rifle in this country would inflict such a wound."
               A flood of light flashed upon Tobias Wilson. He remembered that, on the day
                  before, Thomas Rogers, when starting to visit Colonel ——, had carried a Spencer
                  rifle. He knew that by making a circuit of something more than two miles, he could
                  have passed not far from the house of Wilkins. He recollected that the horse had
                  the appearance of having been ridden hard on its return, and that Thomas himself
                  seemed hurried and disturbed, and the conviction was forced upon him that that
                  deed of blood lay at the door of his friend. He was now very anxious to return
                  home, and only awaited the conclusion of Mr. Rogers's meal to do so. He sought an
                  opportunity to whisper to Sophy: "I shall be back the day after to-morrow. Don't
                  let them keep me in suspense any longer than that." Then mounting his horse, he
                  rode as rapidly as the ground would permit to his own house.
               He found Thomas Rogers sitting by the side of Sergeant Miller, in whom he appeared
                  to take an interest for which Tobias Wilson could not account.
               "Welcome home, Toby. I have worked a little in your crop to-day, though not a
                  great deal. In truth, it does not need work as much as I thought when I told
                  father I would remain here for awhile and help you."
               Tobias returned his greeting, thanked him for what he had done, and added that the
                  greater part of the crop would need no further work. The little that remained he
                  could easily get through without assistance.
               "But I must have an excuse for remaining here," answered Rogers, "and that is the
                  best one I can find. So I shall even go out into the field and plow a few furrows
                  occasionally, in order that I may say with truth that I am helping you. Did you
                  gather any news while you were gone?"
               "Yes! I heard that Joshua Wilkins had been shot by some unknown person, and they
                  were to-day holding a coroner's inquest over the body."
               "A coroner's inquest! I thought that thing had been 'played out' in this
                  latitude." Then he added bitterly, "Oh! I forgot that he was a conscript officer.
                  If it had been you or me, they would have buried us like a dog, without troubling
                  themselves to inquire who did the deed. It is a blessed thing to be a loyal
                  citizen of the great and glorious Confederacy. What say you, sergeant."
               "I can't say as I think so, sir:—unless it's a feller who's bound to go to hell
                  any way. If he's young enough for a soldier, there's no telling what temptations
                  to wickedness will be thrown in his way. If he's too old for that, they are
                  certain to make him a hater and reviler and persecutor of his neighbor who don't
                  happen to think exactly as he does. Now, there's Capt. Wilkins, who is said to
                  have once been a good neighbor and a clever man, and yet he's brought tears enough
                  into helpless eyes in the last two years to make a good sized-creek."
               "He will never cause any more to flow," said Wilson, rising. "God forgive him the
                  evil he has done."
               The two friends went out to attend to the usual duties about the farm. When they
                  returned, an ample supply of fuel was provided for the night's consumption, and a
                  cheerful fire was soon blazing in both rooms of the cabin. Drawing his friend into
                  the apartment where their conversation could not be overheard by Miller, Tobias
                  entered upon the subject which, during the whole evening, had occupied the first
                  place in his thoughts.
               "I do not want your confidence, Thomas. Indeed, if what I suspect is true, I can
                  serve you much better by remaining
                  maining in ignorance of what you may have to tell. I can see dangers thickening
                  around you, and it is of that I wish to speak. I am no soldier, but it is plain
                  enough to me that in a few weeks the Union troops will be withdrawn from this
                  vicinity to fight battles at Chattanooga. When that is done, you cannot doubt that
                  there will be a rigid examination into the facts and circumstances connected with
                  Joshua Wilkins's death. If you are once suspected, your fate is sealed; for they
                  will require little proof to justify, in their opinion, the most rigorous measures
                  against one who is known to entertain such decided Union sentiments. Have you
                  thought of this, and adopted any plan for future security?"
               "I have thought of it, certainly; but I have adopted no plan. First, because a
                  great deal depends on circumstances hereafter to happen; and secondly, there is no
                  need to be in a hurry. If the Union troops remain in this neighborhood for two
                  weeks, and Colonel —— gave it as his opinion that they would be here four weeks at
                  least, I shall have time enough."
               There was a pause of several minutes. At length Rogers asked:
               "Did you not tell me that your grandfather, just before his death, contemplated
                  raising a company of Union men for mutual defense, and that you had together
                  sought and found a safe place for the concealment of arms and ammunition?"
               "I did. I will show it to you to-morrow."
               "It must be early, then. I must ride a good distance to-morrow. When are you and
                  Sophy to be married?"
               "I do not know. Your father and my mother are to settle it. I go over the day
                  after to-morrow to receive my answer."
               "I hope there will be no delay. When you are married, you can take my place at
                  home, and I will remain here to look after your affairs, until the dawning of a
                  better day enables us to live in peace and security."
               Whatever Wilson may have thought of this arrangement, he made no remark upon it.
                  Reverting to the previous declaration of Rogers, that he had a long distance to
                  ride on the next day, he inquired what it meant.
               "I am going to Joshua Wilkins's funeral."
               "You!" exclaimed Wilson in astonishment. "Are you mad? It is the worst secession
                  nest in America. A band of conscript guards or guerrillas will no doubt be there.
                  The best you can expect is to be conscripted, and taken off south of the Tennessee
                  River."
               "I shall not go alone. It is not yet eight o'clock. In an hour from this time the
                  few citizens on the road to Colonel ——'s quarters will be asleep. By hard riding I
                  can go there and return by one o'clock or before. I will arrange with him to send
                  a company of cavalry to capture the funeral party, and I will cross the mountain
                  by Jim Biles's house in time to have a hand in the skirmish, if there should be
                  one. Parson Williams will be there, for there is no other Baptist minister living
                  near enough to preach the funeral sermon. Jim Biles will also certainly be there.
                  We may catch them both, and if we do, the proofs we can bring against them will
                  not be treated as lightly by a Federal officer as by a Confederate jury."
               Within the hour designated, Thomas Rogers was in the saddle, riding away from his
                  friend's house; and Tobias Wilson went to bed with a lighter heart than he had
                  expected would that night beat in his bosom. He thought he saw a fair prospect
                  that the murderers of his grandfather would speedily be brought to justice, and
                  his friend would thus be saved from imbruing his hands in more blood than he was
                  persuaded already stained them. The feeling of satisfaction which was diffused through his mind,
                  had its effect upon the body also, and he sank into a deep and moveless sleep,
                  which lasted until the return of Rogers, long after midnight.
               Thomas Rogers exhibited no evidence of fatigue from his night's ride. He was
                  quickly undressed, and merely remarking that everything had been arranged to his
                  satisfaction, threw himself upon the bed and slept until day-break.
               The reader may as well be told at once that he had not dealt quite candidly with
                  his friend. He had told him nothing that was not literally true,—he only concealed
                  the fact that he was resolved Parson Williams should never be taken alive while he
                  was by, with a rifle in his hand. He cared very little how Biles met his death, so
                  he did meet it; but the parson he regarded as his own especial property, and could
                  not bring himself to look upon his punishment by any one else with complacency. He
                  saw no necessity for communicating this fact to Wilson, and allowed him to indulge
                  whatever speculations he pleased without attempting to undeceive him.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE young men whom we left sleeping at the end of the last chapter were astir with
                  the first light of the morning. A few minutes only were devoted to the business of
                  dressing themselves for the day. As soon as it was over, Rogers proposed that they
                  should at once pay a visit to the place Mr. Johnson had selected for the
                  concealment of arms and ammunition. Tobias led the way to the cave from which
                  flowed the spring that formed the "branch" running by the house, and making its
                  way out at the southern extremity of the valley. The mouth of the cave was a kind
                  of low arch, formed of rugged stones, whose sharp edges jutted out from either
                  side, and made deep seams in the roof. The cavity was nearly as high at the
                  entrance as a man's head, but the whole width of the bottom was covered with
                  water, and Rogers looked in vain for any mode of ingress. Upon the right-hand side
                  there was a pile of loose stones. When these were removed, Rogers observed a
                  narrow ledge of rock, some feet above the water, barely wide enough for the
                  passage of one human body at a time.
               "Follow me," said Wilson, stepping upon the ledge. "And look out that you don't
                  break your head against the rocks above us, and take care of your footsteps, for
                     this passage is by no means as smooth as a turnpike
                  road."
               In a few yards the cave widened considerably, and the roof was much higher. The
                  rocky ledge gradually dipped down until it was lost in the more level surface of
                  the bottom tom of the cavern. The side
                  along which they were groping their way, stumbling as they did so over huge
                  stones, or slipping on their slimy surface, was of solid rock, indented here and
                  there with vast crevices. Counting until he reached the fourth one of these
                  crevices, Tobias Wilson stepped into it, and turning a sharp angle to the right,
                  in a few steps they found themselves in a large and dry room. The materials for
                  striking a light had been placed there by Mr. Johnson. These were found, and two
                  candles lighted. Crossing to the opposite side they found an ascending entrance to
                  another compartment, so low that they had to crawl on their hands and knees. The
                  passage, however, was short, and they soon came to the inner side. This room was
                  smaller than the one they had just left, but with a loftier ceiling. High up,
                  apparently many hundred feet above their heads, they could see streaks of light,
                  which no doubt came through crevices of the mountain. It was also evident that it
                  must be tolerably well ventilated from some quarter, perhaps from similar crevices
                  in the sides to those in the roof. The air was light and dry, and the candles
                  slightly flickered as from the breath of a gentle breeze. Rogers observed the
                  traces of a fire, and a quantity of wood piled on one side.
               "My grandfather and I," said Wilson, "built that fire to see if the smoke would
                  make its way out at any place which would betray the presence of human beings in
                  here. We kept it burning for two days, but could not detect the escape of smoke
                  anywhere. It must have gone straight up, and made its way out so slowly and in
                  such small quantities, as not to be distinguishable from the vapor rising from the
                  valley and setting on the mountain."
               Rolling a large stone to one side, an aperture was visible, and bidding Rogers
                  look in, he said:
               "There you will find a place where you can stow away thousands of muskets and as
                  many pounds of powder and lead as you please, with little danger of
                  discovery."
               It was indeed a hiding-place not likely to be detected by any human scrutiny, and
                  Thomas Rogers expressed himself decidedly to that effect. On his way back he made
                  a careful survey of the room they had first entered, and taking the light with him
                  in order to have a better view than that afforded by the glimmer from the mouth of
                  the cave, he examined the crevices in the wall, noted their peculiar shape, and
                  counted the number. His examination also extended to the great boulders over which
                  they had stumbled in their entrance. Emerging once more into daylight, he
                  said:
               "I could find my way in and out now if I were blindfolded. Thank you, Toby. You
                  have done me many a kindness; but this may prove the most valuable of all. Now let
                  us go to the stable. My horse must be well rubbed and fed; he has a hard day's
                  work before him."
               "You had better take mine. Yours must have suffered from last night's ride."
               "I did not ride him. I rode Miller's, and, by Jove, it has been a long time since
                  I mounted such an animal!"
               "From his own account, he had an excellent chance to pick a good one," answered
                  Wilson dryly.
               "Come, Toby, you must get over that prejudice. I owe Miller more than you dream
                  of. He has given me information which I hope will enable me to clear these
                  mountains of the robbers who infest them, and furnished me a clew to the doings of
                  many a sneaking devil who now passes for a quiet and orderly citizen."
               They entered the stable-yard as he spoke, and the subject was dropped for the
                  present. Tobias went about his work directly after breakfast, and Rogers, seating
                  himself by the side of Miller, had another long conference with the wounded man. When that was ended, he mounted his
                  horse, and rode through the field to the point at which Robert Johnson had been
                  murdered, taking, as before, the rifle and accoutrements of Jenkins. As he rode
                  near the place where Wilson was at work, he waved his hand and shouted:
               "Look out for me by sundown."
               Up the steep mountain path he urged his steed, until he came within a mile of
                  Biles's house. Here he made a circuit, to avoid being seen at the house, and again
                  "struck" the path far beyond the residence of that worthy. Looking at his watch,
                  he found that it was just eleven o'clock.
               "I shall have time enough," he thought; "they will hardly begin the funeral
                  ceremonies before twelve o'clock, and my horse will walk the distance before that
                  time. Come, Robin," he said, addressing the horse, and reining him down to a
                  slower pace, "we'll take it leisurely now. It is probable you will need your wind
                  before long."
               Riding slowly down the mountain in the direction of Wilkins's house, he had not
                  made more than half the distance, when he heard a horse's feet thundering up the
                  stony path. Riding a little to one side and hitching his horse among some bushes,
                  he returned to the path upon which the approaching horseman must soon make his
                  appearance.
               "Halt!" he shouted in a voice of thunder, when the fugitive had turned a corner of
                  rock, and was within fifty yards of the place where he was standing. The horseman
                  tried to rein up, but the speed at which he was going brought him within twenty
                  feet of his challenger before he succeeded.
               "What's your hurry this morning, Mr. Biles?" asked Rogers, while a baleful fire
                  flashed from his eyes which boded no good to the wretch before him.
               "The soldiers are after me."
               "Indeed! and where may you have been to meet with the soldiers?"
               "To Joshua Wilkins's funeral. We got a hint that a company of Yankees had left the
                  camp before daylight this morning, and Parson Williams hurried on the funeral for
                  fear we might be interrupted. The grave was hardly covered, when news came that
                  the enemy were in less than three hundred yards. Captain ——'s rangers were formed
                  behind the houses to stop the Yankees until the others got safely away."
               "And what became of Parson Williams?"
               "He went up the valley with a friend, and I reckon he's safe"
               "God grant it!" muttered Rogers. Then in a louder tone went on with his
                  questions.
               "He is such a friend of yours, I should have thought he would have taken the
                  direction of your house. When did he last sleep under your roof?"
               This was a home thrust, and Biles turned deadly pale as he answered:
               "I don't know exactly. It's been a good while."
               "I think not. I think I met him coming from your house the day after Robert
                  Johnson was murdered."
               The terror which now shook the frame of the guilty criminal was pitiful to behold.
                  He could not tell to what these questions pointed, but the tone and manner of the
                  questioner were calculated to make him fear the worst. In public and in presence
                  of his rebel friends, he would have braved it out manfully; but he was alone,
                  alone with the memory of his crime and its avenger; and he cowered with an abject
                  fear that awakened the deepest scorn of his enemy.
               "I know all, Jim Biles," he continued. "You have nothing to tell me. I know where
                  and when you plotted that damnable
                  murder. I know that Josh Wilkins and Ben Williams came to your house to carry it
                  out; that Williams remained with you the night after it was done, and no doubt had
                  family prayers, and thanked God that there was a Union man the less in this
                  county. Oh! I can read it all. And now, sir, your time has come. Two days ago I
                  sent Josh Wilkins to his long account. You will join him to-day. Parson Williams
                  will soon follow. It would be a pity to separate such lambs of God
                  for any length of time in the world to come."
               "Spare me!" shrieked the craven-hearted villain. "For mercy's sake, spare me! I
                  did not kill him; Parson Williams and Wilkins shot him. Indeed, indeed, I did not
                  fire."
               "I know you didn't; but it was because two bullets were enough to finish the work.
                  If another had been needed, you were there to give it. You helped to drag him from
                  his field, and it may have been your hand which felled him with that murderous
                  club. Waste no time in prayers to me. I give you three minutes to utter one to
                  your God. At the end of that time I shall fire."
               The dastard, who had not hesitated to imbrue his hands in the blood of an old and
                  peaceful man, for a mere difference of political opinion, now rolled down upon the
                  mane of his horse in brutish terror,—sobbing, groaning, and vehemently protesting
                  his innocence of any part in the last scene of the murder.
               "Coward and dog, as well as murderer!" thundered Rogers with bitter contempt; "you
                  have a gun,—use it."
               "It aint loaded," groaned Biles. "I fired at the Yankees, and didn't have time to
                  load."
               "So much the worse for you. Two minutes of your time is gone."
               Like lightning the idea flashed upon Biles that if he could get back to the
                  soldiers, his life at least would be saved. Gathering strength and resolution from
                  this hope, he suddenly straightened himself in the saddle, wheeled his horse, and
                  striking the spurs deep into his flanks, fled down the mountain at a pace
                  dangerous alike to man and beast. Desperate as this attempt may seem, there was a
                  fair chance for its success, unless the horse should stumble, and break its own or
                  the rider's neck. The danger from this source was lessened in the present instance
                  by the fact that Biles was riding a young horse which had been reared on the
                  mountain, who had again and again traversed all its stony paths, and was as
                  familiar with, and as much at home among them, as the Arab steed with the parched
                  plains of the desert. Quick as had been his movements, they were not too quick for
                  the keen eye that watched him. The goaded steed had made but little headway, when
                  the rifle of Thomas Rogers rose to his shoulder. One moment he held it there, as
                  firmly and steadily as if man and rifle were carved from the solid rock. Then a
                  volume of smoke and flame belched from its muzzle, and a ringing report
                  reverberated among the mountain crags. To all appearance Biles held his seat
                  firmly. A few bounds of the horse carried him around the projecting crag before
                  alluded to. Running rapidly to a point where he knew he could obtain another shot,
                  and reloading his gun as he ran, Rogers muttered, "I couldn't have missed him. It
                  is impossible!"
               At the point for which he aimed he saw the horse, which, owing to the bends in the
                  path, was still not more than a hundred yards from him, madly rushing down the
                  mountain. The saddle was empty; the steed was riderless. "I thought so!" was the
                  inward commentary of Rogers. "There would have been no excuse for missing a wild
                  pigeon at that distance."
               
               Leaning over the crag he saw the body of Biles, still alive, lying in the pathway.
                  Scrambling down the cliff, he was soon standing by the prostrate form. It was
                  evident that Jim Biles's lease of life was very near its end, but the ball had
                  entered too low to cause immediate death. It might be several days before the
                  spirit took its flight. With good care and nursing he would probably last a week.
                  Thomas Rogers was much perplexed when he became satisfied of this fact. "If I
                  leave him here," he thought, "and any of his friends should come this way, as is
                  by no means unlikely, in their hasty flight from the Union cavalry, they will soon
                  revive him enough to enable him to tell how he came by his death, and also who it
                  was who cut short the career of that devil incarnate, Joshua Wilkins. If they do
                  not find him, he will be torn to pieces by the wolves before morning, and thus
                  perish as miserably as he deserves. If the fool hadn't tried to run, I do not
                  believe I should have had the heart to shoot him. I reckon the fates had fixed it
                  their own way, for he rushed upon his doom just when I was thinking of tying him
                  and taking him down to Colonel ——, to dispose of as he thought best."
               There was a momentary pause in his musings. He looked keenly down the mountain
                  side, then placed his ear to the ground and listened attentively.
               "It is nothing," he continued. "A sound from below will reach me long before any
                  danger can approach. This wound troubles me; he will certainly revive before
                  death; even now he is more stunned by his fall than paralyzed by the effects of my
                  shot. It is hard to finish a man in this fix; and yet if I do not, I
                  put my own life and that of my friends in fearful jeopardy. Well, as Parson
                  Williams would say, 'I have put my hand to the plow and must not turn back.' I
                  cannot leave him here alive. If Parson Williams was out of the way, I wouldn't
                  care much how soon the whole story was told. I could then go off with the Union
                  army, and, if necessary, enlist in a cavalry company. But I will not leave here
                  while there is a breath in his infernal carcass. Nor must I allow him a chance to
                  be warned of his danger. The short and the long of it is, that I must
                  put an end to Jim Biles. It's a bitter pill, but it has to be swallowed. Besides,
                  when I undertook this job I had no right to expect smooth sailing all the time. I
                  might have known that there would be things to be gone through as disagreeable as
                  they were dangerous." So saying, he walked off eight or ten feet and raised his
                  rifle to his shoulder, cocking it as he did so. In an instant he let it sink
                  slowly down.
               "No, that won't do. There is no prudence in making an unnecessary noise among
                  these rocks, solitary as they seem. Nor will it do to use my knife. I shall be
                  sure to get some of his poisonous blood upon me, and have to make up some lame
                  tale to hoodwink Toby. This cliff will answer the purpose better."
               Dragging the body to the brink of a precipice of more than fifty feet in height,
                  he hurled it down, and walking away without casting one look at the mangled form,
                  he mounted his horse and set out on his return. Giving his steed a loose rein, and
                  allowing him to proceed at what gait he pleased, he continued the self-colloquy
                  which was habitual to him.
               "Things have not worked precisely to suit me to-day, though I have no great cause
                  to grumble. If I had only got to Wilkins's in time to have sent a bullet after
                  Parson Williams, I should have felt better. The scoundrel will smell a mouse now
                  and keep close. It is true that a shadow of suspicion cannot attach to me, or to
                  any one in particular. But the sudden and unexplained death of his two accomplices
                  will blanch that hardened heart of his, and his conscience will whisper that it has grown out
                  of the murder in which he had so large a part. He will not show himself in a
                  hurry, I'm thinking, if he can help it. I will have to change my tactics. It is
                  certain that his ugly phiz won't be seen on this side of the mountain while there
                  is a Union soldier in the neighborhood. I must wait and watch. May be Toby will
                  bring some news to-morrow that will help me to a conclusion. Now, Robin," he
                  continued, tightening the rein and touching his steed with the spur, "make tracks
                  for home. Faster, sir, faster, my pet. There is work to be done when we get there,
                  before the sun goes down."
               Riding through the field, along the turning row, close to where his friend was at
                  work, he called out: "Come, Toby, you have worked enough to-day. It is time to
                  turn out. Come on to the house."
               "You forget that I will lose a day to-morrow. I must stick to it to-day until the
                  sun goes down."
               "Never mind that! I will work for you to-morrow. Come on."
               He did not wait for a reply, hardly pausing an instant before continuing on his
                  way to the house. Arriving there he quickly stabled his horse; then, entering the
                  room where Sergeant Miller was lying, he took down the rifle and accoutrements
                  belonging to the wounded man, except the revolver, and immediately went out again,
                  merely remarking to the sergeant, "I'll tell you what I have done when I come
                  back." From the house he went directly to the cave, carrying the two Spencer
                  rifles, ammunition, etc. with him. There was no hesitation in his movements;
                  everything had been reflected upon and decided. The arms were safely hidden in the
                  place pointed out by Wilson that morning; and with a satisfied expression upon his
                  face, he emerged from the cave. He paused a minute by the pile of loose stones
                  near the entrance, as if hesitating whether to replace them. His decision was soon
                  made.
               "It isn't worth while. No one will ever suspect where that ledge leads. It looks
                  as if a coon hadn't passed over it in a century; I rather think it is safest to
                  leave it exposed. If anybody should get to tumbling these rocks about and find
                  that the ledge was hidden by them, he might take it into his head to make further
                  explorations. I don't think he would make any discoveries if he did, but there is
                  no telling. Toby says he found it by accident, and he is sure no human being but
                  Mr. Johnson ever knew it was there, until he showed it to me this morning. It is
                  best to leave the stones where they are. I'll just throw a few of them into the
                  spring, in little piles, to give them an appearance of having been put there as
                  stepping stones to get to deeper water, and, by-the-way, I will hollow out a place
                  to help on the deception."
               Even while speaking he had begun his work. When it was completed to his
                  satisfaction, he returned to the house and informed Miller that he had hidden the
                  guns, etc., because he thought it possible the cabins might be searched, and if
                  they were, the guns would surely be carried off. He gave no reason for his
                  suspicion that a search might be instituted, and Miller asked for none—only
                  saying:
               "Wouldn't it be better to hide your rifles, and the revolvers too?"
               "No; for everybody in this section knows that we have rifles, and never go from
                  home without them. If they were missing it would create suspicion; they would hunt
                  for them, and might find something more valuable, though I don't think that is
                  probable—hardly possible. As for the revolvers, I have hidden one in
                  my bosom," he said, opening his vest, and showing the weapon belted around him,
                  underneath his outer garments; "and I want you to hide the other under your pillow. It is a great convenience, in
                  such times as these we live in, to have a friend like this always in reach."
               "You were born for a partisan leader, sir. I wonder you never took to the
                  trade."
               "Well, I suppose it was partly because there was no such organization on my
                     side of politics; partly because I had no wish to shed blood in this
                  contest if I could help it, for I could never be certain how much of that same
                  blood flowed in my mother's veins. As long as it was a free thing to fight or let
                  it alone, as we pleased, I let it alone. But I am tired of dodging and hiding from
                  conscript officers. If I must fight, I shall fight on my own side, and the chances
                  are that I shall be a partisan leader before long. Would you like a
                  commission under me as lieutenant?"
               "Would I like it? Will a duck swim? or does a bear love honey? Give me the
                  commission and you shan't want men."
               "Get well then as soon as you can, and you shall have it. I hear Toby coming in
                  from the field, and I must go now to help him feed the stock, and so on. The
                  doctor too will be here directly. We will be alone to-morrow, and can have a long
                  talk."
               After a long and careful examination of his patient, the doctor expressed himself
                  as delighted with his condition. He said that after the expiration of four days
                  his symptoms were as favorable as those of many men would have been in four weeks.
                  Fever gone, tongue clean, appetite good, pulse steady; nothing more was needed but
                  to lie still, keep the leg easy, and let the bone go through the process of
                  knitting. Youth, health, strength, and a remarkably good constitution had done a
                  great deal, and the doctor modestly intimated that he might have done something
                  himself toward bringing about the happy result; but after giving ing due weight to
                  all these, the recuperative powers which had manifested themselves were wonderful.
                  It was one of those extraordinary cases which medical science is at a loss to
                  account for. The doctor, however, did not devote any long period of time to
                  indulgence in the reflections and speculations to which the promising condition of
                  his patient gave rise. Turning abruptly to Tobias Wilson, he inquired:
               "Now, Toby, my boy, what do you intend to give me for supper? If your mother was
                  here the question would be superfluous, but I don't know anything about your
                  taste, or what attention you have paid to the provision of needful nourishment for
                  the human body. What's your bill of fare to-night?"
               "Well, my dear sir, I happen to know your taste, if you do not know mine, and, as
                  you were kind enough to give me notice of your coming, I have made provision
                  accordingly. I fear, however, that there will be no variety at breakfast; you must
                  make out then with very nearly the same bill I offer you to-night. You shall have
                  biscuit, hoe-cake, corn-batter cakes, coffee, milk, ham and eggs, dried venison,
                  and chicken either broiled or fried, as you please. And, as you know everybody in
                  these mountains is a cook, and I claim to be tolerably well skilled in that
                  department of housekeeping, I hope to give you a meal of which you will have no
                  cause to complain to my mother, when next you meet her."
               "Your bill of fare is excellent, my boy; but I dissent toto cœlo from the proposition that everybody in these mountains is
                     a cook: they think so, but it's not the fact. They have a
                  barbarous and unhealthy way of cooking their bread over a blazing fire, and
                  sending it to the table with the outside scorched brown and the inside little more
                  than half done. They throw on the meats in the same way; keep them there until all the juices are burned out,
                  and call that cooking. Now, I have a weakness for good biscuit and fried chicken,
                  and, if you have no objection, I will take that much of your culinary labors off
                  your hands."
               Wilson smiled; not at all surprised at the good doctor's speech, for this was
                  notoriously his pet hobby. He had often heard it laughingly asserted, that the
                  doctor frequently remained at the house of a patient to dinner, or other meal, as
                  much for the purpose of lecturing the good wife upon cookery, as from any actual
                  necessity for his attendance on the sick. As he was an excellent physician, a warm
                  friend, a kind-hearted, generous, and benevolent man, this particular idiosyncrasy
                  was not only tolerated, but had grown to be a kind of pleasure to his
                  acquaintances and friends. It was therefore with a pleased and good-humored
                  expression of countenance that Tobias answered:
               "Certainly, sir. The dough is already made, and the chicken cut into pieces. Had
                  you not better let me cook them, under your direction, of course?"
               "Perhaps it would be better. My profession requires good eyes, and stooping over a
                  hot fire is not the way to preserve them. Bring the dough; the biscuit require the
                  longest time to get thoroughly done, and should be the first thing put on the
                  fire."
               The dough was brought; the doctor examined the mass, and directed it to be more
                  thoroughly beaten.
               "You can't make good biscuit without giving them a good beating. Remember that,
                  Toby; it will be worth something to your wife, when you get one, which won't be
                  long, I suppose, from what I witnessed the other day."
               Tobias Wilson blushed deeply, and commenced beating the mass of dough with an
                  energy which satisfied the doctor himself. His love was, in his eyes, a sacred
                  thing, and he was not pleased by any seemingly careless allusion to it, even when
                  coming from so old and so good a friend as Dr. Griffin. Besides, Sergeant Miller
                  was in the room, and though the allusion was too vague to afford him any clew to
                  the real facts, Tobias had a nervous dread of the chance exposure of what was to
                  him the "holy of holies," to the cold gaze, or, it might be, impertinent criticism
                  of a stranger. He would, if he could, have confined all knowledge of it to his own
                  bosom and to hers, until the very moment when they stood together before the
                  altar, and the minister of God was there, to clasp the nuptial band and pronounce
                  the nuptial benediction. He was a very miser in his love; and, like the miser,
                  could gaze with passionate fondness upon his treasure in secret, and shudder to
                  think that another eye could see, another hand could touch it.
               The doctor, absorbed in the business before him, neither saw nor suspected the
                  feelings he had unconsciously awakened in the bosom of his young friend. Thomas
                  Rogers suspected that he was beating the dough to rags in pure mischief, and
                  indulged a hearty laugh, when the doctor exclaimed:
               "There, Toby! there, you foolish boy! if you strike another lick I'll turn you off
                  as my assistant. Now," he continued, as Tobias ceased to pommel the harmless
                  dough, "make it up into biscuits, and put them in the oven; then bring me the
                  frying-pan."
               The frying-pan and the plate of chicken were handed to him; a dish of dry flour, a
                  plate of butter, a bowl of sweet cream, and some hog's lard were also placed on a
                  bench where he could reach them.
               "Take away the lard," he almost shrieked. "A piece as big as a pea would ruin the
                  flavor of this delicate bird. Bring me some water instead, and you may go on with
                  the preparation of the other things. I will attend to the chicken myself. You see, Thomas, frying a young
                  chicken exactly as it should be done, is one of the most difficult things in the
                  whole system of cookery."
               "Why," replied Rogers, "I always thought it was one of the simplest and
                  easiest."
               "That is a proof, young man, of lamentable ignorance on your part of the most
                  useful because the most healthful of the arts. Now observe me, and after the bird
                  is cooked I shall expect you to give me your honest opinion. In the first place,
                  you see I fill, this frying-pan half full of water. Be pleased to hold it on the
                  fire until it boils well. The next thing is to see that it is salted exactly
                  right. Most people think that makes no difference, as you can salt it when it
                  comes on the table. That's a great mistake, Tommy; it must be cooked with the
                  right quantity in it."
               After satisfying himself upon this important point, he continued:
               "When the water boils well in the frying-pan, you put in a lump of butter not
                  quite as large as a hen egg,—let that melt thoroughly; then cover each piece of
                  chicken thickly with dry flour, and put it into the pan. Put the pan back on the
                  fire, and let it remain until the chicken is half done. Take it off, turn the
                  pieces of chicken over, pour in a cupful of cream and let it stay until it is
                  done, and you have a dish as delicious as any that was ever served up on the table
                  of the Queen of England."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The author once heard this dissertation upon the proper method of frying a
                     young chicken, almost verbatim as it is
                     here given. The place, too, was very near the spot where the principal
                     scenes of this story are laid. He confesses, however, that he has never
                     taken interest enough in the science of good eating, to make an actual
                     experiment of its virtues.
               
               To judge from the repeated assaults upon the viands before them, the supper was
                  altogether to the taste of the parties whom it concerned; not excepting the
                  wounded sergeant, than whom none seemed to enjoy his share with a keener
                  relish.
               Some time after the conclusion of the meal, Thomas Rogers announced his purpose to
                  sleep in the room with Miller. He also said that he wished to send a note to his
                  father, and, as Tobias and Dr. Griffin would probably make an early start in the
                  morning, he would write it that night.
               The next morning when Tobias Wilson was about to set out to hear the final
                  decision of those to whom the question of his immediate marriage had been
                  referred, a letter was placed in his hand by his friend, directed to Thomas
                  Rogers, Sr., with an injunction to place it in his hands immediately on arriving
                  at his house.
               "Tell him," added Rogers, "that I wish him to read this before giving you your
                  answer. I do not know why, but I have a presentiment that they will try to put you
                  off. Don't listen to anything until he has read this letter; and if he still
                  wishes to delay your marriage, don't let him do it. Stand up stoutly, and if you
                  will whisper a word to Sophy, she'll help you. He can't refuse her anything."
               Wilson did not feel quite confident of getting any help from Sophy; but he rode
                  away fully resolved to follow his friend's advice, and, in case of need, to make
                  an earnest appeal to his elected bride. He was certain of a powerful ally in her
                  own heart, and did not allow himself to be much alarmed by anticipations of the
                  probable triumph of mere notions of expediency, over the pleadings of his love,
                  aided by the suggestions of her own. He lost no time in delivering his letter to
                  Mr. Rogers, and then quietly slipped away to whisper something to Sophy which made
                  her cheek burn, but which, from the satisfied expression on his own countenance,
                  had clearly elicited no unfavorable response.
               
               Mr. Rogers read the letter, and walking apart with Mrs. Wilson, handed it to her.
                  It ran as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              My dear Father:—
                           
                           Tobias tells me that it has been left to his mother and yourself to
                              fix the period of his marriage with my sister. After the public avowal
                              of their love, at the funeral of Mr. Johnson, it seems to me that
                              propriety requires that there should be no delay. But that is a matter
                              of which you are a better judge than I am. What I wish to say is, that
                              I have it much at heart that the wedding should take place as early as
                              possible. I have sure information that the Union troops will be
                              withdrawn from this county in a few weeks. I shall probably be
                              compelled to go with them, and you will need some one to take my place
                              at home. Give Toby that right. As the husband of your daughter, his
                              proper place, in seasons of trouble and peril, will be by your side.
                              Such times will soon be upon us, and it will be a source of comfort to
                              me, in my absence, to know that a strong hand, a quick eye, and a
                              fearless heart will be here to watch with you over Sophy and the
                              little ones.
                           Even if I do not go off with the Union soldiers, I cannot stay at your
                              house. It would be certain to bring more or less trouble upon you; and
                              if Gen. Rosecrans should be repulsed at Chattanooga, the fact that you
                              had given shelter to an avowed traitor to the South, will be used by
                              the authorities as an excuse for oppressing you, and will justify in
                              the eyes of each petty guerrilla chief, any outrage he may choose to
                              commit.
                           I learn from the wounded man you saw at Toby's house, that you are
                              already marked; but I have good reasons for believing that you will
                              find friends where you least expect them. Still they might happen to
                              be out of the way, and I shall feel easier from knowing that Toby is
                              with you. Let the wedding take place in a week at farthest. I will
                              come over then and let you know where and how you can communicate with
                              me in future.
                        
                     
                  
               
               When Mrs. Wilson had read this letter, Mr. Rogers asked gravely:
               "What say you, madam? Shall we change our decision?"
               "He is deeply in earnest," answered Mrs. Wilson, "and I think I can discover that
                  he has more reasons for his request than he has chosen to give. The delay of a
                  month, which we had proposed, was merely to enable your daughter to make suitable
                  preparations. There was no real necessity for it. Perhaps the best way will be to
                  read her brother's letter to her, and tell her that although we had decided to
                  postpone the marriage, we are not now inclined to interfere. That she must fix the
                  day herself."
               This proposition having been assented to, they handed the letter to the lovers,
                  and briefly stated the conclusion to which they had come. Sophy Rogers read it
                  twice, and then asked:
               "Do you know what is in this letter, Toby?"
               "No. He did not seal it; but he did not tell me to read it. Perhaps he never
                  thought of it."
               She handed it to him in silence; walked to the window, and leaned her head against
                  it in deep thought. She was recalled by her father's voice, inquiring:
               "Well, my daughter, what do you say?"
               She did not answer, but turning at once and approaching her lover, she placed her
                  lovely hand in his, and whispered:
               "It is yours now, Toby; but tell them yourself when you wish to claim it at the
                  marriage altar."
               Standing in that presence, he could indulge no outward manifestation of the rapture which glowed within;
                  but there was in every feature a visible manifestation that the words which fell
                  softly upon his ear, and sunk into his heart, were more precious and more durable
                  than if written with a diamond pen upon tablets of gold.
               "Shall I say Sunday next?" he inquired in a voice as low as her own.
               "Any day," she answered, burying her face in his bosom.
               And so it was settled that on the following Sunday Tobias Wilson should become the
                  happy husband of the loveliest woman whose footsteps had ever pressed the soil of
                  Alabama, or, as he believed, the surface of the earth.
               Greetings and congratulations were exchanged among members of that little circle,
                  and then the letter of Thomas Rogers was again referred to. "There is something
                  behind." "He means more than he says." "What can it be?" were exclamations of all
                  present but one. That one understood it full well, and even amid the
                  happiness which settled like a glory around his soul, there was a sad presentiment
                  of approaching evil. He shuddered as he reflected that however he had since
                  endeavored to dissuade his bold, manly, and true-hearted friend, from the
                  undertaking in which he had already made one bloody step,—he knew nothing of the
                  death of Biles,—it was nevertheless his suggestion that had first pointed it out
                  to that strong mind and stubborn will. It had gone so far, that revealment would
                  only bring added grief to those he loved, and he was forced to content himself
                  with the firm resolution to share all the consequences that might follow.
               When about taking his leave that evening, Wilson was informed by his mother that
                  his presence would be dispensed with until Sunday. They had a great deal to do,
                  she said, in the three days which intervened, and did not wish to be disturbed in
                  their occupations. He pleaded for one visit, just one,
                  but in vain. She was inexorable. Arriving at home, he grasped the hand of his
                  friend, and exclaimed:
               "Give me joy, my dear fellow. Your letter acted like a charm. They were about to
                  put me off a month, as if times were likely to be more peaceful then than now. But
                  when they read your letter, it was agreed that the wedding might take place next
                  Sunday."
               "Next Sunday!" repeated Rogers, musingly. "Next Sunday, and this is Wednesday
                  night! It is sooner than I expected. I thought they would give you a week of
                  purgatory at least. You are a happy man, Toby. I need not offer you my
                  congratulations. You know how much I wish you joy, and how willingly I give up my
                  sister to one who I am certain would rather break his own neck, than the least of
                  the promises he makes to her before the marriage altar."
               Throughout the remainder of that afternoon and evening Thomas Rogers was
                  thoughtful and reserved. When alone, his old habit of thinking aloud
                  asserted its predominance. "They have not yet heard of Biles's death over the
                  mountain, or Toby would have said something about it. It may be several days yet,
                  before his body is discovered. If it was not for his wife's missing him, and
                  getting up a search, he might never be found in that lonely place. When he
                     is found, the immediate conclusion will be, that he was killed by
                  the Union soldiers, by whom the funeral was broken up, and no investigation will
                  follow. It is safe to say that matter is ended. Parson Williams's turn comes next.
                  The worst and the most dangerous of the three. But how am I to get at him? I
                  thought I would get it fixed somehow when I went over to Toby's wedding; but
                  Sunday is a bad day to catch him alone. Never mind, 'where there is a will, there is a way,' and
                  I don't think another week will go over his head, before I make a hole in his
                  cursed hide. He must be put out of the way before I leave here, or I may come back
                  to find my father in his grave, and his house a heap of ashes."
               The next day and the next, this musing mood continued. He went early to work in
                  the field, and seemed glad of any occupation which precluded lengthened
                  conversations with his friend. Saturday there was a change. His resolution had
                  been taken, and the sunshine had returned. He spoke with high good humor of the
                  morrow's transformation of his friend into the staid and sober head of a family.
                  Altogether he seemed quite as well pleased as Wilson himself at the nearness of
                  the bridal hour, and exhibited throughout the day even more than his usual
                  exuberance of spirits.
               It was Saturday night. The last of his bachelor days had passed away, and Tobias
                  Wilson early sought his couch. When he had retired to his room, Thomas Rogers
                  moved his seat nearer to the bed of Miller, and asked:
               "Are you well enough to get along one night without me?"
               "Oh! yes; if you have anything particular to keep you away. Put some victuals and
                  a bucket of water on the bench here by me, and I shall do well enough."
               "I don't like to leave you alone, but I must stay away from you to-morrow night.
                  Perhaps Dr. Griffin may come. Send him a message by Toby that you are very anxious
                  to see him."
               "Won't you see him and can't you tell him?"
               "I shall see him, and I can tell him. But I want Toby to
                  carry the message from you. I shall have something to say to him myself, after
                  Toby has told him you want him."
               "But, sir, Mr. Wilson knows that I am doing as well as I can do, and if he tells
                  the doctor that, he will not come."
               "That might be, sure enough! Well, then, get worse to-night; have the nightmare;
                  wake up with a terrible pain in your shoulder, and your leg feeling as if it would
                  drop off. Toby will take it all for Gospel, and report it to Dr. Griffin just as
                  you tell him. A child could cheat him out of his eyes now. Do you understand
                  me?"
               "Certainly, sir! I see it all plain. I told you that you wur born for
                  a partisan leader, and the more I sees of you the more I'm satisfied I was
                  right."
               And the two men, whose acquaintance had begun by a mutual attempt at destruction,
                  but who, in a few days, had become fast friends, closed their eyes in sleep, side
                  by side, with their several parts already committed for the play of the
                  morning.
               The bright rays of the sun had already tinged with their golden light the loftiest
                  of the mountain peaks, when the two friends, Tobias Wilson and Thomas Rogers, set
                  out for the home which one of them did not expect to visit for many a long and
                  weary day. The knowledge of what he had done, and of what he meant to do, was
                  confined to his own bosom, and dark as were his thoughts and his future purposes,
                  no trace of doubt or gloom could be noted on his brow.
               It had been arranged that the ceremony should take place at noon, on the —— day of
                  August, 1863, at the house of Mr. Rogers. A few friends of the family only had
                  been invited. In truth, there were but few in that vicinity who could have been
                  induced to show themselves at the house of a known Union man and supporter of the
                  Government against the unholy rebellion which then desolated the land, and watered
                  it with the tears of bereaved mothers and sorrowing sisters. The soldier who came
                  only for the purpose of sustaining the majesty of the law, and maintaining
                  unimpaired the rich heritage bequeathed by our ancestors, was denounced as a brutal invader; and
                  the citizen who asked for no higher privilege than that of remaining at home, and
                  withholding himself from active participation in the unnatural conflict, in which
                  nearly every drop of blood that stained the ground was drawn by a brother's hand
                  from a brother's veins, was shunned by his former friends and branded as a coward,
                  or a traitor to the land of his nativity. The foundations of the social system had
                  been broken up. Father and son met upon the public highway as strangers. No prayer
                  ascended to heaven from a sister's lips for a brother whose judgment led him to
                  espouse a cause she had tutored herself to hate. Even the yearnings of a mother's
                  love sickened and died in the deadly malaria of rebellion, and the poor boy who
                  could not understand why he should not love his whole country instead of
                  contracting his affections within narrow and imaginary lines, went away to the
                  discharge of his duty without her blessing, and felt thankful when her lips
                  refused to utter the curse the demon had suggested to her heart. Love, friendship,
                  natural affection, kindness, toleration, and charity, all died in that baleful
                  atmosphere, and he who refused to become a traitor had only the alternative of
                  becoming an outcast,—shunned like the leper of old, or hunted down with the bitter
                  and remorseless venom which is always the characteristic of WRONG in morals, in
                  politics, and in religion. Mr. Rogers, and every member of his family, were firmly
                  and faithfully attached to the Union. To him it made no difference whether a man's
                  eyes had first opened to the light of day in Massachusetts or in South Carolina.
                  Neither the one nor the other, by itself, was his country, and both were alike
                  parts of that great Republic to which alone he acknowledged his allegiance was
                  due. Entertaining such opinions, and expressing them without reserve, the circle
                  of his associates in that latitude was soon contracted within very narrow limits.
                  Most of these had assembled on the present occasion to witness the marriage of his
                  daughter. But not a single secessionist could be brought to honor the house of a
                  "Southern Tory," by breaking bread beneath its roof. Mr. Rogers noted the fact
                  with a smile of contempt. His son noted it with an angry frown which not long
                  afterward brought forth bitter fruit. Oh! how prone are we to forget in the vanity
                  of present power that the persecuted victim may in time be transformed into a
                  judge, and the stern sentence of our own guilt be pronounced by lips to whose
                  humble pleadings we have scorned to listen!
               A table had been placed in the middle of the passage, upon the rich covering of
                  which lay a single volume containing the marriage ceremony according to the forms
                  prescribed by the Methodist Episcopal Church. The minister was preparing to take
                  his place by this unpretending altar when the bugle notes of a cavalry troop rose
                  full and clear upon the air. When these had died away, the steady tramp of horses
                  in a leisurely walk succeeded, and then a small body of cavalry, commanded by a
                  captain and one lieutenant, came up the road which ran along in front of Mr.
                  Rogers's house. It was a body of Union troops, returning from a scouting
                  expedition. The officers were known to Thomas Rogers, and he went out to greet and
                  invite them to halt and witness the marriage of his sister. The invitation was
                  cordially given, and cheerfully accepted. A guard was placed over the horses. The
                  officers entered the house, and the soldiers gathered about the entrance to the
                  passage where they would have a full view of the parties to a ceremony which is
                  always interesting, and doubly so in seasons of trial and of danger.
               Sophy Rogers was dressed in pure white, unadorned save by a single rose-bud
                  fastened to the bosom of her dress. A
                  long, rich veil was thrown over her head, and hung loosely about her shoulders,
                  but it was drawn partially away from her face, so as to hide but little of the
                  loveliness which glowed and sparkled there. There was joy in her countenance,
                  subdued indeed by the consciousness of the high responsibility she was about to
                  assume, but still a joy which she did not attempt to conceal. When the minister
                  had propounded the usual questions to the husband, and turned to her with the
                  solemn inquiries which it was requisite for her to answer, she raised her eyes,
                  beaming with unutterable love and trust and confidence, to the face of her lover,
                  already half husband, and gave the affirmative response in a voice which was low
                  indeed, but clear, distinct, and sweet as the choral song that gladdened the union
                  of our first parents in the Garden of Eden. Up to this moment, from the time she
                  emerged from her own room to the passage in which the ceremony was performed, her
                  face had drooped toward her bosom; and though partially prepared by the
                  extraordinary symmetry of her form, and the grace of every movement, Captain—was
                  absolutely startled by the vision of beauty that burst upon him. When the ceremony
                  ended, he claimed an introduction to the bride. Bowing with perfect courtesy,
                  though with undisguised admiration, he addressed her in words to which his voice
                  and manner imparted a touch of sadness.
               "The good wishes and the congratulations of a stranger must be indifferent to you,
                  and I am sure that you will pardon me for reserving mine until I have the pleasure
                  of shaking your husband by the hand."
               "You are mistaken, sir! The good wishes of a soldier who wears the uniform of my
                  country, and is daily exposing his life in its defense, can never be indifferent
                  to me."
               "Indeed!" he replied, slowly and musingly; "is it indeed so? Lady, our cause is
                  blessed!"
               Then seeing her turn toward her husband as if to introduce him, he added frankly,
                  at the same time extending his hand, "I do not need an introduction to Mr. Wilson,
                  and I trust the name of Captain—, of the—Cavalry, is not altogether unknown to
                  him."
               Tobias Wilson grasped the extended hand, and expressed his high gratification at
                  making the personal acquaintance of an officer whose uniform kindness and
                  gentlemanly bearing had wrung reluctant praises even from secession lips.
               On such occasions, conversation with the principal personages is necessarily
                  limited, and though the present company held aloof, and seemed disposed to allow
                  the soldier all the time he wished, he had too much good taste to avail himself of
                  the privilege which was thus tacitly accorded to him. "Before I go," he remarked,
                  "you must allow me to introduce my lieutenant;" and, beckoning the young officer
                  to his side, presented him in form. Allowing only a brief space of time for their
                  mutual salutations, he said: "We must ride, Mr. ——. It will be late before we
                  reach the camp." Turning to the young bride, he continued: "We have now only to
                  beg a slice of the wedding-cake, cut with your own fair hands, and we will place
                  it beneath our heads in the rude tent which is the soldier's only home, in the
                  fond hope that there is some foundation for an old superstition, and that our
                  dreams may recall a loveliness akin to that which has enchanted us to-day."
               When the officers took their departure, Sophy and her brother walked with them to
                  the entrance, where the soldiers were still clustered exchanging remarks and
                  making occasional inquiries of the male guests who attended the bridal. She had
                  suffered the veil to fall entirely from her head, and stood before the war-worn
                  veterans in all the radiant beauty with which an Eastern fancy clothed the houris
                  of Mahomet. Instantly lifting their caps and waving them in the air, they greeted her with cheers as loud and as
                  enthusiastic as ever rung over a battle-field, where freedom had won a victory
                  over anarchy.
               "That is right, my men," cried the captain, raising his own cap upon the point of
                  his sword; "and if a time should ever come when she needs a soldier's help, every
                  heart among us will pour out its last drop in her defense. Now, one cheer for the
                  bridegroom; one more and a rousing one for the bride, and then we will say
                  farewell."
               The cheers were given with hearty good-will, and the troop rode away, with the
                  lieutenant at their head; the captain remaining for some time in earnest
                  conference with Thomas Rogers.
               The dinner which followed, though rich and abundant, was as simple and
                  unostentatious as the wedding that preceded it. Yet there was joy in the hearts of
                  all those who that day seated themselves around Mr. Rogers's hospitable board.
                  Yea, of all; not excepting that one whose thoughts might have been presumed to
                  partake of the character of the fierce and bloody deeds in which he had lately
                  been an actor, and of those that were yet to come. His vow had been fulfilled in
                  part, but only in part. There was still something to be done. The time had not
                  come for reflection to sting the mind with doubt, and give a darker name to acts
                  that now wore the semblance of duty, and appeared to spring from the dictates of
                  self-defense. On that bright day no shadow darkened his heart; perhaps he was the
                  most jubilant of the party. To his mind there was no cause for gloom or
                  apprehension. He loved his sister dearly, and was warmly attached to the man who
                  had now the right to call her WIFE! They were happy in each other's love, and he
                  rejoiced that it was so. Besides, he believed that the event which had been that
                  day consummated, would facilitate the execution of the schemes that had found a
                  lodgment in his brain. He saw no reason, therefore, why he should not enjoy
                  himself to the full; and he did enjoy himself, although fully resolved that when
                  he left that festal scene, it should be to visit one where Death was "master of
                  the revels!"
               About the middle of the afternoon Dr. Griffin announced to Mr. Rogers, with
                  evident chagrin, that it was necessary, from the reports of Tobias Wilson and
                  Thomas Rogers, that he should pass the night with the wounded sergeant. A half
                  hour later, Thomas suddenly recollected that it would be unkind to leave the
                  doctor alone with his patient, and he too rode away. Gradually the company
                  dispersed, until only a few young persons remained, besides the usual members of
                  the family. How the remainder of that afternoon and evening and night wore away,
                  the reader must imagine. Upon those first hours of sacred wedded love we dare not
                  intrude. Those who have passed through them will understand the burning intensity
                  of that enjoyment which condenses into moments the raptures of a lifetime; and
                  those who have not, must live on in ignorance, until experience reveals what
                  language is powerless to portray.
               It was near the hour of noon on the next day when Dr. Griffin returned. He seemed
                  perplexed and uneasy, and even forgot to give Mrs. Wilson instructions as to the
                  proper mode of preparing the viands he had come to share. He was crusty and
                  uncommunicative, and finally picked up a book, and, stretching himself on a wooden
                  bench in the passage, was soon seemingly absorbed in its contents. Not long
                  afterward a neighbor, who had been absent for some days, came to pay his respects
                  and offer his congratulations to the newly-married pair. Several others had called
                  during the morning, and as all who did so had been invited to remain and partake
                  of the family dinner, and as most of them had accepted the invitation, these,
                  added to the young people ple of both
                  sexes who were present at the wedding, and had not returned home with their
                  parents on the previous day, made up a very respectable auditory for a newsmonger,
                  of which fraternity Mr. Jones—the new-comer—was a zealous member. Some of the
                  company were seated on the steps of the passage entrance; some were lolling on the
                  benches; while others had paired off to indulge those little flirtations of which
                  weddings are so apt to be suggestive. Seating himself in a chair, Mr. Jones
                  addressed Mrs. Wilson, Sr., in a voice loud enough to be heard by the whole
                  party:
               "Have you heard the dreadful news this morning, madam?"
               "What news?" "What is dreadful?" "Do tell us quick!" were some of the questions
                  and exclamations which sounded in the gratified ears of Mr. Jones. Mrs. Wilson
                  calmly answered:
               "It cannot be anything very dreadful, or some of us must have heard it. Some of
                  our friends would have called to tell us."
               "Oh! yes, it is, dear madam," exclaimed a bright-eyed, laughing girl, who had not
                  yet seen seventeen summers. "It's horrid! I heard it yesterday."
               "You heard it!" exclaimed Jones nervously, fearful that some one had been before
                  him in communicating a terrible story. "But you couldn't have heard it all, for
                  some of it didn't happen until this morning. What did you hear, Miss Ella?"
               The young girl, who had not one particle of faith in Mr. Jones's story, and who
                  had seized on this occasion as a good opportunity to pay a little debt of spite
                  she owed him, answered:
               "I do not know whether my news is the same as yours, Mr. Jones; but mine is so
                  horrid that I'm sure you will never be able to match it. Can he, Mrs. Wilson?"
               "Really, Ella, you cannot expect me to answer that question until I know what your
                  news is."
               "Well, then, I heard yesterday that Mr. Jones had told his friend, Mrs. Austin, as
                  a great secret, who told it again, as a secret, to every one within ten miles of
                  her house, that I had promised to marry his nephew, Joe Sykes—a long-legged,
                  bandy-shanked, blear-eyed, spider-bodied toad as he is! Now is that not more
                  dreadful than any news he can tell?"
               Mrs. Rogers smiled gravely at this sally, and the young people laughed heartily at
                  a description they all knew not greatly over-drawn: All of which only served to
                  increase and intensify Mr. Jones's anger.
               "You are likely to do a great deal worse, Miss Ella Whitlock, than get my nephew
                  for a husband. He has already got a captain's commission in the Confederate army,
                  and is able to protect those he loves and punish such as take advantage of his
                  absence to turn him into ridicule!"
               The young girl, notwithstanding the bitterness of her words, had heretofore spoken
                  without an apparent trace of anger. At this unmanly threat, her eyes flashed fire,
                  and her dimpled cheek grew scarlet.
               "Punish a helpless girl! That would be just like him! The uncle is only a
                  slanderer; but the blood grows warmer in its descent, and the nephew rises to the
                  dignity of making war upon women! I do not doubt that he has courage enough for
                  that, although he did, in company with his popinjay general, Joe Wheeler, drown
                  his horse in jumping from the Shelbyville bridge, and lose his hat and his sword
                  in the water, in his terrified flight from the Union cavalry. I wonder if that is
                  any part of the crown of glory he told me he was going to win, and bring back to
                  lay at my feet!"
               
               "Stop, Ella," said Mrs. Wilson, who thought it time this scene should end. "Such
                  language is unbecoming."
               "I couldn't help it," cried the maiden, bursting into tears. "I did not mean to
                  say all I have said. But it's true, and I will say it to Joe Sykes if he wishes to
                  hear it."
               If Thomas Rogers had been there, Mr. Jones's bones would have been in considerable
                  peril, and Captain Joseph Sykes would have had an item charged in his account
                  which might prove troublesome when the day of settlement came; for Rogers loved
                  that bright-eyed and impetuous girl more than he cared as yet to confess to his
                  own heart, and it was altogether possible that he might conclude that every tear
                  drawn from her eyes called for as many crimson drops from the veins of the
                  offender. There were those present also whose tempers had been sorely tried; but
                  Mr. Jones was an old man, and they reflected that he was a guest, albeit not a
                  very welcome one, in the house of a friend. Ella Whitlock walked into an adjoining
                  room when she had done speaking, and Mrs. Wilson, anxious to remove any feeling of
                  unpleasantness at such a time, urged Mr. Jones to go on with his news. He needed
                  no further encouragement, and his hearers were treated to a dark story, for which
                  they were little prepared.
               He told how, in passing the house of Parson Williams that morning, he observed a
                  number of persons so great as to excite his curiosity; that he stopped to inquire
                  what it meant, when he was told that on Saturday a party who were in search of Jim
                  Biles, found his dead body at the foot of a precipice; that it was so dreadfully
                  mangled by falling from the precipice and by the teeth of some wild animal, they
                  did not at first discover that he had been shot—the ball entering his back and
                  coming out in front, after passing through the lower bowels; that the conscript
                  surgeon geon who examined the wound declared it had been inflicted by the same
                  kind of gun as that which killed Joshua Wilkins; that Parson Williams had been so
                  much affected by the death of his friend that he was unable to go through with the
                  usual services of the church on Sunday; that after a restless night he went out
                  this morning, according to his custom, to feed his hogs; that the hog pen was not
                  more than three hundred yards from the house; that not returning to breakfast, the
                  family became uneasy and instituted a search. They found him lying on the ground,
                  near the hogpen, stone dead; his loaded gun resting against a tree not far off;
                  and, strange to say, the wound through which his life-blood had ebbed, was of the
                  same character as those that had sent his friends upon the dread journey, which
                  leads from earth to—where we know not.
               All of the company had listened in profound silence to this fearful narrative.
                  Sophy turned pale, and clung tremblingly to the arm of her husband, while he was
                  visibly agitated; a cloud gathered on the brow of Mr. Rogers; Mrs. Wilson wept;
                  and Ella, who had returned to the passage as soon as the traces of tears were
                  removed from her cheeks, wrung her hands, and bitterly reproached herself.
               "To think," she murmured, "just to think that I should have made so light of this
                  dreadful business, and interrupted its narrative by my foolish resentment of Joe
                  Sykes's pretended engagement to me, and still more foolish anger when rebuked! If
                  the Lord will forgive me, I will not again be so wicked. Mr. Jones, I beg your
                  pardon; come, let us be friends."
               He took her offered hand, but it was after the surly manner of a half-appeased
                  bear.
               Mr. Rogers cut short the scene, and, at the same time, changed the conversation by
                  announcing, almost sternly, that dinner was waiting. At this announcement, they
                     repaired paired to the dining-room,
                  and no further allusion was made to the sad occurrences that had been related by
                  Mr. Jones. But a feeling of sadness and gloom had settled on entertainers and
                  guests alike; and soon after the meal was concluded, there was a general breaking
                  up of the party. There were no light adieus, in which gayety predominated over the
                  acheless regret of parting for a short time from the friends whose happiness they
                  had assembled to witness, and of whose hospitality they had liberally partaken.
                  The collision of a wedding and a funeral is always painful; but there was a deeper
                  shadow than this upon the hearts of the party—just now so gay—who were hurrying to
                  their respective homes. There was an unaccountable sensation of mingled awe and
                  apprehension. They had been taught the forceful lesson, that "in the midst of life
                  we are in death," in a manner so rude that the nerves gave way, and the mind was
                  unstrung by the shock. Their interest in the young and loving couple was tinged
                  with sadness, and they went on their way, hoping that no evil might come, yet
                  dreading its approach to themselves, or to those who had dedicated their lives to
                  each other, and who, in the eyes of God, were henceforth one and indivisible. The
                  laws of man might undertake to absolve them from the promises they had made to
                  each other, but a higher and a holier law proclaimed that death alone had power to
                  release them. For weal or for woe, in joy or in sorrow, in sickness or in health,
                  they were joined together, and the sentence of perjury must follow in the
                  footsteps of a broken faith, if one of those promises should be violated either
                  with or without the sanction of human law.
               When the last of the guests had departed, the young wife leaned upon her husband's
                  arm; there was a shade upon her brow, and her eyes of heavenly blue were robbed of
                  a portion of their luster, but the love that filled her soul, and gave life to the
                  pulses of her heart, bid defiance to trouble and anxiety.
               "This is a sad beginning of our wedded life," she murmured, laying her hand upon
                  her breast, "but I will not let the dark omen hide a single ray of the happiness
                  which is glowing here."
               "The heart, sweet wife, makes its own omens. All others are worse than worthless.
                  And in our hearts I know that all is gladness."
               He folded her in his arms as he spoke, and pressed a long, long kiss upon her
                  lips. When at last that clinging salute had ended, the light returned to her eyes,
                  and with firm unwavering faith and trustfulness, she repeated the words: 
                     "GOD'S WILL BE DONE. I TRUST IN HIM!"
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               WHEN Thomas Rogers left his father's house, on the afternoon of his sister's
                  wedding, it was with the avowed purpose of returning to that of Tobias Wilson,
                  whither Dr. Griffin had preceded him.
               "You had better ride fast," said his father, when they shook hands at parting.
                  "You are late, and scrambling down that mountain after nightfall is not the safest
                  thing in the world for man or horse."
               "I have time enough," he replied, patting his spirited horse on the neck. "Robin
                  has a knack of reducing these mountain miles to short measure, and he has never
                  tripped since you gave him to me."
               The words had scarcely passed his lips when he gave his steed the reins, and rode
                  off at a gallop. At a distance of less than a mile he dismounted, laid down the
                  rails of a worm-fence, and led his horse inside. There was here a thick
                  undergrowth of bushes, and a few yards off a large poplar-tree had been blown down
                  by some previous storm From the hollow of this tree he drew forth the Spencer
                  rifle, revolver, Bowie knife, and other accoutrements he had hidden there that
                  morning on his way to the wedding. To Wilson, who was present when they were
                  hidden, he had merely observed, that if he carried these formidable weapons to his
                  father's house, it would excite remark among the guests, and it was therefore
                  better to leave them where he could get them on his return. The knife and pistol
                  were now belted around his person. The bullet let pouch, in which there was a supply of
                  cartridges, done up in papers containing seven rounds each, (the full charge for a
                  Spencer rifle,) was thrown over his shoulder, and then, remounting his horse, he
                  turned his head directly through the field of waving corn.
               From this point it was about four miles to the house of Parson Williams. In order
                  to reach it, it was necessary to pass through a gap in the mountain, some
                  three-quarters of a mile in extent, on one side of which a perpendicular wall of
                  rock rose up to the height of three or four hundred feet, on the other there was a
                  like precipice, of even greater height, but not so regular. Here and there a
                  jutting crag overhung the road which ran along its base. There were, too,
                  occasional clefts, large enough to hide a man and horse, from more than one of
                  which issued limpid springs that emptied themselves into the stream which ran
                  through and spread itself over nearly half the width of the gap. There was no
                  other outlet to the valley in which Parson Williams lived, without making a
                  circuit of twenty miles or more. At this point Thomas Rogers calculated that there
                  was danger of meeting people whom he had no mind to take into his confidence, or
                  supply with grounds of suspicion hereafter. Before reaching it, he turned aside
                  into one of the numerous hollows of the mountain, tied his horse securely to the
                  limb of a tree, and stretched himself upon the ground, where he could overlook the
                  road, without being seen himself, prepared to wait until night gave assurance that
                  no traveler or passer-by would be stirring on that dark and lonely road. He saw
                  several persons riding along from the direction of Parson Williams's house, and,
                  recognizing them as members of the Baptist church, he concluded they had been in
                  attendance at one of the Parson's "preachings." Just after sundown he heard a
                  clear, shrill whistle, piping the favorite negro melody,
                     
                        "Possum up de gum stump,
                        Raccoon in de hollow,"
                     
                   and looking over the rock, which served him as a screen, he saw a stalwart
                  negro, the property of Parson Williams, leisurely making his way homeward. The
                  negro was well known to Rogers, and he instantly called out:
               "Here, Isham. Come this way."
               "Who dar?" answered the negro, looking up, and then satisfied by the first glance,
                  hasty as it was, he continued: "Oh! Massa Rogers. Yes, sa."
               When he reached the rock which had served Rogers as a hiding-place, he was told to
                  seat himself behind it; and the following colloquy ensued:
               "How is your master, Isham?"
               "Poorly, sa. Mighty poorly! He took on a heap when Cappin Wilkins was killed, and
                  said one of the Lord's wessels wur smashed into shivers; and he got a big skeer
                  when he went over to preach the funeral. He said that onct he was sartin sure he
                  wur in the hands of the Philistines, but the Lord delivered him. But
                     yisterday, when he heerd how Massa Biles was found dead, with a
                  bullet hole spang through him, he was awful troubled; and this mornin' it wur gin
                  out that he was too low in sperit to preach to-day."
               "Too low in spirit to preach to-day! Why, I saw some of the congregation coming
                  away, not an hour ago."
               "Yes, sa. I met'em. But thar warnt no preachment. They stayed may be to keep him
                  company, or may be to git a little of his old peach and honey."
               "Like enough," responded Rogers, musingly. Then changing his tone, and looking the
                  negro steadily in the face, he said:
               "Isham, if all the reports we hear in our neighborhood be true, you have no cause
                  to love your master much."
               
               "What you hear, sa?" asked the negro quickly, wincing under the keen gaze that was
                  bent upon him. "You hear Isham gwine to run off wid de Yankees?"
               "No, I did not hear that, and I should not have told it if I had. So you need not
                  be afraid to tell me anything. What I did hear was that Parson Williams treated
                  his servants badly; that although he gave them good clothes and a sufficiency of
                  food, he whipped them unmercifully for the least fault, and made even the women
                  and children work before day, and after dark, in the worst weather. I therefore
                  concluded that you do not love him much."
               "Massa Rogers, is you in yearnest, or is you foolin' dis nigger?"
               "I was never more in earnest in my life, Isham. It would do me no good to fool
                  you, or to betray you, and thus cause your punishment. You are not more than three
                  or four years older than I am, and we have been raised here together. Did you ever
                  know me to tell anything on anybody that would hurt them; especially on a negro
                  who has no friends to take up for him?"
               A light shone upon the countenance of the negro, which betokened not merely
                  assent, but implicit trust and confidence also.
               "No, Massa Rogers, you never did; and you was always good to us black folks, and
                  never cussed us, nor kicked us, nor cuffed us about, and so I'll tell you. Massa
                  treats us all worser than you knows of."
               "Then you don't love him much?"
               "I couldn't, if I tried. But I never tried."
               "And you have been thinking of going off with the Union soldiers, when they leave
                  this neighborhood?"
               "Yes, sa! I'se done made up my mind!"
               "Well, they will take you if you ask them; but I do not think they want you now,
                  unless you will go as a soldier. And you need not go on account of Parson
                  Williams's treatment. If you answer my questions truly, I do not think he will
                  trouble you after to-morrow."
               It was some time before the negro comprehended the exact meaning of the white man;
                  and when he did, he exhibited much more of dissent and alarm than Rogers had
                  anticipated. Whatever may be said to the contrary, the negro is very far from
                  being cruel or blood-thirsty by nature. The first saturnalia of that freedom which
                  is now dawning upon him may give rise to the exhibition of some such traits—it
                  would be wonderful if it did not—but they are very far from being characteristic
                  of the race. In all the trials and temptations to which they have been subjected,
                  in all the daily and hourly opportunities which have been presented to them of
                  imbruing their hands in the blood of their masters, with comparatively little risk
                  of detection, they have gone on in the performance of their allotted tasks, from
                  generation to generation, with a meekness and docility, a degree of kindly regard
                  for their owners, an absolute horror of violence, and a patient submission to
                  treatment, which was, in many cases, the reverse of humane, that has never been
                  approached by any other tribe or variety of the human species. Revenge and
                  destructiveness are foreign to the head and the heart of the black man, at least
                  as he exhibits himself on the North American continent. There is not a planter at
                  the South, whose entire crop has not been every year at the mercy of his slaves,
                  from the time it was gathered until transported to market. There is not a dwelling
                  that might not have been wrapped in flames almost any night of the year, nor a
                  single town or city which could have been regarded as secure, if the negro had
                  willed its destruction; and all this might have been accomplished at so little
                  risk, that detection would not have followed one time in a hundred. But so far from evincing a disposition to
                  engage in acts of such a character, the owner must have been a brutal one indeed
                  who did not find his slaves the most faithful sentinels over his property and his
                  life. Many and many a time I have seen them weep as bitterly at the funeral of a
                  master, or some member of his family, as if their own nearest relative was about
                  being consigned to the grave; and the affection with which they regarded and
                  treated the white children of the family could scarcely be distinguished from the
                  love they bore to their own offspring.
               These facts were neither unknown to nor underestimated by Thomas Rogers. But he
                  trusted a great deal to the new and strange aspirings for freedom that the
                  rebellion had kindled in the mind of the slave. He trusted somewhat to the
                  good-will that he believed the negro entertained for himself, personally, and
                  something more to the want of that feeling toward his master. As a master, Parson
                  Williams outwardly met all the requirements of the benignant laws of Alabama. He
                  clothed them well; he fed them plenteously; he could bid defiance to grand juries
                  and States attorneys,—yet there were many things the law could not reach, which
                  were well calculated to turn the milk of human kindness into gall and bitterness.
                  Parson Williams was a hard man—hard to the members of his white family—much harder
                  to his servants; and Rogers had repeatedly heard him so spoken of: he therefore
                  judged that there might be some spark of resentment burning in the breast of the
                  negro man Isham, which would prompt him to become a willing accomplice, at any
                  rate so far as communicating the information he desired to obtain, and which,
                  indeed, was all the assistance he sought or would have accepted from the
                  negro.
               The first reply of Isham was so decided a negative that Rogers began to fear he
                  had made a serious miscalculation tion, and the idea crossed his mind that the
                  negro might betray him. This suspicion was, however, soon dismissed, and he went
                  on:
               "I do not want your help, Isham. I would not let you help me if you wished. There
                  shall be no finger in that pie but my own. All I want you to do is to answer my
                  questions truly."
               "But, Massa Rogers, if I tells you how to kill him, won't dat be as bad as if I
                  helped you to knock him in de head? Oh, sa! let him alone! God Amighty will tend
                  to him by'm-by."
               "God Almighty works by human means, Isham; and who shall say that I am not his
                  agent in cutting short the career of that dark and dangerous man? He must die
                  tomorrow, Isham. You will not betray me!"
               "Neber, sa, neber! They shall whip all the skin off my back before dey gits a word
                  from me. But you see, sa, if I helps you, I can't neber go coon hunting, or possum
                  hunting no more."
               "Why, Isham? I cannot see why that should keep you from hunting as usual.
               "Kase, I'd see his ghost in ebery hollow, and in ebery bush on the mountain."
               "I do not want your help, I tell you. I do not want you to see him
                  die, or to know anything about it, except that I have sworn to kill him; and when
                  you hear that he is dead, be careful not to say or do anything to make people
                  suspect me, until I give you permission to tell all you know. Now tell me what
                  time he gets up in the morning. Does he go to the field himself, or what does he
                  do before breakfast?"
               "He gits up ebery mornin' before day. Den he calls us black ones, and sends us out
                  to work. Den he goes back to de house, and takes his mornin' dram, and as soon as day comes he goes out to de
                  hog-pen and feeds de hogs."
               "Where is the hog-pen?"
               "Jis back ob de hoss lot, on de creek."
               "Oh, yes! I know. I have passed it many a time. It is not a pen at all, only a
                  feeding-place in the woods."
               "Jis so, sa. We calls it a pen, kase we always makes a pen dere in fattening
                  time."
               Rogers asked the negro a great many other questions, but he paid no further
                  attention to his answers. He had obtained all the information he wanted, and only
                  continued his questioning for the purpose of diverting the thoughts of the negro
                  from the one important point. At length he rose and said:
               "It is getting dark, Isham, and as I reckon your master does not allow you to be
                  out at night, you had better be going. Remember, you must never tell any one that
                  you have seen me here this evening."
               The negro, after promising faithfully to keep the secret, wended his way homeward.
                  As soon as his stalwart form was lost in the gathering shades of night, Rogers
                  rose, and at once proceeded to a cornfield some two or three hundred yards off.
                  Returning from thence with his arms full of the growing cornstalks, blades, etc.,
                  he removed the saddle from his horse, relieved his mouth from the bit, and tying
                  the reins about his neck so as to enable him to feed at his ease, he walked off a
                  few steps, and taking a seat on the ground, proceeded to relieve his own hunger
                  with a cold "snack" that he had provided and brought in his pocket. The meal
                  ended, he made a pillow of his saddle, and, stretching his limbs upon his mother
                  earth, was soon in a profound sleep. An hour before daybreak he was picking his
                  way through the deep and narrow defile heretofore described, and known in that
                  region as "Hell's Passway."
               Parson Benjamin Williams passed his last night upon earth in a state of restless
                  uneasiness and of nervous irritability very unusual to him. Several times during
                  the night he thought of sending for a physician, but was deterred by the
                  consciousness that his nervous derangement arose from the sudden and mysterious
                  death of the two accomplices who had recently aided him in the commission of a
                  dark and terrible crime. It is true there was nothing to connect their deaths with
                  the murder that had preceded them, and in which he and they had participated.
                  There was no one, within his knowledge, likely to feel any interest in the life or
                  death of Robert Johnson, except his daughter and his grandson, and Parson Williams
                  had satisfied himself that the grandson could not have been the slayer of either
                  Wilkins or Biles.
               But there is always a tendency to suspicion in the mind of the perpetrator of a
                  great crime. He is sure to think that any unusual occurrence has some connection
                  with the deed that is ever present to him, and in this way guilt not unfrequently
                  betrays itself to punishment. Often the very steps it takes to secure immunity
                  leads to detection. It can never rest satisfied with what has been done for the
                  safety of the culprit, but is always fancying that something more is requisite,
                  and thus insures suspicion, and suspicion generally leads to conviction. Parson
                  Williams had not yet fully reached this troublesome and dangerous frame of mind,
                  perhaps he might never have done so, because in any event he was satisfied that no
                  Confederate court and jury would doom him to punishment. He was disturbed by
                  apprehensions for which he could not account satisfactorily to himself. It was not
                  the fear of punishment, or the condemnation of his neighbors; still, there was a
                  vague, indefinable something in his bosom that he interpreted as a premonition
                  that the avenger of blood was on his track. It might be, it probably was true, so he reasoned,
                  that Wilkins and Biles had been accidentally met by Union soldiers, and killed,
                  either in resisting or in flying from them. But still it wore to him the
                  appearance of a judgment, and he could not divest himself of a presentiment that
                  it foreshadowed his own doom. He was thoroughly versed in the Old Testament
                  writings, and deeply imbued with the gloomy superstitions and stern and bloody
                  fanaticisms to which those writings are so well calculated to give birth, when
                  dissevered from the gentler teachings of the NEW. And under their influence he
                  regarded the death of his accomplices as a warning to himself. This conviction
                  settling on his mind shook his sturdy frame with all the power of physical
                  disease. It is but justice to him to say that this weakness was but temporary.
                  Harsh, unfeeling, and cruel to others as he undoubtedly was, he was always ready
                  to bear in his own person the penalties that might follow his acts. Before morning
                  came, he had, in a great measure, shaken off the nervous depression that overcame
                  him. The conviction that the thread of his life was running short was as strong as
                  ever, but he braced himself to meet the end, whatever it might be, and sternly
                  drove each coward thought from his bosom.
               At the usual hour he called his slaves, and sent them to the field. As soon as the
                  morning light enabled him to distinguish objects clearly, he took his gun in one
                  hand and an empty basket in the other, and went out, according to his custom, to
                  feed the hogs. Climbing over the rail-fence, he deposited his gun against a tree,
                  filled his basket from a crib near by, which had been built for the purpose, and,
                  taking it on his shoulder, walked along, scattering the corn, as he went, among
                  the grunting and squealing swine. When the basket was emptied, he let it fall from
                  his shoulder, still grasping it in his hand, and looked about him with
                  satisfaction upon the well-fed and thriving porkers. There was no danger of want
                  in his family for the coming year, and he noted the fact with the self-satisfied
                  air of a man who feels that he is altogether comfortable in his circumstances.
                  Suddenly an armed man stepped from behind a large tree within twenty feet of him,
                  and a stern voice greeted him with the words:
               "How are you this morning, Parson Williams?"
               The individual thus addressed started as if an adder had stung him. A deadly
                  pallor spread over his face, and the basket dropped from his nerveless hand.
                  Recovering himself by a great effort, and observing who it was that stood before
                  him, he answered surlily:
               "Is that you, Thomas Rogers? and what are you doing here? I guess you haven't been
                  sleeping with my negroes, and as there is no place else you could have slept in
                  this neighborhood, I should like to know how you came here at this hour in the
                  morning?"
               "I hope to be able to explain it to your satisfaction before we part, parson."
               "Hardly, I think, Mr. Thomas. I heard that you were in league with your country's
                  enemies, and this wandering about all night, nobody knows where, or on what
                  errand, looks mighty like it."
               "Ah, parson!" replied Rogers, with a bitter sneer, "I was afraid you had heard
                  something of the sort about me, or rather about my father, and I have come to
                  relieve your mind upon the subject. But first tell me who killed Robert Johnson in
                  cold blood, when he was peacefully at work in his own field, without dreaming of
                  harm to a human being?"
               Parson Williams was poorly prepared to meet this searching query. Resolute as he
                  was, he trembled in every limb. He tried to answer firmly, but his voice would not
                  be controlled, and his pitiless enemy marked its tremulous tones with a degree of satisfaction little less than that
                  with which the savage hails the shriek of his victim at the stake.
               "What do I know of Robert Johnson, and what is he to you that you should come here
                  at this hour to ask me about him? What fool's notion have you got in your head
                  now?"
               "A spirit whispered to me in my sleep," responded Rogers, "that Captain Wilkins,
                  James Biles, and Parson Williams killed an old man, who was very dear to me,
                  because he would not turn traitor to his country, and the same spirit warned me
                  that the blood-hounds were on my father's track. Josh Wilkins died—and owned
                  nothing. Jim Biles died—and confessed all before he went. It is your turn now!"
                  Then changing his tone to one expressive of scorn and hate combined, he
                  continued:
               "Fool! Did you suppose such a deed of blood could be allowed to go unavenged? From
                  the hour that Tobias Wilson and I met you at the foot of the mountain, I have been
                  upon your track. Your last hour has come."
               Parson Williams, as before stated, was no coward. The immediate presence of
                  physical danger acted as a restorative, and he sprang for his gun with an agility
                  no one would have expected him to exhibit. But at no period of his life could he
                  have been accounted a match, under equal circumstances, for the quick eye and
                  steady hand that were now opposed to him. He was still several steps distant from
                  his weapon when a puff of light-blue smoke was belched forth from the muzzle of
                  Rogers's rifle, a sharp report followed, the frightened swine scattered through
                  the woods, and the Baptist minister fell forward on his face a lifeless
                  corpse.
               "He's done for," muttered Rogers. "No human being ever lived ten minutes who fell
                  in that way."
               Then, turning back into the woods, he went off at a rapid pace to the spot where
                  his horse was fastened. In a short time afterward he was dashing through "Hell's
                  Passway" at a rate of speed that no one probably had ever attempted before. Once
                  beyond it he turned abruptly from the road, leaped a cornfield fence, made his way
                  through it to the mountain side, and never slackened the reins until he had gained
                  the narrow path which led to Tobias Wilson's house.
               The sun was not yet "an hour high"*
                   when he rode down the mountain, stabled and fed his horse, and entered the
                   room where Dr. Griffin was preparing his own breakfast.
               
                  
                  *A common country expression, which means an hour after sunrise or an hour
                     before sunset. It is used indifferently, and understood according to the
                     time of day, as referring to the morning or the evening. Thus the expression
                     "the sun is an hour high" (or two, or three) means, in the morning, that it
                     is an hour after sunrise, and in the evening, that it is an hour before
                     sundown, or sunset. This explanation will be deemed superfluous by most
                     American readers, but a Frenchman, editing an American paper, amused
                     himself, and possibly edified his readers, in the course of a criticism on a
                     former work, by a learned dissertation upon the meaning of the words.
               
               The doctor's first greeting was by no means a cordial one.
               "A pretty trick you have played me, Master Thomas!" he said. "And if I live I'll
                  pay you back in the same coin. To send a man of my age across that wretched
                  mountain; to leave him to feed his own horse and cook his own supper; and then to
                  sleep here alone, or the same thing as alone, in a place where murder has been
                  quite too common of late to make a visit to it agreeable, even in the daytime, may
                  be a very pleasant joke to you, but it's something I shall not forget, or forgive
                  either."
               "Why, doctor, I'm sure I thought your patient would be the better for some one's
                  presence during the night."
               
               "To be sure. There's no doubt about that. But did you think he needed
                     medical attendance? You knew well enough that he had no more need
                  of a doctor than you had, and you sent me here in order that you might stay and
                  romp with the girls."
               "No, doctor," answered Rogers gravely. "There at least you wrong me. I will tell
                  you all after breakfast. In the mean time allow me to relieve you of this
                  drudgery. I will perform the part of cook."
               "Not a bit of it," was the decided response. "You have vexed me enough without
                  spoiling my breakfast in addition. But you may go and saddle my horse, for I shall
                  leave this place as soon as I can get off comfortably."
               Rogers obeyed, for the permission, he knew, was meant to be
                  understood as an injunction. The horse was saddled and brought to the
                  door by the time the good doctor announced that breakfast was ready. The meal was
                  eaten by one party in silence. By the other amid many growlings at the trick, as
                  he thought it, which had been played upon him, intermingled with expressions of
                  satisfaction at the success of his own cooking. When their appetites were
                  appeased, the doctor deliberately threw his medical saddle-bags (an indispensable
                  article to a country practitioner) over his left arm, and bidding good-by to his
                  patient, walked to the door, saying, as he did so:
               "I have no 'good-bys' for you, Master Thomas, until you are well paid
                  for this scurvy business."
               Rogers walked out with him, and, taking the bridle in his own hand, led the horse
                  to "the bars." Here he halted, and said, so seriously as to command the attention
                  of his companion, and completely drive away his affected "fit of the pouts:"
               "You will hear strange and startling news on the other side of the mountain,
                  doctor."
               "What news?" was the eager response. "Nothing has happened, I hope, to any of our
                  friends?"
               "Parson Williams is dead."
               "Parson Williams dead!" exclaimed the doctor, trying to manifest a feeling of
                  interest in the news, which was belied by the long-drawn breath of relief that
                  followed the exclamation. "Parson Williams dead! Well, he was no patient of mine,
                  and you need not have startled me by leaving me to infer that it was some member
                  of your father's family, or some other one of our friends. I'm sorry he's gone,
                  though he hated me as he did a rattlesnake. What was the matter with him?
                  Apoplexy, I suppose; I always thought he had a tendency to apoplexy."
               "It was not apoplexy that cut short his wicked and dangerous career. It was a
                  rifle bullet. I shot him dead this morning before sunrise, within three hundred
                  yards of his own house."
               "You shot him! You turned murderer! Oh! Thomas Rogers! I would not have believed
                  it if fifty men had sworn positively to your guilt. And for what have you made a
                  confidant of me? Why should you darken all my future life by making me the
                  repository of this fearful secret? Surely, surely I have deserved better than this
                  of your father's son."
               "I have made you my confidant, doctor, because I could not help it. I have told
                  you my secret only to keep you from betraying me."
               "Me betray you! Me betray your father's son! Boy, you are cruel, more than
                  cruel."
               "I did not mean that you would betray me knowingly. You have misunderstood me,
                  doctor, entirely. Listen. Every one who was at my sister's wedding yesterday
                  believes that I slept last night in this house. They know that I left my father's
                  with the avowed purpose of keeping you
                  company. If you had not been apprised of the facts, you might have let it leak out
                  that I did not return until this morning. Then suspicion of some sort would have
                  arisen against me, and the end of it would have been that a mass of circumstances
                  identifying me as the slayer of Parson Williams would have been brought to light.
                  Now that you are aware of what I have done, you will be on your guard, and say
                  nothing that will direct suspicion to me."
               "But what motive could you have had, Thomas, for killing Parson Williams? He was a
                  bad man, but he was nothing to you. Why did you shoot him?"
               Thomas Rogers, after a moment's thought, went over, in answer, the whole story of
                  Robert Johnson's murder; he recited all the damning evidences he had collected of
                  Parson Williams's participation in that bloody deed, including the confession of
                  Biles. He added, that although he had fully made up his mind to kill him for this
                  cause alone, he believed his heart would have failed him and Williams would have
                  escaped his vengeance but for a revelation made by the wounded sergeant, to the
                  effect that Williams was at the head of a conspiracy among the secessionists, who
                  were to be aided by strolling bands of Wheeler's cavalry, to rob and murder all
                  the known Unionists in that part of the country as soon as the Union troops were
                  withdrawn, as every one knew they must be, to assist in the capture of
                  Chattanooga. "From that hour," he went on sternly, "his doom was sealed, for of
                  course I knew that my father would be one of the first victims, and, unless I am
                  grievously mistaken, there was a bloody cross over your door also, my dear
                  doctor."
               "Like enough, Thomas,—it is like enough; but still I would rather have braved it,
                  than to have had your hands so deeply dyed in blood."
               "And I had rather not. Each one to his own taste, doctor. What I wish now
                  particularly is, that what I have done shall be faithfully kept from the knowledge
                  of my sister Sophy and Ella Whitlock. Now that it is over, I am ready to avow it,
                  and to justify it to the rest of the world; but those gentle girls must not be
                  wounded through me as long as it can be avoided. It will grieve them both deeply
                  when they learn the whole truth, as they must do in the course of time. I know
                  that well enough. As yet no one knows anything but yourself. Toby and
                  Miller may suspect, but they would suffer their right arms to be
                  severed from their bodies before they would reveal a word of their suspicions. To
                  hide it from Sophy and Ella, it must be hidden from all; and, to do that, you must
                  be careful to let no word escape you which would lead to a suspicion that I passed
                  the night elsewhere than in this house."
               "I shall take good care of that, I promise you. I know too well what anguish it
                  will bring to your father, not to use every precaution to keep that knowledge far
                  away from him as long as it can be done. It will be a terrible blow to him."
               "I know my father well, and in that quarter I fear nothing. He would not have done
                  the deed himself for any earthly reward, but he knows how well these villains
                  deserved the doom they have met, and he will soon forgive me for playing the part
                  of executioner in times when, and in a land where violated law has no public
                  vindicator. I am only distressed on account of the view my sister and Ella may
                  take of it, if they should learn the fact before I have a chance to explain
                  everything."
               "Your sister will unquestionably be stricken with deep grief, but you may dismiss
                  your fears as to Ella. I was at her mother's when she heard the news of Captain
                     Wilkins's death, and, instead of
                  tears, her eyes flashed with a fire, which looked to me as if her only regret was
                  that her own hand had not inflicted his death-wound."
               "And who had more ample cause to wish him in the grave?" exclaimed Rogers
                  fiercely. "He dragged her two brothers from their home, and sent them to the fatal
                  field of Murfreesborough. Their bones are now bleaching on its rocky surface, and
                  a widowed woman and an orphan girl are left without a rightful protector in a
                  desolate home. I did not forget this, even when my eye was glancing along the
                  barrel of my rifle; and she would not have been human if she had forgotten it when
                  she heard that justice had overtaken the monster. But still, doctor, you
                  grievously misunderstand that gentle and loving girl, if you imagine it will not
                  pain her greatly to learn that a friend of her mother's, who had no legal warrant
                  for the deed, has rid the earth of the presence of that villain, to say nothing of
                  his remorseless associates. A day will come, if I live, when I must tell her
                  myself. Until then, keep my secret. If I am killed, or come to my end by other
                  means, let it be buried with me."
               Dr. Griffin assured him that he need be under no apprehensions of any premature
                  disclosure, bade him good-by warmly, though sadly, and rode slowly on his way,
                  absorbed in deep and anxious thought. For the first time in his life he had a dark
                  secret to keep. That secret was a most unwelcome guest in his bosom; and all the
                  more so, because he could not divest himself of an uneasy conviction that, in
                  concealing the deed (or rather the deeds) to which his young friend had confessed,
                  he became, in some sort, particeps criminis.
               
               In this mood he returned, according to promise, to the house of Mr. Rogers, where,
                  as we have seen, his conduct betrayed the troubled nature of his thoughts. To his
                  great joy, he escaped from the dinner-party without a question having been
                  propounded to him that required prevarication. When it was over, he went home, to
                  commune at leisure with himself as to the best line of conduct to be pursued, in
                  order to avert suspicion from the son of his old and valued friend.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               WITH a sad and troubled expression of countenance Thomas Rogers gazed after the
                  good doctor as he rode up the mountain side, and dark and bitter were the
                  reflections which came, like ravens, to build their nests in his bosom. He had
                  entered upon a career which it was now beyond his power to shape or to control. No
                  matter where it led—through thorns and brambles—through blood and tears—in
                  sunshine and in shade—in victory and defeat—he must go on, and on, and
                  on—trampling, with an iron heel, upon the associations, the tender affections, the
                  very memories of his childhood and boyhood, and sternly snapping asunder those
                  links of friendship that brightened the dawn of his manhood. He had put his hand
                  to a plow that glued it there with the power of a hundred magnets, and there it
                  must remain until death severed the connection, or victory, complete and decisive,
                  over the mightiest rebellion ever recorded in history, preclaimed that his work
                  was done. He had consecrated himself to a great cause by deeds we dare not
                  commend, and yet may well hesitate to brand as crimes. It is only in a very
                  limited number of cases that the motives of human action can be penetrated by the
                  eyes of human wisdom, and, therefore, we make no allowance for those motives in
                  our judgment of bad deeds, because we cannot tell whether the assigned one is the
                  true one. Judged by this standard, Thomas Rogers had sinned deeply. But who will
                  dare aver that an all-wise Creator will regulate his sentence according to the
                  crude opinions made up by the feeble and flickering lamp of human reason? Let us
                  then drop the curtain on a scene where there is so much of doubt and
                  uncertainty—so little to guide us aright. This at least is certain, that, whether
                  he acted as a vengeful manslayer or as the executor of public justice—whether his
                  deeds sprung from an earnest patriotism, and were justifiable on the principle of
                  self-defense—or whether they came reeking from the dark and turbid pool of
                  demoniac passion, the effect was to so intensify his hatred of treason, and all
                  the fiend-like brood it never fails to hatch, that he gave himself up, body and
                  mind, heart and soul, to the task of driving it, with fire and sword, from the
                  land its sirocco breath had blasted. The gibbet and the cord—the torch and the
                  leaden bullet—the bayonet and the cannon-shot,—these were to be henceforth his
                  instruments, because he believed that to these he and all he loved would be given
                  up, if God in his anger should arm the traitor with power to indulge his
                  remorseless instincts. How far he was wrong in this conviction will probably never
                  be known. Not often has this orb of ours witnessed the triumph of a cause so
                  wicked. There is a Providence above us whose purposes we cannot comprehend, and
                  sometimes, to our limited view, the avenging blow is withheld, and the criminal
                  runs his course unpunished. And so it may be with those who wickedly snapped
                  asunder the cords that bound this Union together—roused into guilty action all the
                  worst passions of the human heart—sent desolation into one section, and mourning
                  and tears into both,—and all upon the hellish pretext that, at some distant and
                  uncertain day in the future, the right of one man to hold his fellow-man in
                  bondage might be denied by the General Government. It may be that in the plan of
                  Omnipotence even this may be allowed to take its place upon the pages of history,
                  and be transmitted to posterity as a
                  glorious triumph, instead of a baffled crime. But, although we may not question
                  whatever decree is rendered, it is allowable for us to hope, and trust, and
                  believe that the same page which records "the deep damnation" of this rebellion
                  shall also transmit to future ages the story of its utter failure, and of the
                  fearful and dread retribution which overtook its instigators.
               Thomas Rogers was not of a nature to indulge long in gloomy reflections. He was a
                  man of action; prompt, decided, and energetic, whatever he had to do was done
                  without hesitation or delay. He had agreed with Miller upon a plan of raising a
                  company of mounted men, and tendering their services to Gen. Rosecrans. As Miller
                  expected to enlist a large portion of the company from his old comrades in
                  Wheeler's cavalry, their proceedings were necessarily delayed on account of his
                  wounds. While Rogers was occupied with the mission of vengeance he had undertaken,
                  this delay was a matter of no importance; but that was over now, and with his
                  accustomed restlessness he began to calculate how long it would be before Miller
                  would be able to mount his horse. The time which must elapse before this was
                  possible, under the most favorable circumstances, seemed to his impatient spirit
                  an age, and he resolved to set about the work himself. In order to do this it was
                  necessary to get some one to remain with Miller during his own absence, and pay
                  some little attention to the place. With these half-formed projects in his head he
                  re-entered the house, after Dr. Griffin's departure, to hold a consultation with
                  Miller. When his views had been communicated to the sergeant they were received
                  with a prompt and cheerful assent.
               "I can do something, myself," continued the soldier, "while I'm laid up here in
                  limbo. I'll write a few lines to some of the boys, which you can show 'em, and if
                  they don't stick to you, and do what you tell 'em, I'm badly fooled."
               So far everything was satisfactory to Rogers. The difficulty which he saw the
                  least chance of getting over, was where to find a man willing to come and stay
                  with Miller, who was, at the same time, entirely trustworthy, who could be fully
                  relied on not to betray any of the secrets which must come to his knowledge, to
                  the injury of the principal parties. Upon stating this difficulty to Miller, he
                  was greatly relieved by a reply, which the author takes the liberty of giving in
                  his own language, rather than the patois of the
                  mountains.
               "There is no difficulty about that. It will only cost you a ride of ten or eleven
                  miles. I know a man who will come, and he is the man of all others I had rather
                  have about me. His name is John Franklin, and he lives on Hurricane Creek. From
                  what he told me I do not think that John had any particular politics before the
                  war. He was a Democrat, and was therefore put down as a secessionist, but the
                  probability is that he never would have been dragged into the commission of
                  treason if he had not fallen in love with Sarah Austin, whose father was a rabid
                  fire-eater. Unlike most of that brood, when war came in earnest, Mr. Austin
                  shouldered his musket, and went forth like a man to fight for the principles he
                  professed. John Franklin, from love for his daughter, followed her father's
                  example. After much hard service, Mr. Austin was killed and John desperately
                  wounded, at Perryville. John lingered for a long time in the hospital, and when he
                  was able to travel, came home on furlough. The next day he went over to see Sarah
                  and tell her all he knew of the last hours of her father's life. But he was too
                  late by several weeks. A Confederate captain, who had been in the battle, and who
                  had come home for the purpose of recruiting his company pany, heard Mr. Austin's story in the neighborhood,
                  and, calling at the widow's house, became acquainted with Sarah. His visits were
                  repeated many times, and by some means he completely won the foolish girl's heart.
                  I do not know how, for he is both ugly and awkward. Perhaps it was because he had
                  fought on the same field where her father fell. He pretended to know all about Mr.
                  Austin, told of the dangers and hardships they had encountered together, said he
                  was by him when he was shot down, and had raised his head, and poured some brandy
                  in his mouth. John Franklin is ready to swear that he never spoke to Mr. Austin in
                  his life, and did not know him when he saw him; but the girl believed his story,
                  and either on that account, or on account of the gold lace that bedizzened his
                  coat, gave him her love. He took advantage of this, promised to marry her—ruined
                  her, and left her. It was a long time before John found out this. He saw plainly
                  at his first visit that Sarah took no pleasure in his society, so he kept away,
                  and the captain had the field to himself. Little by little John heard enough to
                  make him guess the worst. By that time the captain was gone, or John says he would
                  have murdered him, or made him keep his word and marry the silly girl. At first he
                  wrote to her whenever an opportunity offered, but suddenly his letters stopped.
                  She still hopes for his return, and believes him honest. And as she does not
                  suspect that her shame is known to any one but her mother, she bears up very well.
                  It will not advance me in your good opinion to tell how I came to know it, but as
                  I have already confessed to worse things than that, it is not worth while to keep
                  the secret. I came to this country soon after the battle of Murfreesborough, and
                  stopped one night at Mrs. Austin's house. I did not know any of the family, but
                  during the evening both the old lady and the young one asked me a great many
                  questions tions. They soon learned that I had served with Mr. Austin; that I was
                  in the battle in which he was killed, and that I was still serving in the same
                  regiment with Sarah's lover, (though I did not then know he was her lover,) and
                  that I was going back to the regiment in a day or two.
               "The next morning, when I was about to start, Sarah followed me to the door, and
                  handed me a letter which she begged I would put into the captain's own hand. She
                  was shivering, and I thought I could see signs of tears on her cheeks; but it was
                  very cold, and that would account for the shivering, while I might have been
                  mistaken about the tears. I promised everything she asked, and rode away. I am not
                  in the habit of carrying written papers about me in these times without knowing
                  exactly what is in them. Accordingly, as soon as I was out of sight, I opened and
                  read the letter. Its contents were sufficient to determine me to pay my old
                  friend, John Franklin, a visit. That night I put up at his house, and before
                  bedtime he was a wiser man than he had been for two years or more. When I asked
                  him for another envelope to replace the one I had broken open, he begged me not to
                  deliver the letter, but to leave it with him, which I did. From that day he
                  abandoned the idea of returning to the Confederate army. His furlough has long
                  since run out, and when the Union troops leave here he will be compelled to take
                  to the woods or be shot as a deserter. Such a hiding-place as this will be a
                  'God-send' to him, and I know he can be trusted fully and entirely. If you have no
                  objection I will write to him to come at once."
               "The sooner the better," answered Rogers. "But tell me the name of this
                  redoubtable captain."
               "Captain Joseph Sykes."
               "Joe Sykes!" exclaimed Rogers, in astonishment; "oh, what a double-dyed, infernal
                  villain he must be!"
               
               "Do you know him, sir?"
               "Do I know him? Yes, I do know him, and he knows me too; but he shall know me
                  better before long, unless my right hand proves false to its owner."
               "Well, sir, I've nothin' to say agin that, excepting that John Franklin's got a
                  preference right to send a bullet through his carcass, and as that's the only
                  comfort left him, I hope you won't take it from him."
               "True," answered Rogers, "he has the better right. We will settle it
                  somehow between us."
               He mused awhile, then, returning to the subject-matter of their conversation, he
                  said:
               "You may as well write the letter now, sergeant. I shall not go until to-morrow,
                  as there are some things here that must be attended to. You can write while I am
                  out; I will not be gone long."
               Propping the wounded man in a sitting posture, placing pen, ink, and paper within
                  reach of his hand, and arranging a piece of plank so as to answer the purposes of
                  a writing table, he left the room to look after the many little things about the
                  farm which he thought required his attention. On his return, the following
                  characteristic note was put into his hands:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "JACKSON COUNTY, ALABAMA.
                           
                           "DEAR JACK—I'm badly hurted, and you must come and see me at onst. I
                              can't write the perticklers, but the man who carries these few lines
                              can tell 'em to you.
                           
                              "Your friend til deth,
                              "JAMES MILLER.
                           
                        
                        
                           "Posscrip. Bring all your things, at aulivense*
                                 bring your gun and all your ammynishon.
                           
                              
                              *All events.
                           
                           "N.B. Keep dark, and tear this letter up. Don't tell nobody I'm
                              hurted, or whar I am."
                        
                     
                  
               
               When Rogers had with some difficulty deciphered the contents of the foregoing
                  epistle, he inquired:
               "Where does your friend live?"
               We spare the reader the minute description of the locality, and of the by-ways
                  leading to it, that followed. Rogers listened patiently, and without interrupting
                  him, to the end, although it was much more prolix than was at all necessary for
                  his information, he having a tolerably accurate knowledge of the country, and of
                  the roads and paths by which it was traversed.
               "I shall find him easily," he replied. "Indeed, I think I know the house. Did you
                  write any other letters?"
               "No, sir. At first I thought I would. But I wanted to see John first, and git him
                  to tell me how the land lay. I warn't much afeerd of making any mistake, but it is
                  best to be sure. And, besides, I don't know whar some of the boys are, and
                  couldn't tell you how to find 'em without your runnin' the risk of bein' shot by
                  some on'em. When John Franklin comes it'll be smooth and quick work."
               This view of the case was well and soundly reasoned, and Thomas Rogers was
                  satisfied that prudence required them to await the coming of their new ally before
                  attempting anything further.
               Before the first light of the sun had gilded the tops of the mountains on the
                  following morning, Rogers was on his way to the home of the man for whom a common
                  desire of revenge upon the same individual already inclined him to cherish
                  feelings of more than usual regard. From one who carried in his bosom the memory
                  of such a wrong there was little fear of betrayal, and his fidelity was further
                  secured by the peril in which he stood. In addition to this, the manner in which
                  he had kept the secret of the guilty girl who had deserted him for a worthless
                     scoundrel was an honorable guarantee
                  of genuine manliness of character.
               As he anticipated, he found no difficulty in making his way directly to the cabin
                  of the soldier, who was now also a deserter. But he was not allowed to enter the
                  door without some stern questioning as to the objects of his visit. The letter of
                  Sergeant Miller proved to be entirely satisfactory, and as soon as Franklin had
                  run his eyes over the lines he cordially invited his visitor to enter, at the same
                  time inquiring his name. Rogers had ridden hard, and it was yet long before the
                  breakfast hour of cities when he reached his place of destination. The poor cannot
                  afford to indulge in "morning naps," and are generally beginning to think of their
                  dinners by the time the rich and luxuriant have coaxed back the appetite stolen
                  away by the night's indulgences. The breakfast things in the cabin of John
                  Franklin had been removed more than an hour before, but that individual, knowing
                  the distance his guest had traveled, jumped to the conclusion that he must be
                  hungry, and calling his mother, with ready hospitality he said:
               "Mother, git Mr. Rogers some breakfast, please mam, while I feed his horse."
               Rogers protested against giving the old lady so much trouble, said he had eaten "a
                  bite" before leaving home, and denied that he felt hungry in the least degree.
                  Franklin insisted upon his taking a cup of coffee, (an uncommon luxury in that
                  region,) and his mother joined him, declaring it was "not the least mite of
                  trouble." It was impossible to decline their offers without rudeness, and, indeed,
                  his early ride had sharpened his appetite, and the cup of coffee was
                  no light temptation in itself. For nearly an hour the time passed pleasantly
                  enough, considering that there were so many subjects of conversation upon which
                  neither cared to touch; neither knowing exactly how far it might be pleasing, or
                  the reverse, to the other. At length Mrs. Franklin left the room, and the two men
                  entered upon the same serious business that had brought them together. Rogers did
                  not think it necessary to communicate to his companion anything further than the
                  fact that Miller had been badly wounded in a skirmish, that he had been taken to
                  the house of Tobias Wilson, and was now doing remarkably well.
               "The sergeant," he added, "is much troubled on account of the danger of capture to
                  which he is subjected in his present helpless state. I must often leave him alone,
                  and at such times it would be very consoling to have a true and faithful friend to
                  watch by his side. He earnestly begs that you will go back with me to-day. He says
                  that he has matters of life and death to talk to you about, and among other things
                  he told me that there is a plan on foot to catch you; to have you carried South,
                  and shot as a deserter."
               Franklin manifested no surprise at this announcement.
               "I thought as much," he replied; "and when I saw you riding up this morning I half
                  suspected that you had come on that business, and (meaning no offense) I thought
                  you was a great fool to come on such an errand by yourself. But that's neither
                  here nor there. I've been looking out for something of the kind, and my 'saddle
                  wallet' has been packed for more than a week. I'm glad you've come, or I might
                  have stayed a leetle too late. I'll go with you right away. When a
                  thing is settled, the sooner it's done the better; and so if you've no objection
                  we'll saddle up our horses and ride. Are you ready to go?"
               "Certainly," replied Rogers, who was delighted with the promptness of his new
                  acquaintance. "I foresee that we are destined to become fast friends. I love men
                     who are ready to act as soon as they
                  decide. Your 'slow coaches' won't do for me."
               In a very short time the two men were riding toward the house of Tobias Wilson.
                  Franklin bade adieu to his mother alone; he did not take time to visit the field
                  where the younger members of the family were at work, but left his adieus for them
                  with his mother.
               As they rode on, Rogers explained to his companion, as far as he deemed it prudent
                  to do so, the future plans and purposes of himself and Miller, so that by the time
                  they reached the little valley, Franklin was possessed of all that was essential
                  for him to know. His meeting with Miller was warm and cordial, but it was
                  exhibited rather in the firm grasp of their hands and the glow upon their
                  countenances than in spoken words. Such men rarely give utterance to any strong
                  expressions of friendship for each other. A few words sufficed to convey to Miller
                  the knowledge that Franklin was already informed of their plans, and was resolved
                  to remain and share their fortunes with them. After this the three entered into an
                  earnest consultation, which lasted throughout the afternoon and deep into the
                  night. The subject of that consultation may be easily guessed by the reader. Its
                  results will be developed in the following pages.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THREE weeks passed away—three busy weeks to the tenants of that lonely glen. They
                  had succeeded in securing arms and ammunition from the commander of the U.S.
                  troops in that vicinity. These arms were carefully hidden by Rogers himself, in
                  the cave described in the first series. For that purpose, he had selected times
                  when Franklin was away upon other duties, not choosing as yet to intrust that
                  important secret to any one, even of his own followers. When Franklin returned,
                  and missed the arms, Rogers merely remarked that he had hidden them in the
                  mountains, which explanation was always deemed altogether sufficient.
               The muster-roll of the company now showed nearly one hundred recruits. A large
                  part of these were old friends and companions of Miller and Franklin, and were
                  both well armed and well mounted. The remainder were young men recruited in the
                  neighborhood, who were for the most part possessed of excellent horses, but were
                  without effective arms. These were to be supplied by Thomas Rogers, from his store
                  in the cave, and the next Saturday had been appointed as the day for their
                  assembling in the glen to receive them. In these preparations Rogers had acted
                  with great precaution, never allowing more than eight or ten of his men to
                  assemble at one time at the house of Tobias Wilson, and these were always brought
                  in by the two lonely pathways which led into the valley over the mountains. No one but his associates suspected the
                  business in which he was engaged, much less how near he had brought it to
                  completion. The following Saturday (three days off) would see him at the head of
                  at least one hundred young, strong, daring, well-armed men, ready to engage in any
                  enterprise which promised to be of advantage to the cause of the Union.
               While he is waiting for the day of rendezvous to arrive, let us take a brief view
                  of matters on the other side of the mountain. The Union cavalry had been withdrawn
                  from all the posts east of Stevenson, and united under the command of General
                  Stanley, who was preparing to cross the Tennessee River and make a demonstration
                  along the line of Eastern Alabama and Western Georgia, chiefly to create a
                  diversion in favor of the infantry, who had before them the hard task of fighting
                  their way into Chattanooga. Immediately after their departure, little squads of
                  scattered Confederates had begun to appear in the neighborhood; but they had
                  committed no depredations, and the inhabitants felt but little alarm from their
                  presence. On the night after the day to which our story has reached, a larger band
                  than any which had yet been seen together surrounded the house of Thomas Rogers,
                  Senior, and demanded admittance. This was refused; and, as had been foreseen by
                  the inmates, the captain immediately ordered the doors to be burst open. Mr.
                  Rogers had no hope of keeping them out, and his only object was to gain time for
                  the escape of Tobias Wilson, whose seizure, with a view to conscription, he
                  suspected was the main object of the marauders. Acting under the same impression,
                  Tobias Wilson hastily dressed, and threw himself from the window of his room; but
                  this was an outlet they had not neglected to guard, and his foot had scarcely
                  touched the ground when a heavy blow upon his shoulder and another upon his head
                  felled him, stunned and senseless, to the earth. Before he could recover, he was
                  fast bound and secured. In the mean time the doors had been battered down, and the
                  soldiers rushed in, the captain immediately and loudly ordering lights to be
                  procured. When this was done, the fact of Tobias Wilson's capture was communicated
                  to him, and his prisoner was led into his presence. After one glance, he said,
                  roughly:
               "We have no time for explanation now. There ought to be another bird in this nest.
                  Four or five of you search the house, and let the rest search the stables and
                  outhouses."
               "If you mean my son," said Mr. Rogers, "he is far away from here, and safe."
               "We will take your word for it," replied the captain, "when we can do no better;
                  but we will first try whether he cannot be unearthed somewhere about these
                  premises."
               "Search as much as you please," said Mr. Rogers; "but I assure you it will be in
                  vain."
               During this scene, the two women had behaved with admirable courage and fortitude.
                  They stood, half-dressed, in a corner of the room, with their arms about each
                  other, scorning alike to plead or to give vent to cries and lamentations, which
                  would probably only excite the merriment of the brutal men who had so rudely
                  broken their slumbers. Once only, when Tobias Wilson was first brought into the
                  room, a violent shudder shook the frame of his young wife, and large tear-drops
                  rolled slowly down her cheeks; but there was no outcry, no begging for mercy, no
                  attempt to soften the hard and pitiless hearts of his captors. She looked at her
                  husband steadily for a moment or more, and to her heart his returning gaze carried
                  hope, and forbade her to despair.
               The search was concluded, and no vestige of their intended tended victim could be found. Captain Joseph
                  Sykes—for it was he—now addressed a series of questions to Mr. Rogers, the answers
                  to which were anything but satisfactory. While engaged in this occupation, and too
                  busy to notice anything himself, one of the soldiers, who was stationed near the
                  back door, suddenly exclaimed, "The barn is on fire!"
               The eyes of all were instantly turned in that direction, and, sure enough, bright
                  flames were issuing from every crevice of the building. To do Captain Sykes
                  justice, he had contemplated no such result as this, and he immediately rushed
                  into the yard, all of his soldiers following him, except the guard over the
                  prisoner. It was apparent that it had been accidentally fired by a spark falling
                  from the torch of some of those who had been in search of Thomas Rogers. The first
                  glance proved that it would be useless to attempt to save the barn or any portion
                  of its contents. Fortunately, the out-houses, which contained the horses and other
                  descriptions of stock, were some distance off, and to these Captain Sykes promptly
                  turned the attention of his soldiers. By great exertion, the animals were released
                  before the fire had extended to the buildings where they were confined. The flames
                  had now burst from the roof of the barn, and showers of sparks, sent up from the
                  light material burning within, were falling everywhere about them; while no water
                  was to be procured, save what was to be obtained from a well, from which it had to
                  be drawn by a single bucket. The weather had been exceedingly dry, and a fresh
                  breeze was then blowing. To save anything, under such circumstances and with such
                  means, was clearly impossible, and the soldiers hastily returned to the dwelling
                  of Mr. Rogers. There they found him on the top of the house, assisted by one of
                  their band, endeavoring to extinguish the blazing sparks, which were thickly
                  falling upon it.
               "That's right," shouted Captain Sykes, "do what you can to keep it under for
                  awhile. It will certainly catch directly; but you may do something toward giving
                  us time to remove the furniture. Come, my men," he added, turning to the soldiers,
                  "rush in and save all you can from the effects of your d—d carelessness."
               All the furniture contained in the house was soon removed to a place of safety;
                  but, as Captain Sykes had predicted, the house itself was in flames.
               Tobias Wilson had looked at everything which had been going on before him with
                  both surprise and curiosity. To him Captain Sykes now appeared in a more amiable
                  light than he had ever done before, and he almost forgave him the fact that it was
                  through him that he was himself a prisoner, bound, bruised, bleeding, and
                  destined, he well knew, for the slavish life of a conscript soldier. His
                  reflections upon the apparent inconsistencies which that night had exhibited in
                  the redoubtable captain's character were cut short by the harsh voice of the
                  captain himself. Addressing his soldiers, he shouted: "Mount, men, and away with
                  your prisoner. This light can be seen for five miles around, and there are
                  neighbors enough within less than a mile to render all the assistance that is now
                  needful or possible. We have a long ride before us, and no time to lose."
               When these words fell upon her ears, Sophy, for the first time, approached her
                  husband, and, taking his manacled hands in hers, pressed a warm kiss upon his
                  lips; he returned it with interest, and, as he did so, whispered the single word
                  "hope." From the bright flash which came into her eyes, he saw that he was
                  understood. Then, raising his voice, he said aloud: "Father, mother, wife, good-by
                  until we meet again."
               There was an emphasis upon the words "until we meet again" which was
                  unnoticed by the soldiers, but which conveyed veyed a world of meaning to those for whom it was
                  intended. Each one felt sure that he had already devised a means of escape, and
                  that their separation would not be for long.
               Captain Sykes treated his prisoner with no unnecessary harshness. Once in his
                  power, it was his policy to conciliate, not to exasperate him. The service to
                  which he was destined was sufficiently odious of itself without making it more so
                  by abuse beforehand, thus furnishing an additional motive for attempts at escape
                  before he was forced into the ranks of the Confederate army, or for desertion
                  afterward. Still he neglected no precaution to insure the safe delivery of his
                  captive. Beyond the outer fence, where the horses of his party had been left under
                  a guard, he removed the light rope which had confined Wilson's hands, and
                  substituted a pair of iron handcuffs. He was then mounted on one of the led horses
                  of the troop, and placed near the middle of the command with positive injunctions
                  to those around him to shoot him the very instant that he exhibited any symptom of
                  an intention to escape. The whole party then moved off in a southwesterly
                  direction through deep woods, tangled undergrowth, and over paths which were
                  everywhere of the roughest description.
               If there had been light enough for Captain Sykes to have seen the face of his
                  prisoner when he substituted the handcuffs for the hempen cord, he would have seen
                  something there to make him hesitate. The fact was, that the hands of Tobias
                  Wilson were so small in comparison with the size of his arm, that he could easily
                  withdraw them from any handcuff that would clasp over his wrist. It was a
                  knowledge of this that brought a smile of gladness to his lips when he felt the
                  cold iron encircle his wrist. He had not ridden far before he cautiously made an
                  experiment to ascertain whether his hands could be withdrawn as easily as he
                  supposed. Having satisfied himself upon this point, he felt perfectly certain that
                  the morning would not dawn upon him a prisoner, and that he had only to watch and
                  wait for a fair chance to escape.
               One other matter is necessary to be explained in this place. Ever since the first
                  threats which had been uttered against his grandfather, he had habitually worn
                  about his person a long two-edged knife, but not liking the usual manner of
                  belting it around the waist where it could be seen by every one, he adopted the
                  expedient of having a narrow pocket quilted far back in the breast of his coat. In
                  this way it had escaped the search of his captors; indeed, they made no actual
                  search; one of them had put his hands about his waist to ascertain whether he
                  carried pistols, and finding none, no further examination was prosecuted.
               The night had been gradually growing cloudy, and now a thick pall was spread
                  between the stars and the earth. The troop, however, had advanced steadily on its
                  way, as if guided by some one who knew every inch of the ground by night as well
                  as by day. At length they entered a heavier growth of timber than any through
                  which they had yet passed: here it was so dark that a man could not see his own
                  hand within two inches of his eyes. Tobias Wilson heard one of the soldiers near
                  him mutter, "This is Paint Rock bottom; we shall have a good road when we have
                  crossed the river."
               "Now," thought Tobias Wilson, "is my time." He knew that the only way of crossing
                  the river anywhere near that point was by swimming, and he felt certain that in
                  swimming such a stream, in the darkness of such a night, so much confusion must
                  ensue as would make his own escape of easy accomplishment. The foremost horsemen
                  were not long in reaching the banks of the stream. It was dangerous ous for more than two to enter it abreast, and when
                  the two first had entered, it was necessary for the next two to wait till they had
                  swam some distance, for fear of the horses striking each other in the darkness. In
                  this way the troop entered the river, Tobias Wilson still being near the center of
                  the command, so that by the time it was his turn to attempt the dangerous passage,
                  the foremost swimmers were already upon the opposite bank cheering their comrades
                  who were still in the water. As they descended the bank, the guard who rode by
                  Wilson's side took hold of his bridle-rein, saying, as he did so: "Hold fast to
                  the pommel of your saddle,—I will guide your horse."
               At the same instant, favored by the darkness, Wilson slipped his hands from the
                  handcuffs, and, unobserved, drew the long knife from his breast-pocket. This was
                  firmly clasped in his left hand, while in his right he grasped the heavy irons
                  which he had patiently worn for the last four hours. They had swam but a few
                  paces, when the keen blade was buried deep in the side of his guide, who instantly
                  tumbled from his horse into the river, almost without a groan. The horse snorted
                  furiously, and, swimming wildly down the stream, created no little confusion among
                  the troop, who could not see or understand what was going on. At the same time,
                  Wilson, rising in his stirrups, hurled the handcuffs, with all the force of his
                  muscular arm, in the direction of the troopers who were before him. They struck
                  some one, for he heard first a dull sound, and then a noise, such as would have
                  been made by a body falling into the water. The confusion also seemed greatly to
                  increase, and there was a mingled uproar of questions, shouts, and curses.
                  Promptly availing himself of this confusion, Wilson rolled from his horse into the
                  water, and, putting his feet against the animal, pushed himself far up the stream,
                  at right angles toward the southern bank of the river, upon which the foremost of
                  the troop had drawn up. Striking boldly out in the darkness, he landed safely
                  under a high bank, and, grasping some of the many roots which had made their way
                  into the water, he listened for several minutes to the remarks of the troopers,
                  who were a little below, and fearfully near him. Some proposed immediate pursuit
                  of the fugitive; others insisted that he must be drowned; while others, again,
                  were indulging in conjectures as to the fate of their two comrades; the general
                  opinion appearing to be that they had leaped into the water to recapture the
                  prisoner, when they became aware of his escape. By this time the whole company had
                  crossed the river, and he heard the voice of Captain Sykes saying that he would go
                  no farther that night, and ordering the men to build fires at once.
               Tobias Wilson now felt the necessity of immediate action. The light of so many
                  fires would certainly be cast up the river to the spot where he was concealed, and
                  expose him to imminent danger of recapture, or death from the carbines of the
                  soldiers. Half swimming, half pulling himself along by the roots and projections
                  of the branches, he slowly ascended the stream until he reached a point where he
                  could easily crawl on shore; then, following the river, and keeping close to it to
                  avoid losing his way, he moved as rapidly from the dangerous locality as the
                  darkness and the tangled vines and undergrowth would permit. He knew that there
                  was a grist and saw mill somewhere above him, whose proprietor was a strong friend
                  of the Union, and that the mill was attended at night by two of his negroes, who
                  were not likely to betray him, or give any information that could be useful to a
                  Confederate soldier. But he had no idea how far he was from the mill, or what
                  dangers he would have to encounter before arriving there. He knew enough of the
                  country, however, to be sure that,
                  whatever those dangers might be, they would be greatly lessened by keeping close
                  to the bank of the river; and he determined to pursue this course, notwithstanding
                  the difficulty of making his way over a pathless "bottom," (in winter, a swamp,)
                  which was obstructed by immense vines of bamboo, grape, and muscadine, and
                  occasional thickets of cane and running greenbrier, with its long, sharp, venomous
                  thorns. He reflected, too, that it must be near the dawn of day, and that it would
                  soon be light enough to enable him, in a great measure, to avoid these annoyances.
                  When the first bright streaks of the coming day made their appearance in the east,
                  he calculated that he was safe from Captain Sykes's pursuit; and, sitting down
                  upon a log, resolved to wait until a stronger light enabled him to ascertain where
                  he was. In the mean time he employed himself pulling out, as well as he could, the
                  long thorns which had imbedded themselves in various parts of his body, and from
                  which he was literally bleeding at every pore. Waiting until the sun's rays began
                  to steal over the tops of the mountains, he looked about him in vain for some
                  familiar object. Still he knew that his course must be up the stream. He was aware
                  that, by keeping close to it, the distance he had to travel would be trebled or
                  quadrupled; but there was safety in that lonely bottom, while the open country was
                  filled with enemies; and so, patiently and hopefully, he kept on his pathless and
                  toilsome journey. He was young, strong, accustomed to encounter fatigue and
                  difficulty, and pursued his way with unabated speed, where another less strong and
                  determined would have sunk to the ground exhausted and overcome. An hour brought
                  him within sight of an open clearing on his left, and a little farther on he
                  crossed a country road leading to a shallow ford in the river. Yet there was
                  nothing that he recognized. He examined the ford, and was satisfied that he had
                  never crossed it, or seen it before. The river bottom on the south side now began
                  to narrow considerably, and he could see indications of settlements stretching far
                  to the northward. On the east bank, the lofty mountains loomed up nearer and
                  nearer, but all were strange to him, and he began to think that Captain Sykes's
                  company had ridden much faster the previous night than he had believed at the
                  time, and had carried him much farther down the river than he had supposed—though
                  the fact was, that he did not make due allowances for the slowness of his own
                  progress, and the increased distance he had gone over by following the windings of
                  the stream. In another hour he saw, with delight, a mountain of peculiar shape,
                  that he recognized instantly, and which he knew was within about a mile of the
                  mill he was seeking, and some ten miles from the late residence of his
                  grandfather. Encouraged by finding himself at last in a country of which he had
                  some knowledge, he ventured occasionally to leave the river bank and make
                  "short-cuts," which greatly accelerated his progress. About eleven o'clock he
                  arrived at the mill; but, to his great disappointment, he discovered around it
                  such a number of ox wagons and horses, as proved that it was crowded with
                  customers. He could not tell whether they were white men or negroes, friends or
                  enemies, and, not daring to approach it while in this state of uncertainty, he
                  resolved to cross the river and skirt the base of the mountains until he reached
                  the entrance to his own little glen. Following the worm fence, behind which he had
                  been hidden while making his observations, he went straight to the nearest point
                  on the river, intending to swim over. There he came unexpectedly upon a negro man
                  who was sitting upon the bank, underneath a large sycamore-tree, whiling away his
                  time while waiting for his load of corn to be ground, catching the spotted trout
                  and large black perch with which Paint
                  Rock abounds. He was completely hidden by the tree, and Wilson was within a few
                  feet of him before the presence of either was discovered by the other. This was an
                  opportune meeting that Wilson had not hoped for, and he was not a little pleased
                  at it, for the pangs of hunger began now to be sensibly felt, and, as the negroes
                  were almost uniformly the friends of Union citizens, he did not doubt that he
                  would be able to procure, through his means, the food he so much needed. He
                  therefore addressed the negro unhesitatingly with a pleasant "good morning."
               "Mornin', massa," replied the negro. And observing Tobias's torn clothes, and the
                  clotted blood upon his face and hands, he continued: "You looks tired and hurt,
                  massa; anyting you want?" Meaning, is there anything you are in need of, and wish
                  to have.
               "Not much," was the reply. "This blood comes from brier scratches. But I am very
                  hungry. Can't you go to the mill and ask Mr. Moore to give you something for a
                  friend of his?"
               "Why you no go?" asked the negro, suspiciously.
               "Because," was the reply, "I don't know who I should meet there; and as I have
                  just escaped from the rebel cavalry, I might find men at the mill who would
                  attempt to retake me. You see I am in no condition to resist."
               The negro looked at him intently, and then said, eagerly:
               "You would be cotch, sir, sartain, sure. Dare's four or five ob dem secesh at de
                  mill wid guns, and they'd kill you, or take you quick enough ef you's for the
                  Yankees. You jist take my fishin' pole, and Jake'll git what you want. Don't you
                  go dar."
               So saying, the negro handed his pole to Wilson, and turned toward the mill.
               "Tell Mr. Moore," said Wilson, as he walked away, "that my name is Tobias Wilson.
                  He knows me, and will gladly help me."
               "Nebber mind dat," responded the negro, "I got plenty in my wagon, and maybe I
                  can't speak to Mr. Moore widout dem secesh hearin' me, and den de debil'd be to
                  play all 'round."
               Another, and apparently knotty question seemed to perplex him, for he stood with
                  his hat in one hand, slowly scratching his head with the other, as if trying to
                  work out some difficult problem; at last he said, almost in a whisper:
               "Don't stir, sir, if I stays a little longer than you think I ought to, excepen
                  you hear me singin', or makin' some kind of a fuss; den you drop my pole on de
                  bank and swim for dat thicket on todder side quick as you kin afore dey sees
                  you."
               After this caution he seemed to think nothing more was necessary and went on to
                  the mill, walking slowly and leisurely, and whistling with apparent unconcern. He
                  had been gone not much over a half hour before he returned, carrying a basket on
                  his arm, well filled with provisions.
               "I seed Mr. Moore, sir, and he slipped some chicken, and biscuit, and a bottle of
                  milk in my basket. I'se got plenty ob bacon, and corn bread, and cabbage, and
                  taters; and here it is. Eat as much as you wants." He placed the basket before
                  Wilson, who lost no time in beginning to empty it of its contents. In one of the
                  pauses of mastication, he asked if Mr. Moore had sent him any message.
               "Yes, sir," replied the negro; "he say you must git away from here right off—dat
                  you must keep up de river on todder side. He say dar's a cunnoo 'bout a mile 'bove
                  here whar dare is tree sycamores togedder on de bank,—dat you must take it, and
                  paddle up de river two or tree miles,
                  when de danger will be ober—den turn de cunnoo loose, and it will float down to de
                  mill."
               Wilson perceived at a glance the kindness as well as the soundness of this advice;
                  it not only guarded him against any probable danger, but saved him the fatigue of
                  walking, from which Mr. Moore had rightly judged he must be already suffering. As
                  soon, therefore, as his meal was concluded, he shook the negro warmly by the hand,
                  and offered him a five dollar note, which the black refused to take, saying,
                  "Nebber mind, sir, you can help me some ob dese times, and den we'll be eben. I
                  don't want no pay for helping a man who is fightin' for Presdent Linkum."
               Wilson, however, dropped the note in his basket, and, reinvigorated by rest and a
                  hearty meal, plunged into the river and swam swiftly to the opposite side.
               That evening, as Rogers and Miller, who was now able to hobble about on crutches,
                  were sitting in the porch of Tobias Wilson's house, they saw coming up the road
                  toward them a ragged, and, apparently, very tired man. Even Thomas Rogers for some
                  time failed to recognize in the wayfarer any resemblance to his friend. He had
                  approached to within a few steps of the door, when Rogers suddenly sprang from his
                  chair, and grasping him by the hand, exclaimed:
               "Good God! Toby, what is the matter?"
               "Enough," was the reply, "and bad enough. But first let me wash off this blood,
                  and get on some decent clothes, and I will tell you all."
               Rogers could scarcely restrain his impatience while this was being done; and, as
                  soon as Wilson came back to the porch, cleanly dressed, and with the blood and
                  dirt washed from his person, his friend eagerly asked, without waiting for him to
                  be seated:
               "Where have you been, Toby, and what on earth is the matter?"
               Wilson took a seat by his side, and clearly but concisely related the violent
                  manner of his own arrest—the search for Rogers—the fire resulting from it, and the
                  destruction of every house on the premises of Mr. Rogers, Sr.; the conduct of the
                  soldiery, and finally his own escape, the manner of it, and the sufferings he had
                  undergone in accomplishing it.
               The thunder-cloud that had gathered on the brow of Rogers at the beginning of the
                  story slightly cleared away when he heard that one trooper was certainly killed,
                  and another probably drowned in the river. Still there was a lurid fire in his
                  eyes, which, from early boyhood, had betokened that passions of the darkest and
                  deadliest character had been awakened in his bosom. At the conclusion of the
                  narrative, he said: "Captain Joe Sykes is running up an account with me which he
                  will be apt to find more pleasant in the making than in the settlement."
               Nothing more was said until supper time, when many questions, embracing all the
                  particulars, were asked and answered. Then Rogers said:
               "You are badly in need of rest, Toby, and must go to bed. I will ride over to Dr.
                  Griffin's to-night, and see them all, (for I know they are there,) and then we can
                  tell better what is to be done."
               "I will go with you," said Wilson. "You can furnish me a horse, I suppose?"
               "Miller can certainly lend you a horse," was the answer; "but you do not leave
                  this house to-night, if I can help it. You can do me no good, and you are in no
                  condition to cross that mountain. After a good night's rest, you will be able to
                  do all that may be required of you."
               Remonstrances were in vain. Rogers was determined, and Wilson himself, feeling the truth of much that
                  his brother-in-law said, was finally compelled to acquiesce.
               In less than an hour that daring and adventurous man was ascending the rugged
                  sides of the mountain. Upon arriving at Dr. Griffin's, he found every one buried
                  in profound repose. Cautiously awaking the colored cook, he asked her whether she
                  could rouse his father without disturbing the remainder of the family.
               "Yes, sir," was the reply; "his room is in de end dis way. You can wake him
                  yourself by jus' tapping the winder. He's mighty easy to wake."
               "It is better for you to do it," he said, "to prevent the possibility of an alarm.
                  Tell him his son is here, and will come in as soon as he strikes a light."
               In a few minutes more, father and son were locked in each other's embrace. After
                  the first warm greetings were over, Thomas said: "Now, father, get back to your
                  bed and I will take a seat by its side. You have nothing to tell me, for I know
                  all that has happened; but I have some good news for you. Toby has escaped, and is
                  now at his own house. Poor fellow! he wanted to come with me, but he was so much
                  bruised and worn and tired that I would not allow it."
               "Thank God!" exclaimed Mr. Rogers; "I must let his mother and his wife know the
                  good tidings. Wait here until I come back."
               "Not yet," replied his son. "Don't wake them yet. I want to see them very much;
                  but first I must have a long talk with you. Have you formed any plans for the
                  future?"
               "No, we have all been too busy to-day to think of anything but the present. But
                  for Dr. Griffin's kindness, I know not what we should have done. As it is, we are
                  very comfortable. He has a large house and no family, and, with the aid of our own
                  furniture, there is nothing left for us to wish, though we cannot help feeling
                  that it is not home."
               "If I live," said his son, "he shall be repaid a hundred-fold. But now to other
                  matters. You cannot stay here. I have raised a company of Union
                  soldiers, who will have their final meeting at Toby's house the day after
                  to-morrow. After that I shall not stay in this neighborhood any longer than is
                  necessary to hunt up Captain Sykes's gang. I hope to leave but few of them alive;
                  but some will escape, of course. If there is but one, he will try to
                  revenge on you the blows received from me. You have bad neighbors enough who will
                  urge him on, and help him too, if needful."
               We omit the details of the long conversation that followed. It was finally agreed
                  that the best thing would be for Mr. Rogers to sell his stock and his growing crop
                  for the highest price he could get, and remove with his family to Ohio, where he
                  had a number of relatives. It was suggested by Mr. Rogers that he could there rent
                  a small farm containing land enough for himself and Tobias Wilson to cultivate,
                  and that all he needed would be money enough from the sale of his property to take
                  them there and support them until something could be made by their own labor.
               At the mention of Tobias Wilson's name, his son shook his head negatively.
               "I am afraid that you must leave Toby out of your calculations. He will not go; at
                  least not now, or for some time to come."
               "Did he say so?" asked Mr. Rogers.
               "No," was the answer, "for we never thought of this plan; but I know him better
                  than I know myself, and, weak and exhausted as he was, I could read in his eyes
                     a fixed and settled purpose, from
                  which no human being can turn him."
               "I think," said Mr. Rogers, "that Sophy may be able to persuade him to go with
                  us."
               "Not she," was the prompt reply. "She conquered once; but you saw what a terrible
                  struggle it cost them both. The next triumph will be his."
               "Well," said the old man, "it may be so; but let us hope to the contrary. It will
                  grieve both Sophy and his mother deeply to part with him. When he comes to think
                  of this he may yield; at all events, we must try to take him."
               "There is no harm in that," replied his son; "but I know how it will end. Now,
                  father, will you contrive to let Mrs. Wilson and Sophy know that I am here? I
                  cannot linger long, and I wish, at least, to shake them by the hand—though I
                  cannot do much more—before I go. Day-light must not find me on this side of the
                  mountain, and it is now past two o'clock in the morning."
               The ladies were soon awakened and brought into Mr. Rogers's room. Shaking Mrs.
                  Wilson warmly by the hand and imprinting a kiss upon his sister's cheek, Thomas
                  Rogers communicated to them the glad tidings of Tobias Wilson's escape, and that
                  he was now safely in his own house, though considerably bruised and greatly
                  exhausted by what he had undergone.
               "He will be here to-morrow night," he continued, "by eleven o'clock; and now I
                  must ride. Give my warmest thanks to Dr. Griffin. I will not disturb him to-night;
                  but I beg you to say to him that he shall never have cause to regret what he has
                  done, and that I will see him tomorrow night and thank him in person. He need not
                  sit up; I will wake him."
               Thomas Rogers was mistaken in supposing that he was to get away so easily. Each of
                  the ladies had very many questions to ask him, and it was fully a half hour before
                  the door closed upon him, even after he had twice bidden them good-by. With rapid
                  strides he moved to where his horse was fastened, fearing that he was too late to
                  escape observation, and, mounting him in equal haste, sped upon his homeward
                  journey more like a guilty fugitive than one who had a right to travel whither he
                  listed.
               On his return he communicated to Wilson the result of his conversation with his
                  father. When he had concluded, Wilson replied:
               "I like the plan well enough; but there is one difficulty which you seem to have
                  overlooked. Where are they to get the money which will be needful?"
               "From the sale of my father's crops and stock; they will surely bring enough for
                  that."
               "Yes, in Confederate scrip, which they can pass while on this side of the
                  Tennessee line, but nowhere farther north."
               "True," said Rogers, dejectedly; "I did not think of that. We must devise some
                  other plan."
               Sergeant Miller had been an attentive listener to this conversation; and when he
                  noticed the dissatisfied expression which settled upon the features of Rogers at
                  the apparently insurmountable objection suggested by Wilson, he said quietly:
               "You need not change your plans on that account, captain, for I have more than
                  double the amount of money they will need, and I had much rather lend it to your
                  father than to be at the trouble of taking care of it. I won't have any use for it
                  until the war is over."
               Rogers's face instantly brightened; but a half frown gathered on the brow of
                  Wilson, who had not forgotten the
                  manner in which the money was obtained, and whose dislike of the sergeant was by
                  no means removed. It was true that the rightful owner could never recover his
                  property, nor even be identified; but still if it had been left to him he would
                  have rejected the proffered loan. He had no time, however, to interpose an
                  objection before his friend replied, with so much satisfaction that he knew it
                  would be useless to oppose him:
               "Thank you, sergeant; you have relieved me from a great embarrassment. My father
                  shall give you a deed of trust on his land so that your debt will always be
                  secure."
               "I want no security, sir," was the answer. "After what you have done for me, you
                  have a right to all I've got and more besides. I wish it was ten times as
                  much."
               "But, sergeant," replied Rogers, "I cannot take pay in that way, and my father
                  will not accept the money unless he is allowed to give ample security for its
                  repayment."
               "As you please, sir," he said: "have it your own way."
               "Well, then, that is settled. Now, Toby," he continued, "I must go to bed, for I
                  mean to ride with you to-night, and will need all the sleep I can get
                  beforehand."
               Left alone with the sergeant, Tobias Wilson entered into a conversation with him,
                  which left a far better impression upon his mind than anything he had yet heard or
                  seen of that individual. By nightfall they might almost be said to have become
                  friends. Such changes are not unfrequent in every-day life, and especially in
                  revolutionary times, where so many opportunities present themselves of assisting
                  or injuring each other. As they rode up the mountain that night on their way to
                  Dr. Griffin's house, Wilson frankly confessed the change in his feelings.
               "I told you so," answered Rogers, "and I tell you now that the more you see of him
                  the better you will like him."
               "I hope so," was the reply, "and I begin to believe so. We will soon be comrades
                  in arms, and it shall not be my fault if we are not also friends."
               It was the first time Wilson had made any allusion to his future purposes. Rogers
                  noticed it, but made no comment. It was a simple confirmation of what he had
                  predicted to his father the previous night. Their toilsome journey was now
                  continued in silence. At Dr. Griffin's they found the doctor himself and all the
                  white members of the family up and waiting for them. We will not attempt to
                  describe the joyous meeting between Tobias Wilson, his mother, and his wife.
                  Thomas Rogers turned away from the fond scene, and, taking his father a little to
                  one side, placed in his hands a package of notes.
               "Here are enough greenbacks," he said, "to support you for two years if necessary.
                  You need not sell anything at a sacrifice, but leave all with Dr. Griffin, to be
                  disposed of to the best advantage. For this money you have only to give a deed of
                  trust upon your land to James Miller, from whom I borrowed it. You can have the
                  deed written, and send it to me by Dr. Griffin when he comes over the day after
                  to-morrow."
               Mr. Rogers accepted the money, and interrupting the conversation between the other
                  members of the party, he informed them of the resolution he had taken. No
                  particular objection was made by any of the party, and Mr. Rogers, turning to
                  Wilson, said, in a tone of inquiry:
               "You go with us, Tobias, of course?"
               "No, sir," was the prompt reply. "I shall stay with Thomas. From this time forth
                  my life is devoted to my country. I am sure you would not have me skulk from the
                  field when others are fighting for all I hold dear."
               Mr. Rogers had been partially prepared for this by his son, but it was a complete
                  surprise to Dr. Griffin and the ladies,
                  and Wilson was at once assailed by appeals to his affection, and all the feminine
                  arguments usually employed on such occasions; to these were added some suggestions
                  of a graver character from Mr. Rogers and Dr. Griffin.
               The replies of Wilson were very brief, but determined and decided. His wife
                  approached him, and, putting her arms around his neck, softly whispered:
               "You will not leave me, Toby?"
               "I must," was the reply. "I have been inactive too long already. I needed some
                  such lesson as Captain Sykes has given me to rouse me to a sense of duty to my
                  country. It will wring my heart to part from you, sweet wife, but your own
                  judgment must tell you that I ought to go."
               Similar answers were made to all the entreaties which were addressed to him. These
                  were many and tearful; and were only terminated by Thomas Rogers, who remarked
                  abruptly:
               "Come, Toby, we must ride. We have little more than time to reach the mountain by
                  daybreak." Then, taking his sister by the hand, he said kindly: "It is vain to
                  urge him, Sophy, and your parting will be painful enough to him without your
                  making it more so by idle tears and vain entreaties. Do not annoy him with them.
                  Let him remain (for remain he will) without inflicting upon him needless torture.
                  Now go and tell him good-by until you are ready to leave this country. We will
                  come over then and guard you safely to Stevenson. You ought to remember that he is
                  the best judge in this matter."
               Thomas Rogers then shook hands with the remainder of the party, and bade them good
                  night. The brave girl, appreciating the soundness of the advice she had received,
                  folded her husband in a loving embrace, bade him act as his own judgment dictated,
                  and only asked him to reflect well before his final decision was made. That
                  decision was already made, but he did not tell her so. He only drew her to his
                  breast, and, imprinting kiss after kiss upon her lips and cheeks, murmured, "God
                  bless you, my dear wife." Then, bidding adieu to his mother and friends, he left
                  the room with tears in his manly eyes, and followed his friend to where their
                  horses were tied.
               "You did not tell me, Toby, but I knew that you had made up your mind to become a
                  soldier. I think you are right, but if I had thought otherwise I should not have
                  said a word to dissuade you, for I could see plainly enough in your face how vain
                  and idle it would be to attempt to change your purpose. You need not join my troop
                  yet. You can remain with us as a volunteer until you see how you like us. If you
                  prefer it, you can then join some other company."
               Tobias Wilson briefly assented to this arrangement, remarking, however, that it
                  was a useless precaution, as he was satisfied that he should prefer to remain with
                  his brother-in-law. When they arrived at home they found Sergeant Miller busily
                  engaged in sewing up the padding of his saddle which he had ripped open to extract
                  the money that he had loaned to Mr. Rogers.
               "There is a good deal more here," he said, "and I am glad to find some one I can
                  trust with a knowledge of it. If anything happens to me it will then be safe, and
                  you will know what to do with it."
               Both assured him that if they survived him it should be safely delivered to his
                  father. Then, leaving him to his work, they proceeded to the cave to bring out the
                  arms and ammunition which were to be that day distributed to such members of his
                  company as were unprovided with them.
               About eleven o'clock the recruits began to come in by twos and threes, some of them completely armed,
                  while others were without any offensive weapon. Each one was dressed in the
                  clothes usually worn by him, and, altogether, they presented more the appearance
                  of men who had gathered together for the purpose of taking part in one of the
                  ordinary barbecues and shooting-matches of the Southwest, than of a military
                  association. After allowing what he deemed sufficient time for all to arrive,
                  Rogers called the roll, and, ascertaining that all were present who had promised
                  to be there, he organized a kind of public meeting, in which it was resolved that
                  they would that day elect only a captain and first-lieutenant, leaving the other
                  offices to be filled after they had served together awhile, and could better
                  appreciate each other's capacity. The vote for captain was unanimous for Thomas
                  Rogers, and nearly so for Miller as lieutenant. The arms were then distributed,
                  and a rude camp, without tents, formed in the little valley, permission being
                  given to all those whose preparations were not completed to return to their homes
                  and remain for two days. Provisions had been prepared for their temporary sojourn
                  in the valley, the greater part, indeed, being the free gift of those recruits who
                  lived in the neighborhood, or of their immediate friends and relations. A
                  temporary commissary was appointed, who proceeded, after a fashion, to distribute
                  rations and forage among the troopers. The experience of Lieutenant Miller was now
                  of great advantage to Thomas Rogers. Hobbling to the camp upon his crutches, he
                  gave, in person, many necessary directions to the new recruits, and calling the
                  old soldiers about him, he instructed them to communicate all necessary knowledge,
                  and to aid in every way their inexperienced associates.
               "We didn't know much ourselves, boys," he said, "when we first began, and suffered
                  enough for the want of some one to tell us. I want to make soldiers of these boys
                  as soon as possible, and you must help me all you can." These orders were
                  cheerfully assented to, and perhaps there never was a company, composed of such
                  heterogeneous materials, who laid down at night upon the bare earth in better
                  humor with themselves, their comrades, and their officers, than those who composed
                  the command of Captain Thomas Rogers.
               On the next day, when Dr. Griffin came over upon pretense of seeing his patient,
                  but really to confer with Thomas Rogers, he was surprised to find the little
                  valley nearly filled with armed men, a large portion of whom were drilling in
                  squads upon every available piece of ground, including the land from which the
                  wheat and oats had been cut. His surprise was not much diminished when informed of
                  the cause which had brought these men together. However, he saw that it was beyond
                  remedy, even if he had desired to remedy it, which he probably did not. Waving,
                  therefore, any comment upon the scene before his eyes, he called Thomas Rogers and
                  Tobias Wilson into the house, gave them the deed of trust for Miller, and informed
                  them that Mr. Rogers had decided to start upon his journey northward on the
                  following Wednesday morning.
               "That is as it should be," answered Rogers. "I like quick work. Tell him that Toby
                  and I will be there by breakfast time, with fifty picked men, to see them safe
                  into the Union lines."
               With this message, and many a loving one from Tobias Wilson, the doctor returned;
                  while Rogers again sought the drill-ground, and placed himself in charge of the
                  soldier whom Miller had selected as his instructor. He had somewhere obtained an
                  old copy of cavalry tactics, which he
                  studied attentively, but he was not ashamed at the same time to be practically
                  taught by one of his own troopers. He had taken up his abode among the men, took
                  his meals with them, and slept on the ground, as they did, thus proving to them,
                  at the very beginning, that he was not disposed to ask them to undergo anything
                  which he was not willing to share.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               ON the evening succeeding the events related in the last chapter, in a lonely spot
                  not far from the western border of Jackson County, Alabama, a young girl, and an
                  officer in the uniform of the Confederate army, might have been seen in earnest
                  conference. About a quarter of a mile off there was a dwelling-house, which was,
                  doubtless, the girl's residence. To the right of them there was a thick growth of
                  trees and bushes, extending down a slight declivity to a considerable creek.
                  Through the wood there was a narrow path which led to a spring, whose living
                  waters gushed from a rocky bluff and emptied themselves into the creek below. To
                  their left was a little cornfield, of some ten or fifteen acres, and along its
                  side ran a neighborhood road, which, however, was so little used that the solitude
                  of the place was seldom broken by the presence of man. The girl was seated on a
                  projecting rail of the fence; by leaning his arm on another above her head, the
                  young officer was enabled to bend over her as he spoke, and intently watch her
                  changing features. She did not seem to be altogether pleased, and was apparently
                  uncertain whether or not to believe the words he had spoken. Still, she listened,
                  and did not contradict him. At length she said:
               "I am not satisfied, and will not be till you consent to see my mother. Why can't
                  you come to the house as you once did? Indeed, you must come!" Then,
                  suddenly bending her head toward the ground and listening intently, she added quickly: "You must leave here at once; I
                  hear a horse's foot coming up the ridge."
               "I hear nothing," said the officer, after a moment's listening. "You must be
                  mistaken."
               "But I do, and I am not mistaken," she replied. "I have listened at
                  this spot for the sound of your horse's feet, in other days, too
                  often to be deceived. You must away at once."
               "Well, then," replied the officer, "give me a parting kiss and I will be off,
                  since you think it dangerous to stay."
               She submitted to his embraces, but did not return them; and when he had mounted
                  his horse, which had been tied a short distance in the wood, she again composedly
                  seated herself on the projecting rail of the fence. But a few minutes passed when
                  an armed man rode up to where she was sitting, and greeted her with what he
                  intended to be a careless "good evening." She returned it coldly enough, and then
                  asked:
               "Which way are you going, Mr. Franklin?"
               "That is a question, Miss Sarah," he replied, "which it is not prudent to answer
                  in times like these unless we happen to know what may be the particular object of
                  the questioner."
               "Well, then," she said pettishly, "keep it to yourself."
               "That's exactly what I intend to do," he said; "but I wish I had found you in a
                  better humor."
               "I don't know why it should make any difference to you, Mr. Franklin, whether I am
                  in a good or a bad humor. I told you before that we never could be anything to
                  each other."
               "Still," he replied, "there is no reason why we should be enemies because we
                  cannot be lovers."
               The restless eye of the soldier had been in the mean time roving over every object
                  about them. He had observed served the print of a man's foot in the dust of the
                  road; he looked down the unfrequented pathway, but could see no trace of man or
                  horse in that direction. He therefore concluded that whoever had made the track he
                  had seen, had gone toward the spring; and having no idea that he could extract any
                  information from the girl, he bade her good-by, and turned his horse's head in
                  that direction. Passing near the place where the officer's horse had been
                  fastened, he did not fail to notice the trampled ground and other marks the animal
                  had left.
               "Humph!" he muttered. "I have broke in on a private meeting, and that's what made
                  her so crusty; but she needn't have been, for he has been here long enough, I
                  should say, from these signs, to satisfy any girl who is at all reasonable."
               Pursuing his way toward the spring, he perceived that the horseman had not stopped
                  to taste its crystal waters, but had ridden directly across the creek. Franklin
                  having last heard of Captain Sykes on the Guntersville road, and wishing to learn
                  if he had changed his course, crossed the creek without hesitation, and followed
                  the tracks of the horse, along a pathway leading through an open space, which had
                  once been a cultivated field, but was now "turned out to rest." At right angles to
                  the path there was an immense "bottom," densely covered with forest trees. Along
                  its outer edge there ran the neighborhood road, from which Franklin had diverged,
                  and which, making a large circuit for the purpose of obtaining a better
                  crossing-place over the creek, around Mrs. Austin's inclosure, again resumed its
                  original course when the obstruction of the creek was passed. By crossing at the
                  deeper and more difficult ford near the spring, a considerable angle was cut off,
                  and Franklin supposed that the horseman he was pursuing had taken this route on
                  that account. When he neared the wood
                  we have mentioned, he perceived that the horseman had ridden straight across the
                  road and entered the forest. Dismounting to look for the tracks he had been
                  following, he observed the indentations of many other horses' feet, that had been
                  apparently going and coming in that direction for several days past.
               "Ah!" he muttered. "It needs no book to tell the meaning of this. It's Captain Joe
                  Sykes's band, and they're lurking about Mulford's, in the hollow of the mountain
                  beyond the swamp. It was him that I ran away from that nice little meeting over
                  yonder. But this is no place for me. He might be coming back this way with more
                  men than I care to meet. It would do me a power of good to git him off by himself,
                  but I ain't ready for a general scrimmage with his whole company."
               Turning his horse again toward the spring, he put him to a much faster pace than
                  he had yet been traveling. Upon reaching the creek, he did not cross it, but
                  directed his course up the stream, inwardly saying:
               "That girl's watching me; and she said enough just now to show me that she would
                  like to see me knocked in the head, or bored through with a half a dozen bullets,
                  or chopped into mince-meat, or put out of the way in any other fashion. If Captain
                  Sykes comes back to-night, she'll tell him all she sees; but I am a little too old
                  to be caught that way. Captain Sykes and me will have a meeting before long, but I
                  shan't let him choose the time and place and the seconds."
               Riding steadily up the creek for more than half a mile through the open field,
                  where he was plainly visible to any one on the look-out, he entered the wood
                  beyond it in a southeasterly direction; but, as soon as he was satisfied that he
                  was completely hidden by the trees, he turned his horse's head due north, crossed
                  the creek at a rough and rocky place, where there was no ford, changed his course
                  to the northwest, and rode rapidly through an open wood some four or five miles.
                  He was familiar with every foot of the country, and, carefully avoiding all houses
                  and settlements, frequently changing his course for this purpose, he arrived
                  before sunset at a little spring, close by a field of oats, which had been
                  recently cut and was standing in shocks in the field. Appropriating one of these
                  shocks without scruple, and relieving his horse's mouth from the bit, he shook the
                  provender down before him; then seating himself by the spring, he drew some cold
                  provisions from his haversack, and leisurely proceeded to satisfy his hunger. When
                  his own meal was finished, he leaned back upon his elbows, and watched his horse's
                  feeding with real interest.
               "Take your time, old boy," he said, as if the animal understood him; "you've got a
                  good hour to go on, for I shan't budge from here until after dark. It mightn't be
                  wholesome."
               It was past twelve o'clock at night, when a sentry before Rogers's encampment
                  sharply challenged a horseman who was approaching his post. John Franklin—for it
                  was he—did not have the countersign, and was consequently detained until the
                  officer of the guard came to conduct him within the lines. Inquiring whether
                  Captain Rogers was asleep, he was informed that he was.
               "I'll thank you, then, to wake him," answered Franklin, "for I have news to tell
                  him he will be glad to hear; and in the mean time I'll be obliged to you if you'll
                  let me know where I can get something to feed my horse." Having received that
                  important information, he lost no time in discharging what he regarded as the
                  first duty of a cavalryman, viz., to attend to the wants of the animal he rode. By
                  that time, the striking of a light on another part of the ground informed him that
                  the captain was awake, and ready to
                  receive him. Walking straight to the place, he saluted his officer respectfully,
                  and awaited his questioning with the quiet, impassive air of an old and
                  experienced scout.
               "Sit down, Franklin, "said the captain, throwing a few additional pieces of split
                  wood upon the fire; "I am told you have news for me."
               "Yes, sir," was the answer of Franklin, as he seated himself upon the ground, in
                  compliance with the invitation. He then related to his captain, without further
                  questioning, all with which the reader is acquainted of his meeting with Sarah
                  Austin, and tracking the unseen horseman to the deep forest swamp he had
                  entered,—accompanying his narrative with many shrewd observations, and giving an
                  account of other facts which his keen eye had not failed to observe, and that
                  would have been passed unnoticed by an ordinary traveler, or, if noticed, would
                  have been deemed wholly unimportant.
               "He went straight, sir, from the river, where Mr. Wilson escaped, to Mulford's,
                  with his gang. He's no notion of leaving the county; if he had, he'd have gone
                  down Paint Rock, and crossed the Tennessee at Fort Deposit. He's got friends that
                  way, and such as ain't his friends would be afraid to cheep. But, instid of that,
                  he's gone off to a hidin'-place to the northwest—partly, I believe, because it was
                  convenient to that foolish girl, and partly because he's got some divilment in his
                  head that he ain't yet ready to undertake. He'll stay where he is, I think, for a
                  week to come. There's plenty of forage in that neighborhood, and plenty of folks
                  willin' to give it to him; and, besides, it's nigh on to six miles from any public
                  road; so he thinks he's in no danger of being disturbed."
               Thomas Rogers pondered upon this information some time before he replied:
               "I think you are right, Franklin; but we must try and get something more positive.
                  You are too well known in that neighborhood to risk yourself there more frequently
                  than is absolutely necessary; besides, I have another duty for you, if you are not
                  too much tired, in the morning. Is there not some one of your old companions who
                  is acquainted with the country, and who is not so well known personally as you
                  are, whom I can send to follow up your observations, and learn exactly where he
                  is, and what he is doing?"
               "There's more than a half a dozen of them, sir," was the reply. "The only trouble
                  is to choose among them, one's so near as good as the other."
               "It is better to have two than one," said Rogers; "and more than two is
                  unnecessary. I shall trust to you to select them, and send them to me early in the
                  morning. I wish you also to choose a companion for yourself, to make a scout along
                  the Stevenson road."
               "Yes, sir; it shall be done by sun up."
               "And now, good night," said the captain. "You will have no difficulty in finding a
                  place to sleep here."
               "I always sleep, sir, as near my horse as I can." Then, rising and bowing to his
                  captain with unfeigned respect, he walked off, and unfastening a blanket from his
                  saddle, spread it upon the ground, and in two minutes was buried in profound
                  repose.
               Early the next morning the scouts were dispatched upon their several errands, and
                  the monotonous drill was resumed. On Tuesday night, the two scouts sent to look
                  after Captain Sykes's business and whereabouts had not returned; but the report of
                  those who had been sent in the direction of Stevenson was so favorable, that
                  Rogers determined to take with him only twenty men, instead of fifty, as he had at
                  first proposed. This reduction was caused by his desire to conceal, as far as
                  possible, the number of his men. As
                  yet, it was not even suspected that any organization of Union men existed in the
                  county; but his appearance in the thickly settled neighborhood where Dr. Griffin
                  resided, at the head of an armed party, would be sure to furnish occasion for much
                  gossip and many wild conjectures. Before nightfall the extraordinary circumstance
                  would be known far and near, and messengers would certainly be dispatched to
                  notify Captain Sykes, and any other Confederate band which might be concealed in
                  the vicinity, waiting for the Union cavalry, then at Stevenson, to cross the
                  Tennessee River: thus leaving the citizens, as they supposed, entirely at their
                  mercy, both in the enforcement of the conscript law and the tyrannical
                  impressment, in the name of the Confederate government, of whatever they saw fit
                  to take. Thomas Rogers had so quietly and so judiciously managed his recruiting
                  operations, that no rumor had got abroad of the existence of a Union force
                  anywhere in the country, except that which was now encamped at Stevenson. To keep
                  up this delusion, and to leave secession citizens and secession soldiers under the
                  impression that a time was near at hand when there would be no one to restrain or
                  punish any license in which they saw fit to indulge, Thomas Rogers judged it best
                  to take with him a number of men so small as not to create alarm, or induce a
                  belief that they would remain behind when General Stanley had taken up his march
                  to assist in the capture of Chattanooga, which, it was now apparent, would soon be
                  attacked by all the troops under General Rose-crans's command.
               The selection of the men had been left to Lieutenant Miller, Captain Rogers not
                  being yet sufficiently acquainted with his troopers, their characters, and
                  qualifications, to decide upon the service for which they were best fitted. The
                  men selected were almost all of them old soldiers, who knew the value of
                  watchfulness and secrecy, and who had already learned to respect their commander
                  too much to dream of the slightest disobedience to his orders. There are some men
                  who attract the regards of the soldier so suddenly and strongly, that it seems
                  like magic; and Thomas Rogers was one of these. They knew that he had never seen a
                  battle-field, but yet they felt instinctively, that when there, under his command,
                  they would not be exposed by rashness to unnecessary danger, or, on the other
                  hand, to disgrace by timidity or unmanly hesitation. His bearing, when in the
                  saddle, was so firm and decided, and in the camp so unostentatious, and yet so
                  dignified, that it commanded their utmost respect; and his readiness to share
                  every privation with them, won their love, and made him in a few days almost the
                  idol of the rough and hardy men around him. To the restraints he imposed upon
                  them, they submitted cheerfully and without a murmur, and notwithstanding their
                  previous habits, promised soon to become as orderly as the best-drilled veterans
                  of the army.
               We will not tire the reader with a description of the journey to Stevenson. It
                  was, we suppose, in most respects like other journeys of the same character, and
                  under similar circumstances. The parting, too, was just such as would be
                  anticipated between relations so near and so dear to each other, when about to be
                  separated for an indefinite period of time. The most remarkable part of it was the
                  gay and light-hearted mood which came upon Tobias Wilson when the Nashville train
                  had disappeared, bearing away all that he loved best on earth. The change was
                  noticed by Thomas Rogers, who remarked: "You seem delighted, Toby, to get rid of
                  them."
               "Not exactly that," answered Wilson; "but I am delighted that they are beyond the
                  reach of further insult or injury. It
                  is enough for a man to witness once in his lifetime the bitter and galling sight
                  of a loved wife and darling mother driven out in the night-time from beneath the
                  roof that sheltered them, while the tears that gathered in their eyes glittered
                  like fiery drops in the light of the flames that made them homeless. It is true,
                  they were spared the added pangs of insult; but these too might come on the next
                  occasion: and who can tell how long that occasion would be deferred, or with what
                  other circumstances of outrage it might be attended?"
               "There is more, Toby," replied his friend, seriously, "though you know it not.
                  That sight has warmed to life the old serpent that you thought dead. Watch
                  yourself well, Toby, or the demon of revenge will again assert his dominion over
                  your heart. You do not smile, as another would do, at such advice from me; nor
                  need you, Toby, for he who has felt the poison of the rattlesnake in his veins,
                  can best describe its horrors."
               "I should be far," said Wilson, "from smiling at such advice from any one I loved
                  or respected; but in truth, I do not think I need it. I cherish no feeling of
                  revenge against Captain Sykes; for if he did cause all that mischief and
                  annoyance, it was, in part, unintentional; and when he discovered what he had
                  done, he acted like a man, and not like a brute, as I expected he would do. I do
                  not forgive him, but I would not harm him save in open battle."
               "How about your own wounds and bruises, Toby, and his kind intention to transfer
                  you from a peaceful and happy home to the hell of a conscript's life?"
               "That," replied Wilson, "is a chance I had to take, in common with others of my
                  age, whenever I met with a Confederate officer who supposed he had the power to
                  capture me. But, to tell the truth, if it had come alone, unaccompanied by
                  circumstances which showed him in a better light than I expected, I am afraid that
                  I should not have considered anything short of Captain Sykes's life-blood a
                  sufficient atonement. But when I saw and heard him ordering his soldiers to work,
                  and working himself like a slave to save your father's property, and observing
                  besides a most scrupulous deference toward the ladies, whose slumbers he had so
                  rudely broken, much of my resentment vanished; and I repeat, that he is safe from
                  me unless he crosses my path in battle."
               "I will not argue against your decision, Toby, for in truth I am half inclined to
                  believe that you are right; but if Captain Sykes expects any such forbearance from
                  me, he is leaning on a broken reed."
               The conversation here ended, and was not resumed for months afterward—months
                  crowded with terrible and bloody events, in which both had borne a part that
                  entitled them to a place in history.
               In accordance with the plan decided upon before leaving his encampment, Captain
                  Rogers remained a day in Stevenson. His object was to discern any spies who might
                  be watching his movements, and to induce them to believe that his purpose was to
                  march southward with the main cavalry force. On the following night he took up his
                  line of march, but not in the direction from which he had come. On the contrary,
                  he moved southwardly toward Bellefonte. Proceeding on this route for some miles,
                  he suddenly turned to the right, and traveling as rapidly as the darkness would
                  permit, he arrived by daylight at a point in the mountains only a few miles
                  distant from the pathway which led them over to the dwelling of Tobias Wilson.
                  Here he dismissed his command, instructing them to make their way singly to the
                  encampment, avoiding, as much as possible, the level country, and shunning the few
                  people who might be astir at this early
                  hour. In company with Tobias Wilson he essayed to ascend the mountain from the
                  point where they then were. Intimately acquainted as both had been, from
                  childhood, with every pass and gorge, every cliff and precipice, they found the
                  ascent a work of more toil and labor than they had anticipated. Leading their
                  horses, they began to climb the steep mountain-side, sometimes rolling away huge
                  rocks, sometimes treading on the brink of a dangerous precipice—now making a
                  circuit—and again leading them up rugged banks where it required all their
                  strength to support the animals in their upward struggles. At length they reached
                  the top of the mountain, which is there an immense plain, running for many miles
                  along the ridge, covered with a rich and luxuriant grass, and affording excellent
                  pasturage for the herds of cattle and other animals which were driven up by the
                  settlers in the valley in early spring, and allowed to remain with but little
                  attention until the green carpeting of the earth had been destroyed by the frosts
                  of autumn. Here they rested for some time, for the double purpose of recruiting
                  their own and their horses' strength after the fatigue they had undergone. Rogers,
                  taking advantage of so favorable an opportunity, communicated to Wilson not only
                  the plans which he considered definitely settled, but all the visionary schemes
                  which had been floating through his brain for the last five or six weeks. At some
                  of these his friend only smiled, to others he interposed a decided negative, and
                  others again were noted as worthy of future consideration.
               "I expect, Toby," said Rogers, rising and throwing the bridle-rein over his
                  horse's head, "that you will have it all your own way at last; for although I
                  believe you are a more passionate and headstrong man than I am, you never seem to
                  let your passions get the better of your judgment, and never allow your brain to
                  be troubled by such wild visions as are constantly running through mine. I had
                  rather trust to your opinion than mine at any time."
               "You don't know," said his brother-in-law, "what is passing in my brain. I may
                  have as many unsubstantial dreams as you have, without telling about them. As to
                  your future course, you ought not to be governed by my advice, unless, after
                  examination, you are satisfied that it is sound. I shall be with you I hope for a
                  long time, and you need not make any important movement without reflection. My
                  opinions will always be given to you frankly and fully."
               "I shall not fail to ask for them, Toby; and now let us ride. I am both hungry and
                  sleepy, and shall be rejoiced when your cabins come in sight."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               WHEN Captain Rogers returned to his encampment, hungry, as he really was, he could
                  not restrain his impatience to hear the report of the scouts he had sent to gather
                  news of Captain Sykes and his company; and, accordingly, before sitting down to
                  the meal that he and Tobias Wilson were preparing, he dispatched a messenger to
                  the camp to summon them to his presence. Their report was confirmatory of all that
                  Franklin had suspected. They had succeeded in getting on the mountain which
                  overlooked the place where the enemy had encamped near Mulford's house, and had
                  remained there a whole day watching their movements. They seemed to be abundantly
                  supplied with forage and provisions, but were industriously engaged in collecting
                  more; small parties were constantly coming in, bringing bags of corn, bacon, and
                  Indian-meal, bundles of fodder and oats. Besides this, there seemed to be
                  considerable activity among them. Little parties of two and three together, whom
                  they judged to be scouts, rode away from the camp and did not return. At the house
                  of a Union man, whom they knew, and to which they ventured at night, they learned
                  that the provision and forage, which they had seen carried into Mulford's, had
                  been forcibly taken from loyal citizens in the neighborhood. He was himself hourly
                  expecting a visit, and had hidden away almost everything he could conceal. To the
                  remark of one of the scouts, that if Captain Sykes's foragers agers should pay him
                  a visit that night, they would be apt to get more bullets than provisions, he
                  replied:
               "They will not come at night, unless they come in a body and mean to do-more
                  mischief than carrying off a little forage."
               A good deal of other information was extracted from him, and then, having filled
                  their haversacks with the remains of the bounteous supper that had been provided
                  for them, they saddled their horses and set out on their return to the camp.
               This report had been made in the presence of Lieutenant Miller and Tobias Wilson.
                  When it was ended, Wilson asked how many men he had with him.
               "We could not tell certainly," was the reply, "although we counted them at least a
                  half a dozen times. They were coming and going through all the day, and it was
                  impossible to say how many there were; but there cannot be less than
                  seventy-five."
               "He has been getting recruits," said Wilson, "for he did not have more than forty
                  men when be crossed the river."
               "They may be conscripts," suggested Rogers.
               "Both, may be," added Miller; "he might pick up a good many straggling soldiers
                  about here any day; but conscripts ain't so plenty, and it's safer to calculate
                  that he's got with him at least sixty-five or seventy men."
               To this proposition both Rogers and Wilson assented. The conference was then
                  adjourned until after supper, and Miller was requested to notify John Franklin to
                  attend, as Captain Rogers wished to avail himself of Franklin's intimate knowledge
                  of the locality.
               Before daylight the next morning, Thomas Rogers, with eighty men, set out upon his
                  first military expedition, the object being to surprise and capture or cut to
                  pieces the Confederate troops under
                  Captain Sykes. During the day's march, he had" the good fortune to make prisoner
                  one of the enemy's scouts. The information obtained from him was of considerable
                  service; but his capture was most important, because it furnished Captain Rogers
                  with a guide whose knowledge of the direction taken by the various foraging
                  parties enabled him to avoid the places where it was most likely they were
                  carrying on their plundering operations. At another time, Rogers would have hunted
                  up these parties with avidity; but he dreaded to encounter them now, lest some one
                  might escape and carry the news of his approach to the camp, thus rendering the
                  flight of the band almost certain. The prisoner was accordingly placed between two
                  troopers at the head of the column, with a distinct intimation that the first
                  foraging party they encountered would be the signal for his death. Captain Rogers
                  was not satisfied with this precaution alone. Four picked men were sent forward in
                  advance, while others were thrown out from a quarter to a half mile on either
                  flank. He knew that he was traversing a country where four out of every five men
                  were his enemies. He therefore avoided passing near any habitation when there was
                  any practicable way of getting round it unobserved; and when this could not be
                  done, he did not hesitate to resort to the expedient of reporting his command as
                  rebel troops—a story which the motley appearance of the men went far to
                  confirm.
               It was dusk as they slowly ascended a gap in the mountains which led to Mulford's
                  house. At this point Thomas Rogers had expected to encounter a picket or a guard
                  of some kind, to dispute the passage or give notice of the approach of danger, and
                  his advanced scouts had been instructed to move forward cautiously, and fall back
                  instantly if his expectations should prove correct; but no sign of an enemy was to
                  be met with—not a sentry had been posted within this important pass, which
                  afforded an easy access to the rebel camp. It was evident that Captain Sykes's
                  mind was entirely at ease, and that he had no suspicion of danger. The scout who
                  brought back these tidings reported that his comrades had halted on the crest of
                  the ridge, where they had a full view from the light of the camp-fires of the
                  valley below. Moving on slowly and cautiously until within a few yards of the
                  summit, Captain Rogers ordered his troop to remain in their saddles where they
                  were until his return. Then dismounting from his horse, and calling upon Wilson
                  and Franklin to do the same, they ascended the gap to the point from which his
                  scouts were still taking observations of the valley below. The bright light of the
                  camp-fires rendered every object distinctly visible, and the total absence of any
                  apprehension of danger on the part of his enemies, allowed him full leisure for a
                  careful survey of the ground. The valley was of considerable extent, the greater
                  part of it being "fenced in" and under cultivation by Mulford, who was a man of
                  ample means for that country. It was not exactly level, but gradually sloped
                  upward, in a triangular shape, from the "bottom" at its base to Mulford's house,
                  which was situated near the apex of the triangle. By the light of the fires there
                  seemed to be but one mode of egress besides the one occupied by the United States
                  troops, though, in point of fact, the mountain could be ascended by horsemen who
                  were acquainted with it at many points. Judging, however, only from what he saw,
                  he concluded that if they could be cut off from the dense forest which "covered
                  the bottom land, the whole band must be captured or killed, and his dispositions
                  were made accordingly. Leaving a small guard in the gap, he directed Franklin to
                     dismount mount thirty men and if
                  possible to gain a position on the side of the mountain, within good rifle range
                  of the enemy's encampment. The hooting of an owl was to be the signal that this
                  was accomplished. The rebel horses were all unsaddled, their arms stacked, some of
                  the men were busily engaged preparing supper, some of them playing cards by the
                  light of the fires, while others were lying on the ground or lounging about the
                  encampment, without an apparent object. It had been arranged that Franklin, after
                  giving the signal that his covert was gained, should wait full five minutes before
                  pouring in his fire upon the unconscious freebooters, in order that Rogers with
                  his mounted men might have time to descend the gap, and by hard riding interpose
                  between the enemy and the woods, so as completely to cut off their retreat. Wholly
                  unprepared as they were, Captain Rogers did not doubt that this movement would be
                  crowned with complete success. But there was one important point which his
                  inexperience caused him to overlook. He had no sooner commenced the rocky descent,
                  after the concerted signal was given, than the sound of his horses' feet
                  reverberated through the valley and attracted the attention of the hitherto
                  confident and careless troopers. Captain Sykes was himself the first to hear the
                  sound, or at least to understand its import. Springing at once to his horse, he
                  shouted to his men to arm and mount. From some cause his own and the horse of his
                  orderly were already bridled and saddled. Perhaps he had contemplated a night ride
                  to a more pleasant entertainment than that to which he was unexpectedly invited.
                  Be that as it may, he was almost instantly in the saddle, riding along the front
                  of his camp and shouting eagerly to his men to mount and form. The first part of
                  the order needed no repetition; the second part was unheeded, for Franklin now
                  poured in a deadly fire upon the frightened and disordered mass, and then rushed
                  on with loud shouts to complete his work with the bayonet and revolver. He had
                  aimed at Captain Sykes, and in the brief interval between the firing and the order
                  to charge, Tobias Wilson who was by Franklin's side, observed that officer to reel
                  in his saddle; but he quickly recovered himself, and, grasping the reins firmly,
                  wheeled his horse, and shouting "Follow me!" galloped off in a direction at right
                  angles to the woody bottom, toward a lane which ran between two cultivated fields
                  to the mountain.
               "You have winged him," said Wilson, "but that is all. Shall I finish the job?"
               "No! for God's sake no!" answered Franklin, laying his hand upon the half-raised
                  gun. "If he escapes this time I shall meet him again. There are enough of them in
                  yonder camp for you to shoot. Now come on, and leave my man to me."
               The troopers of Captain Sykes were accustomed to rapid movements, and by the time
                  the dismounted Union men had cleared the space between them, the most of them were
                  riding rapidly across the valley in the direction taken by their captain. To
                  accomplish this, however, they had been forced to abandon guns, blankets,
                  everything except their horses. A few of them, perhaps, who habitually carried
                  their knives and revolvers belted about their persons, succeeded in saving these;
                  but in all other respects the troopers of Captain Sykes were completely
                  disarmed.
               Thomas Rogers, in his anxiety to get in the rear of the rebels, had galloped by
                  without observing the lane through which his enemy was escaping. In his eagerness
                  to attain the desired object, he never once looked back; and when he had wheeled
                  his men to intercept the fugitives, he was mortified to find that they were
                  already so far away as to render pursuit, over a rough and unknown country, with his tired and jaded animals, little
                  short of madness. With a bitter curse he rode toward the encampment, which was now
                  occupied by his own dismounted troopers, who were busily engaged in collecting the
                  spoils which had been left by the flying enemy. Here he found his temporary
                  lieutenant seated upon the ground in no better humor than himself. His first
                  exclamation, after rising and saluting his superior officer, was:
               "Just think of it, captain,—I had a fair shot at him in less than a hundred yards,
                  and, by God, I only barked him enough to make him reel a little in the
                  saddle!"
               "And I," replied Rogers, "was foolish enough to gallop by a plain road, and let
                  him escape without losing a man. What have you done here? Have you captured
                  anything worth taking?"
               "I haven't looked; but the boys say that there's five killed dead and seven or
                  eight more badly wounded. I suspect that there's more of them with holes in their
                  skins, but they weren't hurt bad enough to keep them from riding away. Howsever,
                  we've got all their guns and plunder, and Captain Sykes can do no more devilment
                  in this section for a long time to come."
               It did not take Captain Rogers long to ascertain that the report of Franklin fell
                  short of the truth. In addition to the captures enumerated by him, there had been
                  taken five or six conscripts, who, at the first report of firearms, had thrown
                  themselves fiat upon the ground to avoid being hurt in the mélée. Some twelve or fifteen horses had also been secured; so that
                  the booty altogether was very considerable, and the importance of the adventure
                  greatly enhanced by the release of the young men who had been so unfortunate as to
                  fall into the grasp of Captain Sykes. When these results had been ascertained,
                  Rogers's next care was to have the wounded removed to Mulford's house, where they
                  could be better provided for than in the camps.
               "You will have no objection, I suppose, Mr. Mulford," said Rogers, "to take care
                  of your own friends? I will supply you with blankets from the camp to make pallets
                  for them. Whatever else is necessary to be done, I must leave to you. Permit me to
                  add, that as I will have business with you in the morning I shall take the liberty
                  of placing a guard around this dwelling, and whoever attempts to leave it will
                  incur some risk of being shot. You had better give notice of this to your
                  household."
               Mulford protested against the guard, saying that he was a peaceable citizen, who
                  was compelled to do whatever the Confederates wished, as he had no power to resist
                  them, and that it was a hard measure to punish him for what he could not
                  avoid.
               "I understand all that," was the reply; "but I have no time to discuss it
                  now."
               So saying, Rogers went about giving strict orders for the posting of sentries and
                  pickets, and for taking all the other precautions against surprise, a neglect of
                  which had that night cost his enemy so dear. In the very outset of his career he
                  had been taught a lesson of vigilance that he never forgot. He knew well enough
                  that no danger threatened him; but be wished to accustom his men to extreme
                  watchfulness, and he thought this a good opportunity to impress upon them the
                  useful lesson that there was no excuse for a partisan troop who allows itself to
                  be surprised under any circumstances whatever.
               Early in the morning he caused Mr. Mulford to be called from his comfortable bed
                  to a conference which that gentleman would gladly have declined. By dint of close
                  and long-continued questioning, he extracted from him the fact that all the bacon
                  which had been taken by the marauders
                  was stored in his smoke-house; that the corn was in his barn; the oats, fodder,
                  etc. stacked in his barn-yard, except, of course, the amount they had consumed
                  during their stay, which Mr. Mulford represented as very great.
               "You will oblige me," said Rogers, "by bringing the key of your smoke-house. I
                  must look at its contents myself."
               A brief examination of the smoke-house was followed by a walk to the barn. On
                  their return, Rogers calmly addressed his companion, who was swelling with
                  suppressed anger at the loss he anticipated, though nothing had been, as yet, said
                  of the purposes of the examination.
               "If a stranger should visit this place, Mr. Mulford," said Rogers, "he would no
                  doubt wonder for what purpose you are hoarding so many of the necessaries of life
                  when the number of your family is no greater than it is."
               "You know, sir," was the curt reply, "that these things are not mine; that I have
                  barely enough provisions of my own to support my family for the remainder of the
                  year, if, indeed, I have so much."
               "No, I do not know it, Mr. Mulford. I find the plunder of a whole neighborhood so
                  mingled with your property that they cannot be separated, and I feel a strong
                  conviction that if Captain Sykes had been allowed to leave here in peace, you
                  would have become his heir. The chances of war have been against you, and you must
                  abide the consequences. Every Union citizen who has been robbed by that rascally
                  gang shall be reimbursed to the full, if it takes all that is here and your own
                  property besides. But I do not apprehend that even then your stock would be so
                  reduced as to prevent you from feeding the first rebel soldiery who may come this
                  way; you would be sure to have enough for that."
               "You forget, sir," was the reply, in a sullen tone, "that much of the provisions
                  and forage was consumed by the troops during their stay, and there ought to be a
                  reduction of the amount demanded of me to that extent. You can scarcely expect me
                  to replace that."
               "I have not forgotten, sir, and I shall make no reduction. It would be curious
                  justice, to excuse the robber from making restitution, because he had consumed or
                  disposed of his stolen property."
               "But, sir, I did not take it. I did not bring a pound of it here; nor did any one
                  belonging to my place."
               "Certainly not; I know that well enough. You would not compromise yourself so far;
                  but you aided, abetted, and encouraged the thieves, and you expected that when
                  they went away you would profit by it. It is useless to argue the case, Mr.
                  Mulford; my mind is made up, and some of my soldiers have already gone out to
                  notify the Union citizens to come and reclaim their property."
               "It did not all come from Union citizens, sir; a great deal of it was freely given
                  by Captain Sykes's friends."
               "So much the better for you, Mr. Mulford; the deficiency created by consumption
                  will thus, in part, be made up, and you will escape taxation to that amount, as I
                  intend to take nothing save that which has been forced from my friends,"
               Thus ended the interview. Captain Rogers turned on his heel and walked back to his
                  encampment, leaving Mr. Mulford to indulge such reflections as his situation
                  suggested. They were unpleasant enough, though in truth he had no cause for
                  sorrow, for many of the Union men refused to come and claim their property for
                  fear of greater exactions hereafter, and in this way there was considerable
                  surplus after full restitution to those who came to receive it. A part of this was
                  consumed by Captain Rogers's men; but Captain Sykes was a good forager, and
                     there still remained enough to
                  support Mr. Mulford's family for more than three months, though he did not fail to
                  make it the occasion of complaints of heavy losses and of demanding compensation
                  from the Confederates therefor.
               Captain Rogers remained with his command at this point for two days, for the
                  purpose of carrying out his decree of restoration. On the evening of the second
                  day, John Franklin and one of his comrades, returning from an expedition upon
                  which they had been sent, passed the house of Mrs. Austin. Near the road and some
                  distance from the house, her daughter Sarah was seated on the trunk of a fallen
                  tree. She turned a little pale when Franklin reined up his horse not far from
                  where she was seated, and saluted her as an old acquaintance. Nevertheless, she
                  said, firmly enough:
               "And so, John Franklin, you are not only a deserter, but have turned traitor also,
                  and have taken up arms against your country."
               "It is pretty well known," replied Franklin, carelessly, "to every child in this
                  neighborhood, that so far as the rebel service is concerned, 'I cussed and quit'
                  some time ago; but, instead of being a traitor, Miss Sarah, my notion is that I
                  have turned an honest man, and have enlisted on the side I ought to have done at
                  first, and should have done but for you."
               "But for me!" she exclaimed. "Dog! what right have you to connect my name with
                  yours, or to impute your acts to my influence?"
               "None now, thank God!" was the reply.
               Then wheeling his horse to pursue his journey, he rode a few paces, and, turning
                  on his saddle, again addressed her:
               "I say, Miss Sarah, tell Captain Sykes, when you see him, that he owes that
                  bullet-hole in his skin to me, and that the next time we meet, he'll be in debt to
                  me for a coffin. It ain't often that I miss drawing the life-blood at a hundred
                  yards distance."
               The girl rose up, absolutely speechless with rage. When the power of speech came
                  back to her, he was too far off to hear the words she shrieked after him:
               "You'll be swinging to the limb of a tree before that time comes, or I'm
                  mistaken."
               But, as she walked home, she was by no means certain that her prediction would not
                  prove false. She could not help acknowledging to her own heart that John Franklin
                  was a dangerous enemy. He was shrewd, cautious, fearless, strong, active, and was,
                  withal, one of the best shots in the country. It is not pleasant, even to the
                  bravest, to know that such a man is daily and hourly seeking to take away the life
                  that God has given us; and when her passion had subsided, Sarah Austin shivered at
                  the danger which threatened the man she loved even while distrusting him. She
                  returned to the house and at once communicated the tidings to him, for there he
                  was then concealed, and her real business near the road was to keep watch, and
                  give notice of any approaching danger.
               How little did Franklin dream that his enemy was so near him! It was the last
                  place he would have expected to find him; for he thought that his known intimacy
                  with the family would have prevented him from seeking concealment where it was so
                  likely that he would be looked for if any search was made. Besides, Franklin did
                  not know how serious his wound was, and supposed it altogether probable that he
                  was on horseback retreating south. Captain Sykes's possible presence in that
                  neighborhood did not once cross his mind, and he rode away without a thought of
                  his finding a hiding-place beneath the roof that he had such good reasons for
                  believing he had dishonored. Yet it was
                  even so. Captain Sykes's wound, though not mortal, was a serious one, and he had
                  not ridden far in his flight before he discovered that he could not sit on his
                  horse much longer. The fugitives, finding that no pursuit was attempted, recovered
                  from their fright, and though still retreating rapidly, began to form in something
                  like order. A few only had fled up the mountain; the remainder, with Captain Sykes
                  at their head, skirted its base until they had passed the cultivated land, when
                  they turned into the wood, and pushed on directly for the country road heretofore
                  mentioned. At that point their captain declared his inability to ride farther, and
                  they at once resolved to carry him to the nearest house, (which happened to be
                  Mrs. Austin's,) and leave him there for the present. Accordingly, a soldier
                  mounted behind him to support him in the saddle, while another took the rein for
                  the purpose of leading his horse. In this way he was safely conducted to Mrs.
                  Austin's dwelling. The men remained no longer than to see him placed comfortably
                  in bed, and to receive his commands to make their way singly, or in pairs, to
                  Guntersville on the south side of the Tennessee, where they could obtain other
                  arms in lien of those they had lost.
               On the third day Captain Rogers broke up his encampment, and returned to Tobias
                  Wilson's house. Believing that there was no danger now to be apprehended from
                  irregular Confederate bands, he determined to cross the river and take part in the
                  stirring scenes about to be enacted around Chattanooga, and in Northern Georgia
                  and East Tennessee.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               IT was near the last of August when General Rosecrans, preceded by his cavalry,
                  crossed the main body of his forces to the south side of the Tennessee River. The
                  direct road to Chattanooga is a narrow passway, overhung by lofty mountains on one
                  side, and hemmed in by the river on the other. There was not a mile of this road
                  where a mere handful of men could not have arrested the march of an army. Even
                  unopposed, it would have been difficult for General Rosecrans to have transported
                  his artillery and baggage along the only route it was possible to travel—a route
                  which involved the crossing of the river twice after leaving Bridgeport, making
                  three crossings in a distance of less than thirty miles. Accordingly, the army was
                  moved southward down two valleys between the mountain ranges, in the direction of
                  Rome and Dalton, Georgia. It would be altogether foreign to the purpose of this
                  story to embrace in it an account of the great historical events which were about
                  to transpire in that wild and rugged region, and stamp it with the seal of
                  immortality. They will be referred to only so far as they affected the movements
                  of individuals whose adventures are herein recorded, and whose subsequent career
                  we propose to trace out.
               Believing that the country was now almost entirely clear of prowling bands of
                  Wheeler's cavalry, and that his friends were consequently safe from molestation,
                  Thomas Rogers crossed the river, and by rapid marches soon overtook the advancing Union army. Here the services
                  of his troop were immediately put into requisition. He was directed to scour the
                  country to the south and east, and report daily all that he was enabled to learn
                  of the strength, position, and probable movements of the rebels. This was a duty
                  they were peculiarly fitted to discharge, and the order was received by the men
                  with a cheerful acquiescence, which proved that it would not be negligently
                  performed. Reared among the mountains—accustomed from early boyhood to clamber
                  over them on foot and on horseback—they had become familiar with the
                  characteristics of the whole range, and could tell in the darkest night, from an
                  examination of the strata of rock, what direction to journey, as certainly as the
                  sailor is able to direct the course of his vessel by the north star. They were
                  thus enabled to render essential service to the Union army; but they were
                  themselves subjected to harrowing sights of distress on the one hand, and cruel
                  barbarity on the other, for which they were not prepared.
               The inhabitants of these mountains, like those of the entire range, from the
                  western border of Virginia to the eastern line of Mississippi, were, by a large
                  majority, of strong Union sentiments. But many of the young men had joined the
                  Federal army, and many others had been run down and caught by Confederate
                  conscript officers, and forced into that service. It thus often happened that upon
                  the battle-field brother was arrayed against brother, and the father stood opposed
                  to his little son, whom he had left, when he took up arms for the Union, to cheer
                  and assist his mother during the absence of her husband. He never dreamed that
                  that tender youth would be forced, by the merciless executors of a merciless law,
                  from his mother's knee to the companionship of a hardened soldiery, and dragged to
                  the battle-field, where a father's unconscious bullet might terminate his young
                  existence, or where his own shot might send that father, bleeding, to his grave.
                  In this way, from voluntary enlistments on one side, and forced conscriptions on
                  the other, the log-cabins that had dotted the mountain sides were untenanted, save
                  by the old and infirm, the women and their children. It might have been supposed
                  that the feebleness of age and the helplessness of infancy, aided by the tears of
                  mothers and of daughters, would have protected these unfortunate beings from
                  further wrong; but there were in Wheeler's cavalry men not originally altogether
                  bad, who had become hardened by long indulgence and the absence of all military
                  restraint, until they had become callous to the sight of misery and destitution,
                  and to whose depraved minds arson and murder were things to be boasted of around
                  the campfire, rather than crimes to people their slumbers with images of horror.
                  These men were performing the same duty for General Bragg that Rogers had
                  undertaken for General Rosecrans, and it sometimes happened that small parties
                  would meet in the defiles of the mountains, when combats ensued, in which the
                  loyal men invariably gained the advantage; thus illustrating a truth familiar to
                  every military commander, that a soldier turned robber can never afterward be
                  trusted to do his duty manfully in a fair and open encounter. But if they would
                  not fight, they could and did plunder and oppress. In their excursions, they would
                  stop at a house, however poor the inmates might be, demanding food for themselves
                  and forage for their horses, and would then proceed to help themselves to whatever
                  else they chanced to covet. In many instances they cut from the looms the coarse
                  cloth intended to cover the ragged children. If there was a good blanket or a warm
                  coverlid on the bed, it was sure to be appropriated. Whatever they could use
                  themselves or sell to others, was unscrupulously scrupulously seized. To entreaties and
                  remonstrances they answered with jeers and laughter; and if the poor people
                  sometimes forgot their helplessness, and indulged in the natural language of
                  indignation, the chances were that the torch would be applied to their dwellings,
                  and they would be left alone with the burning ashes that marked the spot they had
                  once called home. Upon sights like these Thomas Rogers and his men were almost
                  daily compelled to look; while stories of even a darker dye were continually
                  poured into their ears. He felt his own heart growing harder, and longed to be
                  relieved from a service which was enlivened by so little of the excitement of
                  battle, and saddened by so many spectacles of human misery. But there was no one
                  to take his place; and he continued to perform the distasteful duty until it was
                  terminated by the battle of Chickamauga. In the mean time, he had received message
                  after message from home, which filled his mind with gloom and apprehension. He had
                  supposed that comparative tranquillity would reign during his absence. The only
                  troop of Confederates, of whose existence he was aware, had been rendered
                  powerless for mischief; and, judging from his own feelings, he had supposed that
                  all the troops who had been cut off, or who had straggled from the rebel army at
                  Tullahoma, Hoover's Gap, and Shelbyville, would be flocking to the south side of
                  the river, to join General Bragg in the great struggle upon which so much
                  depended.
               He was young and inexperienced, and had not yet learned that marauders are not the
                  men to seek the post of honor and of danger. Originally they may have had some
                  faint notions of obtaining an honorable fame by fighting for their country. They
                  may have been deceived by ambitious leaders, and taught to believe that they were
                  called upon by wrong and oppression to take up arms for the protection of
                  themselves and the security of the liberty of their children. They may have
                  believed, for no pains had been spared to make them believe, that the South had
                  been invaded without cause, and unless they resisted manfully, they would become
                  the serfs and bondsmen of the North; but if such feelings ever had a place in
                  their bosoms, they had been long since superseded by a love of rapine and an
                  unscrupulous thirst for gain. Finding themselves in an unprotected country, and
                  one which afforded an ample field for the exercise of their devilish propensities,
                  they had no idea of exchanging it for one where armed men were to be met, and all
                  the dangers of the battle-field encountered. It was far more pleasant to prey upon
                  the weak and helpless than to face on equal terms the strong and the manly. In
                  their eyes, laurels were a poor compensation for the substantial fruits of a
                  successful foray. The approach of an engagement was no inducement to them to join
                  their commands; they remained to feed like cormorants upon a country which was
                  defenseless, while their comrades were face to face with the enemy. To the loyal
                  men of Jackson County, theirs was a terrible visitation, and they soon became
                  familiar with horrors to which they had heretofore been comparative strangers.
                  Every day had its tale of robbery, every night the heavens were lurid from the
                  flames of burning houses. These were occasionally interspersed with bloodier
                  deeds, until at last no man could lie down at night with any assurance that his
                  throat would not be cut before morning, and his dwelling burned over the heads of
                  his family. They had ceased to regard their property as their own, and only held
                  it subject to the will of the first armed guerrilla whom ill fortune directed to
                  their doors. All this, and much more, was communicated to Rogers, and bitter tears
                  gathered in his eyes as he listened to the recital; but he knew it would be
                  useless to ask for permission to return at such a time. A mighty stake was then being played for, and
                  individual suffering, however pitiful, and however wide-spread, could not be
                  allowed to interfere with the combinations upon which success depended. At length
                  the battle of Chickamauga was fought. The company of Thomas Rogers had been
                  dismounted, and, fighting on foot, had exhibited an unflinching courage which won
                  for them the highest distinction; but they paid dearly for the honors they had
                  acquired: they were badly cut to pieces; and when the shattered army of Rosecrans
                  gained the shelter of the works at Chattanooga, a call of the roll revealed the
                  fact to Captain Rogers that nearly half of the original numbers of his men were
                  missing. What had become of them he knew full well. They had not straggled; they
                  were not prisoners: they were lying upon the bloody ground where they had fought,
                  either dead, or too badly wounded to crawl from the fatal spot. He had succeeded
                  in securing the greater part of his horses, and this would enable him to mount
                  such recruits as might be willing to enlist under his banner.
               The presence of horsemen in Chattanooga under the then existing circumstances did
                  not compensate for the increased expense of maintaining them; and Captain Rogers
                  now easily obtained permission to recross the river for the purpose of filling up
                  his diminished ranks.
               It is necessary that we should now go back a little, in order to give the reader a
                  clear and intelligent idea of the events about to be narrated. We left Captain
                  Sykes lying wounded in the house of Mrs. Austin. His life had never been in
                  danger, but he suffered greatly for the first few days, and when the pain entirely
                  disappeared it left him as weak and helpless as a child. During the period of his
                  sufferings he was carefully attended by Mrs. Austin and her daughter, one of whom
                  never left him. No other member of the household was allowed to enter the room
                  except on special occasions, the pretext being that he was too weak to bear
                  company or disturbance. When he began to recover, Mrs. Austin seized the
                  opportunity afforded her to urge the fulfillment of his promise to marry her
                  daughter. To the mother's remonstrances were added the daughter's tears and
                  entreaties. These were too much for Captain Sykes in his feeble condition, and he
                  yielded a reluctant assent, which never could have been wrung from him in hours of
                  health. Yet, like a villain as he was, even when consenting to restore the fair
                  fame of which he had deprived her, his depraved mind was busy with a scheme to
                  render the proposed atonement unavailing. Knowing that the law required that a
                  license should be obtained from the probate judge before the celebration of the
                  marriage, he ignorantly supposed that a failure to obtain a license would
                  invalidate that marriage. Accordingly, he suggested to Mrs. Austin that no license
                  to marry could then be obtained, as the probate judge had gone to the south side
                  of the river, taking with him the records of his court to prevent them from
                  falling into the hands of the Federal troops. He proposed that if she was
                  unwilling to wait until a license could be regularly obtained, she might send for
                  a minister of the Gospel to perform the ceremony, and he pledged himself that the
                  license should be taken out at a future time, and thus all the requirements of the
                  law would be complied with. Mrs. Austin agreed to this proposition, saying that
                  she could not see how it was possible for anything more to be done under existing
                  circumstances. The next day Sarah herself rode a distance of five miles and
                  brought back with her the clergyman selected to perform the ceremony. When it was
                  over, Mrs. Austin, leaving her daughter in the room with the wounded man, called
                  the minister into an adjoining apartment, and requested him to write a certificate
                  that he had that day united Joseph
                  Sykes and Sarah Austin in the "holy bonds of matrimony." To this she appended her
                  own name as witness, and, carefully folding the paper, locked it in her
                  drawer.
               All went well with Captain Sykes and his bride for something more than a week. His
                  health and strength were rapidly returning, and he began to talk of rejoining his
                  men, who had been ordered to rendezvous at Guntersville. This purpose had been
                  delayed day after day by his wife, who represented that he was not strong enough
                  to undergo the fatigue of a day's journey on horseback. A day for his departure
                  was at length finally fixed, to which she could not well urge an objection.
                  Finding that his resolution was taken, his wife took down his uniform coat, which
                  had been hanging unnoticed in the room, and carried it out to cleanse it from
                  blood stains, and repair the damage done by Franklin's bullet. Exercising a wife's
                  privilege to examine the pockets of her spouse, she found a handkerchief, a pair
                  of gloves, and a sealed letter. The letter was addressed to Miss Ella Whitlock.
                  Without a moment's hesitation she broke the seal, and read as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MISS ELLA:—
                           
                           "I hope to be in your neighborhood in the course of two weeks, when I
                              shall certainly call on you, though you would give me no encouragement
                              when we parted. But times have changed since then. I am a captain now,
                              and expect to be promoted the first chance there is. General Wheeler
                              has promised me that I should be, and I know he will keep his word.
                              Uncle Jones has also promised me that he will give me his place on Mud
                              Creek the day I am married to you, and this, with what I have myself,
                              will make a start for a young couple, greater than any other pair in
                              the country; and, as soon as I get my promotion, I'll resign and stay
                              at home with you. I hope you will not fail to see the advantage of the
                              offer I make, and that we will meet as friends who expect to be
                              something more to each other.
                           "I know that at the beginning you were opposed to our glorious cause,
                              and that you were not disposed to be friendly with our brave soldiers;
                              but you were too young then to understand our rights, and how the '
                              Yankees' had invaded our country, and killed our men, and stole our
                              property, and insulted our women without any cause under the sun. I
                              hope and believe that as you have grown older, your first notions have
                              changed, especially as your two brothers died fighting on the same
                              side with me; but we can talk about this when I see you. So no more
                              for the present, but that I love you, and will love you till
                              death.
                           
                              "Your friend and faithful lover,
                              "JOSEPH SYKES, Captain C. S. A."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               When Sarah had read this delectable epistle, she let it fall to the floor, and sat
                  for a moment as if petrified; quickly recovering, she took it up again, a faint
                  hope crossing her bosom that she might have misunderstood its import Eagerly she
                  read it over again; but this second perusal brought no comfort: there was no
                  mistaking the meaning of the writer, however inelegantly it might be expressed. A
                  deadly pallor spread over her features, and she sank back into the chair, from
                  which she had risen in her excitement, like one overcome by physical exhaustion.
                  But at what frail straws will not a woman catch when the faith of her lover is in
                  question! Suddenly a bright color came into her cheeks, and there was a flash of
                  joy in her eyes, as she said, aloud:
               "He has put it there to try me. He has not been out of this house for three weeks,
                  so he must have written it here, and put it into that coat where he knew I'd find
                  it."
               
               Again the letter was snatched from the floor to look for the date. It had none—nor
                  had it any inside address showing the place from which it was written. So far this
                  was rather satisfactory than otherwise; but as her eyes rested upon the paper, the
                  truth flashed upon her that it was of a different quality, and a different size
                  from any to be found in her mother's house. She had herself unpacked Captain
                  Sykes's valise, and she knew that it contained no writing materials of any kind.
                  The paper, therefore, on which the letter was written was not brought with him,
                  and, as there was none like it in the house, the letter must hare been penned
                  before he came. She gave a near guess at the truth when she concluded that he had
                  placed it in his pocket after it was written, to await an opportunity of sending
                  it to the lady to whom it was addressed. Her first impulse was to rush in and tax
                  him with his perfidy—her next to show it to her mother, and at least listen to her
                  advice before acting upon her own impassioned judgment. The letter was accordingly
                  silently placed in Mrs. Austin's hands by her daughter, who dared not utter a word
                  for fear of revealing the storm in her bosom. She read it with a flush of anger
                  and indignation, but said nothing until her daughter inquired:
               "Well, mother, what shall I do?"
               "Nothing as yet," was the reply. "Let me think it over: Ill keep the letter and
                  read it again when I am disengaged; then I will give you my opinion. You know,
                  Sarah," she continued, "that we have long distrusted him, and we ought not to be
                  so much surprised if our suspicions prove true."
               "If they prove true!" answered Sarah, with marked emphasis. "Mother,
                  they are true—true beyond a doubt or a hope. The evidence is too clear for even a
                  trusting and loving heart like mine to doubt his guilt."
               The bitter misery of disappointed love was gnawing at her heart-strings; but she
                  nerved herself to play the hypocrite for a time, and, suppressing all outward
                  emotion, proceeded to finish the hateful work of repairing the uniform of the man
                  she was beginning to believe a scoundrel of the blackest dye.
               The only intercourse between the husband and the wife during that day was at the
                  dinner-table. Sarah affected to be busy in assisting her mother with her household
                  duties, and toward evening she took one of the long walks to which she had been
                  accustomed in other days, when her husband was her lover and she sought his
                  presence with far different feelings from those that now rioted in her bosom. Oh!
                  how she cursed her own folly as she recalled all that he had promised, and that
                  she had believed! But, like most human lessons, her reflections came too late.
               After supper, Mrs. Austin complained of being unwell, and retired early to her
                  room. Her daughter followed, saying briefly to the captain, that her mother
                  required attention, and she would remain with her during the night. The next
                  morning was the time fixed for his departure. When ready to start upon his
                  journey, he approached his wife to bid her adieu. She stepped quickly back, at the
                  same time extending the letter he had written to Ella Whitlock. Looking him
                  steadily in the face, she said slowly and deliberately, though unable to support
                  herself without clasping the back of a chair:
               "I believe, Captain Sykes, that this letter is in your handwriting."
               He took it from her extended hand, and glanced at the address. If Sarah had needed
                  further proof of his guilt, she would have found it now in the confusion that
                  overwhelmed him. His face turned red, and white, and livid by turns. But he was
                  blessed with a stock of impudent
                  assurance which seldom falls to the lot of any one man, and besides, he was
                  satisfied in his own mind that his marriage was a nullity, and that he therefore
                  held all the advantages of the game in his own hands. In his secret heart he was
                  not sorry to break off a connection that he was beginning to regard as
                  troublesome, and an open quarrel, began by herself, afforded a pretext of which he
                  was not indisposed to avail himself. When therefore his momentary confusion had
                  passed away, he said, with assumed sternness:
               "By what right, madam, have you ventured to open a sealed letter addressed to
                  another? You are aware that the law makes it a criminal offense?"
               "The right of a wife to detect the falsehood and meanness of her husband. The
                  right of every one to expose a villain. Is there any law against that?"
               "A wife, Miss Sarah!" he said, sneeringly. "You are not yet a wife,
                  unless some one else besides myself has the happiness to be your husband. You will
                  remember that the ceremony between us was incomplete—a link was missing, which it
                  depends upon me to supply, and your present conduct is not calculated to make me
                  anxious to do so."
               "The ceremony was incomplete!" ejaculated Sarah. "Oh! You mean the want of a
                  license, do you not?"
               "Assuredly I do; and as it cannot be taken out without my consent, it will be apt
                  to remain in the office if it is to bring such storms as this."
               "Idiot!" she exclaimed. "Idiot as well as villain! And so you thought to trick me
                  with a false marriage! I suspected as much. I had learned to doubt you, sir, and
                  did not scruple to take advantage of your ignorance—the deceiver has been
                  deceived. I remembered to have heard that in Alabama a license was not necessary
                  to the validity of a marriage, and when Lawyer —— stopped here, some months ago, I
                  contrived to get his opinion without his suspecting what I was after. He said that
                  a license was indeed provided for by law, but the marriage was not affected by it.
                  That the parties might be fined for failing to apply for it, but that was all.
                  That marriage was a civil contract, and was valid for all legal purposes if the
                  parties only took each other by the hand and acknowledged, in the presence of
                  witnesses, that they were man and wife.*
                   And now, sir, we part forever. It was necessary to my honor that I should
                  be able to call you husband; for that reason alone I shall continue to bear your
                  name, but the same roof can never shelter us again."
               
                  
                  *Such is the law of Alabama. False marriages—marriages gotten up to deceive
                     either of the parties—are impossible in that State, if the assent of both
                     parties to the marriage can be proved.
               
               Without another word or look she walked into an inner room, followed by her
                  mother, who had witnessed, without uttering a syllable, the interview which had
                  just terminated, but which her advice had prevented from being much more stormy
                  and protracted.
               Captain Sykes left the house and departed on his journey in no pleasant mood. He
                  was pondering upon the legal doctrine which, to his amazement, had just been
                  expounded to him by his wife.
               "It can't be true," he muttered. "What's the use of requiring a license if a
                  marriage is good without it? I don't believe a word of all that rigmarole she has
                  been trying to cram down my throat. It's nonsense."
               But the idea would force itself upon him that she had acted too independently, and
                  extinguished too decidedly any hope of future reconciliation or intercourse, not
                  to be herself convinced of the truth of what she had said; and his busy thoughts
                  took another direction.
               
               "If it is so, and I'll find out mighty soon, how is she to prove her 'civil
                  contract?' That preacher will swear anything I tell him, and I can kill off her
                  mother's evidence by having them both indicted for a conspiracy to extort money
                  from me by pretending that I had married the girl."
               Revolving this atrocious scheme in his mind, and becoming more and more convinced
                  of its plausibility the more he reflected upon it, Captain Sykes rode on with an
                  air of much more satisfaction than he had worn during the earlier part of the day.
                  Continuing his soliloquy, he said:
               "If I can't make that preacher swear outright that he never married us at all, I
                  can at least keep him out of the way, and that will do nearly as well, and will
                  cost less money."
               The calculations of the redoubtable captain certainly looked plausible enough,
                  but, like all human calculations, there was a chance for them to be based upon
                  some little error of fact, which, in the end, would cause the whole edifice to
                  topple over, to the great dismay and consternation of its builder. Captain Sykes
                  did not know that the possibility of the preacher's being cajoled, or bribed, or
                  frightened into a little false swearing or a timely abandonment of the country,
                  had occurred to Mrs. Austin, and that she had, with commendable prudence, provided
                  against such a contingency by taking from him a written certificate of the
                  marriage on the spot, which completely foiled both of the captain's contemplated
                  moves. If he had known that she was in possession of that bit of paper, it would
                  not have been long before her house would have been subjected to a rigid
                  examination. But he did not know it or suspect it, and in truth if he had known
                  it, he would not have profited by it; for Mrs. Austin was fully aware that he was
                  capable of anything that was mean and villainous, and in less than an hour after
                  his departure, the precious paper was removed from the house and securely hidden
                  in a place where discovery was next to impossible.
               The captain had announced his purpose to rejoin his men at Guntersville, but his
                  horse's head was not turned in that direction, nor did he have the least intention
                  of going there for the present. On the contrary, he rode directly for his uncle's
                  house. It was a hard day's journey, but the captain was well mounted and his horse
                  well rested, so that he arrived at his destination by nightfall. When the evening
                  meal was finished and the house clear of servants, he drew his chair close to his
                  uncle, and in a low voice related all that had happened to him within the past
                  three weeks, coloring, but not falsifying, the truth. That worthy relative fully
                  sympathized with his trials and his sufferings, and highly approved of the
                  abominable plan he had formed to free himself from the difficulties which his
                  marriage had brought upon him. He also informed him that there were a number of
                  scattered bands of Confederate soldiers in the county, with some of which he was
                  in constant communication. He represented that by placing himself at the head of
                  these men, as his rank entitled him to do, his nephew would soon be in command of
                  a more formidable body than that he had lost. Nothing could have been more
                  acceptable to his nephew than the policy suggested by his uncle, and he went to
                  bed that night revolving plans of vengeance, of whose fulfillment he already felt
                  secure. The very next day he contrived to open communications with several
                  different squads of the rebels, and sent word to others of his desire to meet
                  them. On their part they were glad enough to shelter themselves under the orders
                  of an officer of his rank. It was a security against any inquiry into their
                  misdeeds, and saved them from the probabilities of a trial for desertion if
                  General Bragg should retake Chattanooga, and capture or drive the army of General Rosecrans back to Nashville,
                  and from thence across the Ohio, an event at that time deemed but too probable by
                  many citizens besides secessionists and their sympathizers. Captain Sykes found no
                  difficulty therefore in collecting a troop formidable to that unprotected country,
                  and which would have been formidable to any force which would be likely to be
                  brought against him if they had not been wholly demoralized by the unbridled
                  license to which they were accustomed. When this had been arranged to his
                  satisfaction, he called at the house of Mrs. Whitlock. Ella was not at home; the
                  answer would have been the same if she had been, but the captain did not know
                  that, or indeed suspect it.
               He had found that his uniform was possessed of magical qualities among such women
                  as he had been allowed to visit, and he confidently believed that its influence,
                  whenever he chose to call it into requisition, would be equally irresistible with
                  the whole sex. But notwithstanding his ignorant and impudent confidence, he did
                  not neglect to prepare the way for a favorable reception when his next call should
                  be made, by making a parade of protecting the property of Mrs. Whitlock, and
                  publicly uttering hypocritical lamentations over the damage done by the soldiers
                  before his arrival in the neighborhood. He declared that hereafter nothing should
                  be taken from the citizens but what was absolutely necessary, and that even in
                  such cases the impressment—as he called it—should be strictly confined to those
                  who were known to be disloyal to the Confederacy and possessed a surplus from
                  which they could part without danger of suffering.
               In the mean time many loyal citizens, disheartened by the battle of Chickamauga,
                  and dreading the fall of Chattanooga, were secretly disposing of their effects and
                  preparing to abandon their homes before a new swarm of locusts should be turned
                  loose upon them. Confederate money being worthless in the land to which their
                  hegira must be directed, they resorted to a system of barter—exchanging their
                  household goods, and such other articles as they could not take with them, for
                  bacon, corn, horses and cattle, which were smuggled into Stevenson at night, and
                  readily sold for fair and even high prices to the Union garrison at that place.
                  Matters were in this condition when Thomas Rogers arrived at Stevenson. The whole
                  story of the condition of the country, bad enough in itself, with many an
                  exaggeration arising from the fears of his informers, was quickly reported to him
                  by those who had come in to dispose of their provisions, etc. Sending out scouts
                  to obtain more accurate and reliable information, he remained at this point for
                  several days to rest his horses and obtain all the recruits he could from among
                  the outraged citizens.
               James Miller had accompanied his commander to the south side of the river, but his
                  wounds did not allow him to take part in the rough service to which his company
                  had been ordered. He now declared himself fit for duty, and assumed his place as
                  first lieutenant of the troop. We neglected to say that an election had been held
                  for second lieutenant previous to their joining the main army. The choice fell
                  upon Tobias Wilson, who promptly declined it, declaring that he was only an
                  unattached volunteer, who might prefer to join some other company, and leave them
                  at any time. John Franklin was then elected by acclamation, and had since
                  discharged his duties so faithfully and untiringly as to command the unbounded
                  confidence of his captain. Neither of the three officers were idle or neglectful
                  of any fair means to obtain volunteers; and by the time Captain Rogers judged that
                  his horses were sufficiently rested, they had secured fifteen additional members
                  to the company. In less than a week,
                  Captain Rogers, with sixty-five effective men, set out on an expedition to try
                  conclusions once more with his old enemy, who was known to have collected a force
                  nearly double his own.
               Tobias Wilson had remained in Chattanooga, as a volunteer aid on the staff of a
                  general officer, who had been particularly attracted by the desperate valor he had
                  exhibited at Chickamauga, and the skill and coolness with which he had aided his
                  brother-in-law in conducting his men from that dreadful field when the battle was
                  irretrievably lost. While here he received a letter from his wife, advising him of
                  numerous others which had been mailed to him, but which had never been received.
                  She communicated to him the not altogether unexpected intelligence of the marriage
                  of his mother to Mr. Rogers. She described the home they had selected as beautiful
                  in the extreme. They were surrounded, she said, with every comfort that could be
                  desired; and she declared that nothing was wanting to their complete happiness but
                  his presence among them. Then there was a whole page of those fond and endearing
                  expressions, which flow so gracefully and appropriately from the pen of a young
                  wife, who is separated for the first time from the husband of her choice. He
                  spread the open letter upon the table, and leaned his bowed head upon it.
               "I cannot go," he murmured. "Would to God that I could. But I cannot go. I've many
                  a battle yet to fight, and many a danger yet to encounter, before that loved face
                  will shine upon me again. When that happy hour does come, let me, O God, be still
                  worthy of all her love, and trust, and confidence! But yet I doubt myself—I
                  tremble lest the day should come when I shall be found seeking the life of a
                  foeman in other places than on the field of battle, and from other motives than
                  patriotism. I would not go with Thomas, because I feared I should witness scenes
                  that would turn my blood to fire. I have seen enough of these already."
               And so Tobias Wilson remained with the beleaguered army of General Rosecrans,
                  where his services indeed were of far more value than they could have been as a
                  private soldier in his brother-in-law's company. The future had in store for him
                  scenes of suffering more dreadful than those that he now shrank from gazing upon,
                  as well as individual trials and adventures which would tax all his mental
                  resources and all the physical powers he so abundantly possessed. But, as yet,
                  these were hidden from his knowledge, and in the active employments his position
                  imposed upon him, he found little time to indulge in vague speculations upon the
                  future.
               The arrival of Captain Rogers at Stevenson was soon widely known throughout the
                  country. Citizens claiming to be loyal, but who were in fact rebel spies, were
                  daily visitors at the post. In twenty-four hours Captain Sykes received notice,
                  not only of his coming, but of the exact number and condition of his troops. His
                  own scattered squads were promptly called in, and his encampment removed twenty
                  miles to the westward. This step was not dictated by fear. He firmly believed
                  himself capable of crushing his enemy whenever he moved beyond the support of the
                  infantry at Stevenson; but forage was getting scarce where he was, (except such as
                  was in possession of his friends,) and it would soon become necessary to send out
                  small parties to a considerable distance to obtain it. In the immediate vicinity
                  of an active and enterprising enemy these parties would be in great danger of
                  being cut off, and his command thereby gradually so much weakened that he would be
                  compelled to fight on equal or nearly equal terms, or else adopt the humiliating
                  alternative of retreating beyond the Tennessee River. He had another motive. He calculated upon defeating Rogers's
                  small force with ease; and he wished to draw him as far as possible from any place
                  of retreat, so as to make the rout of the Union soldiers more bloody and complete.
                  The population in the country through which he must advance was, for the most
                  part, hostile to Rogers; and Captain Sykes did not doubt that, if he could succeed
                  in compelling his foe to a hasty and disorderly retreat, many of his soldiers
                  would be murdered by rebel citizens, whom he knew to possess concealed arms, which
                  they would not hesitate to use when they could so easily conceal a murder by
                  charging it upon the pursuing Confederates. In one thing only was Captain Sykes's
                  information incomplete. He knew nothing of the recruits that Rogers had obtained
                  at Stevenson. These men had come in at night, and during the daytime were
                  purposely so distributed as not to excite observation. Before entering the place,
                  Captain Rogers had also dispatched four of his most trusty men to watch the
                  movements of the enemy, and report to him night after night. Captain Sykes's
                  estimate of his (Rogers's) effective force, therefore, was too small by nineteen
                  men—a very considerable item in a body of that size. When his encampment was
                  removed westward, Rogers was not quite ready to follow. His horses were not
                  sufficiently rested, and he still hoped to obtain other recruits, at least for the
                  temporary purpose of destroying the guerrillas who had made such havoc in the
                  country. Nor was he mistaken. Ten others joined him, with the understanding that
                  they should be permitted to return to their homes as soon as this desirable object
                  was accomplished. They were men past the middle age of life, and unfit for
                  protracted military service, but for an expedition of this sort they were quite as
                  effective as younger men. Moreover, all of them had been robbed, and some of them
                  had their houses burned over their heads; so that to the demands of patriotism
                  were added the fires of revenge, and they were likely to prove dangerous
                  adversaries in an encounter with their oppressors.
               The place chosen by Captain Sykes for his encampment was a wooded hill, surrounded
                  by a level country, which was inhabited almost entirely by bitter and violent
                  secessionists—men who would stickle at nothing to injure the cause of the Union,
                  and shrink from no means, however base, that gave promise of destroying its
                  defenders. Unlike their fellows in the richer counties, they were always ready to
                  contribute whatever surplus they might have on hand, and even more than they could
                  spare, for the support of the rebels. Captain Sykes was thus enabled to keep his
                  men together, and prepared to act at a moment's notice. He was soon advised that
                  Rogers was in motion, and readily conjectured that a collision must take place.
                  The accounts he now received of the force he had to encounter, though still
                  leaving him a large numerical majority, varied so much from the reports brought to
                  him from Stevenson, that he could not believe them,—attributing the variance to
                  the exaggerated estimates of the inexperienced citizens he had employed in the
                  place of regular scouts. Still, he had been taught a bitter lesson at Mulford's,
                  and nothing that prudence could suggest was neglected. The naturally strong
                  position he had taken was rendered still stronger by hastily throwing up a
                  breastwork of logs and dirt, which was sufficient to render an attack upon it, by
                  an enemy without artillery, extremely hazardous. Thus prepared, either to issue
                  from his works if he found himself sufficiently strong, or refuse to fight, unless
                  it was with fearful odds in his favor, he awaited the coming of an adversary whose
                  impetuosity of temper he well knew, and whose reckless daring he thought would be
                  sure to give a cooler opponent material advantages.
               
               His secession friends were constantly on the alert, and as constantly in
                  communication with him; but notwithstanding their watchful alertness, John
                  Franklin, with two of his troopers, had succeeded in making a thorough
                  reconnoissance of his encampment. It was only a few miles from the residence of
                  Franklin's mother; he knew every foot of the ground, and was acquainted with the
                  political bias of every inhabitant. He had thus been enabled to obtain a position
                  from which, with the aid of a good field glass, he could note every preparation
                  that had been made, and estimate with almost perfect accuracy the exact number of
                  the rebels. He concluded that they must be at least one hundred and twenty strong;
                  and with this report he returned, as he supposed, unobserved. But one eye had seen
                  him, and that one, as he was ignorant of what had transpired during his absence,
                  was the very last to which he would have willingly shown himself. It had become
                  necessary for him to cross the open field to the south of Mrs. Austin's house. He
                  had calculated upon riding the greater part of the night and passing the place
                  before daybreak, but the darkness of the night and the roughness of the road had
                  so obstructed his journey that a broad light streaked the east before he arrived
                  at the border of the timber which skirted the old field. Pausing in the edge of
                  the wood, he examined the house with his glass; seeing no signs of life, and
                  finding that the doors and rude window-shutters were all closed, he concluded that
                  the family were still asleep, and that rapid riding would enable him to cross the
                  open space unobserved. But Sarah had risen, and started to the spring for a pail
                  of water, closing the door behind her to prevent her mother from being wakened at
                  that early hour. On the way she heard the tramp of horses' feet, and hiding
                  herself behind the rocks and bushes, carefully looked out to ascertain whether
                  they were friends or enemies. Riding a little in advance of his two comrades, she
                  recognized the form of John Franklin. His features could not be distinguished, but
                  for her there was no mistaking that figure, and she turned deadly pale as the
                  thought of their last interview came back upon her. She remembered his very words;
                  the very tone and manner in which they had been spoken; and it seemed to her now
                  as if a funeral knell was ringing in her ears. She filled her pail mechanically
                  from the spring and returned to the house. Her mother had not yet risen, and she
                  set about preparing the family breakfast, but her thoughts were upon far other
                  things.
               What should she do? what ought she to do? what could she do? were questions
                  continually recurring to her mind, and to which she could find no satisfactory
                  answer. Up to this hour, she believed that she had ceased to love Captain Sykes;
                  nay, more, she had persuaded herself that she hated him. When called upon to sign
                  her name as Sarah Sykes, she almost invariably felt her lips curl with scorn, and
                  bitterly did she mourn the necessity which compelled her to retain it. But love
                  does not die so easily, and was there still, in despite of her strong will, in
                  despite of her reason, and in despite of the unanswerable proofs she had of his
                  baseness, and her fears of the villainy he might resort to in the future. She
                  shuddered at the danger that was hanging over him, and felt a partial return of
                  the old tenderness that once would have led her to sacrifice her own life for his.
                  Still, she could decide upon nothing, and impatiently waited for the time when the
                  other members of the family would leave her alone with her mother. When the
                  opportunity at last came she found, to her chagrin, that Mrs. Austin had little
                  sympathy with her feelings. To her, it seemed that the death of Captain Sykes
                  could bring to her daughter nothing but blessings. She had heartily approved of the harsh and decided
                  terms in which Sarah had informed him that all connection between them, save the
                  legal bond which she could not sever without disgrace to herself, was at an end.
                  She could not bring herself to look upon him in any other light than as a base,
                  hypocritical, and dangerous man, by whom any villainy would be practiced without
                  scruple if it promised to accomplish his ends, and upon whom any solicitude for
                  his safety shown by her daughter would be wasted, even if he did not regard it as
                  an evidence of an infatuated love, which would in the end lead her to acquiesce in
                  all that he required. She feared, too, that he might persuade, or, failing in
                  that, provoke Sarah to say or do something of which he could take advantage. It
                  was decidedly her opinion that John Franklin would do the country in general, and
                  her daughter in particular, an especial favor by ridding the world of such a
                  miscreant. Sarah argued and pleaded in vain; her mother was inflexible, and the
                  unfortunate young woman was forced to take counsel of her own heart alone. It was
                  long past mid-day before she was enabled to arrive at any conclusion, and even
                  then she was almost distracted by conflicting emotions. Of herself she could do
                  nothing to ward off the danger from a husband whose life or death she believed the
                  day before to be a matter of indifference to her. The only plan that appeared at
                  all feasible was to give him notice that his life was threatened, and thus supply
                  him with a motive to avoid any exposure of his person, save that he would be
                  compelled to make in the event of a fight between his own and any body of Federal
                  troops.
               To do this it was necessary to go in person to his camp, which was about seven
                  miles distant. She had no one to send, except her little brother, whom she was
                  scarcely willing to trust with such a message herself, and who, she was afraid,
                  her mother would not allow to be sent on any errand to the camp of her husband.
                  Proceeding, therefore, to the stable, without a word to any one, she saddled a
                  horse, and, leaving the inclosure by the back way, rode off at a smart pace on her
                  errand of love, which she had endeavored to persuade herself was only a duty that,
                  as a wife, she was bound to perform. Perhaps she was right, but none save a loving
                  woman would have thought so. Upon nearing the camp she was of course halted by the
                  pickets, to whom she said that she was the wife of Captain Sykes, and the bearer
                  of a message upon which his life might depend. The soldiers had heard a different
                  story, but even the mistress of their captain was, in their eyes, entitled to a
                  certain degree of respectful obedience, and one of them promptly offered to
                  conduct her to his quarters. When the captain observed who his visitor was, he
                  imagined that she had come to seek a reconciliation, and as it suited him well
                  enough to be upon good terms with her until his plans were matured, and he had
                  more leisure to attend to his private affairs, he approached her with apparent
                  cordiality, and proffered her his hand. She did not seem to see it, and did not
                  notice his greeting. There were many soldiers lounging about, who could see the
                  actions but could not hear the words of the parties. Her rejection of his offered
                  hand could not fail to be observed by them, and Captain Sykes's face was flushed
                  with anger as he asked:
               "Have you only come here, Miss Sarah, to insult me in the presence of
                  my men?"
               "I came here from no such feeling, but to warn you that John Franklin is in this
                  county, and to remind you that your life is in great danger."
               "Is that all?" was the sneering reply. "If so, you might have saved yourself the
                  trouble of the ride you have taken. I
                  knew two weeks ago that he was in the county, claiming to be a lieutenant in the
                  company of that arch-traitor, Thomas Rogers. One-half of his associates are
                  deserters from our army, and, unless I am mistaken, we shall have a good time
                  before long in hanging the rascals, Franklin included."
               "But Franklin," she persisted, "is not only in the county; he is now lurking
                  around this very encampment."
               "Impossible!" replied Sykes. "He is known to every man in this neighborhood, and
                  could not remain here three hours without being detected and reported to me."
               "But I saw him this morning with my own eyes riding in this direction. You are the
                  best judge how near he can approach, and how far his rifle may prove dangerous.
                  But of this you may be certain, he is not far from you, and his purpose is
                  deadly."
               "This news," answered the captain, musing, "is worth something, if it
                  proves no more than that my friends are careless, and I thank you for it. I thank
                  you the more because we did not part good friends. I hope all that is over, and
                  that hereafter we shall meet on better terms. Shall we not?"
               "No, sir," she replied; "we can never meet even as friends. At the time you were
                  making vows of love to me which you never felt, and promises of marriage you never
                  intended to keep, you were endeavoring to bribe another to become
                  your wife, and in the very room where you gave me your hand at the altar, you had
                  in your pocket a written offer of that hand to one who, it seems, had little
                  inclination to accept it; and then you tried to deceive me by a base device, which
                  was only not successful because your knowledge of the law was not equal to the
                  vileness of your intentions. It was from no feeling of kindness that I have given
                  you this warning; I have simply discharged my duty as your wife."
               "Wife!" he repeated with a sneer. "The day is far distant when you will have the
                  right to bear my name. It will be better for you to dismiss that delusion from
                  your mind; it will only bring trouble upon you."
               She turned her horse's head homeward, (she had not dismounted,) only muttering
                  between her closed teeth the single word "wretch!"
               Two days later, Thomas Rogers had approached within two miles of the Confederate
                  encampment. He knew the temper of his own men thoroughly, and would willingly have
                  risked them against greater odds than Captain Sykes had at his disposal. The
                  larger part of them had been tried by greater dangers than were to be apprehended
                  from the plunderers he was seeking to encounter. Although they outnumbered him in
                  the proportion of three to two, he calculated rightly that such men must soon give
                  way before the cool and steady courage of his own disciplined troops—troops who
                  had unflinchingly faced the withering volleys and desperate charges of the
                  Confederate veterans at Chickamauga. He felt confident that the demoralized
                  robbers, who, notwithstanding their superiority in numbers, were now skulking
                  behind breastworks too formidable to be attacked by light troops without the aid
                  of artillery, would be swept away like chaff before the wind if they could be
                  brought face to face with his small but gallant and devoted band. But how was this
                  to be accomplished? If he drew up on the plain before them, they would not leave
                  the shelter of their works, and he would accomplish nothing beyond exposing his
                  own strength, of which he was satisfied they were in some degree ignorant. He
                  could not starve them out, for they were far better supplied than he was; nor did
                  he entertain a hope of being able to surprise an unguarded point, either by day or
                  by night. He had taught Captain Sykes the value of vigilance, and the reports of his scouts convinced him that the
                  lesson had not been thrown away. There was no approach to the encampment that was
                  not vigilantly guarded, and even while Rogers was yet at a distance he learned
                  that the men habitually slept on their arms immediately behind their
                  intrenchments. Their horses, too, were kept constantly in readiness for any
                  emergency. In this perplexity he resolved to reconnoitre the position himself,
                  giving orders to Miller to move the command to a more eligible point, about a half
                  mile nearer to the enemy. He found the rebels more strongly posted than his scouts
                  had reported, and the idea of storming their works at night, which had several
                  times flitted through his mind, was at once abandoned.
               That night, when all but the pickets and sentries were buried in profound repose,
                  three men were seated by a log-fire, near the center of the Union encampment, in
                  earnest consultation. They were Captain Rogers, Lieutenants Miller and Franklin.
                  At the moment, Captain Rogers was speaking. It seemed to be in reply to something
                  suggested by one of his officers.
               "I tell you, no! They will not come out. They are frightened now, and more than
                  half whipped; if we could only get at them. The question is, how are we to do
                  that?"
               "Do you think," answered Miller, thoughtfully, "that he knows how many men we've
                  got here?"
               "I cannot tell," replied the captain. "I know that he was deceived as to our
                  numbers when we left Stevenson, but he may have learned better within the last two
                  days. We have been during that time surrounded by his spies, and though no pains
                  have been spared to keep them at a distance, they may have been more successful
                  than we think in ascertaining our present strength."
               "If I was only certain," was his lieutenant's reply, "on that point, I think I
                  could fix it."
               "How? Let me hear your plan."
               "We could then show about that number while the rest were placed in ambush in the
                  woods. By making out as if we meant to pass him, he would be sure to leave his
                  camp, thinking to crush us by a single charge. We could then fall back, fighting,
                  until we had drawn him into the ambush; and then, good-by to Captain Sykes and his
                  guerrillas. If we can only get them out, not twenty will ever escape."
               "By the Lord!" exclaimed Rogers, "your plan is admirable! We will try it, anyhow;
                  if it fails to draw him from his cover, we will be no worse off than we were. How
                  many men have we?"
               "Eighty-two, besides ourselves."
               "And he has, you say, Franklin, not more than one hundred and twenty-five?"
               "I should say," said Franklin, "in the neighborhood of one hundred and twenty. I
                  examined them for three hours, horses, saddles, and men, and though I could not
                  count them, I'm a pretty good judge in such matters. I'll bet my horse that it is
                  not more than five men either way from one hundred and twenty."
               "That gives him," said Rogers, "about three to our two. We've faced worse odds
                  against better soldiers, and can beat him easily in an open fight, without the
                  help of the ambush; but that will save the lives of some of our men, and make his
                  discomfiture more complete. Have the men quietly roused two hours before day. We
                  must have everything prepared before it is light. Tell the officer of the guard,
                  Franklin, to have us up betimes."
               John Franklin went upon his errand, and the other two, spreading their blankets,
                  on which they had been seated, before
                  the fire, stretched themselves upon them, and were fast asleep, even before
                  Franklin's return.
               At the time designated, the three officers went among the men, without noise of
                  any kind, and, passing from the smouldering ashes of one camp-fire to another,
                  awakened the men, and bade them prepare for an immediate march. At the same time
                  the pickets were being called in, no lights were allowed, and the strictest
                  silence was enjoined upon all. A careful count was made to see if the whole troop
                  was present. They then moved off at a walk, Rogers leading, with Miller by his
                  side. At the place which had been designated for the formation of the ambush, the
                  troop was halted, and forty-four men were counted off, who were to accompany
                  Captain Rogers, while the remainder were divided and posted in the wood, on either
                  side of the road, by Miller and Franklin. To save the strength of their horses as
                  much as possible, the men dismounted, and for the most part seated themselves upon
                  the ground, waiting the appearance of daylight. Here, also, each man was
                  individually made acquainted with the plan of the officers, thus rendering a
                  mistake in its execution almost impossible.
               It was broad daylight when Rogers moved his little command of forty-four men from
                  the shelter of the timber, in full view of the rebel encampment. He was greeted by
                  a fire from a picket guard, which was not returned, but he could see that the
                  whole camp had been aroused, and active operations of some kind were going on
                  within. He had left the timber more than a quarter of a mile nearer to the enemy
                  than the place where the ambush was posted, and, as he moved leisurely over the
                  open country and through the cultivated fields, continued to keep his men in a
                  position where he could easily gain the timber without risking the probability of
                  his small band being ridden down by overwhelming whelming numbers. At first,
                  Captain Sykes hesitated to pursue, but as the force before him pretty nearly
                  corresponded with the information he had received from Stevenson, and, as he
                  placed no confidence in the subsequent reports he had received from citizens,
                  whose inexperience or whose fears he believed had led them astray, he rejoiced in
                  the opportunity of utterly destroying an enemy whom he feared as much as he hated.
                  He had calculated much upon the assumed recklessness of his adversary, and the
                  daring movement of attempting to pass through the open country with a handful of
                  men, in full view of his own superior numbers, had, therefore, excited no
                  surprise. Hastily he gave the order to "mount, and cut the rascals to pieces!"
               With a wild yell, but disordered ranks, his men rushed from behind the cover of
                  their works. The captain was a little staggered when he saw the troops he had
                  expected to ride down without an effort, at first halt, and then file
                  deliberately, and in perfect order, toward the shelter of the woods they had left.
                  At the distance of a hundred yards they exchanged volleys, but with very different
                  effect. The rebels were in motion, and their bullets flew wildly and harmlessly
                  over the heads of their adversaries. The Federals were stationary, and some half a
                  dozen empty saddles attested the accuracy of their fire. Captain Rogers now
                  retreated more rapidly, pausing, however, occasionally to greet his pursuers with
                  a storm of leaden messengers. As he neared the ambush he had planted, his pace
                  quickened; his men seemed to be thrown into confusion; they no longer wheeled to
                  fire upon their pursuers, but presented all the appearance of a hopeless and
                  disorderly flight. Elated by what he now esteemed an assured victory, Captain
                  Sykes shouted:
               "Forward, boys! don't let one of them escape! Dead or alive, we must have them
                  all!"
               
               On came the pursuers, while the pursued, notwithstanding their apparent terror,
                  made slower progress. Again Captain Sykes shouted:
               "Use your spurs, men, and they are ours! We are gaining on them at every jump! It
                  will be our fault if we don't bag every one!"
               These were his last words on earth. He had approached to within less than fifty
                  yards of the concealed ambush, and now a deadly fire was poured upon him, which
                  made his ranks reel like a drunken man. At the same time the disorder of the
                  fugitives he was pursuing disappeared as if by magic.
               Wheeling promptly at the order of their commander, they came thundering to the
                  charge. Another volley was poured in from either side of the road, and the
                  astounded rebels broke and fled in all directions. For two hours they were
                  pursued, and shot down without mercy. How many escaped was never known. The
                  victors did not take the trouble to count the dead. The wounded, too, were left
                  where they fell, Captain Rogers having no means of taking care of them, and being
                  certain, moreover, that their secession friends in the neighborhood would hunt
                  them up as soon as his back was turned. His own loss was one killed, and five
                  wounded. In returning from the pursuit, John Franklin paused at the spot where
                  Captain Sykes had fallen. Dismounting from his horse, he examined the wound which
                  sent him to his long account.
               "He got it just where I meant to hit him," he said aloud; though he was evidently
                  not addressing the soldiers who had reined up about him. "I thought he couldn't
                  escape a second time. 'Tis strange," he continued, "that though I don't now care a
                  straw for the girl, and haven't for months, how keen I was to put a bullet in his
                  carcass! I don't think I could have died easy without knowing that he had gone
                  before me."
               Taking one more look at the dead body, he remounted his horse, and directed his
                  steps to the late rebel encampment, where the various pursuing parties were
                  assembled.
               Perfectly satisfied that those who had escaped the pursuit and the battle would
                  not stop in that vicinity, Thomas Rogers returned to his father's old
                  neighborhood. He had enough to do there to keep him busy for some time, and it
                  was, moreover, the best point for enlisting men to fill up his company to the full
                  complement of one hundred. Riding up to the dwelling of Mr. Jones, he informed him
                  that he had come to pay him a brief visit, and added that he trusted it would
                  prove no inconvenience. It was in vain that Mr. Jones protested that he did not
                  have provisions enough to supply his own family. Rogers was skeptical.
               "Your nephew, then," he replied, "has not been as kind to you as to his other
                  friends. It was his practice, I know, to leave with them more than he consumed;
                  and I am tolerably certain, Mr. Jones, that if we were rebel soldiers instead of
                  being what we are, you would find no difficulty in supplying us. At all events, I
                  intend to camp at your spring, and you can take your choice, either to send us
                  what we need, or allow me to send a squad of men to get it for us. Upon one point,
                  however, I have no objection to relieving your mind. I do not mean to subsist upon
                  you alone; to-morrow I shall send out parties to make an inspection of the barns
                  and smoke-houses of the leading secessionists, and, as they have thus far been
                  untouched, I do not doubt that I shall collect enough to subsist my men while I
                  remain here without drawing upon you for more than you can conveniently
                  spare."
               Mr. Jones protested that he had nothing to spare—that even to supply Captain
                  Rogers for one day would subject him to
                  very great inconvenience, and insisted that there was still enough time to send
                  out and get what they needed before sundown.
               "My men and horses," replied Rogers, "are both tired, and I shall send out no
                  parties to-day. I know what your resources are, Mr. Jones, and I know also what
                  stores you have collected at your plantation on Mud Creek. In an hour from this
                  time, if my men are not amply supplied with provisions, I shall send them up to
                  see what they can find. In the mean time I shall take the liberty of posting a
                  sentry at the house, and another at the barn."
               This threat was all-sufficient. In little more than half the time designated, the
                  soldiers were gladdened by the sight of an abundance of forage and provisions, of
                  which both man and horse were much in need.
               The next day Captain Rogers left the encampment in charge of Lieutenant Miller,
                  and, attended by a single soldier, rode to the house of Mrs. Whitlock. He was
                  warmly welcomed by both mother and daughter, each of whom had a hundred questions
                  to ask. As most of these had reference to himself or his adventures, they were
                  briefly answered; but he dwelt with much satisfaction upon the high reputation
                  Tobias Wilson had already acquired as a soldier among the hardy veterans of the
                  "Army of the Tennessee," and he predicted for him a brilliant and honorable
                  career. He also communicated the fact, which he had learned by a letter from
                  Wilson, of the marriage of his father with Mrs. Wilson. In return he was told of
                  many neighborhood occurrences, and lastly of Captain Sykes's visit to Ella at a
                  time when she was fortunately absent. She had received a letter from him a few
                  days afterward, in which he announced his purpose to call again, and broadly
                  hinted that the happiness of his life depended upon the result of that interview.
                  She told how she had trembled bled upon the receipt of that letter, and of her
                  terror and affright from day to day until something induced him unexpectedly to go
                  off without seeing her.
               "It was my coming, I suppose," said Rogers, "that induced him to leave, and
                  probably kept him for days beforehand in close companionship with his men. But you
                  need not trouble yourself about him now, Miss Ella—he has gone where he will never
                  disturb you again."
               "Where?" she asked eagerly: "where has he gone? I did not think he had spirit
                  enough to return to the army."
               "He has gone to another world," was the reply. "He was killed in battle three days
                  ago, fighting well enough—killed by one of my lieutenants, who was a former lover
                  of a girl whom Sykes had deceived and betrayed, even while professing that his
                  whole heart was devoted to you. So at least I have heard."
               "May God pardon him!" she murmured; "besides his treason, he had many sins to
                  answer for."
               "Yes," he replied, "and without a redeeming virtue that ever came under my
                  observation. If Franklin had not killed him, I should have done it myself."
               "I am glad you did not," she said. "It must be a dark thing to have human blood
                  upon your hands."
               There was a shadow on his brow, and his voice was low and sad, as he replied:
               "There is a good deal upon mine, Ella, and some of it, when you hear the story,
                  may shock you beyond forgiveness. And yet I came here to-day to tell it. Will you
                  walk with me? I do not wish to be interrupted."
               "Yes; but you may keep your bloody stories to yourself. I do not want to hear
                  them."
               "Nevertheless I must tell it, because upon that depends another story which my
                  heart is bursting to reveal."
               
               They walked in silence to the garden, and for some time wandered over it, side by
                  side, without a word being spoken by either party. At length he said abruptly:
               "You remember the murder of Mr. Johnson, Ella, do you not?"
               "How could I forget that horrible affair, or the other horrors that followed it?
                  It seems like a dreadful dream, but I cannot banish it!"
               "Well, I must begin with that."
               He then related how, in riding home with Tobias Wilson on the day after the murder
                  of his grandfather, they had met Parson Williams on the mountain side, and how
                  they had tracked him up, and what strong circumstances they had collected of his
                  participation in the murder. He further informed her that after their return home
                  they had repaired to the scene of the murder; and he described, in clear and
                  explicit terms, all the damning evidences there exhibited of the guilt of Parson
                  Williams, Joshua Wilkins, and Jim Biles. He went over the conversation which had
                  taken place that night between himself and Tobias Wilson, and painted the scene
                  which followed at the burial of Mr. Johnson, when Tobias was prevailed upon by
                  Sophy to pledge himself not to avenge the murder of his grandfather. He also told
                  her that Miller, in gratitude for the kindness he had shown him, had revealed to
                  him a plot, of which Parson Williams was the head, and Wilkins and Biles were to
                  be instruments, to murder and burn out the Union men in the county as soon as the
                  United States troops should leave it.
               "And then," he added sternly, "I made up my mind that, before they did leave,
                  these three miscreants should no longer cumber the earth."
               Ella Whitlock now began to have a perception of the truth. She trembled violently,
                  and exclaimed:
               "Oh, you did not kill them?"
               "I surely did, and would have avowed it at the time but for the fear of giving
                  pain to those I loved."
               "Why then tell me now?" she said, bursting into tears. "I did not wish to hear
                  it."
               "Because I've something else to tell you, which it would be dishonorable to utter
                  while you were in ignorance of this. I love you, Ella, as few men have ever
                  loved—far too deeply either to deceive you or to conceal from you anything that
                  might affect your future happiness. Even your love would be valueless to me, if
                  won under false pretenses."
               During this speech she had been crying bitterly. He stood beside her in silence,
                  offering no consolation; for he knew not what to offer, and, besides, he judged
                  rightly that this outburst would prove a relief. At length she looked up, and
                  said:
               "Say no more now, Mr. Rogers; I must have time to think. And remember," she
                  continued, "that, apart from this dreadful tale, I have never thought of you as a
                  lover. I esteemed and valued you as a friend; but, until this day, you have never
                  given me the right to do more. Wait six months, and you shall have my answer."
               "Be it so; I expected as much."
               As they returned to the house, she looked up at him, and inquired:
               "Shall I tell my mother?"
               "Assuredly. Indeed, I do not care if the whole world should know it now, although
                  it would have grieved me much if you had heard it from any one but myself."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               CAPTAIN ROGERS, having cleared the county of guerrillas, was busily engaged in
                  enlisting men for his company, when a new swarm of bandits began to pour into the
                  defenseless region of North Alabama. While the army of General Rosecrans was
                  hemmed in Chattanooga, with the Confederate lines extending from a point on the
                  Tennessee River above that city to the base of Lookout Mountain below, with the
                  river strongly picketed to Bridgeport, so as to cut off all supplies by railroad
                  or water, that officer was compelled to depend for a scanty support obtained by
                  wagoning over a dreadful road from Bridgeport to Chattanooga, and a longer and
                  almost equally difficult road down Sequachie valley to the same point. The troops
                  were reduced to half rations, and even that much was very irregularly furnished.
                  In this condition of things, General Rosecrans was superseded, and General Grant
                  appointed to the command of the department, with General Thomas commanding at
                  Chattanooga. From Nashville Grant telegraphed to Thomas to hold the place at all
                  hazards. The situation will be best understood by quoting that gallant general's
                  grim response: "I'll hold it until we starve!" It was not cannon-balls or bullets
                  that he feared, but starvation. General Bragg was fully aware of the straits to
                  which the Federals were reduced, and, hoping to compel a surrender or evacuation
                  by one decisive blow, he sent Wheeler, with ten thousand cavalry, into Sequachie
                  valley to cut off an immense supply train, which was slowly making its way to the
                  half-famished army of the Tennessee. Crossing the river above Chattanooga, and
                  moving with great celerity, General Wheeler succeeded in capturing seven hundred
                  wagons, which were only guarded by about one thousand men. The wagons, with their
                  contents, were burned, and the mules and horses shot upon the ground. Some
                  sutlers' wagons, which accompanied the train, were also destroyed, after being
                  robbed of all that was valuable. From thence he proceeded to McMinnville, which he
                  easily captured, destroyed the public stores and public property of every kind,
                  and indiscriminately robbed the citizens of money, watches, jewelry, clothing, all
                  that they could appropriate or take away. From thence he marched to Shelbyville,
                  ten miles from the railroad between Nashville and Stevenson, and which was guarded
                  by only two companies of Home Guards. This town was little more than a trading
                  post, from which the citizens of the surrounding country obtained their supplies.
                  There was little public property, and that little of no great value. All the
                  stores and the goods they contained were the property of private individuals.
                  There were no fortifications, and no troops to man them if there had been. The
                  majority of the citizens were Union men, but they had not taken up arms, nor in
                  any way forfeited their claim to the character of peaceful citizens. It had been a
                  considerable town before the war, and was still of importance as furnishing
                  supplies to the inhabitants of Southern Tennessee and Northern Alabama. It was
                  well stocked with goods, and was therefore just the place for Wheeler. Galloping
                  into the town and securing the main streets, his men dismounted, and then
                  commenced a scene of indiscriminate plunder, which has no parallel in the history
                  of the war. Every store was broken open—every dwelling entered and searched. Not a
                  dollar was left in the possession of any citizen upon which they could lay their hands; not an article of value was
                  spared. Bales of domestic, rolls of cloth, bolts of calico, pieces of silk,
                  ladies' shawls, shoes, every article of merchandise were thrown into the streets;
                  and the robbers freely helped themselves to whatever they took a fancy to, or
                  could pack away upon their saddles or under them.
               While his men were engaged in this delightful occupation, General Wheeler received
                  notice that about six thousand United States cavalry, under Generals Crook and
                  Mitchell, were in rapid pursuit. Calling off all of his command whom it was
                  possible to move, he retreated toward Pulaski, intending to recross the Tennessee
                  River below the mouth of Elk. At Farmington he was overtaken by General Crook.
                  Here a battle ensued, in which the rebels were badly beaten, but from some mistake
                  in the execution of an order he was enabled to effect his escape with the
                  shattered remnants of his army. General Crook pressed hotly in pursuit, but the
                  enemy possessed an advantage which rendered all his efforts unavailing. Going in
                  advance they pressed all the fresh horses on the route, leaving their own tired
                  and broken-down animals behind. In this way he managed to reach the river and
                  cross over the remnant of his command a few hours before General Crook arrived in
                  sight. But his raid had cost him dear. He had left Chattanooga with ten thousand
                  men and ten or twelve pieces of light artillery; he regained the southern bank of
                  the river with about four thousand men and half of his artillery. Besides his
                  losses in battle, at least a thousand of his men—who had gorged themselves with
                  plunder at Shelbyville—immediately deserted, and went southward to secure their
                  ill-gotten gains. At Farmington another large number, finding themselves cut off
                  from the main body, scattered and fled southward. Along the whole line of his
                  retreat squads of two, and three, and four, and five would fall behind, and as
                  soon as they were out of sight would strike off in the same direction.
               In this way every county in North Alabama was filled with lawless desperadoes. No
                  man's property was secure two miles from an inhabited town. Many of them, indeed,
                  had taken up their abode in the towns and villages; but these were of the better
                  sort, and their behavior was generally unexceptionable. Among those who preferred
                  a residence in the country, both on account of safety and for the better
                  facilities it afforded for stealing and transporting their plunder to a market,
                  were to be found the sons of men who were worth from one to four or five hundred
                  thousand dollars. They had enjoyed every facility for obtaining the best
                  educations, and had moved in the highest circles of society; but the demoralizing
                  influence of such associates as were to be found under the standard of a general
                  (Major-General Joseph Wheeler) who owed his rapid promotion alone to the favor of
                  his kinsman, (Adjutant-General Cooper,) and who was about as well fitted to
                  discharge the responsible duties of his high office as a well-trained mastiff
                  would have been,*
                   was too much, both for whatever
                  natural honesty they might have had, and the advantages of education and early
                  association with which they had been blessed. From gentlemen they had been
                  converted into thieves and murderers of the most inexcusable kind. Although they
                  did not feel strong enough to attempt any outrages that would be likely to excite
                  resistance in the towns, they did not hesitate to ride into them; and, when under
                  the influence of whisky, they boasted of what they had done, and loudly proclaimed
                  their intention to rob, burn, and otherwise lay waste the plantations of
                  well-known citizens—a threat which was by no means an empty one, and whose
                  execution generally exceeded in atrocity their avowed intentions.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Wheeler was but twenty-two years of age when he was first appointed colonel
                     of an Alabama regiment of infantry, because he was, as the Secretary of War
                     (L. P. Walker) himself said, "a favorite of General Cooper, and there
                        was then no other place to give him." He was therefore transferred
                     from Florida, made a citizen of Alabama and colonel of Alabama troops by the
                     fiat of the War Department. Without exhibiting any military capacity, or
                     giving evidence even of that personal courage so common in this country, he
                     was in a very short time promoted to brigadier and then to major-general,
                     and assigned to the chief command of the cavalry of the rebel Army of
                     Tennessee—a position made vacant by the merited death of Van Dorn, at the
                     hands of an outraged husband, of whose generous hospitality he had taken a
                     low, vile, mean, and despicable advantage, and whose sadly mistaken kindness
                     he had repaid by dishonoring his wife. Wheeler signalized his promotion by
                     an attempt to surprise and retake Fort Donelson, and was disgracefully
                     repulsed by a handful of raw troops posted in some log-cabins, protected by
                     no works of defense, and supported only by a single line of rifle pits. The
                     place, if taken, could not have been held by the rebels a week; and the
                     effort to surprise it must have been induced by the hope of pillage—an
                     object which General Wheeler's subsequent career affords reason to believe
                     that he regards as the highest aim and purpose of war. After this, General
                     Forrest, who had protested against, but was reluctantly forced to
                     participate in the useless, and, in the end, disgraceful movement, refused
                     to serve under him, saying boldly that it was "bad enough to be commanded by
                     an inexperienced boy, but to be ordered about by a boy and a fool combined,
                     is more than I can stand."
               
               
                  
                  *The author was one of those threatened, and in a few weeks he was robbed of
                     thirty-five mules, four horses, and every hog, sheep, and goat, with every
                     hoof of cattle, besides corn, provisions, etc. to an unknown amount, from
                     one plantation.
               
               When Wheeler had placed the river between himself and his pursuers, he found
                  himself in one of the richest valleys of the South, the inhabitants of which were
                  for the most part secessionists, and, naturally enough, supposed that they would
                  be exempted from any unnecessary exactions. But they were not long in ascertaining
                  that this was a wide mistake. Every man in that delectable body of misnamed
                  soldiers was his own quartermaster and commissary; and during the time they
                  remained, for the pretended purpose of recruiting their horses, that delightful
                  region was converted into a melancholy waste. The corn, just then fully ripe and
                  ready for housing, was pulled in the fields, and fed to their horses on the
                  ground. In this way more was wasted than consumed. Hogs were shot down at will,
                  and particular portions cut off and carried to the camp, the larger part being
                  left to rot on the ground; cattle were destroyed in the same manner; horses were
                  stolen under the convenient name of impressment; for miles and miles not a fence
                  was left standing, the dry rails being more convenient for firewood, besides
                  saving the labor of cutting down and splitting up trees.
               "But this," said one of the sufferers, "is not of so much consequence now, because
                  they have left neither hogs nor cattle in the country to injure what little
                  remains in the field."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *It may be said that the Union army committed similar depredations. Let the
                     assertion be granted. The Union army were in the country of their enemies,
                     and had a right, according to the laws of war, to draw their subsistence
                     from hostile inhabitants. From known friends they took nothing they did not
                     pay for or give cash vouchers. Wheeler's troops were in their own country
                     and among their own friends. Who ever heard of United States soldiers
                     forcibly seizing or pressing the property of citizens in any
                     loyal State?
               
               From the Courtland valley they went eastward toward Rome, Georgia, leaving,
                  however, about a regiment behind, ostensibly to guard the ferries on the river;
                  but, whatever the general's purpose was, the men thus
                  left behind had a different view of their duties. Instead of confining themselves to guarding the crossings of
                  the river, they took advantage of the opportunity afforded them to increase their
                  own private gains. It was their habit for parties to cross over late in the
                  afternoon, and "capture" a lot of horses, mules, or some other valuable thing, and
                  recross early the next morning with whatever they had succeeded in obtaining. In
                  this way they avoided the danger of having their proceedings interfered with by
                  the small body of United States cavalry then stationed at Brownsborough, on the
                  Memphis and Charleston Railroad. Immense amounts of property were thus transported
                  into Dixie, the profits therefrom going of course into the pockets of the captors.
                  On one occasion, a citizen, who had lost three fine mules, followed them to the
                  rebel camp. He succeeded in identifying the robber, and went with him to the
                  quarters of the colonel. That worthy being, in his own phraseology, "a
                     leetle under the influence of liquor,"—in plain English, very
                  drunk,—first demanded, in a tone that he meant to be both dignified and stern,
                  whether the claimant was not a d—d old Union traitor; and being answered that he
                  was born in South Carolina, and had lived for nearly forty years in Alabama, and
                  was besides too old to take any active part in the war, he had supposed that if he
                  remained quietly at home, paying to the Confederacy all the taxes, and submitting
                  to all the exactions made upon him, honestly and without a murmur, no more would
                  be required; and that he did not think the epithet of traitor ought, under the
                  circumstances, to be applied to him.
               "Oh, yes; you paid what you couldn't help! There is not much merit in that."
               "I have fully obeyed the law, and am entitled to its protection."
               "D—n the law! We make the law ourselves wherever we go; and there's nothing in
                     our law making it the duty of an officer to hunt up mules for
                  fellows like you. If you was a good patriot, you'd never have said a word about
                  'em, because there'll be plenty of Yankees down this way before long, and if I was
                  to send 'em back to you, them rascals would be sure to git 'em. We are fightin'
                  for your liberties—and we've come all the way from Kentucky*
                     to protect your property and your lives."
               
                  
                  *Wheeler's cavalry was composed of men from almost all the Southwestern
                     States, and one of the worst regiments among them was from Kentucky. These
                     double traitors—traitors to their State and to their government—were for
                     months stationed on the south bank of the Tennessee, and deeply did the
                     citizens have cause to rue their presence.
               
               The outraged applicant heartily wished that he had stayed at home to protect his
                  own property and defend the liberties of his own neighbors; but he dared not
                  whisper such a wish in the drunken presence of the brute to whose sense of justice
                  he had been foolish enough to make an appeal. Finding there was no hope of redress
                  from the colonel, but being very unwilling to lose his mules, as he was a poor
                  man, to whom such a loss was a serious grievance, he determined to apply to the
                  quartermaster, or at least to the man who held the commission and nominally
                  discharged the duties of that office. The quartermaster was more polite than his
                  superior, and seemed to think that it was bad enough to take away a man's property
                  without adding insult to the wrong; but it was clear that he had no idea of
                  assisting the owner to regain what he had lost. Was Mr. ——, he inquired, certain
                  that the animals were brought to this encampment? Yes, he had followed them to the
                  ferry on yesterday, and had tracked them this morning to the camp; besides, here
                  was one of the men who took them.
               "Did you take them, sir?" he inquired of the man, with great apparent
                  sternness.
               
               "No, sir, and there ain't been no mules brought into this camp to-day,
                  nuther."
               This was true, for they had been hidden out on the side of the mountain, and one
                  of his comrades was at that very moment standing guard over them. For the
                  convenience of the quartermaster, it was understood that no animals were to be
                  brought in during the daytime, but were hid out for a time and slipped in at
                  night. At this denial of the soldier, which he seemed uncommonly willing to
                  accept, the quartermaster said:
               "What can I do, Mr. ——? You hear what he says. Of course, you cannot expect me to
                  neglect important duties to hunt up your property. If you will find your mules and
                  show them to me, I will not only give them up, but punish the men severely who
                  took them; that is all you could reasonably expect of me."
               That certainly was all that Mr. —— would have expected if he had believed one word
                  that had been said to him; but he did not, and he turned away with a conviction
                  that the actual robber was not the only guilty party to the transaction. He could
                  tolerate the drunken impertinence of the colonel better than the smooth hypocrisy
                  of his subordinate. When leaving the encampment, the soldier followed him a short
                  distance beyond the lines, and then said abruptly:
               "What did you value them mules at, Mr. ——?"
               "They cost me one hundred and fifty dollars each before the war, and they are
                  worth double that now when good work animals are so hard to get."
               "Well," said the soldier, "I don't wish to be hard on you, and if you'll give me
                  three hundred and fifty dollars I'll bring 'em back to you in the course of a
                  week. You see there's three of us, and that'll make a hundred dollars a piece, and
                  I must have fifty for the trouble of bringing 'em back. I'm sure you couldn't
                  expect anything more reasonable than that."
               It was, indeed, more reasonable than Mr. —— had expected, and, much as he disliked
                  the idea of buying back his own property from the thieves who had taken it, he
                  assented to the proposition, and agreed to pay the three hundred and fifty dollars
                  whenever the mules were delivered to him. He was not simple enough to believe that
                  this seeming generosity was without a motive, and he concluded that it was the
                  purpose of the thief to get his three hundred and fifty dollars, and then steal
                  the mules again at an early day thereafter; but he kept his suspicions to himself,
                  inwardly resolving to guard effectually against such a contingency. After the
                  bargain was concluded, the soldier walked on by the side of his horse for some
                  distance, unreservedly telling of various similar transactions in which he had
                  been engaged. Observing that he always spoke of dividing his profits by three, Mr.
                  —— asked, with seeming unconcern:
               "Who is your third partner? There was but one man with you when you took the
                  mules."
               "Captain Williams, the quartermaster; and, though he never takes nothin' himself,
                  because it would go to the government then, yet he's worth both of us, for he
                  hides everything when we couldn't do it; and when the colonel gits in one of his
                  tantrums and sets up for honest, which he ain't no mor'n the rest of us, the
                  captain makes a great search and reports to him that there ain't nothin' been
                  taken, and that we all's been slandered."
               "I thought as much!" was the inward ejaculation of Mr. ——; and, saying that "he
                  didn't have more than time to get home by dark," he bade his communicative
                  companion good-by, and rode away at an increased pace, having gained considerable
                  insight into the rapid manner in which
                  fortunes were accumulated by Confederate quartermasters.
               The country through which General Wheeler had to pass on his journey to Rome was
                  poor and extremely mountainous. The inhabitants had nothing of which to be robbed,
                  except live stock, which they could easily hide in the mountains away from their
                  houses and far from any traveled road. They were, however, almost universally
                  loyal to the government of the United States. Of this the marauders were well
                  aware. The First Alabama Cavalry, now attached to Kilpatrick's command in
                  Sherman's army, were enlisted among these mountains, or rather had left their
                  homes in the mountains, and made their way to Huntsville and Decatur to volunteer
                  in the United States army. They had met Wheeler more than once on the
                  battle-field, and given him cause to remember them with terror as well as with
                  hatred. It was among their friends, their fathers, mothers, sisters, and little
                  brothers, that he now found himself, and, poor as they were, he contrived, in his
                  hurried march, to leave them still poorer. Pursuing his way to Georgia, he
                  rejoined General Bragg with less than one-third of the men with whom he had set
                  out upon his expedition. Here we take leave of them for the present, or rather of
                  that part of them who still preserved a show of organization; but Wheeler's
                  cavalry were ubiquitous. There was not a neighborhood in several States which was
                  unoccupied by United States soldiers, or, what they dreaded still more, regular
                  Confederate troops, in which they were not to be found. These last were
                  particularly shunned, because, if caught by them, they would certainly be sent to
                  the army, where, if reported to General Bragg, they would stand a fair chance of
                  being shot for desertion. But in every part of the country where no such danger
                  was to be apprehended, they were to be found roving about with no object but
                  pillage; and when questioned as to the reasons for their absence from their proper
                  place in the army, the answer invariably was, either that they had been sent off
                  on special duty by general or colonel somebody, or that they were then on their
                  way to the front. In this connection it will not be improper to record a
                  conversation which occurred between one of these parties and an old lady near the
                  line between Alabama and Tennessee. Riding up to her house about mid-day, they
                  inquired if they could get some dinner, adding that they were willing to pay her
                  well for it—a willingness which was attributable to the fact that a body of United
                  States cavalry were in the neighborhood, and they were thus restrained from
                  committing depredations which would induce the sufferer to make a report that
                  would cause pursuit.
               After a brief inspection of their persons from the door of her house, she
                  inquired:
               "Who are you, and where are you going?"
               She was answered:
               "We belong to General Wheeler's cavalry, and are on our way to the front."
               "Well, now, I wish you'd just tell me where the front is? I see you
                  coming from all directions, and going every which way, and every living soul says
                  he's going to the front. I want to know where the front is?"
               In the eastern part of Jackson County there was an infantry garrison at Stevenson,
                  and another at Bridgeport. The advent of Captain Rogers with his mounted men had
                  also become known, and the consequence was that these stragglers, or, more
                  properly speaking, deserters, gave that section a pretty wide berth, and confined
                  their operations principally to that part of Marshall County lying north of the
                  Tennessee, Jackson, west of Paint Rock, the whole of Madison, Limestone, and part
                  of Lauderdale.
               
               In returning from his pursuit of Wheeler, Gen. Crook had divided his command: one
                  division, led by himself, retracing the route over which they had advanced; the
                  other, under General Mitchell, marching up the valley, nearer the river, through
                  Athens and Huntsville, on the direct road to Stevenson.
               Many prisoners were captured by General Mitchell, but they were in general the
                  least offensive of the gang, being those who had quietly settled at their own
                  homes, or had collected in the towns without any object but that of enjoying
                  themselves and avoiding the hard service of an actual campaign in Northern
                  Georgia—the worst desperadoes having hidden themselves in the mountains and swamps
                  until such time as they could emerge from their coverts with safety; then a
                  regular system of thieving was inaugurated everywhere in the counties named, and a
                  reign of terror in Southeastern Madison and Northern Marshall. Men were murdered,
                  houses burned down, and property wantonly destroyed. The inhabitants, though
                  almost all in moderate circumstances, were, nevertheless, well supplied with the
                  necessaries of life. They had been nearly unanimous against secession. At one
                  precinct, in that part of Madison, which cast over three hundred votes, there was
                  not a single secessionist. This afforded a pretext for outrages upon them, which
                  was never neglected. To be or to have been a Union man, unless the offender had
                  subsequently become a violent secessionist, was always a sufficient excuse for any
                  wrong that a brutal, thieving, murdering soldiery saw proper to commit. One
                  neighborhood was completely depopulated, and the surrounding ones suffered
                  terribly. Occasional bodies of United States troops had been sent into that region
                  to clear the country of the wretches who infested it, and afford protection to the
                  loyal residents. But in the mountains and swamps there were many hiding-places
                  that were inaccessible to those who were not familiar with the locality; and above
                  all, the nearness of the river, and their facilities for crossing it at all times,
                  made their escape of easy accomplishment. The only way therefore to put an
                  effectual stop to their depredations was to make a regular station somewhere on
                  the north bank nearly opposite to Guntersville. To put a small force there would
                  be to doom it to capture or destruction; for the rebels held the south bank in
                  considerable force, with Guntersville as headquarters, and could at any time,
                  within a few days, collect and cross over a sufficient number to overwhelm a
                  detachment composed of less than two hundred and fifty men. There was no military
                  reason for establishing a permanent post at that point, and General Grant, who was
                  then making arrangements to drive the enemy from around Chattanooga, had no troops
                  to spare for any but absolutely necessary purposes. The occasional visits of
                  parties of United States cavalry therefore did harm instead of good, for every man
                  who received them kindly, or was known to have given them any information, was
                  instantly marked, and the departure of the troops was the signal for remorseless
                  vengeance.
               Toward the last of October all the United States troops were withdrawn from the
                  valley of the Tennessee, preparatory to a contemplated attack upon the rebel lines
                  about Chattanooga. The company of Captain Rogers were the only mounted men that
                  remained on the north bank of the river. The country soon swarmed with guerrillas,
                  and again the inhabitants were subjected to the infliction of outrages of every
                  description. In the western part of the valley their object seemed to be mainly
                  that of gain. They uttered many threats indeed of hanging, burning, and
                  destroying, and all were satisfied that these were threats which it would require
                  but little provocation to induce them
                  to carry into execution; but the inhabitants were unarmed, the young men had been
                  dragged away by the conscription, none but the old and helpless were left behind,
                  and as these made no opposition to acts they could not prevent, or even ameliorate
                  by remonstrance, they were generally exempt from personal violence.
               A different state of things prevailed in the southeast and among the mountains to
                  the northeast. Here, worse passions had been excited; neighbor was arrayed against
                  neighbor, and to the evils of open violence were added private assassinations and
                  midnight burnings. No man knew whom to trust, and gloomy suspicions even of his
                  friends settled upon every man's heart. Learning that small parties of
                  self-constituted soldiers had come down from Tennessee, and were infesting the
                  northern and north-western part of the county not far from him, Captain Rogers
                  determined to make an effort to capture or destroy them. He therefore divided his
                  company, and moving with one-half nearly northward, he sent Lieutenant Miller to
                  the northwest, with instructions when he had reached a given point to turn
                  eastward and move as rapidly as the country would permit, to meet him. In this way
                  he expected to hem in and cut off the vandals who bid fair to desolate the land.
                  As he proceeded on his march, his heart sickened within him. Almost every hour
                  revealed some evidence of the cruel and relentless presence of men whom the long
                  indulgence of every bad passion had converted into fiends. Now he would pass a
                  field with the fences destroyed, the corn trampled down and rotting on the ground.
                  A little farther on a heap of ashes marked where a dwelling once stood; and the
                  question forced itself upon him, what has become of the helpless wretches who were
                  once sheltered here? No cattle, no hogs, no horses, and no domestic animals of any
                  kind were to be seen. A dull, dread silence brooded over all. The footprints of
                  desolation were the only signs which indicated that a happy and contented people
                  once gathered their daily bread from the little coves and valleys about it. As he
                  penetrated deeper into the mountains, the work of ruin did not seem to have been
                  so complete. At long intervals, inhabited cabins were to be found, but the
                  white-headed urchins playing in the yards ran to the houses with terrified faces,
                  and their mothers would peep from the doors to see what new danger threatened
                  them. If he halted to make an inquiry, the answer came from trembling lips, as if
                  they were uncertain whether they were not giving information which would cause
                  them to be visited by the vengeance of the opposing party. Approaching a house
                  near nightfall, where there appeared to have been much less comparative suffering,
                  and there was a prospect of obtaining sufficient forage for his horses, he gave
                  notice to the owner of his purpose to halt, at the same time assuring him that he
                  would pay liberally for whatever his men might consume.
               "I can't hinder you from stopping here, sir," was the reply, "or from taking what
                  you want. But, for God's sake, go on a mile or two farther. If you stop here I am
                  undone. The first time your enemies come here they will charge me with
                  entertaining you, and destroy everything that is left. The old woman and the
                  children will be turned out to starve."
               "But, old man," was the reply, "you cannot help my staying here, as you say; and
                  surely no one would take vengeance on you for that?"
               "Oh yes, sir; my nearest neighbor was burned out of house and home for no other
                  reason."
               "Who did it?"
               "I don't know," was the reply.
               "But I mean, which party did it?"
               
               "I don't know, sir,—indeed I don't," he again said, determined not to confess his
                  knowledge of anything relating to the hostile parties.
               "Well," said Rogers, who saw that his ignorance was assumed, "I'll tell you who I
                  am, and what my business is here. I am Captain Thomas Rogers, commanding a company
                  of Union soldiers, and my business here is to take prisoner, shoot, and render
                  harmless in every possible way the villains who have worked such terrible mischief
                  here."
               "Oh, sir! we thank you; all of us thank you at heart. But you will go away again,
                  and then we shall be at their mercy."
               "I think not: I think I have made such arrangements as will insure the destruction
                  of a good many of them, and strike such terror into the remainder, that they will
                  be in no hurry to visit this neighborhood again."
               "Well, sir, since it must be so, stay where you are; I have plenty of corn and
                  fodder, for they have left me scarcely anything to feed; but I am afraid that your
                  men will have to put up with a scanty allowance."
               "They have plenty of meat in their haversacks, and some bread; if you can furnish
                  me a little more, that will be sufficient."
               There was an abundance of corn-meal upon the premises, so that difficulty was soon
                  settled. When their horses were fed, and the usual nightly precautions taken,
                  Rogers entered the old man's dwelling, whose family consisted of himself and his
                  wife, with two orphan grandchildren. The little ones were nearly as wild as
                  savages; and though they had been assured that these were soldiers from whom they
                  had nothing to dread, they shrank together in a corner, and remained there mute
                  and stirless during the whole of his visit.
               The old people greeted him cordially enough, and he seated himself by the log-fire
                  which served the purpose of both heating and lighting the room. After some remarks
                  upon indifferent subjects, Rogers asked:
               "Can you tell me how far it is to Johnson's Gap? I know it is somewhere about
                  here, but I do not know exactly where."
               "It is not over a half a mile, sir. That's my name. The gap was called after me,
                  because I was the first settler in these parts."
               "Not more than half a mile!" repeated Rogers. "Then you must have had troublesome
                  visitors frequently; for I am told that is the only passway from the west."
               "The only one near here, sir; but there is another four or five miles south that
                  they can get through, though it's pretty rough."
               "They'll not go southward," said Rogers; "and, if they do, they'll get into hot
                  water pretty soon. They cannot get away in that direction."
               So saying, he bid the old couple "good-by," and, declining their invitation to
                  sleep in the house, returned to his men. Large camp-fires, which the cool nights
                  of October rendered particularly grateful, were still blazing brightly. Spreading
                  his blanket on the ground before one of them, and taking his seat upon it, he sent
                  for Franklin to hold a consultation as to the best course to be adopted on the
                  morrow. His lieutenant strongly insisted upon moving forward to the gap by
                  daylight, and placing the troop where it could not be seen, but where it would at
                  the same time completely command the pass. In this way he argued that not a single
                  marauder who was driven before Miller's force could escape.
               "They must come out here," he said, "or go south. They cannot stay where they are,
                  for Miller knows every hole and hiding-place in the mountains; and if they
                     cross the ridge anywhere below us we
                  can easily overtake them, and cut them to pieces. We have only to stay here, and
                  they will rush right into our hands. If we move forward, they may get around our
                  flanks and escape."
               Captain Rogers was not of that class of soldiers who delight in acting in
                  opposition to the opinions of their subordinates. He knew the value of good
                  advice, no matter from what quarter it emanated, and was very far from rejecting
                  it because it came from an inferior. He saw at once the sound good sense of
                  Franklin's suggestion, and resolved to adopt it,—taking, however, at the same time
                  the precaution of sending four men to guard the lower (or southern) pass.
               During that day his men remained patiently at the posts to which they had been
                  moved. At night no camp-fires were lighted, and not a sound broke the stillness
                  that reigned in the solitary pass. About midnight two men came riding through.
                  They were conversing unconcernedly, wholly unconscious of danger. Almost before
                  they were aware of it they were seized, their arms pinioned behind them, and then
                  they were led quietly to where the main body were sleeping. Not a question was
                  asked. Their legs were also secured, and they were left on the ground to ruminate
                  upon the difference between the license of their present mode of life and the
                  restraints of a Northern prison.
               During that night no others made their appearance, but the next day the look-out
                  reported the approach of a considerable body. It turned out that they were fifteen
                  in number. They had been divided into smaller squads, but as they were driven
                  before Miller, they met and united in one body. Seeing only seven or eight men in
                  the gap they at first mistook them for friends, but being soon undeceived upon
                  that point, they unslung their carbines and prepared to force a passage. Allowing
                  them to approach within short rifle range, Rogers poured in a deadly fire from
                  each side of the mountain-pass where his men were concealed, which was also the
                  appointed signal for the party in front to charge.
               The frightened guerrillas, who still retained their saddles unhurt, wheeled their
                  horses and fled in the direction from which they had come.
               Anticipating something of this sort, Miller had extended his flanks to their
                  utmost capacity. He was much nearer to them than the fugitives supposed. They had
                  not gone far before they found themselves inclosed in a semicircle, from which
                  there was no escape. Every man was either killed or captured. The prisoners,
                  including those previously taken by Miller and the two captured by Rogers in the
                  gap, amounted to eleven in all. These were carried to Stevenson, and from thence
                  transported to Nashville, for such disposition as the Federal commander at that
                  point might see fit to make of them.
               While Miller proceeded to Stevenson with his prisoners and the main body of his
                  troop, Thomas Rogers, with a few picked men, remained to pay a visit to his old
                  friend Dr. Griffin.
               They met as men meet in troubled times, when they know that an hour of parting
                  must soon come, and cannot tell whether they shall ever meet again. But it was not
                  to visit the kind-hearted doctor alone that Thomas Rogers allowed himself this
                  brief respite from duty. He had in contemplation a meeting still dearer, and more
                  anxiously looked for, but one which he thought it necessary to bring about by
                  apparent accident, and for which he desired to give some plausible reason other
                  than the one which really governed him. Whether he succeeded, and how he
                  succeeded, and what was the result, we reserve for another chapter.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THOMAS ROGERS remained for several days at Dr. Griffin's hospitable mansion. In
                  the daytime his old friend was generally absent from home, attending to his
                  professional duties. At such periods, Rogers would take long walks, always in the
                  direction of Mrs. Whitlock's house. Sometimes he would seat himself where he had a
                  full view of the premises, and remain for hours waiting to catch a glimpse of the
                  form that had become to him a holy and a worshiped thing. And when disappointed,
                  as he generally was, he would rise and go away with sad and mournful steps, as if
                  some great calamity had suddenly come upon him. At length his patient watchfulness
                  was rewarded. One morning he saw her come forth, mount a horse which was standing
                  ready saddled at the gate, and ride away. He marked the road she had taken;
                  hastily returned to Dr. Griffin's, saddled and mounted his own steed, and rode in
                  the direction he had seen her take. "I shall not miss her," he muttered, "for I
                  could follow her horse's tracks if they made no more impression upon the earth
                  than the moccasin of an Indian. Instinct would lead me aright."
               Then the idea occurred to him that she had gone to visit a neighbor, and would
                  probably remain all day. "No matter," was his inward comment, "I can wait; I have
                  waited longer than that for objects less dear and less worthy. I can surely wait
                  now."
               While thus ruminating, he had unconsciously touched his mettled courser's side,
                  more than once, with the spur. The animal had gradually increased his pace; and
                  when consciousness fully returned, his master found himself borne along in greater
                  haste than he cared for any one to observe. On arriving at the road, or rather
                  pathway, that Ella had taken, he found no difficulty in following the tracks of
                  her horse, they being the only ones apparently by which it had been trodden for a
                  week. She must have ridden very slowly, for as he came in sight of a house, about
                  two miles distant from her mother's, he saw a man leading her horse to the
                  stable.
               "She has just gone in," he thought; "and from their putting up her horse it is
                  clear that she will remain during the greater part of the day; but she will not
                  stay away from her mother at night, and I shall meet her as she returns homeward."
                  Riding slowly back on the path he had come, he turned into the woods where there
                  was a thick undergrowth of bushes, when he alighted and stretched himself upon the
                  grass, to wait, with a patience he knew would meet its reward, for the intervening
                  hours to roll away. Toward evening he again rode forward in the direction he
                  expected to meet her, but observing no sign of her coming, he rode backward and
                  forward along the little path until, at last, he was gratified by seeing her horse
                  led out, and soon afterward she herself came forth, and, shaking hands with the
                  members of the family, started on her homeward way. Making a circuit through the
                  woods to allow her time to come up, he again entered the path but a few yards in
                  advance of her. She turned crimson when she saw him, and he, long and eagerly as
                  he had sought that meeting, and prepared for it as he was, trembled like an aspen.
                  When the first salutations were over, he inquired, with assumed ignorance, where
                  she had been riding. It is doubtful if he heard the answer; it is certain that he
                  never could remember it afterward.
               
               His next effort at conversation was:
               "As I am going your way, Miss Ella, may I have the pleasure of escorting you
                  home?"
               "Surely," she replied. "Thanks to you, we need no protection here now; but Captain
                  Rogers's company must be always agreeable to his friends."
               He was both gratified and abashed by this speech; gratified at her speaking so
                  frankly of him as a friend, but abashed and uneasy at her quick resumption of her
                  usual unembarrassed air.
               They rode on, side by side; the only conversation being such as was elicited by
                  occasional questions from her. He felt keenly that he was losing the opportunity
                  he had so eagerly sought; but, for the life of him, he could not break the spell
                  that bound him. When they came within sight of her mother's house, he suddenly
                  summoned courage, and, laying his hand upon her bridle, said:
               "Ella, we must not part yet; I have anxiously sought this interview, though I did
                  not care to tell Dr. Griffin or your mother; but I have no wish to conceal the
                  fact from you. I am going upon a hard and dangerous service, and you know me well
                  enough to be certain that I shall not lag behind when brave men are seeking honor
                  at the cannon's mouth. In the battle which drives Gen. Bragg from the heights
                  around Chattanooga, I will have to meet a different enemy from the robber bands
                  whom I have so easily defeated here. Gen. Bragg's soldiers are thoroughly
                  disciplined veterans. Their charge is the most terrible thing I ever witnessed.
                  Victors or vanquished, their pathway is always strewn with corpses, and marked by
                  rills of blood. These are the men I must meet now; and I need not tell you that
                  those who do so, if they expect to come off victorious, must carry their lives in
                  their hands. The chances are even, Ella, that we will never meet again; and
                  therefore fore I wished to see you once more before I left your neighborhood,
                  perhaps forever."
               Ella Whitlock had been in tears during the latter part of this speech. At its
                  conclusion, she raised her eyes to his, and said:
               "I know you must go, and that you must discharge your duty when there. I would not
                  hinder you if I could. But, surely, there is no occasion for incurring any unusual
                  danger?"
               "Indeed there is. Upon this battle depends the fate, not merely of Chattanooga,
                  but of Georgia, Tennessee, and a large part of Alabama. In that mountainous
                  country, cavalry or mounted men will be useless. We shall be dismounted, and sent,
                  as light troops, to the front. We will be first in the advance and last in the
                  retreat; and if we should be compelled to meet one of those charges in mass which
                  won them the field at Chickamauga, and the first day's fight at Murfreesborough,
                  they will walk over us as easily as the buffalo tramples the grass of the prairie
                  beneath his feet. Neither I nor the most of my men can afford to be taken
                  prisoners. We are fighting with halters about our necks, and our dead bodies are
                  all that an enemy is likely to capture. So if you hear that the Union army is
                  defeated, put me down as among the number of those who will never return."
               "Spare me!" she said. "My thoughts will be dark enough without hearing more of
                  your danger. Indeed, you have told me too much already."
               "And will you think of me, sweet Ella, when that fearful struggle comes? It will
                  not tax your memory long. The last of Sherman's veterans are passing up. The
                  battle cannot now be delayed. Promise to think of me then, and danger will sit
                  upon me as lightly as the dew-drop on the floweret's leaf."
               
               "How can I help thinking of you? Can I forget that you periled your own liberty to
                  save my youngest brother from conscription? Or how, when both of their manly forms
                  were wrapped in bloody shrouds, you came to my mother, and did all that a son
                  could do to pour balm into her wounded heart, and save us from the losses that
                  threatened us? I must be changed, indeed, before I can forget such acts as these,
                  or fail to think of him who performed them."
               "But that is not the way, Ella, in which I wish you to think of me. I would have
                  you think of the future, not of the past."
               She hesitated, and then said seriously, but not angrily:
               "I thought we had a contract not to speak of that for six months to come."
               "True; and I was very wrong to forget it. Forgive me for trespassing upon
                  forbidden ground. I had no right to expect, I did not expect, the reversal of a
                  sentence to which I myself agreed. But my impetuous feelings carried me away, and
                  I forgot our compact, as well as the more bitter reflection, that the law of man
                  and the law of God alike require ample atonement for bloodshed."
               "It is not that," she replied, hastily; "it is not that. I could have decided that
                  before now——"
               She stopped suddenly, as she saw the bright light that flashed in his eyes, afraid
                  that she had said too much.
               "Go on!" he said, in a pleading tone, as she raised her handkerchief to her face
                  to hide the crimson flush that spread over it.
               "No, Captain Rogers," was the reply. "I must not forget our contract, though you
                  have done so twice. Let us go in. You will wish to tell my mother good-by, and
                  anything further you have to say to me can be said in her presence, I suppose,
                  without embarrassment to you."
               To this Captain Rogers made no objection. His manner was far less grave than it
                  had been for many days, and he remained for some time conversing with Mrs.
                  Whitlock, exhibiting none of that restraint that would have afflicted him an hour
                  before. On his way back to Dr. Griffin's he indulged himself in many a joyous
                  dream, such as, alas! are seldom realized in this world of ours. But upon one
                  point he could not be mistaken. Ella Whitlock surely did not regard the blood he
                  had shed before he became a soldier as an insuperable barrier to their union. The
                  few words she had been surprised into uttering, left no doubt of this upon his
                  mind.
               "I shouldn't be surprised," he said to himself, "if I was mistaken about Sophy;
                  and it might not have gone as hard with Toby as I thought, if he had done what I
                  did for him. But no," he continued; "it would have been all up with
                     him. There's a good deal of difference between Sophy and Ella;
                  and, besides, she had Toby's mother, with her strait-laced notions of religion, to
                  back her, while Ella's mother looks at things altogether differently. I know well
                  enough her daughter told her all; and I am pretty certain I shall never hear of
                  that stumbling-block again, unless I am foolish enough to allude to it myself,
                  which I think I will be very clear of doing."
               Other soliloquies broke from his lips as he rode toward Dr. Griffin's house, all
                  showing that the brightness and beauty of hope were shining in upon his heart. Oh
                  how prone we are to believe that every gilded fancy that passes through the brain
                  will turn out to be a reality! How apt are we to forget that there is a stern and
                  pitiless Deity, who follows us by day and reposes by our side at night, forever watching what golden thread he can
                  break, what joy he can poison, and what hope he can extinguish forever! In the
                  buoyancy of youth, and the happiness of a love which he believed to be already
                  half won, Thomas Rogers thought not of the shadow and the night, which so often
                  settle where the sunshine once rested and the springing flowers sent forth their
                  sweetest perfume. He was happy now, and acted wisely in not looking beyond the
                  present, or allowing his imagination to conjure up the dread images that reason
                  and reflection alike tell us will come soon enough of themselves to scatter
                  mourning along a pathway of gladness.
               His departure had been fixed for the following morning. Before his last interview
                  with Ella, he would have gone away without uttering a word of his love to any
                  human being; but now his heart was yearning for a confidant, and that night he
                  related all that had passed—all his hopes, fears, doubts, and anxieties—to Dr.
                  Griffin, and vainly tried to extract a promise from the doctor that he would keep
                  him constantly advised of all that occurred in the family of Mrs. Whitlock.
               "I do not ask you," he added, "to tell me anything that Ella says or does, unless
                  she knows that you mean to repeat it. But any message from her, however simple,
                  will be very sweet."
               "I shall make no promises," said the doctor, rising and turning his back to the
                  fire. "I do not mean, at my years, to turn love-messenger, to convey sweet
                  nothings from a foolish girl to an equally foolish young man. I may write to you
                  occasionally, but I shall not trouble myself about what she says; and, mark you,
                  don't fill your letters to me with any nonsense about your love, for I doubt if I
                  shall take the trouble to tell her that you are even in the land of the
                  living."
               Thomas Rogers knew better; and he rose from his seat with a smile, saying:
               "Well, doctor, you always would have your own way. I must leave you to act as your
                  own feelings prompt. I know that will be kindly."
               "But I don't mean to let my feelings have anything to do with it. I like the girl,
                  and, if the truth must be told, I like you too, although I can't call to mind
                  anything about you that is particularly worth liking. But I do like you both, and,
                  if I were to let my feelings control me, I should be doing fifty silly things that
                  you want done, and are both afraid to say you want."
               "Be it as you please, doctor. And now I must leave you to your repose. I will wake
                  you early in the morning, for I must be on my way before daylight makes its
                  appearance in the eastern sky."
               "You must not go yet," replied the doctor. "I want to ask you many questions about
                  Tobias Wilson. I have been too busy in the daytime, since you have been here, and
                  too tired at night, to ask you half I wish to know."
               Rogers again took his seat, and, when all the doctor's queries were answered, he
                  rose to seek his couch, saying warmly as he did so:
               "In one word, doctor, he is better, and braver, and more gifted than any of us.
                  His proper place is in a higher walk than mine, and I am glad that he has found it
                  out; for, although I miss him sorely, I would not have his genius fettered by such
                  a career as suits me, and which I must follow until peace returns to bless our
                  land, or this body makes a feast for wolves and vultures."
               The next morning, long before the sun had made his appearance above the horizon,
                  Thomas Rogers was on his way to rejoin his command, who only awaited his coming to
                     take up the line of march for one of
                  those terrible scenes of carnage, in which our little ambition so often prompts us
                  to seek glory at the risk of a grave. But it would be
                  unjust to ascribe such motives to the great mass of the combatants. On the
                  contrary, higher impulses and more noble aspirations led them on; and the heroism
                  they manifested may almost be claimed as the offspring of religion.
            
         
      
   
