
    ----CITATION----
        Crozier, R. H.. The Bloody Junto, or The Escape of John Wilkes Booth .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6196 wright2-0666
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE BLOODY JUNTO;
               OR, THE ESCAPE OF JOHN WILKES BOOTH.
               A STORY CONTAINING MANY INTERESTING PARTICULARS IN REGARD TO
                  THE TRIAL AND EXECUTION OF MRS. SURRATT AND OTHER SO CALLED
                  CONSPIRATORS.
            
            BY CAPT. R. H. CROZIER, A. M., Author of "THE CONFEDERATE
               SPY."
            
               LITTLE ROCK, ARK:
               WOODRUFF & BLOCHER, PRINTERS. (Gazette Office.)
            
            1869.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1869, by WOODRUFF
                  & BLOCHER, In the office of the Clerk of the District Court of the United
                  States, for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            BEFORE the perusal of the present volume is commenced, we desire to say that by the
               term Yankees, we do not wish to be understood as including the whole
               North, indiscriminately. There are many good and true conservative men and women in
               the North, whom it would be manifestly unjust to embrace in the charges adduced in
               the progress of our story. To such we willingly disclaim all intention of showing the
               least disrespect. We have exclusive reference to those vile, malignant traducers of
               the down-trodden South, who, not satisfied with gloating over the distressing
               prospects of a ruined country, are seeking to trample a brave, heroic, but
               defenceless people into the very dust of national degradation. To this class we have
               no apology whatever to make.
            Lest we should be accused of plagiarism, we will here state that we have consulted a
               pamphlet entitled "The Life, Crime and Capture of John Wilkes Booth," written by a
               worshiper of the late Abraham Lincoln. In a few chapters we have taken some short
               paragraphs and sentences without the usual marks of quotation. We have done this not
               because we wished to appropriate another's literary property, but because these
               paragraphs, sentences, and in some instances parts of sentences, are so scattering,
               disconnected and interwoven with our own narrative, that to give credit by inverted
               commas at every quotation might distract our kind reader's attention. Besides this,
               we have taken the liberty more than once of arranging, correcting and modifying a
               sentence, in order to adapt it to the story, so that the original author would not
               recognize it as his, without an intimation. This little pamphlet has been published
               as a true history, and has long since answered its design; we feel, therefore, in
               making this use of its few pages, that we have not encroached upon the rights of
               authorship. Lest our readers should be misled by the length of this explanation, and
               induced to believe that we have quoted too freely, it is proper to say that if all
               the scattered extracts and disjointed sentences taken from the pamphlet were
               collected together, they would not cover more than fifteen pages of the
               present volume.
            We desire further to say, that it is no easy task to write a really interesting story
               upon events of recent occurrence. The reason is obvious. Inconsistencies and errors
               are too easily detected when the reader is well acquainted with facts and localities.
               The farther back in the past the scenes of a story are dated, the less disposed will
               be the reader to question their accuracy, and to doubt their actual occurrence. Hence
               we are aware that the present volume details circumstances that may appear to the
               critical reader strangely at variance from the truth; but these inconsistences will
               disappear in the course of time, when the lapse of years shall have somewhat obscured
               incidents well known by the present generation. But we deem it useless to offer
               apologies which, in a preface, are generally disregarded or misconstrued. We will let
               our readers form their own opinions of this work, written amid the cares and during
               the spare moments of a laborious profession.
            
               THE AUTHOR.
               Hickory Plain, Prairie County, Arkansas, 1868.
            
         
      
      
         
            The bloody junto, or The escape of John Wilkes Booth
            
            THE BLOODY JUNTO.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     
                        "Of all the passions which possess the soul,
                        None so disturbs vain mortals' minds,
                        As vain ambition, which so blinds
                        The light of them, that nothing can control,
                        Nor curb their thoughts who will aspire."
                     
                  
               
               DURING the memorable war of 1861, a band of men, amounting to about forty in
                  number, was assembled in a long, dark cellar in the building occupied as a
                  bourding house by the unfortunate Mrs. Surratt. The reader cannot be ignorant of
                  the fact that this building was located in the capital of the United States. The
                  cellar had no outlets whatever, except a narrow door scarcely wide enough to admit
                  the body of a large man. In broad daylight it was as dark nearly as midnight. It
                  was, in many respects, most admirably adapted to the management of affairs
                  requiring profound secrecy. For what this dismal apartment was originally
                  intended, it is difficult to imagine. But whatever may have been the purpose of
                  him who had it constructed, it is certain that it was occupied, as we have already
                  mentioned, by an assembly of men called together for the accomplishment of objects
                  with which we will hasten to acquaint the reader.
               It will scarcely be necessary to mention that strictly secret societies,
                  especially when they embrace only a very small part of the communities in which
                  they may be organized, generally meet at night. That time, for very obvious
                  reasons, is more favorable than daylight to the commission of crimes and deeds,
                  and the transaction of affairs that demand concealment from public view. So, when
                  the hour of ten o'clock at night had arrived, the assembly previously mentioned
                  was seated silently awaiting the commencement of proceedings. Presently the narrow
                  door was carefully locked, after a sentinel had been stationed outside to oppose
                  the aggressions of prying eaves-droppers, and all other persons who might even by
                  chance stumble innocently upon the entrance to this place of intrigue. After these
                  precautions had been taken, one man rose from the crowd and walking to the upper
                  end of this gloomy looking cellar, farthest from the door, seated himself and
                  called the house to order after the manner of a political assembly in a country
                  town. He seemed to be the presiding officer by virtue of a previous meeting.
               "Gentlemen," said the chairman slowly rising from his seat, "you recollect that
                  when we last met a committee of five was appointed to draft a constitution and
                  by-laws for our government, as soon as we became an organized body. To-night is
                  the time appointed for the committee to report. I presume no other business is
                  necessary, or could even properly come before us until we adopt some form of
                  government to control our future action. The report of the committee, therefore,
                  is the first business that claims attention to-night."
               "I will state, Mr. Chairman," said another individual rising to his feet as soon
                  as the presiding officer had re-seated himself, "that the committee is ready to
                  offer a report. We have after mature deliberation drawn up a constitution, which I
                  will now read, with your permission."
               "I move, Mr. Chairman," spoke a third person, "that the whole of the constitution
                  be read, and afterwards that each clause be acted upon separately by the
                  meeting."
               "I second the motion," came from two or three members at once. This motion was
                  then put to the house, and unanimously adopted. After which the chairman of the
                  committee read in a low but firm tone of voice the following
               
                  
                     
                        
                           CONSTITUTION.
                           "We, whose names are hereunto attached, considering that in these
                              troublous times men's lives and liberties are liable to be threatened
                              and endangered by ambitious politicians; knowing that men in power
                              during times of war do not scruple to disregard the rights of others,
                              provided their own ambitious views can be advanced; believing that
                              when once encroachments upon long-established rights begin to be made
                              the government may be finally subverted; and believing further, that
                              when such a state of political disorder exists, as is now but too
                              evident in the management of national affairs, it is the privilege of
                              communities, or portions thereof, to form combinations for their own
                              protection; we, therefore, in order to mutually assist each other, to
                              secure ourselves against the oppression of civil and military
                              usurpations, and to resist the tendency of the present government of
                              the United States towards a most galling despotism, do ordain this
                              constitution for our future political guidance."
                        
                     
                  
               
               Such was the preamble to this remarkable instrument dignified by the name of a
                     constitution tution. Upon reflection, we
                  feel satisfied that the reader will excuse us from copying the whole of this
                  lengthy document, which covered a dozen pages of foolscap. We have quoted the
                  preamble verbatim et literatim, that an idea of
                  the nature of the compact into which these men entered may be formed. It was
                  divided off into articles and sections, and went on to enumerate the powers and
                  duties of the different officers, the number of whom was one president and five
                  vice-presidents. Before these all misdemeanors and violations of the by-laws were
                  tried. There was no appeal from their decision. No member who signed the
                  constitution had a right ever to withdraw from the society. The penalty for an
                  attempt to withdraw was death. It will be justly supposed that this was a
                  dangerous clan with which to connect one's destiny.
               We may here state that the idea of organizing such a society originated with a few
                  disappointed politicians in Washington—men whose chief object was their own
                  political aggrandizement. It was intended to enlarge the society until it should
                  become a great party, and finally control the government of the United States.
                  Sallust, I believe, makes the remark that in every state there are restless
                  spirits, always ready for revolution and for resistance to the regularly
                  constituted authority, for the sake of plunder and the natural love of political
                  confusion. An assertion of this kind, true in the days of ancient Rome, was not
                  the less so in the stormy times of 1861. No doubt there were persons in this
                  society we are now describing as daring as those engaged in the conspiracy of
                  Cataline. Seven or eight worn out office-seekers in the federal capital soon found
                  adherents to advocate and adopt their views, until the number in favor of a
                  permanent organization amounted, as we have already stated, to about forty.
               The reader must not suppose that the society was composed of ignorant,
                  simpleminded men, inveigled into a step which their consciences opposed. They were
                  carefully selected, with the discrimination of a Napoleon Bonaparte, for known
                  qualities and qualifications, and were generally men of education, unsuccessful in
                  life for various causes which can be easily imagined. The majority was therefore
                  ripe for any movement that promised a change in their conditions. We do not mean
                  to say either that they were all ruffians and rogues. There may have been in the
                  number a few honest men at least, who did not fully comprehend the objects of the
                  society, or did not reflect upon the magnitude of the undertaking. Some three or
                  four at any rate raised objections to the constitution; but as to their motives in
                  so doing we leave the reader to form his own conclusion. As soon as the reading of
                  the constitution was finished, one member rose to his feet. "Mr. Chairman," said
                  he, "I have one or two objections to this strange document which the gentleman
                  calls a constitution."
               "I call the member to order," replied the chairman of the committee.
               "I am not out of order," was the response.
               "He is certainly out of order, Mr. President."
               "I claim my privilege, and insist upon it. The right of discussion is certainly
                  recognized by this society."
               "I insist upon it, Mr. President, that the member is out of order. Because, under
                  the first motion made, it was decided that the constitution should be adopted or
                  rejected clause by clause. The member has no right, therefore, to offer his
                  objections to this instrument unless in accordance with that motion."
               "I have the right to be heard," sternly exclaimed the first speaker.
               "Mr. President," cried a new speaker springing with quickness to his feet, "I
                  would like to suggest, that according to parliamentary usage the member is"——
               "I have the floor, Mr. President," interrupted the first speaker.
               "If it is to be put upon that ground," said the chairman of the committee, "I
                  claim the floor, for"——
               "I repeat, Mr. President, I have the floor," shouted the first speaker, "I claim
                  my rights."
               "Mr. President!" said member No. 3.
               "Mr. President!" cried a new disputant.
               "Order! order! order!" was now heard in all parts of the cellar.
               "My God! gentlemen!" exclaimed the president stamping fiercely with his heel upon
                  the floor, "come to order. You are nearly as unruly as the congress of the United
                  States. Be seated, all of you, and I will decide who is entitled to the
                  floor."
               This command of the president restored silence and quiet, and all the members took
                  their seats.
               "Gentlemen," continued the president, "I will remark right here, that if you
                  commence in this style to create confusion and disorder, the probability is we
                  will never become organized. We have met here to act rather than to
                  talk. But still every member has the right to express his opinions upon subjects
                  under discussion, if he sees fit. All I have to say is, let it be done at the
                  proper time and in the proper manner. Let there be no dissensions among us in the
                  very beginning of our undertaking. I must further remind you that this is intended
                  to be a secret society, and a very secret one too. But the way some of you have
                  commenced, all of our proceedings will soon be heard above ground; and just at
                  this particular juncture, when the writ of habeas corpus is
                  suspended, a discovery of our meetings might lead to very unpleasant consequences.
                  I must beg you, therefore, to suppress your voices as much as possible when you
                  speak. The chair decides that under the first motion each clause of the
                  constitution must be read separately and acted upon. Therefore the chairman of the
                  committee will proceed to read each article."
               "Mr. President," again cried the first speaker, "before we act upon this
                  constitution, I have a motion to make."
               "The gentleman is out of order," interrupted ed the president. "If the gentleman
                  has objections to offer, let him wait till the first clause is read, and then he
                  can have the floor."
               "Very well," replied the speaker resuming his seat.
               Quiet being now restored the preamble was read.
               "Now, then," said the president, "if any member has anything to say, let him speak
                  out. I would like to suggest, however, that gentlemen make short, concise
                  speeches."
               Thereupon the first speaker took the floor.
               "Mr. President, I did not have much to say; and if I had not been so
                  unceremoniously interrupted when I first rose I would not have occupied the
                  attention of the house more than three minutes. But we appear to be such sticklers
                  for rules that I was not allowed quietly to make a motion in regard to the manner
                  in which the constitution should be adopted. Mr. President, I do not wish to see
                  this constitution forced upon the society without giving each member time for
                  reflection and mature deliberation. In some respects it is a most extraordinary
                  document, and enunciates principles new and startling.—They are worthy of the pen
                  of Machiavelli. Sir, I cannot but doubt the propriety and expediency of
                  recognizing such principles as rules of action. They may prove more detrimental to
                  ourselves than to those whose ambition it is declared they are designed to curb. I
                  object more to the preamble than anything else. It contains declarations over
                  which I wish to ponder well before I attach my signature to this constitution. Let
                  us not go into this thing rashly with our eyes shut. I say take time for thought.
                  If then, after mature reflection, this instrument should be adopted for our
                  government, no member can complain that 'snap judgment' was taken, and that he
                  knew not what he was doing. I move, therefore, that we adjourn until tonight
                  week."
               "I second the motion," exclaimed a member.
               "Gentlemen," said the president, "there is a motion to adjourn before the house.
                  Has anyone objections to offer?"
               "Mr. President," said the chairman of the committee, "I have only a very few
                  remarks to make in opposition to the motion. I am sorry that in the very
                  commencement of our proceedings members are found to raise so many objections, and
                  to throw obstacles in the way of our complete and permanent organization. You,
                  sir, have justly remarked that we have met here to act rather than talk. I am
                  surprised that the gentleman who has just taken his seat should so strenuously
                  oppose the adoption of this constitution. No one will pretend to deny that it is
                  rather an unusual instrument, to say the least of it. But, sir, it is an old
                  saying that desperate diseases require desperate remedies. This constitution
                  contains nothing antagonistic to the genius of republican institutions. We live in
                  times when we are liable to arrest at any moment; when our property is liable to
                  confiscation; when our wives and children are liable to be reduced to beggary, and
                  ourselves can be made to pay the penalty of supposed treason. Is it a time, then,
                  to hesitate about the formation of a society that promises security, and that
                  proposes to check the downward tendencies of the general government? Sir, let us
                  not halt between two opinions. But let us organize this very night, and
                  immediately commence political operations. Delay is dangerous. When men once begin
                  to vacillate, to waver in times of belligerent excitement, experience proves that
                  fear will conquer them, and they will allow themselves to be overwhelmed by the
                  dashing wave of wild fanaticism and political frenzy. Does the gentleman wish to
                  have a constitution devoid of principle, a meaningless thing like those over which
                  a debating society of school boys might squabble and wrangle? If he does, I do
                  not; and I believe the majority of the members present will say that I am right.
                  In an undertaking of this kind we must be guided by something else besides our own
                  wills. If we do not, our meetings will all be child's play. For these brief
                  reasons I shall vote against the motion for adjournment."
               "Mr. President," replied the first speaker, "the gentleman does me injustice, if
                  he supposes it is my intention to cast obstacles in the way of our organization. I
                  have not opposed the adoption of this constitution. I made the motion not because
                  I am opposed to this instrument in toto. I only
                  want to give the members time for reflection. If, as the gentleman says, delay is
                  dangerous, precipitation is very frequently connected closely with irretrievable
                  ruin. It may be safely asserted that men never lose by deep, searching thought
                  upon the consequences of measures designed to affect their condition in life. The
                  constitution proclaims principles which may not be essential to the society. I say
                  let us pause and reflect whether the means are adapted to the ends. I do not like
                  the idea of surrendering, without some qualification or reservation, so many
                  rights to a tribunal whose powers are so ill-defined that they can be construed
                  into ex post facto laws, and in time to come can
                  be turned against us. Before I attach my signature to the constitution let me
                  think, let me see to what it may lead. With the present lights before me, if it is
                  forced upon me to-night the instinct of self-preservation impels me to offer
                  resistance to its adoption, at least those parts which appear to me
                  objectionable."
               At this juncture another member moved to where the chairman of the committee was
                  sitting, whispered a few words into his ear, and then addressed the chair.
               "Mr. President, I do not think there is any particular objection to the motion for
                  adjournment. If the members have doubts in regard to the propriety of organizing
                  to-night, it would be well enough, I think, to postpone the adoption of the
                  constitution for a short time. We ought, by all means, to act with unanimity in
                  this matter. Probably at our next meeting all the members will be better satisfied, and we can then proceed in
                  harmony, and adopt the constitution without a dissenting voice. Then in order to
                  obtain a result so desirable, I will vote for the motion to adjourn."
               This last little speech was delivered by a politician who had great influence in
                  the society. Although short, it at once put an end to the controversy.
               "Does any other member wish to speak on the motion?" asked the president.
               No one manifested the least desire to prolong the discussion. The question was
                  then put to the house and carried with scarcely any opposition, and the society
                  accordingly adjourned.
               Thereupon all the members withdrew, with the exception of the committee, which had
                  drafted the constitution, and the president. These gentlemen, who were all
                  politicians of about the fourth or fifth rate, remained. As soon as they saw the
                  cellar cleared of all but themselves, they formed a circle around a table, and
                  held a private caucus.
               "Degroot," said the president, addressing the chairman of the committee, "I was a
                  little astonished at your violent opposition to the motion for adjournment."
               "Why so?" asked the chairman of the committee, whom we shall, hereafter, call by
                  his proper name of Degroot. "Why so? I thought from what you intimated, that you
                  were as much opposed to it as I was."
               "I was, at first; but after a moment's reflection, when I saw that some little
                  feeling against the constitution was arousing, I changed my mind. I thought you
                  would surely see how the wind was blowing."
               "I saw it very plainly," said politician No. 3.
               "Well, never mind that," answered Degroot. "That is past; what to be done next is
                  the thing to consider. 'To be, or not to be; that's the question.'"
               "I think our way is marked out plain and clear," replied the president.
               "What is that?" inquired Degroot.
               "We have nothing to do but sound the members separately. If we find a majority
                  opposed to this constitution, the committee had better have another drafted,
                  containing pretty much the same principles, but more carefully worded. I do not
                  believe, however, that the majority will be hostile to it. If Payne had kept his
                  mouth shut, the business would have been completed before now. I did not, however,
                  wish to see this instrument forced upon a grumbling, dissatisfied minority, that
                  might hereafter become a source of trouble and annoyance to us."
               "I was surprised at Payne's opposition," remarked politician No. 3.
               "It will not amount to much," answered Degroot.
               "Do you think he is safe?" inquired politician No. 4. "Can he be entrusted with
                  the secrets of our society."
               "I do not have the least idea that Payne will attempt to betray us. He is a little
                  stubborn, it is true, but with some persuasion and coaxing he will go with the
                  majority. It would not take me by surprise if he should yet become an ultraist in
                  antagonism to Lincoln's administration." "I think you are mistaken there," quoth
                  the president. Payne will oppose many of our proposed measures, which ought not to
                  be discussed even. It may be well enough, though, to have some one in the society
                  who will take the negative of every question. Stolid opposition sometimes makes
                  measures work well; Payne is a sensible fellow. After the constitution is adopted,
                  however, his talking will be of no great disadvantage to us; at least it cannot
                  change our plans. But the real object of of the organization must be kept
                  concealed from him as long as possible."
               "There's the rub," said No. 4, "for how is that to be done."
               "He need not know anything about it until the time comes to act. He will then be
                  so deeply implicated that he will not dare to play false. We will be masters of
                  his destiny."
               Degroot at this point changed the subject, and the whole party entered into a
                  discussion as to who the officers should be in case the constitution should be
                  adopted. These gentlemen all with commendable prudence declined the honor of
                  becoming president of this secret cabal, thinking probably it might become a
                  dangerous position in the event of discovery. Besides, for reasons known to
                  themselves, they could control the action of the society more effectually by
                  placing in the highest chair some one who was not a recognized politician. They
                  made the selection before leaving the cellar. But we will not anticipate
                  proceedings which belong more properly to the next chapter, and will be found
                  therein.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  
                     
                        "Your oaths are past, and now subscribe your name,
                        That his own hand may strike his honor down
                        That violates the smallest branch herein."
                     
                  
               
               The week following the last meeting of the society was a busy one with a portion
                  of the members. According to the agreement entered into between the politicians
                  whom we left holding a caucus on their own account, and for their own benefit,
                  each member was to be sounded separately; in other words, his vote was to be
                  recorded beforehand either for or against the constitution Before the expiration
                  of the week it was definitely known who were opposed to, and who were in favor of
                  its adoption. Degroot, notwithstanding the fact that he seemed to undervalue
                  Payne's hostility to the constitution, nevertheless thought it advisable to call
                  on that individual, and find out what course he intended to pursue at the next
                  meeting. He found Payne alone in his room, looking out of his window with a
                  melancholy expression of countenance that indicated trouble and dejection. He
                  seated himself and looked earnestly at Payne for some moments without, however,
                  arriving at any conclusion in regard to the subject of his meditations.
               "Why, Payne," said he at last, "you look as moody and melancholy as if you were on
                  the point of bargaining for a passage across the river Styx. What is the
                  matter?"
               "You have guessed correctly," replied Payne with a mournful smile. "I was
                  standing, in imagination at least, upon the banks of that same dreaded stream,
                  engaged in an interview with Charon."
               "You have probably been reading Dante?"
               "I think you are 'a witch for guess.'" answered Payne in some surprise. "I confess
                  that I am not altogether free from a disagreeable impression induced by a perusal
                  of that author. But still I am not indebted exclusively to Dante for my unpleasant
                  train of thought. For I was reflecting upon death before I opened his
                  work."
               Degroot's upper lip slightly curled with contempt, and a faint smile of derision
                  played over his face at the folly of such meditations.
               "Payne, you are acting like an old woman. I will answer you in the language of the
                  great master of human nature: 
                     
                        "'Cowards die many times before their death;
                        The valiant never taste of death but once.
                        Of all the wonders that I yet have heard,
                        It seems to me most strange that men should fear;
                        Seeing that death a necessary end
                        Will come when it will come.'"
                     
                  
               
               "The mere act of dying," replied Payne, not noticing the severity of the
                  quotation, or not considering its application as directed to himself, "the mere
                  act of dying is nothing if that were all. But 'that something after death.'
               "'The undiscovered country from whose bourne No traveller returns, puzzles the
                  will.'
               "Dying of itself is quite easy, and may be very pleasant for aught I know to the
                  contrary. But your great author says: 
                     
                        "'To sleep! perchance to dream;—ay, there's the rub;
                        For in that sleep of death what dreams may come,
                        When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
                        Must give us pause; there's the respect
                        That makes calamity of so long life.'"
                     
                  
               
               "You would better turn priest, Payne, if this is a fair specimen of your every-day
                  thoughts. You are not fit for the jars and shocks of political life. But I'll tell
                  you what; you are speculating about things, concerning which no true philosopher
                  ever troubles himself. 'Eat, drink and be merry, for to-morrow we die.' That's my
                  motto. I do not seek to make my life burdensome by the anticipation of evils 'I
                  know not of.' I try to enjoy the present, and let the future take care of itself,
                  well assured that I will fulfill my destiny."
               "You are an advocate of fatalism then?"
               "No, the devil take that and all other isms. In a religious point of
                  view I am an advocate of nothing. I never thought about such nonsense two minutes
                  together in all my life. Whether there is any God or not, I don't know, and I
                  don't care a continental. If there is such a being as the preachers describe,
                  omnipotent, omniscient, and all that kind of thing, he knows what he put me here
                  for, and when I die he can dispose of me just as he pleases. I shall consider it
                  no affair of mine. But while I do live I am master of my own actions, and I shall
                  make the most of the world."
               "You are an atheist, then?"
               "No," replied Degroot with a frown, "I'm not an atheist, nor a Mahometan, nor a
                  Catholic, nor a Methodist, nor a Baptist, nor a heathen. If you will class me
                  though, I am a don't-care-a-d—n!"
               "I think you could have used another term shorter and more appropriate in
                  selecting your sect."
               "What is that, pray?"
               "You belong to the devil," and he burst into a loud laugh.
               "I think you are inclined, Payne, to be facetious at my expense. But people who
                  live in glass houses ought not to throw stones. How much better off are you than I
                  am?" asked Degroot with some interest.
               "None, sir, none whatever. We will both go down to Pluto sooner or later, unless
                  the mere intellectual belief in the existence of Deity and a place of torment can
                  secure my salvation. I am in hopes I will get credit for that much anyhow." And he
                  laughed again.
               "This is all nonsense, Payne. It will do for old women and priests to talk about.
                  But I did not come here to enter into a discussion of theological points. I came
                  to see you about our constitution, and to learn your reasons for opposing its
                  adoption."
               "Well, my reasons can soon be given; and they will not be much of a digression
                  from the subject we were on, for they are very closely connected with it."
               "What do you mean?" asked Degroot looking puzzled.
               "I thought I gave my reasons before the society."
               "Yes, so you did; but they were public reasons. Men's public acts are always
                  controlled, or at least influenced by secret motives, which the world never knows.
                  My experience has taught me that. Now I dare say that you were moved to this step
                  by some other motive than that which you ostensibly acted from in the
                  society."
               "You seem to understand the general theories of human nature. Probably you can
                  guess what my motives were?"
               "No, I do not think I could, unless it was fear."
               "I am," replied Payne drily, "doubtless as destitute of that prudent virtue, in
                  the common acceptation of the word, as most men are. But since you want to know,
                  what will you think when I tell you one of my motives was grounded on
                  presentiment?"
               "A presentiment indeed!" Well that is strange!"
               "I know you are disposed to ridicule such things. But, nevertheless, when I heard
                  the preamble of the constitution read, by some strange mysterious operation,
                  something like clairvoyance, I obtained a slight glimpse into futurity, and felt
                  that that same constitution tution would
                  change the course of my destiny. As I remarked in the society, the instinct of
                  self-preservation impelled me to offer resistance. Now you understand me, do you
                  not?"
               "No, I cannot say that I do."
               "Well if you do not, I shall make no further explanation on the point. You are not
                  the man to listen to them no how."
               "I never heard you talk in this style before, Payne."
               "No, I guess not."
               "Is a presentiment," asked Degroot after a moment's pause, "is a presentiment all
                  the reason you had for the course you pursued?"
               "No, the constitution itself contains provisions and grants powers that are to my
                  mind objectionable."
               "Why so?"
               "Well, in the first place, it asserts the right of communities to enter into
                  combination against the government."
               "For their own protection, though."
               "It matters not about that. Individuals have no right to form societies in order
                  to secure civil protection, when they have a government instituted for that
                  purpose. If they are aggrieved, the only lawful remedy they have is an appeal to
                  the ballot-box. You know this as well as I do."
               "That kind of talk will do well enough in times of peace, when one can plant
                  himself on the law, but it will not do where we have no government but the
                  absolute will of an oligarchy. You certainly do not endorse Lincoln's
                  administration?"
               "Not by any means!"
               "Then I see no reasonable grounds for your opposition."
               "To tell you the truth," replied Payne, "I do not object so much to the principle
                  I have named as to some other things contained in this constitution."
               "What are they?"
               "The unlimited power it confers upon the officers, for one."
               "And why is that so objectionable?"
               "For the simple reason that I do not like to give any half-dozen men the right to
                  take my life, if I do not see proper to obey all their unlawful behests."
               "Payne, it is useless for us to discuss the subject. I thought you would see into
                  our designs at once. But now I want you to tell me in plain terms what you are
                  going to do. If you are so opposed to the constitution, you would better withdraw
                  before it is adopted."
               "Methinks that ought to be a hazardous experiment," answered Payne with a
                  significant smile. "I will tell you, Degroot, exactly what I am going to do. If
                  the majority adopts that instrument, I can stand it if they can."
               "And you will be one of us, heart and soul?"
               "I will obey the laws of the society. That is all you can require."
               Degroot looked somewhat puzzled. He could not determine in his own mind whether
                  Payne could be fully trusted or not. The latter would have been regarded as a
                  suspicious member, if he had not furnished evidence plain and palpable of his
                  disaffection towards the government of the United States. There was,
                  notwithstanding this, an air of mystery about him and his words which prevented
                  Degroot from arriving at any definite conclusions. This curiosity was now aroused
                  to know something more in regard to this strange individual. He accordingly
                  changed the subject with abruptness.
               "Payne, I don't think I ever asked you what your native state is."
               "No, I believe not."
               "Well, what is it?"
               "Has the society anything to do with my nativity?"
               "Of course not. Why do you ask such a question?"
               "Because you seemed to connect it with the society."
               "I merely changed the subject. The question is civil, is it not?"
               "Civil enough," replied Payne, "but I do not choose to answer it."
               "Why not?"
               "I do not know that it is obligatory upon me to reveal my pedigree. But I will say
                  to you that there is no one in this city who knows whence I came. No one ever will
                  know. Besides this, my name is not Payne, either."
               "What is it then?"
               "I shall keep that secret also. No one need question me about it."
               "I have heard some of our members hint," said Degroot fixing his gaze upon the
                  other's face, "that you are a deserter from the confederate army."
               "I give that the emphatic lie. I never had any connection whatever with the
                  rebels, in any shape or form. Now, Degroot, ask me one more question in regard to
                  this matter. I see what you are after. But you need have no fears concerning my
                  fidelity. Though I cannot endorse everything done by the society, yet I am and
                  will be true."
               "I believe you, Payne. You are true grit; I know it."
               After some further conversation the two men parted, and did not meet till the
                  night appointed for the re-assembling of the society.
               When the members were again collected in the gloomy cellar, there was not the same
                  boisterousness in their proceedings as upon the former occasion. Each man took his
                  seat in profound silence. Then the minutes of the preceding meeting were read and
                  unanimously adopted. After which the regular business of the night was announced
                  by the temporary president. When the preamble was read, no one stirred. Payne was
                  present, but he sat with his head down and offered no objections. Several of the
                  members seemed a little surprised, having expected a violent discussion to ensue.
                  The President waited a short time, but no one seeming desirous to speak, the
                  preamble was voted upon and adopted without a single dissenting voice. No article
                  of the constitution met with any opposition until the oath intended to be
                  administered to each member was read. It was as follows:
               "I——do solemnly swear, in the presence of God and these witnesses, without
                  equivocation or mental reservation, that I will support all parts of this
                  constitution, and will lend my influence in securing the faithful execution of its
                  provisions; that I will abide by all the decisions made by the tribunal provided
                  for within the constitution; and that I will discharge any duty assigned me by the
                  said tribunal, however repugnant it may be to my feelings: and should I attempt to
                  withdraw from the society, or betray any of its members, or prove delinquent in
                  any manner, then I hereby consent to forfeit my life, according to whatever
                  sentence may be passed by the aforesaid tribunal."
               Such was the oath. No sooner, however, had the reader's voice ceased, than Payne
                  arose to his feet. Several of the members drew a long breath, then all listened
                  with profound attention.
               "Mr. President: For the sake of harmony, I have kept silent thus far to-night. I
                  have allowed several sections of the constitution to pass unchallenged and without
                  notice. I dislike exceedingly to appear contrary and contentious when the utmost
                  unanimity and harmony are required, and are indispensable to the successful
                  accomplishment of our aims. But, sir, I feel impelled to raise my voice against
                  the engraftment of the obligation just read upon the constitution. I cannot
                  subscribe my name to it without great reluctance, and without a feeling of horror.
                  What! renounce the right of trial by jury—lay aside my claims to an appeal to the
                  courts of justice established by the constitution of the United States, and place
                  my life at the disposal of half a dozen men in possession of absolute, unlimited
                  power? Sir, my nature revolts at the idea. It is antagonistic to all my notions of
                  human liberty. It is utterly at variance with all the republican principles that
                  have been instilled into my mind from the days of childhood. Who knows what the
                  tribunal may consider offences? What kind of duties are meant? What constitutes
                  delinquency? These are questions which ought to be thoroughly considered and
                  settled before this broad, sweeping oath is adopted. Is it meant that I am to
                  discharge every duty suggested by the whims and caprices of this tribunal, without
                  my having any voice in the matter? Is it meant that I am to execute, without a
                  murmur, each and every plan proposed, however repulsive to conscience and
                  repugnant to the dictates of humanity? and then if I prove delinquent in
                  sustaining the decisions of that tribunal, though they may be unlawful—abhorrent
                  to every feeling and impulse of nature, my life is forfeit? If this be the
                  meaning, gentlemen we would better beware. I repeat it, beware! The
                  time will come when some of us, probably all of us, will regret that we subscribed
                  our names voluntarily to this terrible oath. It is a dangerous power to be
                  exercised by a few men. If we adopt it, all retreat will be cut off. It will pull
                  down the last bridge between us and civil society, and we will go forward, mark
                  the prediction, until our doom is written in blood. Let us consider then what we
                  do. Let us modify this oath. I move that we strike it out altogether."
               Payne then paused, and looked around for a second to his motion; but there was
                  silence, and his motion could not be entertained. He then slowly reseated himself,
                  with a sorrowful countenance, and resumed his former position.
               At this moment, while all were sitting in solemn stillness, a noble looking man
                  rose to his feet. His splendid form towered in that dismal cellar like some of the
                  ancient semigods described by the bards of olden times. It was impossible not to
                  gaze at him with admiration.
               "Mr. President," said he, "I make no pretensions to oratory. Like Antony, 
                     
                        "'I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
                        No actions, nor utterances, nor the power of speech
                        To stir men's blood: I only speak right on.'
                     
                  
               
               "I say, then, let us not begin to waver and hesitate when we have come to the last
                  article of the constitution. I was in hopes that no opposition would be offered to
                  anything judged necessary by the committee for the government of our society. I
                  have no objections to urge against taking the oath. I am perfectly willing to take
                  it myself, and I hope others will follow the example. I think this oath is
                  necessary. For if men are left to follow the bent of their own wills, nothing can
                  be accomplished by a secret society. Let us then adopt the oath at once. There is
                  need of haste: 
                     
                        "'Let's take the instant by the forward top;
                        For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees
                        The inaudible and noiseless foot of time
                        Steals, ere we can effect them.'
                     
                  
               
               "Sir, I call for the question."
               There is nothing like a bold, resolute man in time of hesitation. How often have
                  we seen a single individual, of stubborn will and fearless courage, sway the minds
                  and control the passions of a vacillating multitude, and urge them on to the
                  commission of deeds which they would have avoided had they been left free to
                  struggle with their own doubts and unsteady thoughts. Vast mobs are very
                  frequently goaded on to acts of frenzy, fury and madness by the nod of one brave,
                  determined man. Sublime, exalted courage exercises a more absolute control, a more
                  unlimited influence over the minds and hearts of men than any other quality
                  possessed by human nature. It makes its mark in all the departments and avocations
                  of life. It is something which all admire—all will submit to it; and all weaker
                  natures are willing to be directed by it.
               The words uttered by the last speaker, who was the  murderer of Abraham
                  Lincoln, were few and plain, but they came forth glowing from a fiery heart. All
                  the members, if they now had any doubts, appeared to lay them aside. The effect of
                  Payne's warning words of caution passed away like a summer cloud, which had for a moment tarnished
                  the light of heaven. Booth's earnest tone and manner of delivery, his radiant
                  countenance expressive of fearless determination and contempt of danger, seemed to
                  infuse some of his own daring courage into every heart. The question was eagerly
                  called for; and the "yeas" were so loud and were so evidently in the majority,
                  that the president did not deem it necessary to take the negative vote. The
                  constitution was now adopted in all its parts.
               Booth moved that all the members should sign the constitution with human blood;
                  and this savage motion, under a fit of temporary enthusiasm, was carried by an
                  overwhelmning majority.
               "Who will furnish the blood, gentlemen?" asked the president.
               "I will!" cried Booth quickly springing to his feet. And he bared his polished
                  arm, from which a sufficient quantity of blood for the purpose was drawn. Then
                  each member, with a kind of desperation, walked to the table and signed his name
                  with a pen dipped in the gore of John Wilkes Booth.
               Payne was the last to sign. When his turn came, he coolly took the pen and then
                  turned to the members:
               "Gentlemen," said he, "I have offered some opposition to this constitution; but it
                  is now adopted, and I shall support it with as much fidelity as any man in the
                  house. I feel myself urged on by a power I cannot resist. I feel that I am a child
                  of fate, and must travel the path of unalterable destiny. In proof of my
                  faithfulness I now affix my name to the constitution of this bloody junto."
               "THE BLOODY JUNTO!" cried Booth. "Yes, Bloody Junto let it be called.
                  I move, Mr. President, that we adopt it as the name of this society. The Bloody
                  Junto! It is an appropriate name." And accordingly this ugly title was duly
                  acknowledged.
               The members now held an election for permanent officers. Upon the first ballot
                  every vote, with one solitary exception, was cast for John Wilkes Booth as
                  president. Degroot and four others were elected vicepresidents. After which, the
                  officers were all properly installed. Some other uninteresting business was
                  transacted, and then the society adjourned until the next regular meeting.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  
                     
                        "His high, broad forehead, marble fair,
                        Told of the power of thought within;
                        And strength was in his raven hair—
                        But when he smiled a spell was there
                        That more than strength or power could win."
                     
                  
               
               A personage as notorious as John Wilkes Booth, and whose name,
                  although it may be covered with romantic infamy, will go down to posterity through
                  the medium of history and fiction, requires at our hands something more than a
                  mere passing notice. We shall therefore attempt to give, as briefly as possible, a
                  short account of the origin and education of this strange, daring man. We feel
                  satisfied that our reader will not demand an apology for this digression.
               It is stated that the father of J. Wilkes Booth deserted the wife of his bosom in
                  favor of a flower-girl. We know not that this report is true, or that it is false.
                  If true, we are ignorant of the motives which induced him to take this step. It
                  may be, in early life that he formed a temporary attachment to some fair daughter
                  of Eve, and acting from impulse married her; and then in course of time discovered
                  his mistake, and fled from his native country. Be this as it may, he quitted
                  England, and brought a wife with him to America and settled in Baltimore. He was
                  of Hebrew descent, and was an actor. This profession he seems to have willed to
                  his children. Whatever may have been the faults of his first wife, it is certain
                  that the tongue of calumny has not dared to speak against the second. She now
                  resides in Nineteenth Street, New York. Her husband died while traveling westward,
                  leaving her the care of six children. These were Junius Brutus, Edwin Forrest,
                  John Wilkes, Joseph, and two girls. As the reader can be interested in the fate of
                  only one of them, we will proceed with the history of John Wilkes.
               Although Mrs. Booth's family was large for a widow, yet she attempted to educate
                  her children. She had sufficient means for the purpose, if the children had made a
                  proper use of the opportunities afforded them. But it appears that none of them,
                  although they were ambitious, manifested any disposition to become distinguished
                  in literature. John Wilkes, however enjoyed superior literary advantages, of which
                  he did not avail himself to any considerable extent. During his school days he
                  made the acquaintance of Fitzhugh Lee, who won Booth's admiration. Wilkes hated
                  school. His fiery disposition could not endure the prison-like confinement to
                  which every thorough scholar must submit. He loved the open air, and was very fond
                  of going on hunting expeditions. We will now quote from a northern writer:
               "He used to stroll off to fish, though that sort of amusement was too sedentary
                  for his nature, but went on fowling jaunts with enthusiasm. In these latter he
                  manifested that fine nerve and certain eye which was the talk of all his
                  associates; but his greatest love was the stable. He learned to ride with his
                  first pair of boots, and hung around the grooms to beg permission to take the nags
                  to water. He grew in later life to be both an indurated and graceful horseman.
                  Towards his mother and sisters he was affectionate without being obedient. Of all
                  the sons Wilkes was the most headstrong indoors, and the most contented away from
                  home. He had a fitful gentleness which won him forgiveness, and of one of his
                  sisters he was particularly fond, but none had influence over him. He was seldom
                  contentious, but obstinately bent, and what he willed he did in silence, seeming
                  to discard sympathy or confidence. As a boy he was never bright, except in a boy's
                  sense; that is, he could run and leap well, fight when challenged, and generally
                  fell in with the sentiment of the crowd. He therefore made many companions, and
                  his early days all passed between Baltimore city and the adjacent farm.
               "I have heard it said as the only evidence of Booth's ferocity in those early
                  times that he was always shooting cats, and killed off almost the entire breed in
                  his neighborhood. But on more than one occasion he ran away from both school and
                  home, and once made the trip off the Chesapeake to the oyster fisheries without
                  advising anybody of his family.
               "While yet very young Wilkes Booth became an habitue at the theatre. His traditions and tastes were all in that
                  direction. His blood was of the stage, like that of the Keans, Kembles, and the
                  Wallacks. He would not commence at the bottom of the ladder and climb from round
                  to round, nor take part in more than a few Thespian efforts. One night, however, a
                  young actor, who was to have a benefit and wished to fill the house, resolved for
                  the better purpose to give Wilkes a chance. He announced that a son of the great
                  Booth of tradition would enact the part of Richmond, and the
                  announcement was enough. Before a crowded place Booth played so badly that he was
                  hissed. Still holding to his gossamer hopes and high conceit, Wilkes induced John
                  S. Clarke, who was then addressing his sister, to obtain him a position in the
                  company of the Arch Street Theatre, at Philadelphia. For eight dollars a week
                  Wilkes Booth, at the age of twentytwo, contracted with William Wheatley to play in
                  any piece or part for which he might be cast, and to appear every day at
                  rehearsal. He had to play the Courier in Sheridan Knowle's 'Wife' on
                  his first night, with five or ten little speeches to make; but such was his
                  nervousness that he blundered continually, and quite balked the piece. Soon after
                  he undertook the part of one of the Venitian Comrades in Hugo's 'Lucretia Borgia,'
                  and was to have said in his turn:—
               "'Madame, I am Petruchio Pandolfo.' Instead of which he exclaimed:
               "'Madame, I am Pondolfio Pet—Pedolfio Pat—Pantruchio Ped—; damn it, what am
                  I?'
               "The audience roared, and Booth, though full of chagrin, was compelled to laugh
                  with them.
               "The very next night he was to play Dawson, an important part in
                  Moore's tragedy of 'The Gamester.' He had bought a new dress to wear on this
                  night, and made abundant preparation to do himself honor. He therefore invited a
                  lady whom he knew to visit the theatre, and witness his triumph. But at the
                  instant of his appearance on the stage, the audience remembering the Petruchio
                  Pandolfo of the previons night, burst into laughter, hisses and mock applause, so
                  that he was struck dumb, and stood rigid, with nothing whatever to say. Mr. John
                  Delmar, to whose Stukely he played, was compelled, therefore, so strike Dawson entirely out of the piece.
               "These occurrences nettled Booth, who protested that he studied faithfully, but
                  that his want of confidence ruined him. Mr. Frederick, the stage-manager, made
                  constant complaint of Booth, who, by the way, did not play under his full name,
                  but as Mr. J. Wilkes; and he bore the general reputation of having no promise, and
                  being a careless fellow. He associated freely with such of the subordinate actors
                  as he liked; but being through Clarke, then a rising favorite, of better
                  connections, might had he chosen advanced himself socially, if not
                  artistically."
               We quote no further from this northern writer, because in many respects he does
                  Booth injustice, and casts some very severe and unjust reflections upon the
                  southern people. "Give the Devil his due," is a vulgar maxim which should be a
                  controling principle in all contributions intended for the public. The character
                  of Booth as drawn above is set forth by one who is deeply prejudiced, and whose
                  assertions must therefore be taken with great caution. No man who worshiped Mr.
                  Lincoln as "Our Savior" can do J. Wilkes Booth justice. We do not wish to be
                  understood as offering an apology for the latter; but at the same time we confess
                  that we do not feel such a holy veneration for the memory of a president who
                  despised the south as to hand Booth down to posterity as a consumate villian, with
                  no defence whatever for his crime. He might have thought, under mistaken notions
                  of duty, that he was chosen to perform one of the bloody decrees of destiny. But
                  whatever may be said of his deed and his motives, it cannot be denied that he was
                  urged on by a powerful ambition. He was therefore no common murderer. He was
                  possessed by a mad love of distinction, and by a crazy desire, like that of
                  Lawrence when he attempted the life of Andrew Jackson, to rid the people of a
                  tyrant. But we will proceed with the history.
               It cannot be denied that Booth made repeated failures in northern theatres. Genius
                  often fails in its first efforts. It will not be forgotten that Demosthenes was
                  hissed when he attempted to declaim before his countrymen for the first time. A
                  man of Booth's sensibility and diffidence would be likely to make considerable
                  blunder upon his first appearance before an intelligent audience. The treatment he
                  received at the hands of the northern people was not calculated to mitigate the
                  disgrace of his failure. They hissed him; they laughed at him; and his sensitive
                  mind felt their taunts and jeers keenly. He quitted Philadelphia in disgust and
                  went to Richmond, receiving the offer of a respectable salary. Here his reception
                  was quite different. He was now amongst a people who could make due allowance for
                  the boyish errors of genius. Booth felt encouraged by the kind, flattering
                  treatment he everywhere received. It was not long before he convinced the world
                  that he was a second Garrick, He never forgot the southern people for their
                  kindness. As a proof of it, when John Brown attempted the fool-hardy invasion of
                  Virginia, in order to persuade the
                  negroes to rise and cut their masters' throats, Booth left the theatre in a picked
                  company for the scene of action. His company was selected to form guard around the
                  scaffold when that hoary-headed assassin met his richly-deserved fate. Certainly
                  no southern man can have any reason to execrate his memory for the part he took in
                  that transaction.
               When Booth again visited the north he went as an accomplished actor. His fame
                  traveled on before him; and he acted before assemblies that were spell-bound by
                  his inimitable exhibitions of human nature. He took rank among the first
                  tragedians of the country. Fortune showered upon him her richest favors. He who
                  had been spurned from the north for the unavoidable errors of youthful genius, now
                  returned in a triumph that might have gratified the ambition of many a man of even
                  loftier aspirations. He has established such a reputation, that the name of
                  Shakspeare will go down to future generations coupled with that of J. Wilkes
                  Booth.
               As to Booth's personal appearance, through fear that we may be suspected of
                  partiality, and of over-drawing the picture in order to add greater interest to a
                  romantic story, we will venture to pen a short extract from his published
                  life:
               "None of the printed pictures that I have seen do justice to Booth. Some of the
                     cartes de visite get him very nearly. He had
                  one of the finest vital heads I have ever seen. In fact, he was one of the best
                  exponents of vital beauty I have ever met. By this I refer to physical beauty in
                  the Medician sense—health, shapeliness, power in beautiful poise, and seemingly
                  more powerful in repose than in energy. His hands and feet were sizable, not
                  small, and his legs stout and muscular, but inclined to bow like his father's.
                  From the waist up he was a perfect man, his chest being full and broad, his
                  shoulders gently sloping, and his arms white as alabaster, but hard as marble.
                  Over these upon a neck which was its proper column rose the cornice of a fine
                  Doric face, spare at the jaws and not anywhere over-ripe, but seamed with a nose
                  of Roman model, the only relic of his half-Jewish parentage, which gave decision
                  to the thoughtfully stern sweep of two direct, dark eyes, meaning to woman snare
                  and to man a search warrant, while the lofty, square forehead and square brows
                  were crowned with a weight of curling jetty hair, like a rich Corinthian capital.
                  His profile was eagleish, and afar his countenance was haughty. He seemed throat
                  full of introspections, ambitious self-examinings, and eye-strides into the
                  future, as if it withheld something to which he had a right."
               From the above description of Booth's exterior, material beauty, it might with
                  reason be supposed that he was a dangerous character for the female sex to deal
                  with; especially since the licentiousness of stage actors is a well established
                  fact, which no man will attempt to dispute. Even in the ordinary intercourse of
                  society, Booth's personal beauty was sufficient to attract the fancy of any woman
                  of ungoverned susceptibilities. But when he appeared upon the stage robed in the
                  fictitious splendor of personated royalty, when his fine shape could be displayed
                  to greater advantage by candle-light, and his elegant form could be seen dilating
                  under the influence of assumed emotions, he was absolutely irresistible. The
                  admiration of the audience was transferred from the defunct Richard
                  to the living, breathing Booth. The women were bewitched; their modesty was
                  temporarily prostrated; and their hearts, for a time, revolted from the allegiance
                  due in another quarter. Many a sly wife has wished to act the part of Lady Anne,
                  in order to bestow a real affection, in disguise, upon Booth the personator of
                  Gloster. Many a maid, raised into the "upper circles" by the apeish
                  conventionalities of northern aristocracy, has cursed in her young and tender
                  heart the law that places stage actors outside the pale of respectable society.
                  Booth was absolutely persecuted by the northern women. They sent him bouquets,
                  perfumed notes, photographs, and begged the favor of an interview. When he was
                  about to leave Boston, after he had fulfilled an histrionic engagement, the hotel
                  at which he was staying was beseiged by flippant New England women, assembled to
                  see Don Juan, realized in the person of John Wilkes Booth, take his departure.
                  Whether their motives can be traced to uncontrolable curiosity or not, no southern
                  woman, laying claim to the least respectability, would have thus overstepped the
                  barriers of true modesty and feminine delicacy.
               But Booth did not yield to their solicitations; he fled from temptation, and was
                  then an exception to the general rule in regard to stage players. The following
                  story is vouched for by northern writers:
               A Philadelphia girl saw Booth upon the stage, and became deeply enamored of him.
                  Then she commenced the usual process of intrigue by sending him bouquets, her
                  photograph, and then a billet doux. Booth, not
                  as many men would have done, paid no attention to her advances. But the infatuated
                  girl wrote again and again to him, and entreated him to visit her. He at last
                  yielded to her importunities, and following the directions given in one of the
                  notes found himself in a fashionable house belonging to one of the Philadelphia
                  aristocracy. When the girl made her appearance in the parlor he was surprised to
                  find his bold correspondent a beautiful, lovely young creature in her "teens." She
                  appeared before him blushing with conscious shame at the thought of her illicit
                  familiarity with an actor.
               "I certainly am mistaken," said Booth in great surprise, "you are not the lady who
                  sent for me?"
               "I am the one, Mr. Booth," she replied in a trembling half-whisper. "But I don't
                  want you to misconstrue my intentions."
               Booth gazed at the innocent Diana in perfect astonishment. He saw that she was
                  completely maddened by the intensity of her love. Then a sentiment of pity swelled
                  in his heart, and his youthful vanity was changed into sorrow.
               "I know not, Miss——, what your intentions are; but this much I will say to you in
                  advance, beware of actors. They are to be seen, not to be known."
               "Mr. Booth, I—I—love you!"
               "Perhaps you do, but I do not love you; and there is an end of the matter. And now
                  let us part in peace. The time will come when you will wonder at your folly. Good
                  bye!"
               "Mr. Booth, do not leave me thus. Give me one token of your regard. Promise me to
                  come back again!"
               "I will not," said Booth with sternness. "Remember who you are, and do not forget
                  that Wilkes Booth is a conscientious man." So saying, he seized his hat and fled
                  like Joseph of Egypt from the reach of temptation.
               Such in brief was John Wilkes Booth, the president of the Bloody Junto. Like all
                  other men, he had his faults and failings. No one would expect to find any high
                  degree of morality in a stage player. But Booth was not as destitute or virtue as
                  Mr. Lincoln's canonizers would make posterity believe. He certainly had it in his
                  power to scatter shame and sorrow wherever he went; but if any of his victims are
                  to be found, their degradation can be traced to their own enticing persistency,
                  rather than to efforts on his part to cast a single blemish upon retreating
                  virtue. He was mild, gentle and winning in his manners. There was an easy, simple
                  familiarity in his address that would at once win confidence and friendship. But
                  he ought not to be held responsible for the effect which the transcendent beauty
                  of a perfect form, the elegance of his unassuming demeanor, and the natural
                  sensibility of a warm heart would have upon the weaker but more sensitive portion
                  of mankind. We feel justified in concluding the present chapter of this story in a
                  sort of semi-apologetic manner, because the subject of it is in no condition to
                  vindicate his motions or his course of action before an impartial world.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               
                  
                     
                        "In life how weak, how helpless is a woman!
                        Soon hurt, in happiness itself unsafe,
                        And often wounded while she plucks the rose:
                        So properly the object of affliction,
                        That Heav'n is pleased to make distress become her,
                        And dresses her most amiably in tears."
                     
                  
               
               Several weeks had elapsed since the Bloody Junto had become a permanent
                  organization. The society met every Saturday night, and transacted its business
                  with such profound secrecy that the detective police of Washington had not the
                  slightest suspicion that a disloyal cabal clandestinely discussed the measures of
                  the general government in a dark cellar with an air of authority. Degroot attended
                  the meetings of the junto regularly, and was quite an active member. Indeed, he
                  seemed to have no other business. Hence, he was placed on nearly all the important
                  committees that were appointed. Upon all questions discussed by the society
                  concerning the administration, from some unknown cause he evinced a particular, a
                  most inveterate hostility towards Mr. Lincoln. He appeared to be actuated by
                  personal motives in his deep hatred. But why he was so bitter against the chief
                  magistrate, he never chose to reveal.
               Degroot was a miserable, a wretched man. There was something in his countenance
                  and in his movements that told to the most casual observer he was ill at ease. But
                  few would have guessed the nature of the feeling that was preying on his heart.
                  What it was will be revealed to our patient reader in due time.
               Late one Saturday night, after the adjournment of the Bloody Junto, Degroot took
                  his way homeward. Moving a few hundred yards up the street upon which Mrs.
                  Surratt's house was situated, he pursued a straight course for about half a mile.
                  Then after several more windings and turnings he found himself in front of a
                  dingy-looking house in a certain part of the city. We are not precise in
                  describing the particular locality, because it would add no interest whatever to
                  our story. Suffice it to say it was a dingy-looking dwelling, containing only two
                  small rooms. No sign of a fence or paling was around it. The yard, or what had
                  been intended should be a yard, showed its abhorrence of the vegetable kingdom by
                  presenting a surface as barren as the public road which ran hard by. Neither
                  flower nor shrub appeared to relieve the desolate aspect of this home of
                  wretchedness and sorrow. Its whole exterior appearance indicated plainly to the
                  passers by that this was the abode of poverty and want. Degroot opened the rickety
                  door, that constituted but slight protection against the hostile invasions of wind
                  or rain, and entered without ceremony. The inside of the dwelling presented an
                  appearance of more comfort than was promised by the outside view. The rough floor,
                  if nothing else could be said in its favor, was cleanly swept; at least as much so
                  as its broom-resisting surface would allow. In one corner stood a rude bedstead,
                  the blotches and scratches of which were partially concealed by a threadbare
                  spread that hung almost to the floor. Although it bore evidences of faithfulness
                  to its trust, yet its owner could not be accused of having been sparing of soap
                  and water; for no marks of real filth were visible upon its time-honored threads.
                  Half drawn from under the larger stead was a trundle-bed, upon which reposed a
                  child of five or six summers. He was a beautiful boy, pale and thin though, whose
                  subdued, humble expression, even in sleep, would affect a tender nature painfully,
                  and moisten the eye with a tear. Poor child! Even on that young brow disease and
                  want had already affixed their seals. The face of the pitiable little sleeper wore
                  an air of touching, thoughtful ful
                  melancholy, thoughtful far beyond his years, induced by the lesson of poverty
                  which he had to learn before he could make known his childish desires. But leaving
                  the little boy for the present, we will proceed.
               A half-dozen rugged chairs, a soiled washstand, a very plain centre table, or what
                  served in the place of one, and an old clock that ticked with a creaking noise, as
                  if wearied with the monotonous and endless task of marking time, constituted the
                  only remaining articles of furniture that decorated Degroot's home. Seated at the
                  table was a woman bending over some needle work. She appeared to be about thirty
                  years of age, though in fact she was younger than that by several years. But it
                  was no difficult matter to see that severe labor and corroding care had made, and
                  still were making, great ravages upon her fragile form. Yet, in despite of the
                  physical and mental torture she was undergoing, she was truly handsome. In her
                  youth she must have been very beautiful, and very fair to look upon. Her hair,
                  rather inclined to a dark color, and still not positively black, lay smoothly
                  parted upon a pale, high forehead, at the base of which two full, deep-blue eyes
                  looked out in mournful tenderness. The prevailing expression of her face was,
                  however, calculated to arouse a sentiment of pity rather than any other emotion.
                  She was somewhat under the medium height, but her figure was elegantly though
                  delicately formed. When Degroot entered she was sewing rapidly upon a beautiful,
                  flashy dress, whose brilliant hues and fine texture proved that it was not
                  intended to be worn by the humble person whose fairy fingers were flying up and
                  down its close-fitting seams. Occasionally a single tear would drop down on the
                  work before her and disappear amid the bright colors that formed a strange
                  contrast to all their shabby surroundings. She made no halt when Degroot entered,
                  but after casting a quick glance at the door to assure herself of his identity,
                  silently plied her needle, moving her hand possibly more swiftly to conceal her
                  emotion. Degroot seated himself without a word. But after the lapse of several
                  minutes, he asked for whom the work was intended.
               "For Mrs. Surratt," was the reply.
               "Indeed! Where did you become acquainted with her?"
               "I am not acquainted with her. I was hunting work, and called at her house and got
                  this."
               "You did not give her your true name?" asked Degroot, manifesting a considerable
                  degree of interest.
               "I did not. She required no name."
               "I am glad you did not, Mina. The discovery of the relation existing between us at
                  this moment would interfere very materially with my plans for the future.
                  Hereafter, I wish you to give any other but your true name."
               The poor woman, though she knew not to what plans he had reference, was evidently
                  hurt and astonished at this last remark; but she made no answer, nor asked any
                  questions. Only another tear fell like a shining gem upon the gay colors: it meant
                  a great deal.
               "How much money have you got, Mina?" asked Degroot after a short period of
                  silence, in which a thousand tormenting thoughts seemed to be racing across the
                  distressed woman's mind.
               "Only five dollars," was her reply.
               "Very well: I will want it to-morrow."
               The pent up emotions could no longer be contained within their barriers, and the
                  lady burst into tears at his coldness of manner and his apparent indifference to
                  the state of slavery to which she was reduced. Degroot did not seem at all
                  surprised at this manifestation of feeling, but he spoke not until his wife, for
                  such she was, had nearly ceased to weep.
               "What is the matter, Mina?" he said in the same tone.
               "Percy," said she, pointing to the trundle-bed and speaking as if the effort were
                  painful, "you see that poor, sick child lying there? You need'nt look so cross, I
                  know you care very little for him; I've been convinced of that a long time. But
                  I've been working unusually hard to save money to buy medicine for him. He needs
                  it, and must have it."
               "I don't believe there is anything the matter with him, Mina. It is all in your
                  prolific imagination."
               "The poor boy has been diseased for several years. You always have refused to see
                  it; but I knew it. It grows plainer every day. The little thing has been getting
                  rapidly worse ever since you sent him out in the rain after chips. Your treatment
                  of him hurt him as much as anything else. You spoke unkindly and roughly, and it
                  almost broke his heart. Percy, do not treat him so again," she continued while her
                  eyes were filling with tears. "He will not be in your way much longer. O, what
                  would become of my poor boy if I should happen to die? Who would take care of him?
                  who would furnish him his scanty bread and clothing? It grieves me to think of it.
                  God grant I may see him buried!" And she wept afresh.
               "You need not discuss the probability of either event," replied Degroot coldly.
                  "You will both live long enough."
               "May be too long for you, Percy," said she, displaying a more stubborn spirit of
                  disputation than she had ever shown before. "May be too long for you. I can no
                  longer blind myself to the fact that the presence of both of us is disagreeable to
                  you." The husband slightly started. "For the last month or two you have been
                  growing colder in your treatment of me. It was not always so, Percy. Seven years
                  ago you thought me, and you told me, I was an angel. I was simple enough to
                  believe that you really thought so. I felt that my happiness would be safe in your
                  keeping; and I deserted my home for you. I thought you loved me, Percy, and I was
                  happy."
               "I did love you, Mina," interrupted Degroot.
               "Yes; but do you love me now?" she exclaimed claimed in some little
                  wildness of manner that appeared to surprise Degroot considerably. "Say, Percy, do
                  you love me now?"
               "Of course I do."
               "Your words and acts," replied the wife with a mournful shake of the head, "your
                  words and acts, Percy, are strangely at variance. If you do, you have a poor way
                  of showing it?"
               "Men are not by nature as enthusiastic in love matters as women are. 'Scenes' are
                  insipid and contemptible among married people," remarked Degroot with an air of
                     sang froid that only confirmed his wife's
                  allegation.
               "You are not treating me right, Percy; but I could endure it if you would only
                  show some little affection for our poor child."
               "I have not time for such things, Mina. I care enough for the boy, but I cannot
                  devote my whole time to him. I have something else to think about."
               "What have you to think about of so much importance, Percy? I never see any
                  results of your thoughts. I work none the less hard on account of them. In fact, I
                  believe you would do well to quit thinking so much about schemes and engage in
                  some kind of labor, and thus help to support your family. I feel that I am
                  over-taxing my powers. A little assistance on your part, Percy, would not come
                  amiss."
               This last remark was made in a very timid, hesitating manner, as if she were
                  afraid of wounding his feelings. A frown darkened Degroot's face, but it quickly
                  disappeared. He was too shrewd to show much anger when it could possibly avail
                  nothing. Assuming therefore an air of injured innocence, he spoke as if deeply
                  hurt by her suggestion. "My schemes have failed, Mina, but not through
                  mismanagement on my part. If Lincoln had been true to his promises, I would this
                  very night be worth several thousand dollars. But he has deceived me, and I can
                  now only await the development of other plans."
               "Give up politics," said the wife with some tenderness. "If Lincoln deceived you,
                  have no more to do with him; but seek some honest employment that will be certain
                  to remunerate you."
               "And what would that be?"
               "You have a polished education. It seems to me you could find employment anywhere.
                  Suppose," said she thoughtfully, "that you open a school."
               "Open the——. Not I."
               "Why not, Percy? It is an honorable profession, and you could follow it until
                  something better should offer."
               "It may be honorable enough, but it does not suit me."
               "Oh, Percy, I wish you would do it! We could then gain a decent and respectable
                  living, and we might be so happy. Just think what our condition is. I am forced to
                  work very hard for the support of our family; and a very shabby appearance we
                  make. But I would not mind this, Percy, if you would only do something to help us
                  along."
               "I am trying now, Mina, to do something. If all things work well," said he,
                  turning his face from his wife, "I will be a wealthy man before many more months
                  roll away."
               "I have not much confidence in your schemes, Percy. I have been so often
                  disappointed by them."
               "It was not my fault."
               "It does not matter whose fault it is. You have never realized anything from
                  politics. It appears to me that your ill success ought to convince you, by this
                  time, you are not in your sphere."
               "Let us have no more of it, Mina. I do not want to hear it. Women cannot
                  comprehend political operations; neither can they be made to understand the cause
                  of failures in life. So let us have no more of it. I know what I ought to do."
               The poor wife sighed, and then bowed her head upon her hand in uncomplaining
                  obedience. It was useless to resist the stolid will of her despotic husband; and
                  she must endure with patience what she could not remedy. But Mrs. Degroot's case
                  was not such a very uncommon one. It was only one out of ten thousand others,
                  similar in nearly all respects. The number of women thus controled and oppressed
                  by the inexorable despotism of tyrannical husbands, and who bear it in unmurmuring
                  silence, will never be known till their constancy and faithfulness are proclaimed
                  at the last day from the great book of accounts. Then surely will they receive
                  their reward, who have sacrificed their own inclinations to the selfish government
                  of another; and have passed through life enduring, suffering, and laboring with
                  christian patience and resignation. Women, at the best, encounter but a series of
                  trials, vexations and disappointments. Dearly does she pay the price of Eve's
                  folly, displayed in her ready yielding to the dictates of an ungovernable
                  curiosity. By that single act of disobedience, mother Eve has entailed upon all
                  her fair daughters a weight of misery and shame that men cannot appreciate. Woman
                  is almost utterly deprived of the numberless gratifications of taste and passion
                  which the rougher sex enjoy to the full extent of human nature. Does she possess
                  ambition? What department of life opens its broad, dazzling fields to her aspiring
                  mind? Every feeling of her noble nature revolts from the bloody invitations to
                  enter the lists with those engaged in national butchery and carnage; and she can
                  never therefore feel those high, lofty, god-like emotions induced by the gory
                  display of daring courage upon the battle-field. Does she love power? She comes in
                  contact at every step with some rude, rougher master spirit, that by its iron
                  energy bears down her delicate organization; and like the slender reed in a storm
                  she must yield to a breath of the lordly intellect, the stronger, stubborn mind,
                  or the defiant ambition of man, and retire disheartened from the unequal contest,
                  or be left far behind in the mad struggle for power. Does she thirst for literary
                  distinction? The way is beset with a thousand difficulties so repulsive to her
                  natural modesty ty; there are so many
                  back-biting calumnies so many sneers from envious mental mediocrity, that at last,
                  sick at heart and wearied by her herculean effort in combatting long established
                  prejudices, she shrinks back trembling into the shades of unassuming retirement,
                  fades away like a tender flower, and "wastes her sweetness on the desert air."
                  Sweet sufferer! be patient; "be faithful unto death;" a rich, glorious reward
                  awaits thee in the better land.
               Begging the reader's pardon for the foregoing digression, we must here give a
                  short account of the woman who caused it. We must however begin with her
                  husband.
               Percy Degroot was about thirty-five years of age at the time our history
                  commences. Ten years previously he completed his education at Yale College, an
                  institution which takes the first rank in the United States. Concerning the
                  education of his heart we say nothing, as his moral character will be developed in
                  the course of these pages. He was a native of Connecticut. Soon after his
                  graduation he repaired to Washington, having obtained through the influence of
                  friends an important office in the war department. By some accident he formed the
                  acquaintance of Miss Mina Eglantine, who lived in a town located in the southern
                  portion of the Old Dominion. She was a most amiable young lady; but she was
                  fascinated by Degroot's handsome appearance and his brilliant powers of mind, and
                  in an evil hour she surrendered her heart and hand, and entrusted her happidess to
                  his keeping. Although Miss. Eglantine's motives were pure, Degroot's on the
                  contrary were entirely mercenary; unless we may except a kind of spurious feeling
                  of reciprocity engendered by the young lady's beauty, and the warm, ardent
                  affection which she lavished upon him with all the fervor of a woman's holy
                  nature. The unreserved confidence of a pure, trusting heart will produce in the
                  breast of the meanest man a disposition to return the same feeling, though it may
                  not be developed to the same degree. With the exception of a feeble sentiment of
                  this character, no other emotion swelled in the bosom of Degroot. But Mina
                  Eglantine was an heiress prospectively, as well as a belle. She was the only child
                  of a wealthy merchant. Degroot, therefore, could very well afford to feign a
                  passion he never felt, and endure the burden of a beautiful wife for the sake of
                  eight or ten thousand a year. So Mina was metamorphosed by the usual process into
                  Mrs. Degroot; and the day following her marriage, her husband received from the
                  worthy father a present in the shape of twenty thousand dollars, which he valued
                  much higher than the lovely object through whose instrumentality it was procured.
                  Degroot, in anticipation of the vast fortune he was to receive at some future
                  time, at once resigned his office and returned to his native state. He thought
                  himself too much of a gentleman to labor, unless there was some actual, pressing
                  necessity for such a course of action. In two or three years he squandered all he
                  had; and to complete his misfortunes, Col. Eglantine "broke," to use a popular
                  term, and everything in the way of property was taken to liquidate his mercantile
                  debts. Degroot was again thrown upon his own resources. He appealed to his
                  friends; but they, having little confidence in his business capacities, were not
                  so forward this time in finding him another sinecure. And now Mina's trials began.
                  Her father was a ruined man pecuniarily; and no assistance whatever could be
                  expected from this quarter. Her husband, unlike the majority of the New England
                  yankees, would not disinter the bones of his departed ancestors and convert them
                  into buttons, in order to procure "filthy lucre." Neither would he engage in the
                  "wooden nutmeg" commerce. In this respect he was somewhat different from the other
                  do-anything-for-a-dime New Englanders. This remarkable feature, this almost
                  supernatural feature in the character of a native yankee cannot, however, be
                  traced to any of those loftier feelings of personal dignity, pride and honor, that
                  cause the chivalrous southron to despise the cunning little arts and practices
                  which gain for our enlightened brethren of the civilized north a few paltry pence.
                  The truth was, Degroot did not like this peu et
                     peu kind of traffic. It was too slow for him. He became an
                  officehunter in earnest. He was after "fat offices." But he was, from some cause,
                  unsuccessful in his plans. Mina was therefore forced to gain a living for the
                  family by means of the needle. In this way she had supported them all for several
                  years. Towards the latter part of 1864, Degroot removed to Washington, induced to
                  such a step, it seems, by a promise of something from Abraham Lincoln. What the
                  promise was, as we have already mentioned, he never discovered to anybody.
                  Degroot's family lived in such obscurity in the capital, that it was not known by
                  his most intimate associates he was a married man. He had another reason for not
                  wishing to divulge his family relations, which reason will discover itself at the
                  proper time.
               Soon after the loss of her property, and with it her prospects, Mina observed a
                  decided change in her husband's feelings towards herself. And in a short time
                  after their removal to Washington, there was such a sudden and marked difference
                  in his conduct that she could not but be aware that she was a positive nuisance in
                  his sight. He was now moody and silent in her presence, rarely speaking unless he
                  should be first accosted. Nothing she could do appeared to dispel the dark clouds
                  by which he was completely surrounded. Mrs. Degroot became discouraged,
                  disheartened, dejected, miserable. She had but one solitary consolation in the
                  world, and that was her sickly boy. She labored for him with a tenderness which
                  only a mother can feel. But notwithstanding all her troubles, she had never dared
                  before the Saturday night previously mentioned, to communicate to her husband her
                  suspicious concerning his faithlessness. What she said is known to the reader.
                  This brief history brings us to a point from which we must again proceed with our
                  story. Be patient, kind reader!
               The next morning was the Sabbath. Degroot, after partaking of a very plain
                  breakfast prepared by his sorrowing wife, was about to leave home.
               "Do not go to-day, Percy," said she with tender persuasion.
               "I must, Mina," he replied coldly. I have business to attend to. Let me have that
                  money."
               Poor Mrs. Degroot looked troubled. It was a hard struggle between duty to her
                  suffering child, and love for her worthless husband.
               "Do you refuse, Mina?"
               "You can take it," said she, "if you will only see Dr. Louvan, and get a little
                  medicine for Clarance."
               "Dr. Louvan?" exclaimed Degroot in unfeigned surprise. "Do you know him?"
               "Only by character."
               "Does he know you?"
               "Not that I am aware of."
               "You must be cautious, Mina. Do not let it be known under any circumstances that
                  we are man and wife, if you value my regard. But now give me the money, I must be
                  gone."
               "Will you be sure to get the medicine Percy."
               "Certainly I will."
               At this moment little Clarence with a timid step advanced to where his father was
                  standing, and said in a trembling voice:
               "Pa, please bring me some medicine so I can get well. Ma says it will make me
                  well."
               Mrs. Degroot's eyes filled with tears.
               "Percy, the child, unlike other children, does not ask for sweetmeats, but begs
                  for medicine. If you care anything for him bring it."
               Degroot took the money and left the house without saying a word. Little Clarence
                  seated himself on the doorstep, and watched his unworthy progenitor till he was
                  out of sight, and then turned to his mother.
               "Ma, will he bring it?" he asked in a tone of voice that went like a jagged arrow
                  to his mother's heart.
               "I hope so, my child." She could not tell him yes.
               "Ma, he don't care anything for me."
               "What makes you think so, Clarence?"
               "Because, he never is good to me. He always looks ugly at me. Just now he wouldn't
                  speak to me. O, ma, if it wasn't for you I couldn't stand it!" And the little
                  fellow threw his emaciated arms about his mother's neck, and cried with the
                  bitterness of wounded feeling that was far beyond his years. The boy's mind was
                  almost matured by poverty and sorrow. Mrs. Degroot's heart was full. Even the
                  child had discovered his father's want of affection; and she did not think it
                  proper to attempt to make him believe otherwise. She clasped the boy to her bosom
                  in silence, and wept.
               While the mother and son were thus engaged, the father was wending his way to one
                  of those gambling hells that disgrace all large cities, and desecrate the holy
                  Sabbath. The church bells were ringing all around, and hundreds of clean, tidy
                  children were flocking from all directions to the Sunday schools. All the business
                  houses were closed, and thousands of people were endeavoring to lay aside worldly
                  care and concentrate their thoughts for one day at least upon Him who holds the
                  waters of the ocean in His hands. But Degroot loved not to dwell upon things of
                  this character. The Sabbath was to him no more than any other day. He saw only the
                  God of Mammon sitting over a fiery but concealed gulf, tempting him on and on,
                  till he should lose his hold and plunge into the lake from whose burning billows
                  there is no escape to the unrepented sinner.
               That evening about dark Degroot returned home. As soon as he reached the door
                  little Clarence again approached him.
               "Pa, where is my medicine? Did you get it?"
               "No. You need no medicine."
               The child sank back upon a small stool, and bowed his head upon his little hands
                  in disappointment touching to behold.
               "May God forgive you, Percy!" She could say no more.
               But we do not wish to parade too much grief before our reader. So we draw a veil
                  over the scene that followed.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               
                  
                     
                        "The man that trusts woman with a privacy,
                        And hopes for silence, he may as well expect it
                        At the fall of a bridge."
                     
                  
               
               Another Saturday night had come, and the Bloody Junto was to meet again. Mrs.
                  Degroot asked her husband to accompany her and her little boy to Mrs. Surratt's,
                  in order to procure some more work. Degroot at first hesitated, but at last
                  consented upon the condition that she would remain until he was ready to return,
                  affirming that he had business that would detain him until ten or eleven o'clock.
                  Mrs. Degroot had no idea that her husband was going to Mrs. Surratt's anyhow, nor
                  did she have the most remote suspicion that he belonged to a secret society which
                  met once a week in a dark cellar. Mrs. Surratt herself did not know for what
                  purpose these men assembled under her house. The cellar had been rented from her,
                  but to what use it was appropriated she was entirely ignorant. But she was soon
                  called upon to act in the capacity of a regular member. For that very night upon
                  which Degroot escorted his wife to Mrs. Surratt's, after the Bloody Junto had
                  transacted its regular business, the name of the latter lady was proposed for
                  membership. The proposition at first startled the members; no one was expecting
                  such a thing, it seemed, nor had thought about it.
               Payne asked if the constitution prescribed any qualifications as to sex, necessary
                  to membership. Booth replied that the constitution contained nothing to prevent a
                  woman's joining; but still the question was open to discussion.
               
               "I am not going to make a speech, Mr. President," said Payne. "I wish merely to
                  say that I do not like the policy of admitting women into a society as secret as
                  this ought to be. I never knew a woman in my life who couid keep a secret, unless
                  it pertained to some bodily defect, the revealation of whose existence might mar
                  her prospects of conquest. I thought the deficiency of the whole race in the power
                  to retain things which ought not to be divulged, was known to everybody. As
                  certain as we admit women, all our proceedings will be exposed. The question is so
                  self-evidently one-sided, that it needs no discussion."
               "The gentleman is very severe against the fair sex," remarked Degroot without
                  rising to his feet. "I have known many women who could keep secrets, much better
                  than men do."
               "Is the gentleman a married man?" asked Payne.
               Degroot slightly winced at this question; but he felt forced to reply, and he
                  answered very positively:
               "No, I am not."
               "That accounts then for the gentleman's apparent ignorance in regard to the nature
                  of the sex," said Payne.
               "Since," said Degroot, "the gentleman is so pointed in his interrogations, I
                  should like to ask if his assertions are based upon his own personal experience,
                  or upon a theory deduced from mere hearsay."
               "My individual experience has something to do with the matter; but whether I am
                  married now, or have ever been, or ever expect to be, I do not choose to tell. I
                  will, however, say that I had a sweetheart once, and she never could keep secrets.
                  But whether I married her, or did not marry her, or she married me or somebody
                  else, or did not marry at all, I do not think I will reveal upon the present or
                  any future occasion."
               "The gentleman is out of order," said the president. Payne took his seat.
               "I proposed the name of Mrs. Surratt," said a member, "as I thought for very good
                  reasons. This house belongs to her, and of eourse she cannot be ignorant of the
                  fact that we are keeping our proceedings very secret. She may accidentally
                  discover some of our doings; and she may attach more importance to them than they
                  deserve. Then she may put her own constructien upon our acts and our intentions,
                  and report us to the government. Our whole band may then be arrested as rebels,
                  and tried for high treason. Let her be admitted, and let her curiosity be
                  gratified, and we need apprehend no trouble on her account. I know her to be a
                  discreet and prudent woman. Besides, we have done nothing yet which it would be
                  dangerous for a woman to know. I presume that we will do nothing that a prudent
                  woman might not know."
               "The gentleman is mistaken in that," replied Payne. "I foresee that this society
                  will become what its name imports—a bloody junto. The history of this
                  society will be marked by scenes of bloodshed that no woman can witness in
                  silence. Mark the prediction."
               "To what scenes of bloodshed does the gentleman allude?" asked another member. "I
                  thought the society took its name from the simple fact that the constitution was
                  signed with blood; and not that it was intended to become an institution of
                  murder. I think, therefore, the gentleman has put the wrong construction upon the
                  object of our organization."
               "I alluded," said Payne, "to no specific act. But I know from the very nature of
                  man that where unlimited power is conferred upon him, it will be abused and
                  perverted to deeds of gore. It cannot be denied that this society is a despotism
                  in miniature, and all despotisms are bloody."
               "Both the gentlemen are out of order," interrupted Booth. "We are not discussing
                  any question concerning the nature of our organization or its destiny. Shall Mrs.
                  Surratt be admitted? That's the question."
               "Mr. President," said another member, "it seems to me we are striking in the dark.
                  We do not know that Mrs. Surratt would join if she should be elected. Besides,
                  does she hold to our political opinions?"
               "It will be best," replied Booth, "to take the vote upon her admission first;
                  because she might be rejected. If she should be elected and refuse to join, there
                  will be no harm done. I can, with no hazard at all, vouch for her principles, as
                  several others can. I would like to add, furthermore, that I think she will make
                  an invaluable member. It strikes me that we may possibly need the services of a
                  discreet woman. There are some things which can be done by a woman without
                  exciting suspicion, which a man could not do at all. In case we should need a
                  female character. I do not know of a more suitable person than Mrs. Surratt."
               This last remark of Booth's settled the qeestion at once. Mrs. Surratt was elected
                  by an overwhelmning majority. There was only one vote recorded against her
                  admission. A committee of one was appointed to wait upon her immediately, and
                  report forthwith. It was intended that she should be initiated that very night.
                  The committee accordingly left the cellar, and asked to see Mrs. Surratt in her
                  parlor. The member waited a few moments, and then a stout, short, thick lady
                  entered the parlor. She was neither very handsome, nor very ugly. Her appearance
                  was such as not to excite any particular admiration or disgust. Her face was round
                  and enlivened by two large, soft, gray eyes. Her complexion was fair, and withal,
                  she was just such a woman as any one may frequently meet with. This was Mrs.
                  Surratt. Previously to the war, she was living about ten miles from Washington at
                  a village called Surattsville from her own name. Her husband had founded this
                  village by establishing a fine hotel at a cross-road. He died, and left the
                  property to his wife, who carried on the business for some time, but with no great
                  success. Soon after the commencement of the war, she rented out the hotel and
                  removed to Washington with her son and daughters. But this has passed into
                  history; and we will proceed.
               "You are aware, Mrs. Surratt," said the member changing the conversation from
                  common-place topics, "that a society of some description meets in your cellar
                  every Saturday night."
               The lady assented by a slight inclination of the head.
               "You must further know that it is a secret society."
               "I know nothing about that," replied Mrs. Surratt. "I rented the cellar some time
                  ago, but since then I have never troubled myself about the purpose to which it was
                  appropriated. That is no affair of mine."
               "I have been appointed, Mrs. Surratt, to acquaint you with our designs, and to
                  inform you that you have been elected a member of our society."
               "I have!" exclaimed Mrs. Surratt in the utmost surprise.
               "Yes, Ma'am, you have."
               "What for?" asked the lady opening wide her eyes in extreme astonishment.
               "Well, you profess no partiality for Mr. Lincoln, or his oppressive
                  administration, do you?"
               Mrs. Surratt hesitated to answer; because in those dark days treachery was as
                  common as swindling and falsehood.
               "You need not fear to talk plainly with me, Mrs. Surratt. You know who I am. I
                  could not betray you if I would."
               "I have never spoken to you, Mr. Winthrop, concerning politics. It is dangerous to
                  reveal all one's thoughts in these bloody times. We hardly know our friends from
                  our enemies."
               "A very good friend of yours told me that you are almost a rebel."
               "Who said that?"
               "John W. Booth."
               "Mr. Booth told you?" said Mrs. Surratt, blushing at the mention of his name.
               "Yes, Ma'am."
               "When did he tell you?"
               "This very night—a few moments ago—and in the presence of the whole society at
                  that."
               "What connection has Mr. Booth with this society?"
               "He is president."
               "Did he approve of my election."
               "Certainly he did. If he had not approved it in advance, it is very doubtful
                  whether you would have been elected or not."
               "I acknowledge that I disclosed my political sentiments to him. I presume he has
                  not misrepresented me."
               "You are willing to join then?"
               "Not until I know something more definite about it."
               "What do you wish to know?"
               "Well, what is the object of the society?"
               "In a word, to oppose the administration of Lincoln."
               "By what means?"
               "By any lawful means that will impair the influence of his party."
               "What would I be expected to do? What is required of me?"
               "Very little. You will have to take our oath of fidelity, and sign the
                  constitution. After that, you need not attend another meeting, unless you desire
                  to."
               "Are there any ladies already in it?"
               "None."
               "Then I will not join," said Mrs. Surratt with firmness.
               "Why not, Mrs. Surratt?"
               "For a very plain and obvious reason."
               "What is that? I do not see it!"
               "Do you think it consistent with the dignity of a respectable woman to attach
                  herself to a society composed of men exclusively, with whom she is unacquainted?
                  Would it add anything to her good character?"
               "I do not think it would detract from it. You will not be required to act the part
                  of a regular member. In fact, after to-night it will be entirely optionary with
                  you whether you attend another meeting."
               "What do you want me to join for, then? If I never attend your meetings, I do not
                  see that I can be of any use whatever?"
               The member saw it would be of no use to dissemble. He must tell the whole matter,
                  and let it be understood clearly.
               "I have already told you, Mrs. Surratt, that we are a secret society. We want you
                  to help guard our secrecy. This you can do more effectually by becoming a regular
                  member, and understanding our objects fully. There are other ways I cannot mention
                  now in which an intelligent lady like yourself can be servicable. Your friend
                  Booth," continued Winthrop, who seemed to understand her partiality for that
                  gentleman, "is very anxious that you should join. I do not think he would approve
                  of any measure that would tend to injure your character."
               Mrs. Surratt was pleased at this delicate flattery; and besides, like other women,
                  she had a due share of curiosity. But the greatest motive with her was, that Booth
                  desired her initiation. There could be no great harm in going once, she reasoned,
                  and if she did not like the proceedings, or if she thought her modesty was
                  compromised, she would attend no more. There was one thing, however, upon which
                  she was determined, and that was, she would not go unaccompanied by a person of
                  her own sex. Her fertile brain at once suggested an expedient by which she could
                  retain her claims to feminine delicacy of feeling, and at the same time not incur
                  the displeasure of Booth. But for that gentleman's connection with the society she
                  would have promptly rejected the idea of joining.
               "I will join upon one condition," at last said Mrs. Surratt.
               "What is that?"
               "There is a lady in my room now; if you will receive us both, I will join."
               "Who is she?"
               "Mrs. Eglantine."
               "Do you know her to be of our faith?" asked Wintnrop after a moment's
                  reflection.
               "She is a native Virginian, and I suppose
                  from what I've heard her say that her sympathies are with the south; though I have
                  not talked with her particularly on the subject. It can be easily ascertained in a
                  few minutes to which side she leans."
               "There is no use of saying anything to her yet. I must report to the society, and
                  see what action will be taken in her case. Probably some of the members can answer
                  for her." Saying which Winthrop returned to the cellar, and reported the result of
                  his mission.
               "Can any one vouch for Mrs. Eglantine's principles?" asked Booth.
               "It is Mina," thought Degroot. "She has given her name as Eglantine, according to
                  my instructions. This affair may work well; I may make something of it yet. I may
                  entangle her in some way, and thus get shut of her. I do not absolutely hate Mina,
                  but there is another whom I absolutely worship, and whom I might win but for
                  present encumbrances. But possibly I may rid myself of her presence forever by
                  telling her to be initiated into this society. It will furnish good grounds upon
                  which to base an accusation against her fidelity, if it should be to my interest
                  to do so. I do not believe she will join if she understands thoroughly what she is
                  about, and is left to her own judgment. I hope she may conclude to do so. But I
                  will soon see."
               These thoughts flashed through the mind of Degroot during the half-minute of
                  silence that followed Booth's question.
               "Can any one vouch for Mrs. Eglantine's principles?" asked Booth.
               "I can," said Degroot.
               "So can I," exclaimed a voice at the farther end of the cellar.
               Had a bomb-shell exploded at Degroot's feet he could not have been much more
                  startled. He jumped half out of his seat, and was on the point of asking who it
                  was that recommended his wife. But quickly remembering that he had made some
                  assertions which he did not wish to contradict, he quietly settled down and
                  concealed his surprise.
               "I move then," said a member, "that we elect Mrs. Eglantine by acclamation." This
                  was seconded, and no one seeming disposed to offer objections, the question was
                  put to the house and carried; and the same committee appointed to inform the lady
                  of her election.
               Degroot obtained permission to retire for a short time, as he had his reasons for
                  not wishing to be recognized by his wife, in case she should consent to be
                  initiated. But before leaving the cellar, he ventured to examine hastily the
                  persons in the neighborhood of his wife's voucher. Five or six members were
                  sitting together at the farther end of the cellar, and he knew that one of these
                  must be the man. There was only one of them with whom he was entirely
                  unacquainted, and Degroot came to the conclusion that he was the person who had so
                  kindly endorsed his own recommendation of his wife. He felt satisfied that none of
                  the others had formed the acquaintance of his wife; they did not so much as know
                  he had a wife. Even if they did, how could they know her as Mrs. Eglantine? Having
                  settled this much, the next mystery was, how could a person he had never seen
                  before in his life be so well acquainted with Mrs. Degroot? There was a mystery
                  about it that completely puzzled him. He took as close a survey of the stranger as
                  good breeding would allow, and beheld a well formed man, about thirty-five or
                  forty years of age. He owned long, black, luxuriant whiskers that seemed to grow
                  from his very eyes, and hung down at least ten inches below his chin. His mouth
                  could not be seen at all, so completely was it hidden by the heavy moustache. The
                  head was covered with thick, dark hair, that hung down to the whiskers on both
                  sides of the face, just in front of the ears. No part of his countenance was
                  visible except the eyes, the forehead, and the large Roman nose. All that
                  enlivened his physiognomy was two keen, yellow eyes, sunk deep under the high
                  forehead, that rolled fiercely in their sockets as if chafing with the narrow
                  limits nature had assigned. His frame was large and muscular; and the idea
                  occurred to Degroot that he would be a dangerous antagonist to encounter, whoever
                  he might be. The man was a perfect stranger to Degroot; he could not recollect
                  ever having seen such a person anywhere in all his life. But how came he to know
                  Mina, was the question, and so intimately as to vouch for her political
                  principles? Mina must have a clandestine lover. Impossible! But he would be glad
                  of it if she had. He could take the whiskered stranger by the hand, and wish him
                  much joy with Mrs. Degroot. But there was no such good luck. Mina was too true for
                  that. With such thoughts Degroot retired from the cellar.
               While the members of the Bloody Junto had been considering the propriety of
                  initiating Mrs. Degroot, alias Eglantine, Mrs.
                  Surratt was with the latter lady; and notwithstanding that she had been requested
                  by Winthrop to say nothing about the matter until he should return from the
                  cellar, she was exercising her own judgment, and revealing what she thought
                  proper. We must however say, in justice to Mrs. Surratt, she was talking thus in
                  order to discover the politics of Mrs. Eglantine, rather than from any feeling of
                  restless impatience to communicate a great secret, and thereby magnify her own
                  importance. We may observe, en passant, that the
                  last clause of the previous sentence contains the principal reason why secrets are
                  kept afloat, flying upon confidential whispers from one ear to another. One likes
                  to be thought worthy of being entrusted with an important secret. But this is
                  wandering considerably from the story.
               No sooner had Winthrop fairly cleared the door, than Mrs. Surratt hastened to her
                  own room, and opened a volley of small questions. She went at it with an air of
                  condescension, as though she were doing the poor seamstress a favor by propounding
                  questions which would have been impertinent if they had been addressed to an
                  equal.
               "I believe, Mrs. Eglantine, you said that you were a native of Virginia?"
               "Yes, Ma'am."
               "You are waiting for your husband to come for you?"
               "Yes, Ma'am."
               "Where is he?"
               "In the city."
               "What is his profession?"
               Mrs. Degroot made no answer, and Mrs. Surratt saw that she had struck upon a
                  tender chord.
               "Is this your little boy?" quickly asked Mrs. Surratt.
               "Yes, Ma'am."
               "What is your name, child?" asked Mrs. Surratt kindly.
               "Clarence," answered the child.
               "Clarence Eglantine. That is a pretty name."
               "No, Ma'am: Clarence Degroot," said the little fellow looking earnestly at his
                  blushing mother, who felt as if she could crawl into the very earth and hide
                  herself. Her emotion did not escape Mrs. Surratt, who however attributed it to the
                  wrong cause; for she said pityingly:
               "You are not the first one in this city that has been betrayed and deserted."
               "You are very much mistaken," said Mrs. Degroot with a show of virtuous
                  indignation, "if you think I belong to that class. I am poor, but I am honest; and
                  I am lawfully married. The boy has a middle name, if that is what you are judging
                  by."
               "I beg your pardon," said Mrs. Surratt. "I see I was doing you injustice. But how
                  long have you been living in the city?"
               "Only a few months."
               "Where did you come from?"
               "Connecticut."
               "I thought you were a Virginian!"
               "So I am; but my husband lived in Connecticut."
               "Ah, yes, I see. What are your husband's politics?"
               "I never talk politics with him."
               "Every woman," said Mrs. Surratt incredulously, "is supposed to know her husband's
                  political principles. In such times as these I do not see how you could be
                  ignorant as to which side he leans."
               "I never talk to him about such things."
               "Which side do you sympathize with?" asked Mrs. Surratt bluntly.
               "I have no time to sympathize with either. It keeps me busy to make bread."
               "You are a southern woman. Of course, then, you would like to see the south
                  triumph," said the persevering lady, attempting to force a political confession
                  from her non-committal visitor.
               "I do not know that it would do any good to answer the question."
               "If you were a Lincolnite," said Mrs. Surratt with a steady gaze, "you would not
                  hesitate to avow your principles. I know now which side you sympathize with. I
                  thought I could not be mistaken. I am a southern woman myself. You may think I am
                  very inquisitive, Mrs. Eglantine, but I have an objeet in view in asking you so
                  many questions. And now, since I have found you out, I will tell you what I
                  want."
               "What?" said the astonished Mrs. Degroot.
               "I want you to join our southern society, this very night!"
               "Who, me?"
               Yes, you," said Mrs. Surratt, smiling at the frightened woman.
               The conversation was at this point interrupted by a message from Winthrop, who
                  sent for Mrs. Surratt, and requested that the other lady should accompany her into
                  the parlor. Mrs. Degroot, not knowing for what purpose, followed Mrs. Surratt and
                  was introduced to Winthrop, who briefly acquainted her with the existence, the
                  nature and the object of the society, and then informed her of her election. Mrs.
                  Degroot at first positively refused to join; but she was in the habit of yielding
                  to strong and despotic mind. So, urged by the combined persuasion of Winthrop and
                  Mrs. Surratt, she at last agreed to follow the latter into the cellar, though
                  acting in opposition to her better judgment. The magnificent promises of Winthrop
                  so confused and dazzled the poor lady that she had consented almost before she
                  knew it. We may add that during all this while Degroot was eavesdropping, and
                  heard nearly every word uttered by the trio. He was satisfied with some things,
                  and dissatisfied with others.
               When Mina entered the cellar, she was much surprised to find that herself and Mrs.
                  Surratt were the only females present. She had been under the impression that the
                  society was composed mostly of ladies. This inference, however, was deduced from
                  her own reasoning rather than from anything that Mrs. Surratt or Winthrop had
                  said. She could not therefore charge them with having deceived her. But, anyhow,
                  it was too late to retire now after having been once admitted. She glanced timidly
                  at the faces in the cellar to see if her husband might be in the assembly; but she
                  was soon satisfied that he was not present, and she trembled with extreme fear at
                  the idea of doing what might not meet with his approbation. Amid her various
                  emotions she heard very few words of the constitution, only certain portions of
                  which were read. Then Booth informed the two ladies that they must subscibe their
                  names with blood; and with a pen-knife he drew a few drops from his hand.
               "The name of the society," said he, "is the Bloody Junto; its constitution must be
                  signed with the blood of John Wilkes Booth—its president!"
               "Mrs. Degroot shudderingly seized the pen, and with a trembling hand wrote the
                  name, Mina Eglantine.
               The ladies retired immediately after their initiation, both resolving in their
                  hearts that this should be the last time they would ever attend a meeting of this
                  bloody society. Degroot re-entered. He made a motion that thenceforward the
                  members should wear masks whenever they
                  should meet. This prudent measure was adopted without opposition; and then the
                  society adjourned.
               Degroot soon afterwards went into the street near Mrs. Surratt's door, and made a
                  signal which had been previously agreed upon. Mina left the room at once and
                  joined her husband. As they were moving along homeward, a violent struggle of
                  opposite feelings ensued in her breast. She felt like a guilty wretch who had
                  violated her plighted faith, and was therefore unworthy of even Percy's cold,
                  platonic affection. Should she confess all and beg his pardon, or should she keep
                  the secret forever locked in her own heart, and never appear before the society
                  again? It was a difficult question to decide. But while she was pondering, Degroot
                  suddenly spoke.
               "Mina, are you acquainted with a man by the name of Vanderbetterton?"
               "I never heard the name before in my life," said Mina in surprise.
               "The name may be assumed, after all. Probably then you may know a gentleman with
                  long, black whiskers, keen, dark eyes, and thick hair of the same hue?"
               "Percy, I do not know a man in the city except yourself. Why do you ask such a
                  question?" said Mrs. Degroot with a fearful suspicion.
               "Merely because I saw a person to-night who appeared to know you very intimately.
                  I supposed him to be an old acquaintance of yours."
               "I do not recollect ever having seen such a man as you have described. He must be
                  mistaken."
               Degroot said nothing more, and Mina could not talk for her bitter, conflicting
                  reflections. So they moved on in silence. But neither one observed the
                  long-whiskered man about whom they had been conversing, and who was following at a
                  respectful distance. He however kept them in sight, until he saw them enter the
                  dwelling previously described, then carefully noting its locality he suddenly
                  wheeled and retraced his steps.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               
                  
                     
                        "She was like
                        A dream of poetry, that may not be
                        Written or told—exceedingly beautiful."
                     
                  
               
               Upon the handsomest street in the capital of the United States there stood, and I
                  presume still stands, one of those magnificent mansions that fill the rich with
                  admiration, and the poor with envy. It frowned down upon the squalid beggar who
                  chanced to pass before its colossal front with a haughty air that bade him in very
                  intelligible language to accelerate his speed, and make his applications for alms
                  in domiciles whose owners made less pretensions. The beggar reasoned, with some
                  truth too, that the man who could expend vast sums in the erection of such
                  towering edifices, had few soft places in his heart to which an unfortunate wretch
                  might direct a successful appeal. So he obeyed the silent admonition of the mute
                  but proud object, and passed on, with many sorrowful reflections upon the folly of
                  his fellow-creatures. The inside of the beautiful residence was decorated in a
                  style corresponding to its splendid exterior appearance. In fact, everything
                  about, around, above, beneath, all combined, produced in the mind of one
                  unaccustomed to such sights of magnificence, an idea of earthly splendor and
                  grandeur which he had fancied to exist only in the feverish imagination of wild
                  dreamers. It reminded him of the fabled palace of Aladdin, erected by the power of
                  oriental magic. But we wish to direct the reader's attention to one of the
                  inmates, rather than the mansion itself, or any of its mangificent surroundings
                  and decorations.
               We feel it to be almost a useless undertaking to attempt a description of the
                  person whom we are now about to introduce to our gentle reader. Imagine before you
                  something like a fairy, or like some of those fanciful female deities with which
                  the active, visionary minds of the ancient poets peopled every habitable locality,
                  and over which they were supposed to exercise a kindly tutelage. According to the
                  belief of the credulous Grecians and Romans there existed such beings as Nereids,
                  Naiades, semi-Geddesses and demi-mortals, canstructed somewhat upon the amphibious
                  order; that is, they could dwell in heaven or earth without experiencing any of
                  those inconveniences resulting from a change of latitude or element. They were
                  soft, sylph-like creatures, combining in their mysterious natures the two
                  contradictions of the ethereal and the material—floating along upon the
                  sweet-scented zephyr that stole softly over the classic land of Homer and
                  Virgil—or trippling gaily over the blue waves of the sea, which rolled, leaped and
                  danced beneath their tiny feet, as if proud to become the watery vehicle of
                  immortal nymphs. We read of them with feelings of wonder. We scarcely know whether
                  to love the poor things as beautiful sweethearts, or fear them as passionless but
                  tangible embodiments of celestial attributes. If, however, one is disposed to
                  indulge a feeling of tenderness for Juno, Venus or even chaste Diana, he may calm
                  his fears by the reflection that great Jupiter, in days of yore, visited the
                  beauties of our globe, in violation of his marital fidelity; yea, the cunning Juan
                  condescended upon one occasion to metamorphose his godly nature into the male of
                  kine, and ran away with Europa clinging to his snow white back by grasping his
                  polished horns. Therefore, according to the lex
                     talionis, we may fall in love with the subjects of mighty Jove, if
                  the Thunderer pays any regard whatever to the golden rule.
               We trust a false impression has not been made upon the reader's mind; for Flora
                  Louvan did not belong to the class of fictitious creatures to whom we have
                  alluded. She was neither Nereid, Naiad nor Goddess; but for want of suitable
                  language with which to convey a just idea of her incomparable beauty, we have
                  likened her to a fairy or sea-nymph. We might with propriety say, speaking
                  figuratively, or metaphorically, or allegorically, (or all three adverbs
                  together,) she constituted the connecting link between these airy beings and
                  mortal natures. If, however, she belonged at all to the former race, she was of
                  the mischeivous tribe; because she was smartly tinctured with vanity, and was
                  disposed to jilt. We mean by all that we have been saying that Flora Louvan was a
                  most splendid looking girl, in probably the last one of the "teens"—too
                  good-looking to be accurately described. But if the reader desires a fuller or
                  more minute description, we can only say that her classic head was ornamented with
                  raven black hair; her eyes were of a deep hazel hue; her complexion was fair and
                  clear. To add more would give no just idea of her peerless, vital beauty. It was
                  purely physical though. It was not of that lofty and rare kind, that derives its
                  chief attraction for a soul so large that it renders itself almost visible in the
                  lineaments of the face, and shoots like an electric shock into the very hearts of
                  those who scan its elegant temple of carnal clay. There are two kinds of beauty
                  that differ very essentially—so much that one is the antipode of the other; the
                  one appeals to the purer, holier nature of man; the other calls forth admiration
                  intimately associated with what we can, at best, call by the qualified term of
                     human passion, in contradistinction to that of the lower orders of
                  creation. The one is of a metaphysical or pneumatological character, and leads to
                  the contemplation of unity of hearts which not even icy death can interrupt, but
                  which changing like the chrysalis casts off clogging mortality, and is removed
                  beyond the confines of time to endure forever and forever; the other arouses an
                  emotion of a temporary nature, that looks only to a union for this fleeting life,
                  and is satisfied that the partnership should cease at the brink of the tomb. The
                  one is spiritual; the other is bodily. The tender feeling which Miss Flora's
                  beauty excited in the breasts of her numerous admirers must be placed in the
                  category of the material. Hers was the beauty of a well executed statue; and with
                  the exception of the eyes, her features looked as expressive in repose as in the
                  hours of animation. She was above the medium height; but yet not so tall as to
                  make one wish her less so. She was very slender; but still if her waist had been
                  greater in circumference, one would have regretted it. And with this sorry
                  description of her person, the reader must be contented.
               Flora Louvan had been educated in Boston. Her father was by birth a yankee—a
                  Bostonian. As far as schools in the south were concerned, he believed that
                  "nothing good could come out of Nazareth." In fact, he had a contempt for
                  everything southern in its character. Flora, therefore, must go to Boston; and to
                  Boston she went. To this circumstance, then, of education might be traced the
                  defects of her character. For what had she learned of real value, of solid
                  utility, in the puritanical town of Boston? What could she learn among a set of
                  envious, secretive, money-making, pharisaical hypocrites, who would
                  willingly become the abettors of any social or political revolution, that would
                  work ruin to their neighbors and add an iota of "filthy lucre" to their
                  blood-stained coffers? At the tender age of fifteen, Flora was sent to this
                  self-constituted guardian of virtue and religion—the hellborn city of Boston. She
                  remained there four years, and then returned to her parents an "accomplished young
                  lady," with Boston honors budding thick upon her classic brow. She had been taught
                  to despise honest labor, and to undervalue every principle of science that would
                  not be made available in the acquisition of wealth. Her young heart had been
                  trained to adore the God of Mammon. Her character was strongly marked with sickly
                  ideas and spurious sentiments found in Boston novels. From the effect of this
                  Boston training she became, like all yankee women, bold, flippant, ambitious,
                  wild, rattling, and superficially brilliant. Such was this Boston-educated girl,
                  just turning the corner of nineteen.
               When Flora arrived at home, she at once took her social position in the so-called
                  first circles of society. Many were her lovers; and many were the suitors for her
                  hand; but she rejected all offers of marriage with a feeling of pride bordering on
                  disdain. She at first loved nobody; but still she was proud of the homage paid to
                  her superior beauty, and she reigned over her admirers with an agreeable
                  despotism. But the fate of all jilts is known. Flora at last was captured against
                  her own will. For one night at the theatre she beheld for the first time John
                  Wilkes Booth. She thought she was charmed with his acting. She must see him again
                  on the stage. So she went again, persuading herself that the strange fascination
                  which was working mysteriously on her swelling heart was induced by Booths
                  inimitable performance. Again and again she attended the theatre, and each time
                  came away more infatuated, more maddened. At last it was no longer possible to
                  deceive herself. And it was with great reluctance that she acknowledged to her own
                  heart that she was in downright love with a stage actor. Then ensued a struggle
                  revolting to her pride. According to the creed of the circle in which she moved,
                  actors were outcasts from respectable society. He belonged to the lowest class of
                  society; she to the highest. He was her equal in no respect. A marriage therefore
                  was impossible. What! after she had refused the offers of congressmen and officers
                  of military distinction, accept a common stage-actor? The idea was preposterous.
                  What must she do then? suppress the wild tumult of her heart? She could not. She
                  understood the old saying, "familiarity breeds contempt." She would form the
                  acquaintance of Booth, and then finding him destitute of all the
                     accomplishments plishments of refined
                  society, her unfortunate attachment would be converted into contempt. So she
                  commenced sending Booth bouquets; and at last the wished-for introduction was
                  obtained. But her hope of a speedy relief from her disgraceful thraldom was soon
                  blasted. For Booth was a man of the world, and thoroughly understood all those
                  little arts by which one renders himself agreeable and entertaining. His address
                  was as winning as that of an innocent maid. Her golden shackles were riveted; and
                  after the first visit she was unhappy and dissatisfied with her ill success. To
                  render her condition still more wretched, she thought she discovered in Booth
                  indications of a return of her involuntary love. She therefore resolved to make
                  use of this circumstance. She would completely conquer Booth's heart, and if she
                  could not marry him, she would make him as miserable as she was herself. It was no
                  herculean undertaking. Booth's susceptible heart was entirely won; but the
                  conquest only sank the wretched girl deeper into the vortex of what she considered
                  illegal love. She worshipped the man whom she wished to hate, with all the ardor
                  that entirely absorbed all her thoughts and all her dreams. The intensity of her
                  wild, uncontrolable emotion seemed to increase steadily, day by day, in despite of
                  all her efforts to free herself from the meshes of an humbling affection. Booth
                  made her an offer of marriage, but she neither accepted nor rejected him. She
                  could not muster up resolution sufficient to send him promptly away, and thus put
                  an end to the struggle. Such would have been the course of a purely virtuous
                  heart.
               Miss Louvan was in the strange condition just described when Mrs. Degroot called
                  on her, a few days after the occurences mentioned in the preceding chapter, in
                  order to return some article of dress which she had finished. Flora was in the
                  parlor, one of her admirers having just left.
               "This is done very nicely," said Miss Louvan taking the garment. How much shall I
                  pay you for it?"
               "Two dollars, Ma'am."
               "Two dollars! How long did it take you to finish it?',
               "Four days."
               "I should hate to work four days for two dollars. I would not do it."
               "I have seen the time," answered Mrs. Degroot sorrowfully, "that I would not
                  either—for ten times that amount."
               "You have been in better circumstances then?"
               "Yes, Ma'am."
               "How came you to be a seamstress?"
               "My father was so unfortunate as to lose all his property, and in consequence I
                  was forced to sew for a living."
               "You were once wealthy."
               "Yes, Ma'am."
               "Tell me then," said Flora with a strange tone, "when you were in that condition
                  if you ever loved?"
               "Yes, Ma'am, I did."
               "Were you miserable, or happy?"
               "Very happy," answered Mrs. Degroot wondering at the question.
               "Was your love handsome?"
               "Of course I thought so," was said with a little sad smile.
               "Did you ever love anybody whom you wished to hate?"
               "Never. I should think that would be impossible."
               "May be so; but I have heard of such persons. In fact, continued Flora with a
                  smile of concealed bitterness, "I know a young lady—a friend of mine, who is in
                  that very condition. She appears to be the most wretched girl in the city. I
                  scarcely know what advice to give her, though she has appealed to me. What would
                  you advise her to do?"
               "I should think it would be very easy to settle," answered Mrs. Degroot. "If the
                  man is worthy of her affections, there is no reason why she should desire to hate;
                  if he is not, then she would best have nothing to do with him."
               "I have told her that, but she declares she has no control over her feelings. She
                  loves in spite of herself."
               "If she loves an unworthy man, she is very unfortunate."
               "So I think. But tell me, do you ever visit the theatre?"
               "No Ma'am, never."
               "You have never seen John Wilkes Booth, then?"
               "Who? Booth—the president of the Bloody"——She suddenly stopped.
               "President of what?" asked Flora with awakened interest.
               Nothing, nothing," quickly answered Mrs. Degroot with a frightened air that told
                  too plainly there was something.
               
               "You said that Booth was president of something. What is it?"
               Just then a servant entered the parlor, bearing a magnificent bouquet, which was
                  handed to Miss Louvan. She received it with an air of indifference, and glanced at
                  the card which was attached.
               "Those are very beautiful flowers," remarked Mrs. Degroot, more for the purpose of
                  diverting the conversation from the president of the Bloody Junto than from any
                  desire to talk.
               "Yes, but I am accustomed to such things. You may have this if you want it." She
                  tossed the bouquet into Mrs. Degroots's lap. "But tear off the card if you
                  please."
               Mrs. Degroot did as she was bidden; but as she was unfastening the card what was
                  her astonishment to behold the name of Percy Degroot, written in his well-known
                  hand upon it. She turned so deadly pale that Miss Louvan noticed it though she
                  said nothing.
               "Did Mr. Degroot send this?" asked the distressed woman after she had partially
                  calmed her choking sensation. "Did he send you this?"
               "To be sure he did. Why should he not? He is one of my adorers."
               "Impossible!" cried Mrs. Degroot in a tone of agony.
               "Impossible indeed!" said Flora scornfully. "There is nothing impossible about
                  it."
               "Does he love you?" asked Mrs. Degroot with trembling energy.
               "Ah! I see how it is," said Flora gazing earnestly at the pitiable wife. "But I
                  will not tell you a word about Mr. Degroot until you inform me what Wilkes Booth
                  is president of. Come now," continued Flora laughing, "that is a bargain. 'Tit for
                  tat.' I might tell you something very interesting. I know I could."
               "How long have you known Mr. Degroot?" asked the troubled wife, scarce hearing
                  what the young lady was saying.
               "Did I not tell you that I would reveal nothing unless you would return the favor?
                  I will answer any question you may ask concerning Mr. Degroot, if you will answer
                  mine in regard to Booth. I will make that bargain with you."
               Mrs. Degroot was thus made to comprehend that she could learn nothing more
                  respecting this unpleasant affair without a divulgence of all she knew in regard
                  to the Bloody Junto. There was only one thing that prevented the poor lady from
                  making a full revelation of the whole matter, and that was the connection she
                  herself had with the society. It was not a matter of conscience with her. For when
                  she was initiated, she was so confused that if she took any oath (which she did)
                  binding her to secrecy, she did not remember a word of it. Therefore it was not
                  the force of any moral obligation that kept her silent. She feared only for her
                  own fair name.
               "I will agree to it," at last said Mrs. Degroot, "if you will not ask me how I
                  obtained my knowledge."
               "Very well," replied Flora. "I care nothing about that. Come, begin; tell me what
                  Booth is president of?"
               "The Bloody Junto."
               "The Bloody Junto! What in the name of conscience is that?"
               "It is some kind of a society, political I believe."
               "Do they murder people?"
               "Not that I know of."
               "What do they call it 'bloody' for then?"
               "I reckon it is because they all sign their names with the blood of John Booth. It
                  is all the reason I know."
               "Mon Dieu!" said Flora with a horrified look.
                     "C'est un sanglant diable d'homme! But what
                  else?"
               "That is about all I know."
               "When does the society meet?" asked Flora.
               "I do not know, Ma'am, unless it is Saturday nights."
               "Where does it meet?"
               "In Mrs. Surratt's cellar, I think."
               "How came you to know anything about it?"
               "I believe," said Mrs. Degroot, "you agreed not to ask me that question."
               "So I did. I forgot: excuse me. But do you know anything else?"
               "I believe not?"
               "I am done," said Flora. "You can ask me any question you want to."
               "Well then," said Mrs. Degroot with evident pain, "how long have you been
                  acquainted with Mr. Degroot?"
               "Some time; several months. I do not recollect exactly."
               "Does he love you?"
               "He says so; and I have no reason to doubt it."
               "Do you love him?"
               "Not I; not a monad. I say love him!"
               "Do you think he loves you with a view to marriage?"
               "Of course he does. With what other motive could he love me?" asked Flora frowning
                  and straightening herself proudly.
               "It might be," slowly answered Mrs. Degroot, "that he could not help it. But has
                  he ever mentioned marriage to you?"
               "As well as I can recollect he has. So many propose it, I do not try to remember
                  who they are. I think Mr. Degroot has, though."
               "Did you encourage him or give him any room to hope?"
               "I neither encouraged, nor discouraged him."
               Mrs. Degroot said not another word. She had heard enough. She could not tell Miss
                  Louvan how near to her was the person about whom they were talking. She hastily
                  arose and made for the door; but before she had fairly reached it Flora cried out
                  to her to stop.
               "Well, what?" asked the miserable wife absently.
               "I want to know what makes you so deeply interested in Mr. Degroot?"
               "Ask me no more questions," slowly and sorrowfully replied the wife. "I cannot
                  answer now." And she hastened into the street, and walked homewards with a heart
                  bursting with bitter emotions. As she moved along her thoughts were far absent
                  from the busy, gay city, among whose giddy populace she felt herself to be an
                  insignificant cipher. She could not but contrast her present condition with what
                  it had been during the unclouded days of girlhood. She looked back through the
                  vista of a decade of years and beheld herself a girl, happy and contented, with no
                  desire ungratified and no want unsupplied. The god of wealth had showered upon her
                  in magnificent profusion all the blessings that lie within reach of human power.
                  But while she was gliding down life's gently flowing stream a man presented
                  himself before her. He was gentle and winning; his soft, thrilling words of love
                  fell upon her ear with music sweeter than that of Calypso and her nymphs. Her
                  young heart yielded to the magic power of blind Cupid, and against her venerable
                  father's advice she gave up all to the adored idol of her tender affections.
                  Inexperienced child She knew not that there was such an ignoble vice as deceit in the human heart. In her
                  unsullied, unsuspecting innocence, she could not penetrate the veil of smooth
                  dissimulation, and there behold in the place of the jolly god of virtuous passion
                  the horrid demon of avarice. But now it was all plain enough. She had never been
                  purely loved by the man whom she called husband. A breath of adversity had
                  stripped her of worldly possessions, and the charm which had apparently kept her
                  liege lord faithful was gone. The pleasing illusion with which she had long
                  deceived herself was at last entirely dispelled. She knew that now she could not
                  but be hated, despised, loathed. She was a slave—an unthanked slave. Bitter was
                  the knowledge that a portion of the miserable pittance which she earned by severe
                  labor, and which barely supported her family, was taken to purchase flowers for a
                  vain, frivolous rival, who detested him. On account of this heartless jilt she, a
                  lawful wife, was compelled to deny her legitimate name, and fear to claim a
                  husband her own by law and right. For this dark eyed belle of Washington she and
                  her little boy would be abandoned. The thought was intolerable. She would leave
                  him; she would take little Clarence, poor, sick child, and fly from the city
                  forever.
               Then thoughts of a different character began to steal into her mind. She
                  commenced, woman-like, to make excuses for her worthless husband, at least to put
                  the most charitable construction upon his actions. For was it not possible that
                  Miss Louvan might be mistaken. It might be that Percy Degroot was deceiving the
                  young lady thus in order to accomplish some of his plans, which a married man
                  could not achieve. So anxious was she now to excuse him, and convince herself that
                  Miss Louvan was mistaken, that she did not think what might be the nature of the
                  schemes that would render necessary such an extraordinary mode of procedure. She
                  thought that he surely could not mean to marry Miss Louvan with a legal wife
                  existing in the city. She knew he was too shrewd for that. The more she reflected
                  upon it, the more perplexed and troubled she was. She dared not mention what she
                  had heard to Percy; it might make matters worse. It would be best, she thought, to
                  wait awhile before she should fly from the city, and see if there might not
                  possibly be some mistake in regard to the matter. Admitting what Miss Louvan had
                  said to be true, according to her own account she cared nothing for Degroot; he
                  might find it out ere long, be cured of his folly, and return to his lawful wife.
                  So the poor woman resolved in silence to suffer, to endure amid the alternations
                  of hope and doubt.
               After Mrs. Degroot had been at home a few minutes another mystery occurred, which
                  if not as disagreeable as that pertaining to her husband and Miss Louvan, was
                  still more puzzling. For while she was arranging her needle work for the day, an
                  errand boy suddenly popped in at the door, inquired if her name was Degroot, and
                  being answered in the affirmative, placed in her hand a letter, and then vanished
                  as suddenly as he had entered. Mrs. Degroot carefully read the address to see that
                  there was no mistake. she was not in the habit of receiving letters from any
                  source, and she thought at first this might be intended for some other person. She
                  was however soon satisfied; for she saw plainly enough her own name, Mina Degroot.
                  There was no post-mark whatever to be discovered on the envelope. It must be then,
                  she concluded, from some one in the city. It was therefore with considerable
                  curiosity that she tore off the cover, and unfolded the half-sheet of fools-cap
                  which it concealed. Her astonishment was extreme when a one hundred dollar note in
                  genuine greenback caught her eye. She quickly glanced at the bottom of the epistle
                  to find out who might be the generous donor of such a valuable present, but she
                  saw only the indefinite name of "friend" written in a bold, firm hand, as if the
                  subscriber meant what he had penned. The chirography was strange to her, though it
                  bore marks which she thought she had seen before; but at what time she did not
                  remember. There were occasional strokes and turns of the letters that appeared
                  familiar; they seemed to carry her back to the past in divergent paths, which at
                  last faded entirely away. Taking it altogether, or analyzing it, she could gain no
                  clue to the writer. The letter commenced by requesting her to entertain no
                  scruples in regard to using the small sum enclosed, for it was given with the
                  purest motives and intentions. "You will though," continued the benevolent writer,
                  "be curious to know who it is that has the kindness to send unasked such a gift. I
                  must be so cruel as to say your natural curiosity concerning the matter cannot be
                  gratified at present, for reasons with which you are unacquainted, but which are
                  palpable enough to me. It is sufficient to say I know that you need help. Use then
                  what you find enclosed as freely and unhesitatingly as if it came from your own
                  father. You would better not let your husband know that you have so much, or how
                  you came by it. If you do, it will lead you into trouble. I am afraid your husband
                  is not the being you think he is. There are not many women who will willingly
                  believe they have married cold-blooded villains. I have seen enough to convince me
                  that Degroot is not right. It gives me pain to write this, but I do it in order to
                  put you on your guard. I fear that ere long you will see I have told the truth. In
                  conclusion let me caution you to watch him closely, if you value your own
                  safety."
               Such was the short epistle that both puzzled and terrifled Mrs. Degroot. Various
                  were her suppositions and surmises, but after many thoughts, conflicting and
                  afflieting, she was no wiser than if she had not conjectured at all. It was a
                  profound mystery that set at defiance all her guesses. If she had not just had an
                  evidence of Percy's—she knew not what to call it, she would unquestionably have
                  attributed the writer's motives to that very quality of which he had accused her
                  husband, and would have rejected the gift with scorn. She greatly feared, anyhow,
                  it might be some trick designed to compromise her reputation. So the perplexed
                  lady knew not what to do; whether to make a candid confession to her husband, or
                  heed the unknown writer's caution. Either course of action she felt would be
                  fraught with danger; but she at last concluded it would be wisest and safest to
                  wait in silence the development of future events.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Our designs,
                        When once they creep from our own private breasts,
                        Do in a moment through the city fly."
                     
                  
               
               Mrs. Degroot had left Miss Louvan but a short time before John Wilkes Booth called
                  to pay a morning visit. As soon as his shadow darkened the door Flora cast her
                  eyes in that direction, and when she saw who the visitor was, she blushed in
                  despite of her Boston education, which had taught her to maintain an appearance of
                  composure under all circumstances. She appeared to be conscious of this outward
                  demonstration of internal emotion, for the blush terminated in a slight frown,
                  aimed however more at herself than the handsome form before her. She could not
                  find it in her heart to manifest displeasure in the presence of Booth though, and
                  both the blush and frown passed quickly away. Therefore she arose, extended her
                  hand, and pleasantly said:
               "Comment vous portez vous, Monsieur?"
               "Tres bien, Mademoiselle. Je desire vous etes en bonne
                     sante."
               "Parlez vous Francais, donc?" asked Flora in
                  surprise.
               "Oui, Mademoiselle, un peu. J'apprendis dire, 'j'aime
                     vous,' quand je fus un garcon."
               "I am afraid you are un coquet, Monsieur Booth,"
                  said Miss Louvan with a smile that would admit of various interpretations.
               "No, I am not, Miss Flora; but even granting that I am, or may have been, yet I
                  have never ventured to appear before you in that character."
               "I suppose," said Flora speaking with seriousness, "that is what you say to all
                  young ladies whom you wish to worship at the shrine of your commanding, your
                  irresistible beauty."
               "Let us dispense with silly flattery, my dear Miss Louvan. I am not half so vain
                  as you seem to think I am; neither have I ever attempted in all my life to trifle
                  with the feelings of a lady. No one can accuse me of such a crime. I have never
                  tried to win the affections of any lady but yourself, and I have almost despaired
                  of ever accomplishing that."
               "Nil desperandum, Mr. Booth," said Flora
                  gaily.
               "I do not know how to take you Miss Flora," said Booth with a shade of
                  disappointment. "You turn the most holy of subjects into ridicule."
               "I do not know how to take you either, Mr. Booth. For you talk of love with the
                  solemnity of a preacher, and then go off and boast of the conquests you have made,
                  if the poor women have been silly enough to believe you."
               "That may be the case with some; but I never did it."
               "Oh, no! That is what they all say in the presence of the 'dear angels;' but only
                  let them get lively and communicative over the jolly bottle, then their vanity
                  begins to unmask itself, and in midnight revels they loudly boast of the hearts
                  they have conquered."
               "Do you judge of our whole sex by what you have read or heard concerning the foibles of a few light-headed men? There is truth in what you say as
                  regards that class of men. But then to attribute faults and crimes
                  indiscriminately to a whole race which belong only to a small portion, is wrong in
                  the premises. I know many ladies too, Miss Flora, that conquer hearts, as you say,
                  for the sole purpose of trampling them under foot: but still I would not accuse
                  your whole sex of cruelty and heartlessness, because a few act in this
                  unjustifiable manner."
               "You argue well, Mr. Booth," said Flora laughing. Why didn't you make a
                  lawyer?"
               "That question is a digression from the subject, Miss Flora."
               "Yes, but I want you to tell me why you didn't make a lawyer?"
               "You are trying to make sport of me, Miss Flora."
               "No, indeed! I am in earnest. I do want to know."
               "Well, if you do, I can tell you in a word—simply because I had no taste for law.
                  'I would rather be a cat and cry mew, or be a dog and bay the moon,'
                  than to wade through Blackstone or Kent. The dry details of law would kill me
                  outright. I would die in a fortnight of 'aforesaids.' I longed for something more
                  exciting—something higher."
               "Higher!" interrupted Flora in a tone of undisguised surprise.
               "Yes, higher," replied Booth with a proud curl of the lip. "I understand your look
                  of inquisitive surprise, Miss Flora. I know that you, with the rest of the world,
                  look down with a feeling of scorn upon stage actors. I was well aware of what I
                  would have to brave when I adopted the profession; but I had the moral courage to
                  follow the bent of my inclination despite public opinion. I knew that I had a
                  peculiar talent for this calling; I knew I would succeed, and I have succeeded.
                  But as much as people may sneer at the idea, I maintain that it requires a higher
                  order of talent to become a successfull actor than a successful lawyer. The
                  profession brings into exercise feelings, emotions, powers, which would place a
                  lawyer, if he could command them, in the first rank in his avocation. There are
                  peculiarities of character to assume upon the stage, which only one class can do. Suppose a lawyer could
                  control his feelings like an actor does, and enter into all the multiplied
                  emotions of his clients, he would without doubt become an eminent pleader, and
                  could sway the minds of a jury just as he pleased. But as I have said, there is
                  only one class endowed with this great power of self-government. I belong to that
                  class, Miss Flora," continued Booth with a flashing countenance that made the
                  heart of the fair auditor throb violently, "I belong to that class, and I have
                  made good use of the talent God has given me. Had I studied law I never would have
                  found half the pleasures I have enjoyed as an actor—I mean intellectual pleasures.
                  My life is spent principally in those higher regions of thought where only the
                  'favored few' are permitted to dwell. None but persons of the most exquisite
                  sensibilities 'can soar aloft to those untrodden hights where angels bashful
                  look.' Do you not think that for such noble pleasures I could afford to brave the
                  contempt of the purse proud aristocracy? Do you think I would willingly resign
                  such unalloyed joys to become a plodding pettifogger?"
               "I do not know, Mr. Booth. I am ignorant of those supernatural joys of which you
                  are speaking, as I belong to that humbler class who spend their life nearer to the
                  earth than the moon."
               "You are not as destitute, Miss Flora, of that higher order of sensibility as you
                  sportively pretend. Those lustrous eyes of yours, whose every expression I love,
                  sparkle more brilliantly from the influence of other emoitons than the
                  common-place, practical feelnigs of every-day life."
               "What do you mean by that, Mr. Booth?" said Flora, pleased at the compliment.
               "I mean, I have watched you while on the stage. I have read the emotions of your
                  heart. I have carried you, yes, Mademoiselle, I have carried you without
                  resistance into those very regions of which you pretend to be ignorant. On more
                  occasions than one I have been so busy with your transportation that I quite
                  forgot the audience. The interest you took has several times fired me up to even
                  an unnatural ardor."
               "I was not aware, Mr. Booth, you were paying so much attention to me."
               "I know you were not. If you had been I might have been an unsuccessful pilot. For
                  you would probably have resisted. I recollect a short time ago, when I was acting
                  Hamlet, you went far above me into the clouds."
               "Are you trying to persuade me to become an actress?" said Flora laughing.
               "Mon Dieu! Heaven forbid! cried Booth with
                  energy.
               "The earnestness with which you exclaim against the idea, Mr. Booth, invalidates,
                  somewhat at least, your testimony as to the exalting, ennobling effect the
                  profession has upon character."
               "How so, Miss Flora?"
               "Why, if there are so many elevating pleasures pertaining to it, you ought to
                  persuade your friends, especially my unworthy self whom you profess to adore, to
                  take the stage—merely for the intellectual enjoyment it affords."
               "Yes," said Booth; "but these pleasures are purchased at the expense of renouncing
                  at least a part of the world, and that very part in which you have been reared. It
                  would be to you like entering a convent and taking the vows of a nun. You would
                  never again be recognized as an equal by your present friends. You could not
                  endure that, could you?"
               "If I could not, how could you have the cruelty to ask my hand? For certainly I
                  would be none the less frowned upon by my friends in the character of an actor's
                  wife than if I were a veritable actress."
               "But I intend to quit the stage."
               "That would not alter the facts and acts of your past life. It would never be
                  overlooked that you had been an actor."
               "Such might be the case," replied Booth slowly and thoughtfully, "In England and
                  other countries, in which the lines between the several classes of society are
                  plainly drawn and recognized by legal distinctions. But in this great land there
                  are no such artificial barriers thrown in one's way to eminence. No aristocracy
                  but that of mind is acknowledged by the mass of the people subject to this
                  government; and that is considerable encouragement to all who have political
                  aspirations to gratify. The accidents and circumstances of birth and profession
                  add nothing to, nor take anything from him who strives to rise. Consequently the
                  greatest men have sprung from the humbler walks of life to honorable eminence.
                  They had greater incentives to exertion. Roger Sherman rose from a shoemaker's
                  bench; Henry Clay was a mill-boy; Daniel Webster was a school-teacher; Abraham
                  Lincoln, you know, is derided by many as a 'rail-splitter;' Andrew Johnson was a
                  tailor: in fact, the giant minds of America have sprung from the despised classes
                  of society. After men have once acheived greatness and wealth, Miss Flora, and
                  have raised themselves by their own talents and energies above the lowly
                  avocations which they at first adopted to secure the means of existence, they are
                  no longer regarded with feelings akin to contempt; but they are honored for the
                  strength of character, the indomitable perseverance, the stolid, unyielding energy
                  of purpose that removed the obstacles which opposed their onward, upward progress.
                  I have already acheived one of the ingredients that constitute influence. I have
                  made an ample fortune without anybody's assistance; but I am not yet satisfied. I
                  feel," continued Booth rising and straightening his proud form, "that I was born
                  for something great. I have not fulfilled my destiny. Something here," laying his
                  hand on his heart, "urges me to abandon the profession of acting and accomplish
                  what fate has marked out for me. I am persuaded that I will perform some great
                  deed that will fill the earth with the name of John Wilkes Booth, and will furnish
                  consolation to all future actors for the world's scorn, in the reflection that
                  Booth was an actor."
               "What will that be, Mr. Booth," asked Flora with a beaming eye.
               "I do not know yet," replied Booth, so full of his grand idea that occasionally he
                  would seem to forget that he was in the presence of a witness. "I do not know yet.
                  There is a wide field open, especially at the present time. I shall do something.
                  I feel it, which will affect the destiny of this great nation, and thereby
                  influence the prospects of the world. I see you smile, Miss Flora," he continued
                  reseating himself. "Well, this no doubt sounds like the wild raving of a maniac;
                  but all I have to say is, you will see. Time will verify this extravagant
                  prophecy. And now, I again ask you if you will allow me to lay my prospective
                  honors at your feet, and beg you to share them?"
               "I do not see how I could share anything so intangible, Mr. Booth," she said
                  smiling.
               "I think a positive answer is due me, Miss Flora."
               "I think not, Mr. Booth. Wait till you achieve some of those great deeds of which
                  you have been so eloquently speaking."
               "When I make my words good, will you be mine?"
               "Call on me when some of those great and astonishing events happen; then we will
                  talk more about it."
               "Good bye, then," exclaimed Booth suddenly rising to leave. Seizing her delicate
                  hand he respectfully pressed it to his lips. "I will see you no more," said he
                  "till a wreath of undying fame encircles my brow." And before Flora could make any
                  reply, his dilating form was in the street.
               Miss Louvan sat a considerable time after Booth left her lost in confused
                  reflections. Perhaps she was again analyzing her turbulent feelings to discover
                  the nature of her affection for the handsome actor. It was evident from the
                  serious cast of her countenance that this wild conversation had made a deep
                  impression on her heart; it was a deep impression whatever may have been its
                  nature. She was in a strange, disagreeable frame of mind; and her situation was
                  puzzling, perplexing, and bewildering to herself. We therefore cannot attempt to
                  lay before the reader her conflicting thoughts and emotions.
               After the lapse of an hour she arose, and donning her hat crossed the street and
                  entered the residence of a lady friend, whom we must, for reasons which will be
                  obvious in the course of this history, call Mrs. Coldheart, though that was not
                  her true name. Flora could hardly assign any satisfactory reason even
                  to herself for the course she was pursuing in calling upon this lady; not that
                  there was anything in the call itself, but in the intent with which it was made.
                  She was like a ship in a stormy sea without rudder or compass. She was first
                  driven this way, then that. Her violent love urged her to one course of action,
                  then her pride pointed out another. She wanted to talk with Mrs. Coldheart about
                  Booth, then she feared that this lady might suspect more than she wished her to
                  know. So half determined and half undecided as to what she should communicate, she
                  made her way to the residence of Mrs. Coldheart, whom she found alone. Miss Louvan
                  was such a frequent visitor that her appearance at this late hour excited no
                  surprise in the mind of her friend.
               We must here inform the reader that Mrs. Coldheart was a full blooded yankee
                  woman, and possessed in an eminent degree all those bold characteristics that
                  distinguish the northern from the southern lady. These peculiarities, induced by
                  we know not what, (probably by climate and education,) are so plain and patent
                  that they are noticed even by foreigners, who as a general thing are prepossessed
                  in favor of the modest, unassuming daughters of the "sunny south." But as we have
                  said, Mrs. Coldheart was strongly marked by those unenviable characteristics of
                  the yankee race—flippancy, indelicate boldness, and a quick little air of pert
                  smartness, so opposite to the calm, sober, staid dignity of Dixie's graceful
                  women. It must not be inferred, however, that Mrs. Coldheart was deficient in
                  intellectual qualifications. For she was a really brilliant woman—one of those
                  splendid creatures of the frigid north, described by an abolition editor as
                  abounding in elegant accomplishments. She was a politician, and an advocate of
                  woman's rights; and this fact of itself, in the absence of other evidence, would
                  settle the question of nativity. For any feminine believer in miscegenation,
                  woman's rights, and all the multiform isms which have flooded the
                  world in latter days, can with perfect safety make affidavit before any
                  respectable magistrate that her birth-place was in the ismish north
                  somewhere. The probability is that she would not miss the truth more than
                  one-sixth if she would locate her nativity in one of the New England states. For
                  if such beings are ever found in the south, they are without doubt exotics, who
                  have by some mishap straggled from the land of "wooden nutmegs." A native southern
                  woman, who mounts a stump and clamors for the rights of her sex is, or rather
                  would be, a most wonderful anomaly. At least such a spectacle never has, up to the
                  present writing, disgraced this downtrodden country. Our earnest prayer is, "from
                  all such, Good Lord deliver us."
               Mrs. Coldheart was, then, a politician—and an abolitionist—and a follower of Lucy
                  Stone. She was besides this a keen, shrewd plotter—an elegant intrigante. She was an invaluable coadjutor in an
                  election—an elegant female fugleman, or bugleman. More than one election in some
                  of the northern cities have been carried by her influence. But we are worried with
                  describing her, if the reader is not with the description. Such as she was, we
                  introduce her as the friend, in the common acception of the term, of Miss
                  Louvan.
               "Have you heard the news, Flora?" asked Mrs. Coldheart before the young lady could
                  seat herself, after doffing her pretty, gay hat.
               "I have heard nothing of interest, Mrs.
                  Coldheart. What is it? Anybody to be married?"
               "O, pshaw! no," with a toss of the head. "The rebels will soon be driven to their
                  last ditch. Sherman is in South Carolina, sweeping everything before him, and the
                  republicans have carried Buffalo."
               "Where have they carried it to?" asked Flora, who did not care a groat for such
                  things as town elections.
               "Now come, Flora, you petite vert oie, none of
                  your nonsense. You ought to rejoice over the glorious news. We will certainly whip
                  the ragged rebels in less than three months, and the supremacy of the government
                  will then be triumphantly vindicated. Then I want to see Jeff Davis hanged and
                  every one of his followers with him."
               "That would be a wholesale sort of a job, would it not, Mrs. Coldheart? and it
                  would take a considerable quantity of hemp too," remarked Flora in a nonchalant tone of voice.
               "I would take great pleasure in furnishing the rope," quickly said Mrs. Coldheart.
                  "They are an accursed set, and deserve death, every sinner of them. I want to see
                  them all hanged, and their property confiscated. Then I want the loyal Blacks,
                  poor, suffering, ignorant creatures, comfortably settled upon the soil they once
                  tilled as slaves. It makes my heart bleed to think of the mighty wrongs of this
                  unfortunate race, who have been forced to cultivate cotton in those unhealthy
                  swamps, and have their naked backs lacerated every night by the cruel lash. But,
                  thank God, the fetters of galling bondage will soon be broken, and they will be a
                  free and happy people. I want their heartless masters hanged, or if not, I want to
                  see them reduced to slavery and serve those Africans who have been so mercilessly
                  outraged. It is truly heartrending to think how much wealth those haughty
                  southerners have coined out of the blood of the helpless Africans. Look there at
                  that golden goblet which was sent by General Butler to Mr. Coldheart. The general
                  wrote us that it was one out of two dozen which he had taken from a planter near
                  New Orleans."
               "Was that planter in the rebel army?" asked Flora.
               "O, no. General Butler stated that he pretended to be a union man; but that one
                  day his daughter came into the city with a gray
                     habillement de tete displayed very conspicuously. He stated that she
                  knew very well that gray was a color irreconcilable with loyalty. So he issued an
                  order that her father's palace should be searched for contraband of war. The
                  soldiers selected by the general himself who did the duty, brought him two dozen
                  golden goblets and a great deal of silver plate, to pay for the young lady's
                  offence. The general always was a friend to Mr. Coldheart, and he sent that one to
                  him as a keepsake."
               "What became of the others?" asked Flora.
               "O, the general kept them, I suppose, for his own use. He served the rebels right.
                  He comes up to my ideas of a military chieftain. Why, he would not allow those
                  wicked southern women to laugh in their own houses, if he suspected there was any
                  disloyalty in their merriment. If they do laugh, they pay very dearly for it;
                  because he immediately confiscates their property, or at least some portion of it.
                  There is no telling how many fine piano fortes, and how much table furniture he
                  sent north. He is now a very wealthy man, and made it all out of the wicked
                  rebels. I am told that he once had nearly a pint of diamond rings which he took
                  from the female rebels of New Orleans."
               "C'est un parfait larron, je crois," said
                  Flora.
               "Why, what is the matter, Flora?" asked Mrs. Coldheart in surprise. "You are not
                  turning rebel, I hope."
               "No indeed! but from all I can learn, your model hero is not much better than a
                  common pickpocket."
               "Dear me, how you talk!" cried Mrs. Coldheart with a slight frown. "You have been
                  reading those vile calumnies heaped on the general by some of those copperhead
                  newspapers. All who accuse General Butler of dishonesty, slander him grossly. He
                  has done more to crush the rebellion than any other officer in the service. Just
                  look how he had that impudent and daring Mumford executed for disloyalty."
               "What did he do, Mrs. Coldheart?"
               "O, I think he pulled down the United States flag from over his house, or
                  something of that kind, for which he deserved death."
               "Did not Mumford have the right to take down the flag, if the house belonged to
                  him and the flag annoyed him?"
               "Why, of course not. He was a very wicked rebel to insult thus the stars and
                  stripes. General Butler treated him exactly right. But you may be sure they took
                  down no more flags while he remained in New Orleans. He kept the wicked wretches
                  straight. Those New Orleans beauties were more afraid of him than grim death
                  itself."
               "I do not blame them," replied Flora; "for Butler is a brute."
               "Why, Flora, what in the world is the matter with you to-day?" asked Mrs.
                  Coldheart astonished at the young lady. "You appear to be out of humor with
                  everybody and everything. What is the matter, dear?"
               "Nothing, Mrs. Coldheart, nothing; but I never could endure that beast
                  Butler."
               "Well, let us talk about something else, then. By the way, how did you like the
                  performance of Booth the other night at the theatre?"
               "Very well indeed!"
               "Mr. Coldheart said he thought it was the finest histrionic performance he ever
                  witnessed. Booth exceeded himself. Don't you think Booth is the prettiest man you
                  ever beheld in your life?"
               "He is very handsome," replied Miss Louvan, turning her head and looking out into
                  the street.
               "He is a dangerous man to ladies," continued Mrs. Coldheart. "I have heard of
                  several young ladies who were desperately smitten with him. They say he has
                  disgraced quite a number; and some of them in high life, too. But what is the
                  matter, Flora?"
               "Matter, how, Mrs. Coldheart?"
               "Why, you are blushing to your very neck. One might suppose from your appearance
                  that you are in love with Booth."
               "One might do me injustice then," answered Flora, who felt her face burning like
                  fire.
               "What makes you blush so, dear?" asked Mrs. Coldheart gazing earnestly into the
                  glowing countenance of the disturbed girl. "I do declare, Flora, what is the
                  matter? I never did see you look so strange."
               "Why, Mrs. Coldheart," said Flora trying to laugh, "the way in which you are
                  acting would plague any body. But I will tell you something on Mr. Booth, if you
                  will promise me to keep it secret."
               "Take care, Flora!" said Mrs. Coldheart shaking her head. "If you have been
                  meddling with Booth, I pity you. I have understood that he has no mercy on young
                  ladies. You need not believe anything he says if you have formed his acquaintance.
                  I hope you are no ways entangled, dear.
               "Do not give yourself any uneasiness on that score, Mrs. Coldheart," said Flora
                  with a desperate kind of energy, and a feeling of jealousy mingled with revenge
                  for the affront which she now supposed the actor had offered her. She all at once
                  felt that Booth might be endeavoring to drag her down to ruin, and the thought
                  maddened her before she could reflect. She determined, therefore, by way of
                  revenge, to tell Mrs. Coldheart all she knew concerning the Bloody Junto, let the
                  result be what it might. Indeed, she now had it to do in self-defence.
               "Do not give yourself any uneasiness on that score," she said. "The matter to
                  which I allude is no love affair. It is more dreadful than that."
               "What in the name of heaven is it, dear?"
               "I think Booth is engaged in a conspiracy against the government," said Flora with
                  a curious expression, which Mrs. Coldheart did not appear to notice.
               "In a conspiracy!" cried Mrs. Coldheart. "Dear me; how do you know?"
               "I accidentally learned it. I intended to tell you about it; but you must keep it
                  secret, at least a part of it anyhow."
               "Yes to be sure; but you have told me nothing yet. What evidence have you that he
                  is in a conspiracy?"
               "All that I know is," replied Flora, speaking rapidly as if she wished to get
                  through with it, "all that I know is there is a society called the Bloody Junto,
                  that meets in Mrs. Surratt's cellar every Saturday night. It is a political
                  organization, and from its ugly name, the place in which it assembles and the
                  time, I drew the inference that it was a conspiracy. I called to talk with you
                  about it; but when you commenced to accuse me of loving Booth, the very idea of
                  such an absurd thing caused me to blush with shame," said Flora, offering this
                  flimsy excuse for her reddened face. "But what do you think about this? What ought
                  to be done?"
               Mrs. Coldheart thought, and thought rapidly; but it did not, however, require much
                  time for her active mind, so fertile in schemes and expedients, to arrive at a
                  conclusion. Notwithstanding that she almost immediately resolved upon her course
                  of action, she thought proper to keep it to herself, at least for the present. It
                  was something which she could not reveal to Flora, or at least did not.
               "Why nothing, Flora." replied Mrs. Coldheart to the last question, "if what you
                  have told me is all you know. You might bring yourself into ridicule by reporting
                  such a thing to the government. Because after all, it may be nothing more than a
                  common club. You have nothing upon which to ground an accusation but your
                  suspicion."
               "May be not, Mrs. Coldheart; but I did not intend to move in this matter any how.
                  I thought I would talk to you about it."
               "It was well you did, dear. I am more experienced than you are. I would advise you
                  to say nothing to any one about the affair until you can discover something more.
                  Should you do that let me know. I shall not tell it, because I do not wish my name
                  connected with scandalous affairs like that. I hope you have not mentioned it to
                  any one else."
               "No indeed, I have not," said Flora.
               Mrs. Coldheart then abruptly changed the subject, and rattled away in her yankee
                  style for a short time until Miss Louvan took her departure. Flora, as soon as she
                  was alone, and reflected upon what she had done, was sorry that she had so hastily
                  betrayed Booth. She therefore did not feel the relief she expected from
                  unburdening her mind to Mrs. Coldheart. Indeed, she was more wretched and gloomy.
                  But it could not be helped now. Her talkative friend knew the secret; and Flora
                  began to hope she would keep it as such. That act of Flora Louvan, that accidental
                  blush which led her to a confession, probably changed the fate of the American
                  nation.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Ambition hath one heel nail'd in hell,
                        Though she stretched her fingers to touch the heavens."
                     
                  
               
               Our patient reader's attention must now be called to a remarkable man, whose
                  influence was destined to give new tone to the Bloody Junto. We will call him
                  Coldheart, by which he can at once be recognized as the husband of Miss Louvan's
                  friend, mentioned in the foregoing chapter. We have now come to a point, gentle
                  reader, at which some caution is necessary. For when living characters are
                  mentioned in connection with dark deeds of blood and crime; when the due measure
                  of punishment cannot be meted out for want of legal evidence, it becomes a
                  delicate matter, yea, something more than a delicate matter, to call them by their
                  true names. Suspicion in certain quarters has sometime since directed public attention to a
                  statesman high in office, who is perfectly innocent. It is not the first time that
                  black calumny has selected a fair, unsullied character at which to hurl its
                  poisoned shafts. We have no allusion whatever to that great statesman, whom the
                  malice and hell-born hate of a few yankees have attempted to drag down because,
                  nobly ignoring his personal injuries, he planted himself firmly upon the
                  principles of constitutional liberty, and raised his giant arm to crush the rabid
                  spirit of foul fanaticism, which was seeking to annihilate a large portion of the
                  American nation. Therefore, reader, if you have that man in your "mind's eye" you
                  are mistaken, and you will acknowledge it before you complete the perusal of this
                  history. We ask you to make no guesses. Restrain your curiosity so far as to
                  refrain from conjectures. All will be revealed in due time. You have read the
                  story of Sostratus? If not, it is to this effect: Ptolemy in ancient times caused
                  the tower of Pharos to be built for the benefit of mariners. A few years after its
                  completion there appeared upon it no word nor mark to indicate that this prince
                  had the least share in its erection. It seems, however, that Sostratus, the
                  architect, in order to engross all the glory of the magnificent structure, carved
                  his own name deep in the solid marble, and then covered it with lime upon which he
                  engraved the name of Ptolemy. The lime in the course of years mouldered away, and
                  Ptolemy's glory with it. The name of the villain to whom we have reference is
                  likewise written upon a certain wall in Washington City. It is covered with lime
                  for the present, but before this history draws to a close this lime will wear
                  away, and the true name of the man that instigated the death of Abraham Lincoln
                  will stand forth glaring in large, black letters. Reader, you will know ere long
                  what this means.
               Coldheart, then, was a government officer. He had considerable influence in the
                  affairs of the government of the United States; but by what means he exercised
                  this power cannot now be mentioned. Neither can we describe his personal
                  appearance, nor his birthplace. But we are at liberty to say that he was a
                  native-born yankee, and in addition to the ordinary peculiarities of that race,
                  possessed a much higher intellect than the common herd, though a meaner heart. He
                  was a keen, shrewd politician, whose great intellectual energies were not to be
                  despised, especially in such bloody days as those of 1861. He had an ambition
                  equal to that of Alexander or Cæsar, and would have preferred the position of
                  "Monarch of Hell" to that of a Saint in Heaven. His heart was as cold as ice, and
                  his foul blood crept freezingly through his veins. His very eye looked at you with
                  a cold, steady gaze, that spared all strangers, who might have any little offcial
                  favors to ask at his hands, the usual pain and disappointment of denial; because
                  the sense of obligation to such a man was more painful than his refusal. They
                  generally were glad to be promptly denied in order to rush from the tainted
                  atmosphere which he breathed. How such a man ever happened to occupy the political
                  position he did, we will leave to conjecture. But how a really brilliant,
                  beautiful woman could ever gain her own consent to live upon terms of matrimonial
                  intimacy with such a monster in human shape might be considered still more
                  wonderful. And yet, after all, it is not a matter of great wonder, when we reflect
                  that at times strange freaks and whims enter the heads of the fair sex. Women seem
                  to have a particular fancy for oddities and eccentricities, and many are filled
                  with admiration of dare-devils: not that they actually feel a warm sentiment of
                  love for such creatures. That is almost an impossibility. We believe this
                  remarkable caprice emanated from an unworthy vanity which feeds upon the idea of
                  exercising control over monsters that the rest of the world fears. We can assign
                  no other reason. Whether or not Mrs. Coldheart had been actuated by such a motive
                  in her marriage, we pretend not to say. She may have loved her stoic-hearted
                  husband for aught we know to the contrary. But whether she loved or hated him;
                  whether she loved his intellect or his heart, we are not able to say. We know one
                  fact; she did marry him, and under his training was a not a whit inferior to him
                  in some of the unenviable qualifications. What these were will be developed in the
                  progress of our narrative.
               On the night following the day of Miss Louvan's call, Coldheart and his wife were
                  sitting close together in their sleeping apartment, conversing in a low tone that
                  indicated a wish on their part not to be heard. Their earnest looks and gestures
                  showed that they felt a deep interest in that which formed the subject of their
                     tete-a-tete.
               
               "I think," remarked Mrs. Coldheart "you might find it to your advantage. Now is
                  the most favorable opportunity you will ever have to carry out our purpose. The
                  rebellion is, without doubt, drawing to a close, and if the present government
                  over is to be overthrown, I am fully persuaded that now is the time. Changes and
                  revolutions of this kind are more easily effected in times of war than of peace.
                  The people are somewhat better prepared for them. They seem to desire and expect
                  change, no matter what may be its nature. When once the car of revolution is set
                  in motion, there is no telling where it may stop, nor how many turns it may make.
                  There is one circumstance which is favorable to our scheme. I believe the majority
                  of the people, at least the thinking class, are satisfied that man is incapable of
                  self-government, and would be glad to see a respectable monarchy established. The
                  rebels themselves can be made firm and staunch supporters of the throne by the
                  adoption of a conciliatory policy. By guaranteeing to them slavery, when they will
                  have no right to expect such a favor, and securing them in the possession of their
                  property, they would fain surrender the principles of republicanism in favor of a
                  solid, substantial monarchy."
               "All this sounds very well, Mary," said Coldheart with a grin, "but would it not
                  look rather strange and inconsistent to keep the African race in bondage, after
                  all our professions of philanthropy?"
               "A kingdom, Mr. Coldheart, is not to be thrown away for such trifling
                  considerations. I would be willing to keep enslaved a few thousand lazy negroes in
                  order to become Queen of America. Queen of America, Mr. Coldheart! how grand it
                  sounds! I can imagine how I would feel surrounded by Lords and Ladies, Dukes and
                  Duchesses, Earls and Countesses, and so on. To be the centre of attraction, 'the
                  observed of all observers' in such a galaxy of nobility as we could assemble in
                  the north, is an honor and a prize worth a little sacrifice of political
                  principle. There would be no sacrifice of moral principle; for as you know, I look
                  upon Mr. Lincoln's proclamation of freedom as a grand piece of folly. The negroes
                  would be much better off if they were left alone just as they are."
               "There is no doubt of that, Mary. I have always thought so, though I am a
                  professed abolitionist—ex rei necessitate,
                  however, as the lawyers say. I could not have gotten into office without joining
                  in the hue and cry against slavery. I was in the south before we were married, and
                  remained there better than a year. I went full of prejudices against the
                  institution, but returned divested of them all. I studied the practical workings
                  of the system, and I am fully persuaded it is the only condition in which the
                  negro can be made to benefit himself or any one else. I want the institution
                  destroyed, however, because I envy and hate the aristocracy of slaveholders. I
                  remember how they used to curse the yankees, and it has put a bitter feeling in my
                  heart towards them. I want to see them pulled down. But it would not do to talk
                  this way to anybody but you."
               "No, certainly not, Mr. Coldheart. We are both abolitionists from motives of
                  policy; and that is the whole truth." And they both laughed at the deception which
                  they had been practicing for years. "But then, Mr. Coldheart," said the lady after
                  her merriment had subsided, "when we are firmly established on the throne, we
                  could for the sake of consistency emancipate the negroes and humble the
                  slaveholders too."
               "That might give rise to another rebellion in the south."
               "What if it did, we could easily whip them into obedience."
               "We are running ahead of the hounds," remarked Coldheart with a laugh. "We can
                  settle questions like that after the new government is organized. You say Booth is
                  president of this political society?"
               "I was so informed by Flora Louvan."
               "How did she obtain her information?"
               "That she refused to tell, and I thought best not to manifest too much anxiety to
                  know. She spoke of it though as if there was no doubt about it. I almost know from
                  her actions that she is dead in love with Booth, and this is probably the reason
                  why she did not make a full confession."
               "Will she not blab this discovery to some one else, if she has not already done
                  so?"
               "Not she. She will be afraid to mention it. I persuaded her that by so doing she
                  might stir up scandal, and bring herself into ridicule. No, no, you need not feel
                  uneasy on account of Flora."
               "You are a prudent woman, Mary," said the husband approviagly, "and I now doubt
                  not that Flora will keep mum. But if she loves Booth so, how could she make an
                  exposure that might bring him into danger?"
               "There was something about her that I could not exactly understand. She seemed to
                  be in a strange humor. Perhaps, as I am such a good friend, she concluded that I
                  would keep it secret. In fact, she requested me to do so, and I promised her I
                  would."
               "It strikes me," said Coldheart, "that it will not be a bad idea, if she is in
                  love with Booth, to encourage her in it. If it has no other effect, it will make
                  her more communicative, at any rate. You must endeavor to get into her
                  confidence."
               "I believe I can do it, though I have cautioned her against Booth; and she may be
                  disposed to be somewhat shy."
               "You should not have done that."
               "Well, I like Flora, and I did not wish her to get into trouble. But I can easily
                  remedy all I said."
               "There are obstacles mountain high in the way of this project," said Coldheart,
                  recurring to the original direction of his thoughts.
               "What are they?"
               Coldheart turned his cold eye upon his wife's face, but he hesitated to disclose
                  what was in his mind. He merely said "guess?"
               "Let me repeat a little from Shakspeare," said she.
               
                  "Glamis thou art, and Cawdor; and shalt be
                  What thou art promised:—yet do I fear thy nature;
                  It is too full o' the milk of human kindness,
                  To catch the nearest way. Thou would'nt be great;
                  Art not without ambition; but without
                  The illness should attend it. What thou would'st highly.
                  That would'st thou holily: would'st not play false,
                  And yet woulds't wrongly win: Thou'dst have, great Glamis,
                  That which cries, Thus thou must do, if thou have it."
               
               "Taking that, Mr. Coldheart, in connection with what followed, do you understand
                  me, and did I understand you?"
               "Are you prepared to act the part of that lady?" asked Coldheart.
               "Can you play the part of her husband?"
               "No, I cannot."
               "But you can have it done."
               "I see we understand each other, Mary," said Coldheart with a demoniac smile. "But
                  this is a bold, dangerous game."
               "I am aware of that, Mr. Coldheart. It may be very cleverly managed, though. I
                  think I can see the way."
               "How? What is it?"
               "You must see Booth to-morrow," she replied thoughtfully, "but take care not to commit yourself till you discover the
                  metal and temper of this society. If it be really what its name imports, let Booth
                  into your designs, and promise him a dukedom. Point out to him the difficulties in
                  the way, and my word for it they will be obviated. A man of Booth's temperament
                  will be very apt to be dazzled and carried away with titles of nobility and the
                  honors pertaining to them. He is 'a fellow marked, quoted and signed' to do this
                  deed. Instruct him to be liberal of promises to all who have the dirty work to
                  perform. I believe you can easily win over the majority of the United States
                  officers, by promises of earldoms and other honors of monarchies. In this large
                  country there will be thousands of offices at the disposal of an emperor."
               "This is the programme I was thinking of," interrupted Coldheart. "There is
                  another idea occurs to me right here. I might meet with opposition from some
                  general, who may be would like the place himself which I am endeavoring to
                  obtain."
               "There is no danger of that," flippantly responded Mrs. Coldheart. "There is not a
                  Bonaparte among them. Not one of them has nerve sufficient for such a hazardous
                  enterprise. A promise of a dukedom would satisfy any of them, and win them over to
                  the scheme."
               "I am not so certain of that."
               "I am though, Mr. Coldheart. There is not a dangerous man among them. This is the
                  first war of such magnitude that has failed to furnish to the world a real hero.
                  The rebels and federals both have brought forward men of clever genius, and of
                  considerable military talent; but they are Lilliputians compared with Napoleon
                  Bonaparte. The rebels, however, have come nearer producing a second Napoleon than
                  we have, owing, I suppose, to the fact that they have endured more reverses, which
                  always sharpen the intellects of men, and develop their mental resources. I have
                  not the remotest idea, though, that there is a single union general who possesses
                  the requisite courage, the stubborn energy for such a daring project. It requires
                  a man of Spartan courage and Roman firmnes to do this deed. Grant and Sherman have
                  not the 'vaulting ambition' which is necessary in all great acts of revolution.
                  Our friend General Butler will favor the scheme for a few thousand dollars and a
                  little office of some kind."
               Coldheart smiled at this estimate of Gen. Butler, but he knew it was just. "I will
                  tell you what, Mary," said he, "you would make a good phrenologist, as well as a
                  first rate diplomat."
               "If I were only a man, I would show you what I could do. I could manage this
                  business with ease, Mr. Coldheart."
               "Yes, but I would rather have you a woman."
               "Now, Mr. Coldheart," she suddenly said, "there is one circumstance which we have
                  entirely overlooked."
               "What is that?"
               Her voice here sunk into such a low whisper that her words could only be
                  distinguished by the husband. He replied to her in the same cautious tone, and
                  they both conversed in whispers for several moments and then retired for the
                  night. Reader could you suppose that heaven would permit this dual of wretches to
                  fall asleep contemplating foul murder? Well, they did sleep as calmly as if
                  innocence had fanned them into healthful forgetfulness, and 'tired nature's sweet
                  restorer' closed their eyes, and these two monsters enjoyed sleep. 
                     
                        "Sleep that knits up the ravell'd sleeve of care,
                        The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath,
                        Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course,
                        Chief nourisher in life's past."
                     
                  
               
               
               The next morning, very early, Mrs. Coldheart was considerably surprised to receive
                  a call from Flora Louvan. The lady had not risen when Flora rang at the parlor
                  door. She requested to see Mrs. Coldheart without delay, on business of
                  importance. Our elegant intrigante dressed
                  herself as quickly as she possibly could, and hastened into the parlor, where she
                  beheld her young friend looking pale and disturbed.
               "Mon Dieu! Flora," cried Mrs. Coldheart in
                  visible surprise, "what in the name of heaven is the matter, dear?"
               "You are no doubt astonished to see me here so early, Mrs. Coldheart," said Flora
                  calmly.
               "Not so much surprised at that as to see you looking so badly. Are you not sick,
                  dear?"
               "I am in perfect health, Mrs. Coldheart; only I did not rest very well last night.
                  This is the first morning that I ever rose so early in my life. What do you think?
                  I have been up for two hours."
               "I think you are sick, dear. Let me feel your pulse," she said rising and seizing
                  her delicate hand. She stood half a minute counting the pulsatrons and then
                  continued. "You have no symptoms of any approaching disease, except probably an
                     affection of the heart."
               "My heart is as sound as anybody's, Mrs. Coldheart."
               "You are in love, Flora."
               "No, I am not, either," replied the young lady while a deep blush mantled her
                  melancholy face.
               "What is the matter, then!" asked Mrs. Coldheart with emphasis.
               "You want to know why I called so early?"
               "Of course, dear. I feel some uneasiness about you. I want to know what troubles
                  you, and counsel you, if I can."
               "You recollect what I told you yesterday?"
               "What, about the political society?"
               "Yes," said Flora.
               "Well, what about it?"
               "Now don't laugh at me, Mrs. Coldheart, and I will tell you. Last night I had a
                  dream. I thought I was sitting alone in our parlor, when Booth came all stained
                  and reeking with blood. His face looked haggard, his eyes stared wildly, and his
                  garments ments were torn in many places. He advanced up to where I was, and I can
                  hear his stern voice ringing in my ears now. I can see him as he stood before me,
                  holding up those bloody hands, and warned me. 'Flora,' said he, 'you have
                  discovered something concerning my affairs, which it does not behoove you to know.
                  See what you have done. See what we do with those who betray our secrets. Beware,
                  young lady, beware how you use your tongue!' Saying this he vanished, and I awoke
                  trembling all over. I laughed at myself for a frightened simpleton, and after
                  awhile fell asleep again. The dream was however repeated with some additions.
                  Booth this time entered my room, attended by several men, whom I never saw before.
                  They were all covered with blood; they held up their crimson hands and stared as
                  if they would look me through. 'Flora,' said Booth, 'you don't seem to believe in
                  dreams; you are incredulous. I have brought witnesses. Look at us well.' Then I
                  thought they all advanced to the bed where I was lying. I attempted to cry aloud,
                  and the effort aroused me. But it was in vain that I endeavored to sleep. Whenever
                  I shut my eyes, I could see those bloody men dancing around dead bodies, with
                  their gory knives brandishing in the air. This is why I am here, Mrs.
                  Coldheart."
               "That was a horrible dream, Flora; but you say that you thought that Booth called
                  you Flora?"
               "Yes," replied Miss Louvan, thinking more of the dream than what she was
                  saying.
               "Is he in the habit of addressing you in that style?" questioned the lady with an
                  earnest look. Miss Louvan at this interrogation blushed to the roots of her raven
                  hair. She felt indignant and mortified that her friend had noticed this little
                  circumstance, that she now saw indicated a degree of intimacy which she, in her
                  troubled state of mind, had not thought of. She was vexed with herself at the
                  exposure she had unwittingly made.
               "No, Madam, he is not," replied Flora biting her pretty lip. "One cannot control
                  dreams, I guess."
               "Dreams," answered Mrs. Coldheart coolly, are often nothing but a continuation of
                  the waking thoughts. Our wishes very frequently assume shape in sleep, and become
                  pictures of realities we would desire to behold with our eyes open."
               "What are you after, Mrs. Coldheart?" asked Flora recovering her self-possession.
                  "You are trying to make it appear that I am in love with Booth in spite of all I
                  can say."
               "No, Flora dear; I did not know that you were acquainted with him," said Mrs.
                  Coldheart interrogatively.
               "To be sure I am. He visits at our house sometimes."
               "He does? and you have never mentioned this to me before."
               "I did not think it worth mentioning, Mrs. Coldheart. There are numbers who call
                  on me that I never mention nor talk about in any way. But that is neither here nor
                  there. I did not come here so unceremoniously to talk about Booth, nor any one
                  else. Have you told that little circumstance, Mrs. Coldheart, about the
                  society?"
               "I have not thought of it since yesterday, dear," answered Mrs. Coldheart with a
                  smile. "I did not look upon it as a matter of any importance, and I don't know
                  that I ever should have thought of it again."
               "I am glad you have not, Mrs. Coldheart. This dream, I acknowledge, disturbs me. I
                  fear it is a foreshadowing of evil."
               "Why, Flora, dear," said Mrs. Coldheart laughing, "you are becoming superstitious.
                  You ate too much supper last night, dear. You have had an attack of 
                     canchemar;
                     cauchemar
                   that is all. If you allow every ugly dream to trouble you that way, you
                  will be miserable all your life. I have had thousands of the most horrid kinds,
                  that frightened me very much during the night, but I never thought of them when
                  morning came."
               "I cannot reason myself out of my fear, Mrs. Coldheart. There is no use in talking
                  about it. The dream has left an impression that cannot be eradicated. I don't want
                  you ever to mention what I told you. This is what I came for. Promise me you will
                  not."
               "Certainly I will promise it, dear."
               "Swear it, Mrs, Coldheart, swear it!" said Flora with great solemnity. "Here,"
                  continued Flora rising and seizing a beautifully bound book, "put your hand on
                  this Bible and swear it."
               "Why Flora," exclaimed Mrs. Coldheart in surprise, "you are going mad over this
                  foolish affair."
               "No, not mad, Mrs. Coldheart, but I will not be satisfied till you swear it on the
                  Bible. I do this to impress it on your mind. I know you would not violate your
                  oath."
               "No, to be sure not; but I do not like to swear about trivial matters."
               "This is no trivial matter to me, Mrs. Coldheart. It will be a great favor; I will
                  feel grateful if you will swear it."
               "Very well, dear," said the lady with concealed vexation. "I will do as you wish,
                  to please you. I swear it then."
               And Mrs. Coldheart placed her hand upon the Bible, and bound herself in the most
                  solemn manner never to memtion anything concerning the Bloody Junto. Flora
                  appeared satisfied, and thanking her friend in terms of warmth that seemed utterly
                  disproportionate to the importance of the affair, she returned home.
               The reader may be somewhat surprised at the depravity of moral principle displayed
                  in her course towards Flora Louvan. Perhaps an apology ought to be offered for the
                  willful deception she had practiced; but we have found the mere semblance of an
                  excuse, and we will give it, and let it pass for what it is worth. Charity demands
                  that we should mention it. She was a yankee woman!
               
            
            
               
               CHPTER IX.
               
                  
                     
                        "But when to mischief mortals bend their will,
                        How soon they find fit instruments of ill."
                     
                  
               
               There was a dingy looking office, belonging to one of the government officials,
                  situated in a certain part of Washington City, which must be allowed to pass, at
                  present, "without a local habitation and a name." The floor furnished abundant
                  evidence of the existence of a bad habit, indulged in so extensively by the large
                  majority of Americans—including those supposed to be acquainted with Chesterfield.
                  Reference is had of course to that filthy practice of chewing tobacco. There were
                  copious stains of this abominable weed all around the large table that stood in
                  the centre of the apartment. The table was hidden by a flannel covering that was
                  so blotched with ink that the visitor was in doubt as to its original color.
                  Several inkstands, of different sizes and shapes, were arranged along its whole
                  length, on both sides, at convenient distances. Pens and papers lay all around,
                  jumbled and mixed in promiscuous confusion. It was the office of Coldheart. This
                  worthy, with the exception of a page, was alone. He had stepped in before his
                  usual hour. He sat at the large table for a few moments in a thoughtful mood, then
                  he snatched up a pen and hastily wrote the following words:
               "Please call at my house,——street, this afternoon at 2 o'clock."
               This short note he sealed and directed to John Wilkes Booth. Then he picked up an
                  old letter from the table.
               "Come here, boy," said Coldheart to the page, who at once obeyed.
               "To whom is this directed?" asked Coldheart showing the old envelop.
               "I don't know, sir; can't read writing."
               "Try, may be you can make it out."
               "No, sir, I don't know the first letter."
               "Well, if you do not, you will have to carry it to the postoffice," said
                  Coldheart, slightly turning from the boy and adroitly exchanging the letter for
                  the one which he had just finished. The page took it and disappeared.
               Soon after which his clerks began to drop in and take their places at the table,
                  where they all remained till the dinner hour arrived.
               At the appointed time Booth called at the dwelling of Coldheart, in accordance
                  with his request, and was politely and blandly received. After a few moments the
                  actor was asked to walk into a private room. The door was locked by Coldheart and
                  the window-blinds closed.
               "You may wonder at these precautions, Mr. Booth," said the official, "but the
                  matter which I wished to talk to you about is one that cannot be canvassed before
                  company."
               "Suit yourself about that, sir," answered Booth with unconcern. "I do not know
                  what the business is to which you have reference."
               "If you begin to talk in that style, Mr. Booth," replied Coldheart, looking as
                  though he desired to be understood without the intervention of words, "if you
                  begin to feign ignorange in regard to the business, I fear I will have some
                  difficulty in conveying my meaning."
               "Feign ignorance, Mr. Coldheart! I do not understand you."
               "I wish, sir," replied Coldheart smiling, "I wish it were possible that men could
                  understand each other upon some points without using the customary vehicle of
                  language."
               "I do not know what the precise duties of your office are," said Booth, "but it
                  seems to me there are few transactions of such a nature that they cannot be
                  mentioned—especially by a man in your position."
               "Yet there are some things which I could wish might be communicated by a look or a
                  gesture, or any other method than words. But you are mistaken if you suppose this
                  business has anything to do with the duties of my office. It pertains to your
                  affairs."
               If Booth understood the cunning politician, he did not choose to let it be known.
                  He felt an instinctive aversion to Coldheart—a desire to flee from his presence
                  rather than be admitted into his confidence. There was that in his
                  would-be-familiar air—a hypocritical manifestation of friendship founded in
                  nothing but glaring selfishness, which at once repelled Booth's sensitive heart.
                  Our astute politician was so destitute of all the holier emotions of nature, that
                  he had never clearly learned the language of honest hearts. Booth therefore could
                  see that Coldheart's object, whatever it might be, sprang from the principle of
                  self-interest. He suspected a snare, but still he determined to betray his
                  suspicions by no outward demonstration.
               "You will have to explain yourself more clearly," said the actor quietly. "I am no
                  professed physiognomist, sir."
               "You are an actor, Mr. Booth, and your profession must certainly require you to
                  study the passions of the human heart. You must understand something of the art of
                  heart-reading. Now see if you cannot guess to what I allude, when I tell you this
                  delicate business concerns you."
               "I am an actor by profession, it is true, Mr. Coldheart, but I know nothing
                  pertaining to my avocation that could possibly require such an enigmatical method
                  of communication."
               "Suppose I say it does not pertain to your profession?"
               "Then I am utterly in the dark, sir, and have no idea what you are aiming at."
               "Do you study about nothing but your profession, and the circumstances directly
                  connected with it?" asked Coldheart.
               "Certainly I do, sir; but I know not that any person, private or official, has the
                  right to question me about my thoughts, especially when he is not acquainted with
                  them."
               "I refer to your acts more than to your thoughts, Mr. Booth."
               "Well then, I do not know that my acts are of such a heinous character that you
                  could not mention them, if you should so desire; neither are they of such
                  importance as to warrant a private inquisition."
               Coldheart looked a little disappointed, but he resolved to change his tactics and
                  try a sudden, unexpected attack.
               "Mr. Booth," said Coldheart fastening his eyes upon his auditor's face, "you are
                  the president of the Bloody Junto."
               Although Booth could not but suspect something of this sort, from Coldheart's
                  mysterious manner, yet he was not prepared for this sudden and direct accusation.
                  He therefore started slightly in despite of himself—influenced more however by
                  apprehensions as to Coldheart's intentions than by surprise at his knowledge of
                  the existence of this society. He was so busily engaged in guessing who it was
                  that could have acted treacherously, and conjecturing to what use Coldheart might
                  apply his knowledge, that he made no reply.
               "Can you deny it, Mr. Booth?" asked Coldheart with a subtile smile.
               This inquiry, together with the leering countenance of the man, angered Booth, who
                  very frequently acted from impulse.
               "If, sir," replied the actor with an angry flush, "you have locked me up with the
                  expectation of extorting a confession from me, you are pursuing the wrong course.
                  Yes, sir, I can deny it."
               "I know you can, but you will not."
               "Damnation!" cried Booth thrown off his guard, and jerking a small pistol from his
                  side pocket, "am I a common slave or thief to be locked up and questioned in this
                  style? Either explain yourself or open that door, or I might do a deed I would
                  repent of afterwards. Where do you get the authority to imprison unsuspecting men
                  in your own house, and force confessions from them? You are trying to get me into
                  a difficulty, or to make a tool of me to get some one else in, and I might fall
                  into your snare by answering either in the affirmative or negative. I will not
                  answer your interrogations. Open the door, or by heaven, I will exercise the right
                  of self-defence."
               "Put up your weapon, Mr. Booth," calmly said Coldheart, partially satisfied with
                  the success of his ruse. "There is no necessity for drawing it. You have
                  misconstrued my intentions. You might know that if I wished to deal harshly with
                  you, I would have pursued an entirely different couse. I would have had you
                  arrested, as I have ample testimony to justify that course."
               "What testimony have you?" asked Booth, whose wrath was now subsiding.
               "I know this; that you are president of a political society called the Bloody
                  Junto, which meets every Saturday night in a dark cellar. Is it not so?"
               "Granting it, what use do you intend to make of your knowledge?"
               "I cannot tell you, unless you answer my questions."
               "Very well, sir, proceed."
               "Well then, in the first place, are you not president of this society?"
               "You say you know that I am. Then proceed to an explanation, upon your own
                  presumption that it is a fact."
               "You will not answer directly, then?"
               "Neither directly nor indirectly. I have heard of several men who have been
                  entrapped in that style—men who were perfectly innocent; but they were imprisoned
                  for months without a hearing."
               "Admitting all that, Mr. Booth, I could have had you imprisoned in the same manner
                  without giving you any warning."
               "It is strange then," replied the actor, "that you will not tell me in plain terms
                  what your object is. You claim to have the advantage of me, and yet do not appear
                  entirely satisfied with it."
               "Well, now, Mr. Booth," said Coldheart after a moment's reflection, "this
                  interview is strictly confidential. You so understand it, do you not?"
               "It can be so if you desire it."
               "We must enter into an agreement, Mr. Booth, that nothing which passess between us
                  on this occasion shall ever be revealed."
               "I am willing, sir."
               "Very well. Now I will be plain and brief. I have a project to propose to your
                  society, which if it can be accomplished will redound to your advantage, and of
                  all who engage in it."
               "What is that, sir?" inquired Booth, when he saw that Coldheart paused and waited
                  to be questioned.
               "I do not feel willing to be more explicit without knowing something more definite
                  as to the object of your organization."
               "And I, Mr. Coldheart, am not at liberty to make any exposure of our secrets,
                  unless you choose to become possessed of them lawfully."
               "How will I do that?"
               "Join the society, sir."
               "But I can better accomplish the object by not attaching myself to the Junto. I
                  might be detected; I might be betrayed."
               "That is a risk we all have to run, sir. If men never hazard anything, they will
                  never accomplish much."
               "But you do not know how much I have at stake?"
               "Fortunes," replied Booth deliberately, "are often gained and lost too by the
                  turning of a card; and life itself is frequently staked upon less than the throw
                  of a die. There are few great enterprises in which one or the other are not put in
                  jeopardy."
               "That may all be true, Mr. Booth; but your society appears to be peculiarly liable
                  to be exposed. For I never made a single effort to ascertain its existence, and
                  yet I learned it from mere rumor, just as we have common gossip or scandal, going
                  the rounds upon reports carried from one to another. The same person who gave your
                  name as president of the Bloody Junto, might and doubtless would give mine as a
                  member."
               "You have not learned anything of importance, it seems though," replied Booth.
                  "You know not that I have ever attempted to conceal ceal the fact that I occupy the position you have
                  named. Can you tell me a single object of this organization?"
               "Whether I can name a specified object or not, the name is sufficiently suggestive
                  of its character. As soon as I heard its bloody name, I at once inferred that it
                  differed from an ordinary society or club, and that its object was warlike. I do
                  not know why, Mr. Booth, but somehow or other it reminded me of the days of
                  Catiline."
               "And yet," replied Booth good humoredly, "the society received its name from a
                  mere fortuitous circumstance, and was not christened thus because the qualifying
                  adjective was descriptive of its purposes. You see therefore how easily you were
                  deceived in your supposition."
               "It was a very unfortunate circumstance then, Mr. Booth; for the name of Bloody
                  Junto is sufficient to arouse one's apprehenhensions and suspicions. Any one would
                  naturally infer that its aim must be bloodshed," said Coldheart hoping to draw
                  Booth out.
               "I cannot help that," replied the actor. "I pretend not to control people's
                  inferences. They can make any surmises they please, but when they come to act upon
                  them, it is quite a different matter."
               "Is there no way then, Mr. Booth, by which I can become acquainted with your
                  objects and make my propositions, without going through the regular process of
                  initiation? I am not willing to appear before a society of this character, with
                  whose members I am entirely unacquainted. It would be 'a leap in the dark.'"
               "Well," said Booth studying a moment, "I will tell you what we can do. If you feel
                  so disposed, we can have a call meeting immediately, at which only myself and the
                  necessary officers shall be present. It will never be known then by the other
                  members that you have joined."
               "I do not see how that could be."
               "You will see if you are initiated."
               "Would not I better wait till night?" asked Coldheart.
               "I think not. You would be more liable to be seen by the other members."
               "Have your own way then, Mr. Booth. I will trust to yon."
               "You agree to be initiated now?" asked Booth.
               "Yes, I believe I will, upon the conditions you named."
               "Now then, Mr. Coldheart," said Booth with firmness, "before starting, I will tell
                  you plainly, that if you intend treachery it will be a dangerous game for you. You
                  may ensnare me, but your life will be forfeited. I give you timely warning, and
                  you venture with your eyes open."
               "Do not be alarmed, Mr. Booth. I have no disposition to betray you. I am no
                  informer nor detective, sir."
               "Well, we understand each other now. Remain here then half an hour," said Booth
                  rising, "till I can notify the officers. I will then return and pass by your
                  house. You must follow me as if unintentionally, and when you see me enter a
                  house, you may know it is our place of meeting. Open the door promptly and come
                  in."
               Booth was gone considerably over an hour, and Coldheart began to grow restless and
                  uneasy for fear the actor would not return at all. He had kept his eyes fixed up
                  the street without a moment's intermission, and he felt certain therefore that
                  Booth could not have passed unseen. Just as he was beginning to despair, he saw
                  the proud form of the stageplayer moving leisurely down the street. Coldheart
                  seized his hat, stood in the door until Booth was about forty or fifty yards in
                  advance, and then followed with a palpitating heart. The actor kept straight on
                  till he reached the house of Mrs. Surratt. Coldheart opened the door as he had
                  been directed and entered. He found Booth in the hall standing at the head of the
                  stairway that led to the cellar. They both descended in silence till they reached
                  the bottom of the steps, and Booth lighted a candle left on the outside for the
                  benefit of the members, and had turned to enter, when the door suddenly opened and
                  Mrs. Surratt appeared with a light in her hand. She drew back in apparent
                  astonishmenf on beholding Coldheart, but quickly recovered herself.
               "I had come down to see if the cellar needed cleaning," said Mrs. Surratt
                  apologising for her detection. "I thought it might need sweeping, as that
                  operation has not been performed for two months."
               "Thank you, Mrs. Surratt," replied Booth. But let me introduce my friend
                  Mr.,"——but he abruptly halted as if the name had escaped his memory.
               "Mr. Coldheart," added Mrs. Surratt politely bowing, and relieving Booth as she
                  thought from an embarrassing situation. She then hastened up the stairs, leaving
                  the two men alone.
               "How came that woman to know me?" asked Coldheart when they had entered the gloomy
                  looking cellar.
               "Why, sir," answered Booth smiling at the official's evident apprehension, "you
                  are a public character. I suppose your face is perfectly familiar to many whom you
                  never heard of. This is one of the misfortunes of greatness."
               "What did you call her name?"
               "Mrs. Surratt. She is a very respectable lady, sir, and is as discreet a member as
                  the society can boast of."
               "What!" exclaimed Coldheart manifesting some alarm, "you do not admit women, do
                  you!"
               "We have only two." answered Booth.
               "Are you not afraid to trust them with your secrets?"
               "If we had been, they never would have been initiated."
               "I am very sorry I was recognized by her. I am afraid her desire to blab may get
                  me into trouble. There are few women, Mr. Booth, that can appreciate the
                  importance of a silent tongue."
               "You appear to have a poor opinion of the 'fair sex,'" remarked Booth drily. "But
                  you need have no fears of Mrs. Surratt. She is as prudent a lady as any I know of
                  anywhere."
               "Think you she will suspect my connection with this society?"
               "I do. She is too shrewd to be deceived after seeing you here. She knows this
                  apartment is appropriated to the use of the society, and that we enter here only
                  upon business pertaining to it. But you need not be the least alarmed."
               "Unfortunate! unfortunate!" muttered Coldheart to himself.
               Just then one of the officers stepped in, and in a few moments another followed:
                  then another, until the whole number of vicepresidents had assembled. They were
                  severally introduced to Coldheart as they entered; that is, all with whom he was
                  unacquainted. All things now being ready, the constitution was read to Coldheart,
                  and he at his own request was allowed to affix a fictitious name.
               "Now, Mr. Coldheart," said Booth when the official had laid down the pen reddened
                  with the actor's blood, "you know the consequences of treachery?"
               "Death?"
               "Death!" replied Booth with an emphatic gesture.
               "I understand it clearly," replied Coldheart.
               "Very well, we must now proceed to business. As you are now entitled to all our
                  secrets," continued the actor, "I will explain our plans without reservation. Our
                  chief aim, as you must have conjectured, is opposition to Lincoln's
                  administration, which we look upon as tyrannical and subversive of the principles
                  of republicanism. The president of the United States appears to have no regard
                  whatever for the constitution, but boldly violates its fundamental principles. The
                  writ of habeas corpus has been suspended, and
                  men have been imprisoned—men perhaps guilty of small offences, and some perfectly
                  innocent, have been imprisoned for months at a time without any opportunity of
                  answering to the suspicions against their loyalty. The territory of Virginia has
                  been divided contrary to every sense of justice and law, and a new state
                  established by her severance; and to add to the monstrosity of the act, her
                  citizens have had no voice nor choice in the matter. It was done under the plea of
                  'military necessity.' Thus the longestablished principle of state sovereignty that
                  underlies our whole political structure has been destroyed at one fell blow.
                  Proclamations, flagrantly unjust and glaringly inconsistent, have been promulgated
                  from the White House, abolishing a certain species of property owned by a portion
                  of the people, and explicitly recognized by the constitution, and even protected
                  by legal enactments of congress. But I need not recount to one in your position
                  the various usurpations of Abraham Lincoln. You cannot be ignorant of them. His
                  whole administration has been one grand tragedy of systematical aggressions and
                  encroachments upon rights, the violation of which would have hurled a despot from
                  his throne in the old world. Some of us observing the tendency of the government
                  to absolute despotism, organized ourselves into a permanent body, with the express
                  intention of offering resistance. We have discussed various plans by which to
                  check the raging tide of political corruption that now threatens to engulph the
                  entire liberties of the American people."
               "May I interrupt you a moment?" asked Coldheart.
               "Certainly," replied the actor. "Whenever I say anything that needs explanation,
                  interrupt me if you desire information."
               "I merely wished to ask," said Coldheart, "if this society has been organized for
                  the purpose of aiding the present rebellion, or is its only design to purify the
                  government? Are the leading rebels aware of the existence of the Bloody
                  Junto?"
               "There is no one outside of the city that knows anything concerning our
                  movements," replied Booth. "No rebel belongs to the society. It is composed
                  exclusively of conservative men, who are desirous of saving the government and
                  restoring peace to the whole country. However, it is possible that it may be
                  necessary to seek the aid of the insurgent leaders in the execution of some of our
                  designs. But we have as yet made no overtures to them, and I do not know that we
                  will. They could not assist us in the least, at present, in the scheme now before
                  the society."
               "What is the scheme?" asked Coldheart, who wanted no preliminaries.
               "I am coming to that now," said Booth. "Finding it impossible to control the
                  action of the government through the lawful medium of the ballot-box; finding it
                  impossible to even influence its downward course by peaceable means, we have at
                  last resolved to accomplish it by violence."
               "By bloodshed?" asked Coldheart.
               "No." answered Booth, "we do not propose to spill blood only in case of extreme
                  necessity. We are discussing, and have been for some time, the propriety of
                  capturing Lincoln, Johnson and the cabinet, shipping them south, and delivering
                  them up to the confederate authorities."
               "Have you made arrangements with Davis to receive them?"
               "I have already told you that Jeff Davis or any other rebel knows nothing whatever
                  in regard to our enterprise," replied the actor.
               "If I understand it clearly then;" said Coldheart, "your object is simply to
                  capture them and run them south, without any subsequent course of action marked
                  out?"
               "Exactly so. The society has agreed upon nothing beyond their capture, and
                  securing them against rescue. The scheme is not fully matured yet. I do not know
                  what will be done at our next meeting. I do not, however, apprehend much
                  difficulty after those gentlemen are captured and securely incarcerated in a
                  southern prison. Such a present as
                  Lincoln and his cabinet will no doubt be very acceptable to Jeff Davis."
               "I doubt that very much," said Coldheart, "especially when offered in the style
                  you propose; but waiving that for the present, how do you intend to accomplish the
                  capture? I should think it would be a hazardous undertaking to seize eight or ten
                  officers, all at the same hour, and transport them beyond the federal lines."
               "I candidly acknowledge the project will be attended with some difficulty and even
                  danger," said Booth. "But with proper management I have no doubt of its complete
                  success."
               "Please enter more into details," said Coldheart, "and inform me how you expect to
                  capture Lincoln or any of his cabinet."
               "I have a proposition to submit at our next meeting," remarked one of the vice
                  presidents, "in regard to that. It appears to me that the only practical solution
                  of the problem is, to seize all the officers at the dead hour of night, when the
                  city is buried in deep slumber. Let a band of men, large enough for the purpose,
                  boldly enter their sleeping apartments, bind and gag them, and secrete them in
                  some underground recess for a few days, until the commotion consequent upon their
                  seizure has somewhat subsided; and afterwards, when quiet is restored, we can
                  leisurely proceed with them to the south."
               "I think," said another one of the vice-presidents," it would be a better plan to
                  run them out of the city upon the same night in which they are captured. It can be
                  done then more easily than ever afterwards. For this daring proceeding will arouse
                  the whole country, and in twelve hours everybody will be on the lookout. There
                  will be sentinels posted upon every highway and by way throughout the land. Every
                  nook and corner in this city will be closely searched, and a man cannot move
                  without having the eyes of a hundred police officers fastened upon him. Dangerous
                  acts should be completed amid the confusion which they necessarily engender. I
                  know where there is a cave within twenty miles of the city, whose existence is
                  known only to three men, and I am one of them. The other two belong to the Junto.
                  We could conceal our prisoners there for years, if we so wished, and nobody would
                  have the slightest suspicion as to their whereabouts. I suggest this as the best
                  course."
               "Both plans are liable to objections, gen-gentlemen," said vice-president No. 3.
                  If we ever make a halt, I fear the whole enterprise will miscarry, and we may lose
                  our heads for our quixotic rashness. I am decidedly in favor of seizing the
                  persons of the officials, and making forced marches with them until we reach the
                  rebel lines. We must go straight ahead, with a force sufficient to fight our way
                  through, if necessary."
               "And in case it should become necessary, what force could you raise?" asked
                  Coldheart smiling.
               "A short explanation will have to be made upon that point," replied Booth to
                  Coldheart's question. "There are two sets of members belonging to this society—the
                  direct and indirect, I might properly call them. There are between forty and fifty
                  members who belong directly to the Junto, and are with us and participate in all
                  its proceedings; then there are about four hundred outsiders, who know nothing
                  whatever concerning our affairs. They are hired to do our bidding, no matter what
                  it may be. They are our soldiers, and can be relied on I think in case of
                  emergency. We intend increasing the number, if it is thought advisable."
               "With this force," chimed in vice-president No. 3, "well armed and equipped, we
                  can easily make our way beyond the federal lines, before an effective system of
                  pursuit can be instituted."
               "We are burning daylight, gentlemen," interrupted Booth. "We did not meet here
                  this evening to discuss our plans or to offer new ones, but to explain the nature
                  and object of our organization to Mr. Coldheart. Is there any question you wish to
                  ask?" he said addressing the official. "I believe I have told you all our schemes
                  so far as developed. I understood you to say that you had a proposition to submit
                  to the society?"
               "Yes," said Coldheart with slowness, "but before I offer it, I desire to know if
                  it can be kept entirely secret. It appears that some of your members have been
                  guilty of blabbing."
               "Please inform me, Mr. Coldheart," said Booth, "how you obtained possession of
                  your knowledge of our proceedings?"
               "I did not learn anything of importance in regard to your proceedings. I only know
                  what I told you."
               "Well, how did you find that out?"
               "I suppose," replied Coldheart, "that in justice to the society I must tell,
                  though I dislike very much to mention my wife's friends in connection with this
                  matter. It was told to my wife by Miss Flora Louvan." And this unexpected reply
                  caused Booth to blush violently; which circumstance was noticed by Coldheart and
                  Degroot, by both of whom it was attributed to the just cause.
               "Who told her?" quickly inquired the actor rising to his feet.
               "You are too hard for me now," said Coldheart laughing.
               "She does not seem to know much about it though," said Booth. "But nevertheless, I
                  shall inquire into it."
               "I think I can trace it up," replied Degroot. "I have my suspicions. I will try
                  and report at the next meeting."
               "Very well," replied Booth to Degroot. "I hope you will discover the traitor. But
                  proceed, Mr. Coldheart, you need not fear exposure."
               "I will submit my proposition to you, gentlemen, and you must lay it before the
                  society," said Coldheart. "My name must not be connected with it. Will you agree
                  to that?"
               "I do not know that it makes any great difference. So go ahead, Mr. Coldheart,"
                  said Booth. And Coldheart cleared his throat, then lowered his voice, and
                  proceeded deliberately though cautiously to unfold his dark and bloody scheme.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               
                  
                     
                        "Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead;
                        And I would have it suddenly performed.
                        What say'st thou now? Speak suddenly, be brief."
                     
                  
               
               "Gentlemen," said Coldheart to his small though attentive audience, "I will speak
                  plainly concerning the scheme which has just been disclosed to me; and I say
                  without hesitation, it appears to me infeasible. You seem to have undertaken a
                  project without having any definite object in view. The consequence is, I see from
                  the brief discussion which you have indulged in this evening, and to which I have
                  listened attentively, vacillation and doubt already characterize your proceedings.
                  When men undertake the accomplishment of great deeds, they must have a
                  well-defined purpose—a fixed, steady aim before them; they must consider whether
                  the means are adapted to the ends, or else abortion will be the inevitable result.
                  I could scarcely tell from what I have heard what your real motives are; whether
                  this is a movement against Lincoln and his cabinet, or against the government. You
                  seem to confound the two, or rather to consider that Lincoln is the government.
                  But you are in error; for Lincoln and his coadjutors do not constitute the
                  government. You say you propose to restore peace to the whole country. That is
                  truly a laubable object, and I wish it could be done. But, gentlemen, rest assured
                  the mere capture of Lincoln and seven or eight officers will not bring about that
                  desirable result. It would rather have a tendency to prolong the unfortunate
                  struggle; for it will embitter still more the north against the rebels, and arouse
                  a desire of revenge for the indignity offered to her legitimate representatives. I
                  admire the boldness of the proposed manœuvre, because it is evidence of a dashing
                  spirit that shrinks from no danger. But still I do not see that a particle of good
                  could possibly result from it. The seizure of Lincoln, Johnson and others would
                  not stop the wheels of the government for twenty-four hours. Some other persons
                  could immediately step into their places, and carry on the war probably with
                  tenfold rigor and madness. The constitution, you know, provides that when both the
                  highest officers are incapable of discharging their official duties from any
                  cause, congress shall declare what officer shall act as president until the
                  vacancy can be legally filled. So you must see clearly that the mere capture of
                  Lincoln would not prevent the transaction of the regular government business."
               "We do not expect to do that," said Booth. "We propose to capture Lincoln and his
                  cabinet, deliver them up to Jeff Davis, and let him agree with them upon terms of
                  peace."
               "There is one thing you seem to have overlooked, gentlemen," replied Coldheart,
                  "and that is that Lincoln is not the government of the United States. By capturing
                  him you would merely vacate his office—only temporarily at that. If he were a king
                  or an emperor, it might considerably alter the case."
               "King or no king," added Degroot, "you cannot deny the fact that to-day he wields
                  more power than the Czar of Russia."
               "Granting all that," replied Coldheart, "still his term of office is limited, and
                  when it expires he is no more than any other individual. There is an essential
                  difference between republics and monarchies that you, in your impatient zeal,
                  appear to ignore. If Lincoln were a king and should be captured or murdered, and
                  no provisions had been made for the appointment of a successor, there would
                  probably be general confusion in political affairs. Such circumstances, history
                  informs us, have been the causes of long and bloody wars. But in republics, the
                  government is the people—it emanates from the popular will. Certain offices are
                  established by the people independent of any man, and persons are chosen to
                  discharge the duties of them. The removal of these persons does not in the least
                  affect the status of the office which they filled. Any vacancy can be
                  remedied almost as soon as it occurs, and the affairs of government go smoothly
                  on, as if no interruption had taken place. But then there are other difficulties
                  in the way besides this. This man Davis, whose name you have several times called
                  this evening, is one with whom I guess you are not very intimately acquainted. I
                  served in the United States senate with him, and I think I understand his
                  character. I am free to say I do not like the man; but then we must look at facts.
                  My personal prejudices or dislikes cannot change stubborn facts. As much as I hate
                  this haughty southron, I am bound to say he is a man of a nice sense of honor. I
                  do not believe he would receive Lincoln if kidnapped in the way you propose. He
                  would look upon it as Unfair, and would release the prisoner without parole. I do
                  not think I am mistaken in my estimate of his character. When I served with him in
                  the senate, he was always open, fair and candid in his arguments. I never knew him
                  to take the least advantage of his opponents in a discussion. He never mystified
                  his speeches, nor attempted to sustain error with sophistry, even when he might
                  have concealed weak points, and might have utterly confounded his adversaries.
                  With truth and candor I can say that much for him. A man of this character,
                  gentlemen, would not avail himself of the result of a successful conspiracy. To
                  speak more emphatically, I believe Jeff Davis would scorn to do it. But even
                  granting that he would agree to treat with Lincoln in the condition of a prisoner,
                  do you suppose the people of the north would submit to terms forced upon an
                  imprisoned executive, who would be but the reluctant mouth-piece of the
                  confederate authorities? Suppose Lincoln, terrified by threats of personal sonal violence, should issue an order to
                  Grant requiring him to surrender his army to Lee, or to make a treaty
                  acknowledging the independence of the rebellious states, would not that general,
                  with the knowledge that the order came from a prisoner, be considered a fool or a
                  maniac to regard it? When a man is forced into the position of a prisoner, he is
                  to all intents and purposes in the grave, as far as the office he filled is
                  concerned; his official power ceases from the very moment of his capture. Gen.
                  Grant, in the case supposed, would undoubtedly obey Lincoln's successor. The
                  capture of Lincoln would not of course carry off the office of president. If it
                  would, then your premises might be more correct, your plan might work well, and
                  you might accomplish the object you have in view. So, gentlemen, considering all
                  the circumstances, weighing well all the arguments pro and con, I think you are bound
                  to agree with me that your plan would result in nothing by the capture of Lincoln
                  and his cabinet, except probably the harm which might befall them and yourselves.
                  I have endeavored to take a calm, sober, calculating view of the subject, and it
                  appears to me in this light. But still I am open to conviction, if any of you can
                  show me how to obviate the difficulties I have mentioned."
               When Coldheart, with a triumphant smile, had finished these last remarks the
                  officers all looked blue; for the official had spoken like a
                  practical man of sound judgment, and his arguments carried reluctant conviction to
                  their minds. They disliked to give up a scheme which they had been devising for
                  several weeks, and which was now nearly ripe for execution. But still not one
                  could offer a word in support of the cherished plan. They were surprised and even
                  mortified that they had so blindly overlooked all these now patent obstacles which
                  the far-seeing mind of Coldheart had grasped and comprehended at one glance. No
                  man likes to have a project which he has matured, and which he thinks rests upon a
                  firm foundation, overturned by a few well-timed strokes of common sense. Coldheart
                  knew from the blank countenances of his auditors, and their grave silence, that
                  they were completely nonplussed and ready to abandon their quixotic undertaking.
                  He waited, however, for some one to reply.
               "I acknowledge," at last said the impulsive actor, "without hesitation, that I now
                  see the futility of our wild project. We have," he continued, addressing himself
                  to the vicepresidents, "we have been striking in the dark; we have been looking
                  altogether at the present, and have shut our eyes totally to the future. I confess
                  I am willing to give up the project."
               "I am not," replied Degroot, "unless something better can be substituted. We
                     must do something. I have reflected on this scheme a great deal. I
                  knew there were some objections to it; but then there are few projects that
                  involve the use of violence that are not objectionable."
               "This plan will not do," said another officer emphatically.
               "Let us hear what Mr. Coldheart has to propose as a substitute," said Booth. "No
                  doubt he can advise us what to do."
               "Now comes the tug of war," said Coldheart smiling, proud that with a few well
                  chosen arguments he had in such a short space of time upset the plans of the
                  society. "Now comes the tug of war; for I hardly know how to commence. But you
                  might infer from what I have already said that I mean that Lincoln is not the only
                  obstacle that blocks up the road to peace. If you want to apply the remedy you
                  must lay the axe to the root of the tree. The evil lies farther back than Lincoln
                  and his cabinet. If you wish to accomplish a deed that will have a decided effect,
                  you must strike a blow at the government."
               The officers seemed to be astonished upon hearing this proposition. They gazed at
                  each other and at Coldheart, as if they did not comprehend him at all.
               "I repeat, gentlemen," continued Coldheart with emphasis, "you must strike a blow
                  at the government itself. There is where the evil lies. Now, allow me to make a
                  prefatory remark or two before entering into a full explanation of my meaning. You
                  must have observed the growing dissatisfaction of the people with a republican
                  form of government. If you have not, I have. This is especially so in the southern
                  states. Men in the north dare not utter publicly what they think, but I have
                  conversed with numbers of intelligent men, and find a settled conviction in their
                  minds of the incapacity of the human race, or any portion of it, for
                  self-government. To be candid, I am of that opinion myself. Republican forms are
                  adapted only to small communities, in which there is an identity of sentiment and
                  interest. But when a republic begins to extend its boundaries, and begins to
                  protect a multitude of interests that clash, its impotency to accomplish the
                  supreme ends of government is very perceptible. The reason is obvious, and is
                  founded in nature. Governments may control such a wide scope of territory, that
                  really different nations, who have nothing in common, live under it. They are
                  totally unacquainted with each others' manners and customs, and feel no more
                  sympathy for each other than foreign people do. I need scarcely say that the
                  differences between Alabamians or Mississippians and New Englanders are nearly as
                  great as those that distinguish the French from the English, or the Russians from
                  the Americans. Even in point of language there are at least two distinct dialects
                  now spoken by southerners and northerners. The pronunciation is different,. and
                  there are numerous words peculiar to each section. In course of time, if our
                  country should become much larger, I doubt not that those living at its opposite
                  extremities will no more understand one another than do the Turks. There can be no
                  such principle as patriotism under republican government, whose jurisdiction
                  covers a large extent of territory. One man cannot contain so large a country in
                  his affections any more than a Mormon can love a dozen wives with that true
                  devotion which should be lavished upon one. The consequence is, he loses sight of
                  the majority of his fellow-subjects, and concentrates his patriotic feelings upon
                  the particular locality with which his individual interest is identified. He feels
                  rather an antipathy towards a portion of his fellow-citizens, for the advancement
                  of whose interest he may imagine he is taxed. This conflict of opposing interests
                  was without any doubt the cause of the present war. There is, indeed, an
                  'irrepressible conflict' between slave and free labor. I am aware, gentlemen, that
                  these objections are more or less applicable to all governments, but they are
                  doubly so to republics. There is another circumstance that has a tendency to
                  alienate the affections of the people from a republican government, which I ought
                  to mention. The chief magistrate is very apt to use the powers with which he is
                  entrusted for the promotion of the party which elevated him to office, or to the
                  advantage of the section from which he came. He cannot love the whole nation; he
                  knows not the wants of many sections; his own constituency have urgent claims upon
                  him; his time is short, and he must therefore use the power he enjoys for the
                  interests of his friends, or he will be very unpopular. This certainly would not
                  be the case if he were elected for life, which would be tantamount to making him a
                  monarch. He would then feel that the whole nation was his, and he would desire to
                  see all parts prosper. He would be the grand nucleus, to whom all could look for
                  protection with confidence, and he could reconcile conflicting interests by the
                  equal distribution of impartial justice. But we have not time to pursue this train
                  of thought further. The history of all human governments attests the truth of my
                  position.
               "Now, gentlemen," continued Coldheart, advancing to a new point, "you cannot be so
                  utterly ignorant of future events as not to see that the present rebellion is
                  destined to a speedy termination. Its end is rapidly approaching. No man who
                  indulges in speculations concerning the termination of the struggle, can have a
                  doubt as to what the result will be. The rebellion will be put down. Everything is
                  indicative of such a result. Well, granting it, what will be the condition of the
                  country? Ten or twelve sovereign states will be conquered, forced back into the
                  union, and compelled to exercise the functions of sovereignty. Was
                  ever such an absurdity heard of? A free people, who by the very nature, by the
                  very conditions of sovereignty, have a perfect right to elect their own form of
                  government according to their own will and pleasure, are forced by a
                  combination of sovereigns to discharge those duties required by the exercise of
                  supreme power! It is contrary to all the received maxims of logic, philosophy—of
                  nature itself. I cannot conceive of a greater political monstrosity. Why, the very
                  act of coercion necessarily divides the states into inferiors and superiors. And
                  whenever the line is drawn, which will soon be the case, there is the end of
                  republican liberty in America."
               "If such is your opinion, Mr. Coldheart," said Booth laughing, "how happens it
                  that you are not acting with the so-called peace party?"
               "Everything we say here," replied Coldheart, "is confidential of course. Were it
                  otherwise, I would not speak thus freely. But it is necessary to be candid on the
                  present occasion. It is true I belong to the abolition party, but I do not endorse
                  everything done by the party. The peace party is right in some respects; but then
                  a man must consult his own interests in political matters, as well as other
                  things. I could not retain my present position and abandon my party. But,
                  gentlemen, that is not the question with which we have to deal. I must speak of
                  facts as they now actually exist however inconsistent they may cause me to appear.
                  My party by the results of the war, will be forced into an anomalous position—a
                  position antagonistic to all the principles they have hitherto professed. The
                  government will be a despotism; it will be worse than a despotism; because it will
                  be marked by all the evils and horrors of that form of government without a single
                  one of its advantages. And now I can explain what I meant by telling you that a
                  blow should be struck at the government. Since a monarchy is the best form of
                  government for our people; since genuine republicanism is a myth; since we will be
                  plunged into an abyss of inconsistency and confusion by attempting to reinstate
                  the old constitution, I suggest that our present rotten political system be
                  overthrown, and a strong government be established by the election of a king. I
                  propose, furthermore, that the movement commence in this society. In a word, I
                  propose that you strike down the government of the United States."
               "That is more easily talked about than done, Mr. Coldheart," said Degroot. "But
                  you will certainly not leave us in the dark. You have no doubt arranged all the
                  details."
               "I would do scarcely one-half of my work to propose a plan and not suggest means
                  for its accomplishment," replied Coldheart. "I have studied out the whole thing,
                  gentlemen, from Alpha to Omega; and it is not such a difficult achievment as might
                  at first be supposed. As I have already said, the people have had their confidence
                  in the stability of republican government considerably shaken. The rebels in six
                  months will accept anything that will offer the least protection. Indeed, I expect
                  the rebel states to be used as the chief instrumentality for the accomplishment of
                  the scheme. For when the war ends they will have no room to hope for mercy. As
                  soon as they are convinced that their cause is lost, we must seize the government
                  convert it into a monarchy, and guarantee slavery to the insurgents upon the
                  condition that they assent to the proposed change, and support the throne with
                  their arms. I doubt not in the least that they will accept the offer. We will secure the co-operation of the army
                  of the United States by holding out promises of dukedoms, and other privileges of
                  monarchial nobility. Opposition outside of the army we will put down by
                  force."
               "Whom do you propose to make king?" asked Booth.
               "That, gentlemen, is an honor to which I aspire," replied Coldheart. "I think it
                  is due to me for originating the project. If you see proper to give it to me, I
                  will say right here that the officers of this society shall have the first choice
                  of royal favors under the new regime. You shall
                  all be Lords, Earls, or whatever you may desire, and shall have magnificent
                  estates to support your dignities. And now, gentlemen, what say you to the
                  enterprise? I would like to hear your opinions?"
               "I should prefer to hear something more about it," replied Booth, "before I give
                  an answer."
               "I do not know what more I could say," replied Coldheart. "I have laid the plan
                  before you, and it remains with you to say whether it shall be executed or not.
                  There is one difficulty in the way which, however, I need not mention till you
                  determine to carry out the project. I must know though first, whether the ideas
                  thus far advanced meet with your approbation."
               "It is undoubtedly," said Degroot, "an enterprise of tremendous magnitude;
                  nevertheless, I shall be willing to assist in its execution if I were certain that
                  the result would be what Mr. Coldheart anticipates."
               "I am willing to stake my life and fortune upon the result, gentlemen," replied
                  Coldheart. "I will run a greater risk, and will lose more than any of you, if we
                  fail. I back my judgment that far. When a man embarks all he has, I do not see
                  what more could be expected."
               "I am afraid, Mr. Coldheart," replied Booth, "you have somewhat misconstrued the
                  sentiments of the people. I do not doubt, in the least, that there are many who
                  have lost confidence in republicanism; but the great mass of the people, whose
                  minds are thoroughly imbued with ideas of constitutional liberty, inculcated from
                  the days of childhood, would I think become inveterate opponents of monarchy.
                  Some, I know, are dissatisfied; but it is more on account of the abuse of the
                  constitution, than of the defficiencies in our system of government."
               "Not to appear self-opinionated," said Coldheart, who was always ready with an
                  argument to advance his personal interests, "we will grant that your position is
                  correct. Suppose that the mass of the people should favor republican liberty;
                  still their opinions would amount to only negative opposition. You may talk,
                  gentlemen, as much as you please about the great blessings of democracy; but after
                  all governments are organized by a few men, and are conducted by a few men. Upon
                  investigation, it would be found that the great majority of the people care
                  nothing about the form of government instituted over them, provided they are not
                  taxed too heavily for its support, and are left free to follow the avocations of
                  their choice and to enjoy the fruits of their labor. You all must know, from
                  personal observation, that there are thousands of men upon election days whose
                  votes can be changed half a dozen times before they are deposited in the
                  ballot-box. This is because they have no fixed political principles. You have all
                  heard them spouting about liberty, when in fact they had nothing but vague ideas
                  in regard to its nature and object. You have heard angry discussions concerning
                  the constitution, when both disputants did not understand the first principle, and
                  had probably never read a word of the instrument in their lives. The fact is, the
                  mass of the people in every country know little beyond the name of the government
                  to which their allegiance is due. If they are only let alone, they do not care
                  much whether the government is a republic or a despotism. So I think the
                  opposition from the people will amount to nothing more than a few feeble murmurs,
                  which will soon cease when they see our enterprise is an accomplished fact. But,
                  gentlemen, I desire to know your opinions in regard to this matter. Are you
                  willing to begin the movement!"
               "As far as I am concerned," at length replied Booth, "I would be in favor of
                  almost any plan that will resore peace to the country. I know I am sincere and
                  honest in my motives. I would not be a party to any scheme that contemplates
                  revolutionizing the government merely to advance my own personal interests—not
                  even to secure the proudest title of nobility that monarchy can boast of. I
                  acknowledge too that I have some ambition, but not so much as to destroy my
                  patriotism. I simply want to see peace established, and would favor anything that
                  would bring about such a result. I am tired of seeing the southern people
                  oppressed—not that I am a rebel either. But I owe them a debt of gratitude for the
                  little celebrity I have attained in the world, and the wealth I have acquired.
                  When I was hissed from the stage in the north, I went south and was received with
                  kindness, and encouraged. I love the great, magnanimous people of the south for
                  the overflowing benevolence with which they encourage budding talent. I never met
                  with anything but kicks and cuffs and blows from the north until after I had
                  achieved success in the rebel states. I feel, therefore that I ought in some
                  manner to repay the south for what she has done for me. And this, Mr. Coldheart,
                  is my object. Your plan seems to me more practicable than the other, and doubtless
                  would be more effective; yet if my object could be secured without attempting to
                  revolutionize the government, I would much prefer it."
               "So would I," answered Coldheart. "But I can think of no other that would
                  accomplish the end proposed. Can any of you propose something better? If you can I
                  will cheerfully give up my scheme."
               "I have not the presumption to think I could propose anything better," said
                  Booth.
               "I believe," said Degroot, who was thinking ing of his prospective earldom, "I
                  shall declare myself in favor of Mr. Coldheart's scheme, inasmuchas we have not
                  fallen upon anything less objectionable. I vote therefore for adopting it at once,
                  at least the part developed."
               Each one of the other vice-presidents was then called on to record his opinion,
                  and it was unanimously agreed that Coldheart's proposition should be approved.
               "I go with the majority, said Booth when the other officers had voted.
               "Well then, gentlemen," said Coldheart, "having agreed that the plan shall be
                  executed, we must now notice the obstacles opposed to it. There is probably only
                  one serious difficulty in the way, and if that can be obviated all the rest will
                  be easy. There are several persons who will violently oppose this movement,
                  because they will be losers by it. You can certainly guess to whom I allude?"
               We do not deal in conjectures in this society, Mr. Coldheart," said Booth. "If you
                  are afraid to be plain and explicit, you would better remain silent. I am not
                  going to try to guess at any man's meaning."
               "Well, gentlemen, if I must be plain, I must. The persons to whom I have reference
                  are Abraham Lincoln, Andrew Johnson and William H. Seward. There are no others of
                  whom I have any fears."
               "What about them?" asked Degroot.
               "They are in the way," responded Coldheart.
               "I wish you would go on," said Booth with a frown. "Speak out plainly what you
                  propose. We want no hints."
               "I think I have been plain enough, gentlemen. The men are in the way, and must be
                  gotten out before the plan can succeed. Is not that sufficiently clear?"
               "How will you get them out of the way?" asked Degroot.
               "Can none of you suggest a way?" inquired the crafty Coldheart.
               "I will not," replied Booth.
               "Nor I." responded all the officers.
               "Gentlemen," said Coldheart, who saw that equivocation or evasion would be
                  useless, "there is only one spot in the world in which secrets are never revealed,
                  and in which all opposition to the manœuvres of human ambition entirely ceases.
                  You know where that is?"
               "We shall make no guesses, Mr. Coldheart," said Booth firmly.
               "It is the GRAVE," continued Coldheart, as if no interruption had been made, "and
                  it is the only safe place for Lincoln, Johnson and Seward. Now you cannot possibly
                  doubt what my meaning is."
               "You mean that we shall murder them," said Booth.
               "I did not exactly propose that" replied Coldheart speaking slowly and
                  hesitatingly. "I merely remarked that the grave is the only safe place for them.
                  'Dead men tell no tales,' says an old proverb. I may add that they give no one
                  trouble either. But can any of you suggest any other means to get rid of
                  them?"
               "If I cannot," replied Booth, "I do not much like the idea of committing
                  murder."
               "There is something unpleasant about it, it is true," said Coldheart; "but when
                  men are executed for crime and offences done to the people over whom they exercise
                  'a little brief authority,' the case assumes a different aspect. War itself is
                  nothing but wholesale murder—in the first degree. Lincoln in the present war has
                  murdered more men than his own single life can atone for. If he has not directly
                  plunged the bayonet into the breasts of innocent men, he has caused it to be done.
                  He is, therefore responsible for all the blood which has been shed since the
                  inauguration of the war. You, yourself, Mr. Booth, said that the present
                  administration was a perfect despotism. If so, how is it wrong to remove that
                  which has perverted and corrupted the government? How is it wrong to destroy a
                  tyrant, and thereby restore peace to a distracted country? Can it be wrong to
                  spill the blood of one man that no more widows' tears shall flow? Can it be wrong
                  to sacrifice one man that no more orphans shall be made? How is it wrong to put
                  one man in the grave, and thereby stop the public debt, which is already so large
                  that the human mind can scarcely comprehend the magnitude of the figures that
                  designate its amount? If for these reasons, gentlemen, and others of a similar
                  character, which will occur to you, Lincoln deserves not to suffer the penalty of
                  death as an expiation of his numerous crimes, I know of no tyrant in the dark ages
                  of the world that was justly killed."
               "If," said Booth, "if Lincoln could be tried and executed by due process of law, I
                  would not have a word to say. For I believe the man is worthy of death; but I do
                  not relish the idea of murder at all."
               "Mr. Coldheart is right," suddenly exclaimed Degroot, raising his head from the
                  table upon which he had been leaning for a few moments. "Mr. Coldheart is right.
                  Lincoln ought to be put to death. If it cannot be done in one way, it should in
                  another, law or no law."
               "Johnson and Seward too," quickly added Coldheart.
               "All of them, if necessary," responded Degroot with considerable energy. By
                  heaven, let them all go down together! I shall vote for Mr. Coldheart's plan
                     in toto. Comrades let us adopt it. It is the
                  thing."
               "I am opposed to this violent measure, gentlemen," said Booth, "unless it is an
                  absolute necessity. We ought to avoid bloodshed if possible."
               "I have studied the whole affair thoroughly," replied Coldheart, "and I see no way
                  to carry out the project otherwise. It is disagreeable to spill blood, but
                  sometimes it cannot be helped. Lincoln and Johnson would contend for their rights;
                  but if they are both destroyed, there will be no one to claim the presidency, and
                  we will disperse congress before a
                  selection can be made. Seward also must be put out of the way, and then if the
                  whole thing fails, my chances for the presidency are as good as any other man's.
                  So no matter how the plan may work, you all will run very little risk."
               "Well, gentlemen," said Booth, "if it must be done, I give in."
               Accordingly it was then and there determined that Abraham Lincoln, Andrew Johnson
                  and William H. Seward should be duly executed.
               "Your decision will not be revoked, gentlemen?" inquired Coldheart.
               "There is not much danger of that," replied Degroot.
               "When must we commence operations?" asked one of the vice-presidents.
               "Not until the rebels see that their cause is lost, which will not take long. In
                  the mean time I must consult with some of the army officers, and win them over to
                  the project. I am acquainted with a great many who are under personal obligations
                  to me for the positions they hold. I can count on them without a doubt. While I am
                  attendind to this, you can be preparing the society for the movement; but keep it
                  a profound secret from all the other members until we can get everything ready. We
                  would best say no more about the bloody part of the programme, until the time
                  arrives to execute it; then let it be done with expedition and boldness. I suppose
                  it is time to adjourn, gentlemen, it is late in the night."
               Accordingly they all adjourned without further ceremony.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               
                  
                     "All's to be fear'd where all is to be lost."
                  
               
               Notwithstanding Coldheart's confidence in the ultimate success of his bloody
                  scheme, Booth thought it advisable to make arrangements for the escape of himself
                  and confederates in the event of failure. Whether the project should be crowned
                  with success or not, it was intended that those upon whom it would devolve to
                  execute the sentence of death upon the three officers of the government already
                  mentioned, should retire from public view to await subsequent events, and to avoid
                  any unpleasant consequences resulting from the wrath of the immediate friends of
                  those whose destiny was to be a bloody tomb. It was supposed, and justly too, that
                  no member of the society could be prevailed upon to assassinate the highest
                  officer of the government without having the means of escape within reach. Booth,
                  therefore0, went to Canada for this purpose—and not to confer with agents of the
                  confederacy, as alleged by northern writers, at least by a portion of them. No
                  stone has been left unturned to implicate the "so-called" rebels in the dark plot
                  that culminated in an event which, we had like to have said, seems fore-ordained
                  by an all-wise providence; but we cannot affirm this, because Brutus
                  says it is not so, "and Brutus is an honorable man." Rewards were
                  offered for the apprehension of President Jefferson Davis, and other prominent
                  "rebels" for complicity in a deed concocted by yankee ingenuity for the
                  furtherance of yankee interests. It is stated, by northern men too, that a pardon
                  was offered to the unfortunate Capt. Wirz, (who, we may be permitted to observe,
                  was dragged from the bed upon which he was dying of disease, and made to expiate
                  his supposed crimes upon the gibbet for the gratification of yankee
                  malignity,) upon the condition that he should declare President Davis guilty of
                  murder! "Angels and ministers of grace defend us!" But thank Heaven! all yankee
                  attempts of this character have failed of effect, and President Davis is to-day
                  ten thousand times less guilty of Lincoln's murder than some of the professed
                  loyalists and philanthropists who are clamoring so loudly for southern blood.
                  Lincoln's gore reddens yankee men's hands, and not those of a poor,
                  defenceless widow. But this is not exactly pertinent to the story.
               The very day that Booth started to Canada, Coldheart called upon Mrs. Surratt.
                  From his acts he did not appear to believe very strongly in woman's power to
                  overcome that feeling which urges her to reveal all she knows concerning other
                  people's secrets. Many men believe this disposition to unguarded loquacity a great
                  fault in the opposite sex; but the truth is, it is an amiable quality, and one
                  that does honor to the pure heart of noble woman. It will be found upon
                  investigation and reflection that those who readily communicate all the secrets
                  they know, however simple they may be deemed, generally possess an amiable, open,
                  candid, ardent disposition—a heart that from its own innocence and want of
                  suspicion perceives not the necessity of caution and secrecy in regard to
                  anything. Jove save us from a secretive woman, feline by nature. We do not mean,
                  however, to assert that the opposite of the proposition just advanced is true in
                  all instances; and that those who are noncommunicative have a certain
                  phrenological development located a little above the ear, too full to be
                  controlled by conscientiousness. In other words, we do not mean that noncommittal
                  persons will invariably violate that imperative scriptural injunction contained in
                  the fifteenth verse of the twentieth chapter of Exodus, upon every favorable
                  opportunity. But however this may be, Coldheart thought the members of the Bloody
                  Junto a set of inexcusable ninnies for initiating women into their society. He
                  therefore called upon Mrs. Surratt, as we have already stated; but what his object
                  was, the reader can infer from the interview itself.
               "You appear to have known me before, Mrs. Surratt," said Coldheart after the
                  customary civilities had passed.
               "I have seen you frequently, sir," was the lady's reply.
               "May I ask where, Madam?"
               "Yes, sir: I think I saw you about a week ago in company with Mr. Booth, standing
                  ing at my cellar door," said Mrs. Surratt with an arch smile.
               "You are a member of the Bloody Junto, then?"
               "How do you know that?"
               "I was so informed by the proper authority."
               "And who is the 'proper authority?" asked the lady.
               "In this case it was the president of the society."
               "Who is that?" inquired Mrs. Surratt with an air that would have caused Coldheart
                  to doubt her connection with the Junto had he not been posted by Booth.
               "You certainly cannot be ignorant of that personage, Mrs. Surratt."
               "I am a know-nothing, Mr. Coldheart," was rejoined with a shrewd smile. A
                  knownothing in more senses than one."
               "It is well to be cautious, Mrs. Surratt; but there is no need of it on this
                  occasion."
               "Why is there not?"
               "Do you not suspect that I am a member of the same secret society to which you
                  belong?"
               "I have my ideas about things, Mr. Coldheart," said Mrs. Surratt.
               "Have you received no information to that effect?"
               "Whether I have or nor, you do not have the right to question me in this style. If
                  you are a member of a secret society and suspect me of belonging to it, I suppose
                  there are means of recognition that might be employed."
               "To what modes do you allude, Mrs. Surratt?"
               "I refuse to answer questions of that character," replied the lady.
               "What kind, then, will you answer?"
               "O" said Mrs. Surratt.
               "T" replied Coldheart with some reluctance.
               "N"
               "U"
               "J"
               "TO"
               "JUN-"
               "JUNTO," said Coldheart concluding the test. "Now, Mrs. Surratt, I will test you,
                  if you have no objection."
               "Very well sir, proceed."
               "L"
               "A" promptly responded Mrs. Surratt.
               "B"
               "A"
               "C"
               "BAL."
               "CA-"
               "CABAL," concluded Mrs. Surratt.
               "FIVE in mine," continued Coldheart.
               "FIVE in mine," answered Mrs. Surratt.
               "TEN in both," concluded Coldheart.
               The numerical test the reader will readily perceive had reference to the number of
                  letters which composed the two words.
               "Now, Mrs. Surratt," continued Coldheart, "we can talk freely. I have something to
                  say to you about this society."
               "Very well, Mr. Coldheart, I am ready to listen."
               "Have you heard any of the members speak of my relations of this society?"
               "I have not."
               "Have you heard any allusions to the call meeting at which I was present about a
                  week ago? You recollect the time probably?
               "Yes, sir. I have heard no allusion to it by any person."
               "Some of the members board with you, do they not?"
               "Yes, sir; but they rarely speak of the society, except when I question them."
               "Do they communicate their proceedings to you freely?"
               "Sometimes they do."
               "Do you attend the meetings regularly?"
               "I have never attended but one; and that was when I was initiated."
               "You do not seem to take much interest in politics?"
               "Very little, sir. It is out of my sphere."
               "Do you ever talk with persons outside of the society concerning the existence of
                  the Junto?"
               "To be sure not."
               "Have you ever mentioned my name to any one?"
               "Not as a member of the Junto."
               "I hope you will never mention it, Mrs. Surratt, in connection with the society.
                  You know I occupy a conspicuous political position. Any indiscretion on the part
                  of the members might involve me in serious difficulties, and endanger you, in fact
                  all who belong to the Junto. You might be arrested and tried for treason against
                  the government. You cannot use too much caution."
               "No one in the society doubts my fidelity, Mr. Coldheart."
               "Neither do I doubt it, Mrs. Surratt. I wished merely to advise you to be on your
                  guard. Persons very frequently speak inadvertently before they think, and thereby
                  expose affairs that ought to be kept secret. I trust you will not take offence at
                  being reminded of the binding nature of the obligation which you took. An oath is
                  a solemn thing, Mrs. Surratt."
               "I am aware of that, sir."
               "There is need of great caution, Mrs. Surratt," continued Coldheart. "This
                  movement, if it should be discovered, would be regarded as a conspiracy, and all
                  detected would, I fear, suffer the extreme penalty of the law. We ought therefore
                  to use all the means in our power to avoid discovery; and one of the means is,
                  never to call my name in connection with the society. I want you, Mrs. Surratt, to
                  solemnly promise me that you will never mention my name."
               "What! Under no circumstances?"
               "Under no circumstances, if it can be avoided, and never connected with the
                  society. Those who are aware of my membership in the Junto have thought this the
                  best course; and all but you have sworn never to call my name except as stated.
                  Will you promise this?"
               
               "If the rest have, I will."
               "Well, the rest have."
               "Then I promise also."
               "You unconditionally pledge your solemn word?"
               "For the good of the society I do. I never will mention it while I live."
               Coldheart then took his departure. No sooner had he gone than Mrs. Surratt
                  commenced reflecting upon the strange interview that had just terminated. She
                  could not but now regret that she so rashly agreed to the cunning official's
                  request. She did not now doubt that Coldheart's sole object in exacting the
                  promise concerning himself, was his own individual security. She thought he might
                  be making arrangements for his own safety, in case the existence of the society
                  should be discovered. His very countenance was indicative of deliberate villainy,
                  and she had felt a strange sense of uneasiness in his presence. But her word was
                  now solemnly pledged, and however much she might regret it, it could not be
                  revoked. After a short time, spent in apparently painful thought, she seemed to
                  come to a conclusion all at once, and lighting a candle she descended to the
                  cellar. In one hand she carried a small pot of white-wash, and placing this
                  together with the candle upon the table, she securely fastened the cellar door.
                  But as this is not the proper place to reveal what she then and there did, we must
                  leave her for the present, and hasten on to other events that now demand our
                  attention.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Cupid is a knavish lad,
                        Thus to make poor females mad."
                     
                  
               
               "What did the society do last night?" asked Mrs. Coldheart of her husband one
                  Sunday morning as they were sitting alone in their private parlor.
               "Nothing," replied Coldheart. "There is no necessity for doing anything. According
                  to the constitution the society is bound to meet every Saturday night, whether
                  there is any business on hand or not. Were it not for this, it would be a good
                  idea to dissolve until the time for action arrives. As matters now stand, the best
                  thing we can do is to meet and do nothing."
               "Is any one besides the officers acquainted with the plot?"
               "No one, unless Mrs. Surratt has been informed of it. Sometimes I am fearful that
                  she is aware of it."
               "Is there any other lady belonging to the society?"
               "There is another one, I believe, whom I have never seen, though."
               "Do you know her name?"
               "Mrs. Eglantine, I think"
               "I never heard of her before; but does she know of your membership?"
               "From what I can learn, she does not."
               "How do you think it would do for me to join the society, Mr. Coldheart?"
               "I would not have you do such a thing for the world."
               "Why not, Mr. Coldheart? I could be of more service than these other two ladies,
                  from your account."
               "I am surprised at you, Mary," said Coldheart evincing some vexation. "This
                  society is not designed for respectable women. Besides this, what do you wish to
                  join for, when you know all the proceedings as fully as I do? If you belonged to
                  it, you could be of no service whatever."
               "Very well, Mr. Coldheart; If I could do no good, I assure you I don't care a whit
                  about joining. But, pray, what good can these other ladies do?"
               "None; they are in the way. The members were all great fools for admitting them at
                  all."
               "I don't wish to join, Mr. Coldheart, if that be your view of the case. But still
                  I must be allowed to say that I don't believe in cramping the intellectual powers
                  of woman by forever confining her to the parlor or the kitchen. Women are
                  sometimes more skillful in both military and political affairs than men. As
                  illustrations of this I can mention Semiramis, Beatrice, Queen Catherine, and
                  Elizabeth, the best ruler that England ever had. History is full of examples, Mr.
                  Coldheart, all going to demonstrate the fact that woman is the equal of man, in
                  every respect. In point of literature, I can name hundreds such as Madam De Stael,
                  Jane Porter, Felicia Hemans, and goodness knows how many others besides."
               "There is no doubt, Mary," said Coldheart with a serious countenance, "that women
                  excel us poor men in a thousand things; yes, I will venture to say in one thousand
                  two hundred and fifty things. And rather than be very particular about the
                  numbers, I would increase the figures to thirteen hundred things."
               "Now, Mr. Coldheart, you are poking fun at me, as you always do whenever I broach
                  the subject of the rights of our sex."
               "No, no, Mary, I am in earnest."
               "Well, now, Mr. Coldheart, don't you believe that women, since they are the equals
                  of men, ought to be allowed the right of suffrage?"
               "Certainly I do; if men could fill their places in the nursery."
               "O pshaw! Mr. Coldheart, you are incorrigible. I shan't talk to you any more in
                  regard to the rights of our sex."
               Have you discovered anything more about this love affair of Flora Louvan and
                  Booth?" asked Coldheart, changing the subject without ceremony or apology.
               "I believe the poor girl is nearly crazy about him," answered Mrs. Coldheart. "But
                  she is ashamed of her passion, I almost know. I have done my best to draw her out
                  on the subject, but she seems determined to keep the secret to herself. I know
                  now, from what she said to me, that she is sorry she ever told me anything about
                  the Junto. Poor creature! I can see that she is struggling hard to overcome her
                  unhappy attachment."
               "There is the danger," quickly said Coldheart. "Because if her feelings should
                  happen to undergo a change in regard to Booth, and she should hate him, which is
                  not impossible, she might betray him for spite. And I fear she knows more of the
                  affairs of the society than we have supposed."
               "I have thought of that Mr. Coldheart," said the wife, who never allowed anybody
                  to out-foresee herself. "I have thought of that, and I was going to mention my
                  fears on that score when you interrupted me."
               "You must take care, Mary," continued Coldheart, "that such a catastrophe does not
                  happen. You must encourage her to love Booth."
               "I have been doing that, but she invariably scouts at the idea of such a
                  thing."
               "Can you not induce her to confess her partiality in some way?"
               "I can make her betray her sentiments any time I wish, but she always bitterly
                  denies her love for the actor. She will however be here again this evening, and I
                  will try to make her confess."
               The conversation of these two hypocrites was then suddenly changed to other
                  matters, which were irrelevant to our story, and can therefore be of little
                  interest to the reader. That morning they both attended church, add listened to a
                  most instructive discourse upon the evils of southern slavery. In the course of
                  the sermon bitter curses were heaped upon offending rebels for attempting to break
                  down the "best government the world ever saw." Had the reverend gentleman
                  officiating upon this occasion not been in the pulpit, and had the day not been
                  the Sabbath, the casual passer-by might have mistaken the religious effort for a
                  violent political harangue, so thickly was it interlarded with oaths. The northern
                  stay athome ministers were pursuing this course, while chaplains in the yankee
                  army were dosing out still more contemptible tomfoolery to their thievish hearers,
                  and asking the blessings of a just God upon stolen subsistence! But for the sake
                  of American Christianity we must cease. Because we do not wish
                  foreigners to discover the lamented truth that the ancient Pharisees and
                  Sadducees, who were wont in days of yore to follow the Savior in order to prove
                  him an impostor, have re-appeared in the world, by some unfortunate Pythagorean
                  process of transmigration, and are to be met with in various sects all over the
                  northern states, and especially in New England. Of course Coldheart and his
                  amiable spouse returned home much edified by the religious discourse, and
                  encouraged in their hatred of rebels.
               Flora Louvan that Sunday afternoon visited Mrs. Coldheart, as the latter lady had
                  said. The unsuspecting girl was totally unaware of the snare which her generous
                  friend was so carefully preparing. Mrs. Coldheart had latterly appeared so
                  open-hearted and had so adroitly changed her opinion of Booth, at least so in
                  appearance, that Flora had been on the point several times of laying bare her
                  heart to the inspection of her kind friend, and asking her advice. But whenever
                  she essayed to begin, something would seem to occur to interrupt her. And thus she
                  had kept the state of her affections deep-buried in the silence of her own aching
                  breast.
               "You were not at church to-day, Flora?" said Mrs. Coldheart in a half
                  deliberative, half inquiring tone.
               "No, I felt indisposed this morning."
               "What a pity! You don't know what a treat you missed. Who do you suppose
                  officiated?"
               I have no idea who."
               Well, you couldn't guess in a day, It was the notorious William Turncoat, of
                  Tennessee. I never heard such a sermon in all my life. Why, he swore in the pulpit
                  like a trooper. Among other things, he said he would fight the rebels till the
                  place of torment should freeze over, and then he would fight them on the ice."
               "The fighting he does is all very harmless, I guess," said Flora. "Tongue lashing
                  is a poor weapon in times of war."
               "I agree with you there, Flora. But that is the way Turncoat tries to keep up the
                  excitement. I have no confidence whatever in the old sinner. He used to abuse the
                  abolitionists more than he does the rebels now. I recollect the discussion he had
                  several years ago in Philadelphia. At that time he was an ultraist in southern
                  error, upon the subject of slavery. I understand he is one of the greatest cowards
                  in all Tennessee. I am told that he used to carry one of his infant children in
                  his arms whenever he appeared upon the streets to prevent some indignant citizen
                  from giving him a public caning. His forte in
                  politics and religion too, is slander. He seems to have studied nothing in his
                  life but the vocabulary of profanity. He uses barbarous expressions in public
                  which a drunken hack-driver would feel ashamed to utter in a common street
                  quarrel."
               "You say he was once a pro-slavery advocate?" inquired Flora.
               "Why, to be sure he was, dear—the bitterest that could be found in the south. His
                  audiences used to applaud and cheer him most vociferously in the pulpit for his
                  abuse of abolitionists and republicans, just like some of the congregation did
                  to-day for the curses he heaped upon the rebels, from whom he is a worthless
                  renegade. Oh, I have not a particle of confidence in the miserable old deserter.
                  He never would have come north, but he foresaw that the unionists would finally be
                  successful. But I see you want the subject changed; and indeed we are throwing
                  away time and wasting breath in talking about a common deserter like Turncoat. By
                  the way, have you heard that Mr. Booth has moved to Canada?" asked Mrs. Coldheart
                  with marked emphasis that was designed to have a special effect upon her fair
                  listener.
               "No," replied Flora with a start of surprise.
               "Well, he has, without doubt."
               "Not to live, has he?" inquired Flora manifesting more interest than she was aware
                  of.
               "I don't know exactly about that. But he
                  has gone there, and I know not when he will return. But what do you suppose caused
                  him to go?"
               "I have no idea," replied Flora frowning. "How should I?"
               "Well, it was disappointment."
               "Indeed!" said Flora assuming an air of indifference which, however, she was far
                  from feeling. "Disappointment of what nature?"
               "Love," replied Mrs. Coldheart.
               "Well, I declare, that is interesting," said Flora, forcing a laugh whose
                  spuriousness could not escape the keen eye of Mrs. Coldheart.
               "Flora," continued the lady with assumed solemnity of manner, "you, least of any
                  body, have a right to make light of Mr. Booth's disappointment. For you have not
                  treated him altogether right."
               "Who, I, Mrs. Coldheart, I?"
               "Yes, Flora, you. Mr. Booth has been visiting at your house; he has addressed you,
                  and you have given him reason to believe that you are a coquette."
               Mrs. Coldheart made this assertion partly at a venture. From what she knew of the
                  temperament of both parties, she guessed that something of the sort must have
                  occurred. She was soon confirmed in this opinion by the sudden change in Flora's
                  manner and look.
               "You should not have treated Mr. Booth thus, dear," continued the crafty lady. "He
                  is a nice gentleman, and is worthy of any lady in the city."
               "Mrs. Coldheart," interrupted the young lady in a tremulous tone, "you know not
                  what you are saying. I have never trifled with Mr. Booth."
               "You have given him room to hope, though."
               "Suppose I did."
               "Then you did wrong, dear, if you had no intention of gratifying the hopes which
                  you excited. You ought to have discarded him at once, if you could not return his
                  affection."
               "How know you that he ever felt any affection for me?"
               "Never mind, dear, I do know. Mr. Booth has been visiting at our house; and if he
                  does not love you truly, all my experience and observation are in vain."
               Suppose he does, I am not responsible for that."
               "Only to the extent that you encouraged him."
               "You seem to take it for granted that I have encouraged him."
               "You must not deny it, Flora; you can't."
               "Suppose," said Flora, "I should love him, what then!"
               "Am I to understand that you do love him?"
               "Suppose I did, what would you advise me to do!"
               "I shall make no such supposition," replied Mrs. Coldheart, "unless it should be
                  correct. I don't like to give advice upon doubtful premises."
               "Then, Mrs. Coldheart," replied Flora, while the hot blood mounted to her temples,
                  "it is true. I speak it to my shame."
               "Why have you never told me of this before, dear?"
               "Because I was ashamed of it, Mrs. Coldheart. I have been trying to overcome it,
                  but it seems that I cannot. Oh, Mrs. Coldheart, you cannot imagine what I have
                  suffered in the last two or three weeks. I wanted to tell you, but I was
                  ashamed."
               "What were you ashamed of, dear?"
               "The idea of my loving a stage actor. I, who have been wooed by generals and
                  members of congress—the idea of my falling in love with an outcast from society,
                  it is humiliating, Mrs. Coldheart."
               "I don't see that it ought to be, dear."
               "You don't, Mrs. Coldheart?"
               "No, I don't. Why should it be humiliating?"
               "Because, I am so far above him."
               "Above him in what respect, Flora?"
               "How you talk, Mrs. Coldheart! Why, social position, of course. We move in classes
                  of society entirely different."
               "Flora," calmly answered Mrs. Coldheart, who could talk like a philosopher, moral
                  or mental, when it suited her purposes, "I have lived much longer in the world
                  than you have, and my opinion is that earthly happiness should not be sacrificed
                  to absurd notions of aristocracy. I cannot see that a drunken general, who
                  probably owes his promotion to chance, is any better than Mr. Booth, who has
                  acheived his fortune by his own talent and energy. War throws up to the surface
                  many worthless characters that possess some few qualities peculiarly adapted to
                  bloody times, and such rush forward to a kind of a temporary fame upon the current
                  of stirring events. But when peace comes, and the occasion which has called them
                  into notice has passed, they can no longer sustain themselves above the waters,
                  and they would sink back to the obscurity from which they sprang, did they not
                  flourish upon splendor borrowed from the grave of their departed military glory. I
                  confess I have more respect for a man who raises himself to eminence in the calm
                  days of peace, than for one who attains to transient notoriety in the turbulent
                  times of war, when more brass than brains is necessary to success. Neither is a
                  member of congress, who in all likelihood has worked himself into office by
                  demagogueism or fraud, any better than Mr Booth. Would you have married that clown
                  of a Jack Jenks merely because he was a member of congress? Did the office ever
                  polish the rudeness of his manners, or raise him even a single degree above Jack
                  Jenks' original position in society? The truth is, I consider Mr. Booth above one
                  half the members of congress. He is a much better, and much more sensible man than
                  half of them. He commenced life under numerous disadvantages; but he has
                  surmounted all opposing obstacles, and made a princely fortune by nothing but his
                  talents. Wealth, dear, with most people, is the standard of aristocracy. Then in
                  point of wealth, are you his superior rior! In respect to talent, are you above
                  him! If you are, you have not yet shown it, dear. If Mr. Booth is wealthy, which
                  can't be doubted, men will never trouble themselves to inquire by what means he
                  obtained his fortune. He is honorable, highminded, talented, and is admitted by
                  every body to be the most handsome man in the city. What more do you want? What
                  more could you desire? Besides all this, Mr. Booth has abandoned his profession,
                  and is now turning his attention to politics. A man of his talents is bound to
                  succeed at anything. It may not be a great while before he is a member of
                  congress, which you appear to think such an exalted honor. If I am not greatly
                  mistaken, it will not be a long time ere he will attain to a higher position than
                  that."
               "Am I to understand by all this that you advise me to marry Mr. Booth?"
               "That is a question you ought to settle for yourself, dear. You should not be
                  controlled by my advice, or any body else's. With whom would you be happiest? that
                  is the question upon which to ponder. If your happiness is to depend upon the rank
                  of your husband, marry a general or a statesman. But if you could be more happy
                  with Mr. Booth than any body else, I should say marry him. That is all the advice
                  I could give. I think in matters of this kind one's heart ought to be almost
                  exclusively consulted. Without love there can be no happiness in matrimony; and
                  love cannot be produced by wealth, rank or reason. I do not care how noble and how
                  honorable and eminent a man may be, you can never reason yourself into that deep,
                  lasting love for him which is indispensable to happy wedlock."
               Flora remained silent; and Mrs. Coldheart having now accomplished her object,
                  thought it most politic to let the young lady determine her own destiny. She was
                  sufficiently shrewd not to commit herself positively, as it might be disagreeable
                  to have the responsibility of the union thrust upon her shoulders hereafter. She
                  had said enough to confirm Flora in her strange affection for the actor; and yet
                  she had not been so explicit that she could not easily deny officious
                  intermeddling, if any unpleasant consequences should result from her ambiguous
                  advice. So Flora, deeply impressed with Mrs. Coldheart's words, returned home that
                  evening in a much more happy frame of mind than she had experienced for many days.
                  Confession had relieved her.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully;
                        Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods,
                        "Not hew him as a carcas fit for hounds."
                     
                  
               
               The first day of April, 1865, dawned upon a young nation struggling in the
                  convulsions of despair and death. The Southern Confederacy was breathing its last.
                  After innumerable hardships, privations and sufferings—after a gallant, heroic
                  resistance—after a long and bloody contest, sustained against overwhelmning odds
                  for four eventful years, the people of the south were at last forced to sacrifice
                  the lacerated form of liberty upon the gory altar of northern despotism. General
                  Hood, after the downfall of Atlanta, made an invasive demonstration on the state
                  of Tennessee. The results of that ill-fated expedition are too well known. Many of
                  that gallant army fell at Franklin and Nashville, and their mouldering bones lie
                  buried beneath the reddened sod of a hotly contested field. A disorderly retreat
                  was commenced, and Hood appeared in the northern part of Mississippi with the
                  demorolized remains of a shattered, defeated, dispirited army. He remained a short
                  time upon the Mobile and Ohio railroad, and then hastily proceeded towards
                  Richmond, where the final catastrophe was to occur. In the meantime Sherman had
                  made his desolating march through Georgia and South Carolina, and had driven the
                  dejected confederates before him in confusion and discomfiture. The yankees had
                  concentrated nearly all their forces around the confederate capital, consecrated
                  by a hundred battles, and rendered sacred and classic by a thousand deeds of
                  deathless fame. Richmond, proud old Richmond, still dear to the southern heart,
                  was doomed to fall, and in April the blood-stained city was desecrated by the
                  foul, polluted foot of a bitter foe.
               Poor Richmond! how low art thou fallen. Thy soil, made holy by the outpourings of
                  southern blood, and by the libations of women's tears, is marked by the
                  sacriligious tread of a victorious adversary. The enemy's eye calmly looks in
                  safety upon thy shelltorn bosom and fearful forts, from whose crimson tops the now
                  trailing stars and bars once defiantly waved in the pale mien of a trembling foe.
                  Thy martyred sons of liberty slumber thick around thee; and their graves are
                  decorated by bereaved friends amid the sneers and taunts, the jeers and sullen
                  murmurs of their grudging murderers. Thy honored chief, with his hoary hairs and
                  his furrowed cheeks, lies manacled in a rockribbed prison, and sighs for the
                  freedom of his native, down-trodden south. But yet, humbled city, art thou grand
                  in wide spread ruin and desolation. The memory of thy disastrous struggle,
                  hallowed by immortal deeds of valor, will float down the stream of time, till lost
                  in the ocean of eternity!
               The time to which Coldheart had been anxiously looking forward, had arrived. His
                  prediction in regard to the downfall of the Confederate States was verified. Booth
                  had been to Canada, and made arrangements for escape in that direction, should it
                  become necessary; and Coldheart had been for several months preparing the officers
                  of the United States army for his cherished project of overturning the government.
                  Numbers of them—many more than we dare name, promised him their co-operation. It
                  might be thought strange that men, who were about to emerge from a war ostensibly
                  waged for the preservation of the union and the government ment, would without much hesitation enter into a
                  project for the subversion of republican institutions; but nevertheless such is
                  the fact. It can however be readily accounted for by reference to the great
                  national characteristic of the yankee race. The prominent feature that
                  distinguishes the yankee from every other people, is avarice. This idiosyncracy,
                  which seems to be rooted and grounded in both their physical and mental
                  constitution, was rendered palpably evident during the war of 1861. For when
                  mercantile establishments in southern cities were feloniously and burglariously
                  entered, magnificent articles of ladies' dressing were consumed to ashes, because
                  the thievish rascals were too penurious to defray the cost of transportation to
                  the "north." If however they had been guilty of only such tricks as these, the
                  southern man might overlook some of their faults with a smile of contempt. But
                  when they carry the principle of avarice to such an extent as to dishonor their
                  own dead relations at that, for the sake of unrighteous gain,
                  contempt is transformed into a feeling for which there is no adequate expression
                  in the English, or any other language. Now to the proof. We take the following
                  truthful extract from a letter dated Marksville, La., June 1, 1866. Have the
                  patience to peruse it, kind reader:
               "Accordingly Col. B——" (who had been a yankee officer in command of negro troops,)
                  "was kindly nursed and every possible attention paid him; but his wound was a
                  mortal one, and he died after lingering a few days. He was decently buried near
                  the village, and there his remains reposed in quiet until a few weeks ago. His
                  wife had learned by some means that he had been wounded and carried to
                  Cheneyville, and some time ago she addressed a communication to the postmaster at
                  that place, asking for information about her husband. Mr. Lausdell, a Baptist
                  clergyman residing there, replied to her communication, giving her a full account
                  of her husband's illness, death and burial. Mrs. B——wrote again, expressing the
                  deepest gratitude to those who had attended her husband in his last moments, and
                  offering to remunerate them if they would accept any compensation.
               "Some weeks ago, a man representing himself as the brother-in-law of the deceased
                  called on Mr. Lausdell at Cheneyville, and requested that he would point out the
                  grave of Col. B——, stating that he had come on the part of Mrs. B——to remove the
                  remains to the family burying ground in the north. The grave was pointed out, two
                  negroes were hired for the work, and the body was soon raised from its resting
                  place. To the great regret and extreme astonishment of his kind-hearted
                  brother-in-law the body was in a state of almost perfect preservation, and Col.
                  B——, with his martial robes around him, reposed in view of his dear relative
                  almost precisely as he did the day he was committed to the bosom of mother earth.
                  After a copious flow of tears, the brother-in-law reasoned that it would only
                  lacerate anew the wounded heart of the bereaved widow to gaze on the loved
                  features of the dead, and that the expense of purchasing a new coffin and carrying
                  the remains home would be entirely useless; so the dear creature made a flank
                  movement on these difficulties that was truly amazing to the uncivilized rebels of
                  Cheneyville. He actually employed his two contraband brothers to take the body to
                  a stream near by, where the trio proceeded to cut all the flesh from the bones,
                  which were then affectionately washed and laid in a small pine dry goods box,
                  obtained from one of the merchants of the village. It was the intention of this
                  radical saint to leave the flesh on the ground where he had butchered the body,
                  and it was only the strong remonstrances of a gentleman present that finally
                  induced him to replace it in the grave and cover it with earth.
               "The shame of the whole transaction and the violence of the dirty wretch did not
                  stop here. After he had nailed up his box of bones he offered his confreres a dollar for their assistance, which they
                  refused to accept, stating that they had been engaged in a dirty piece of work,
                  and they must be well paid for it. They demanded twenty-five dollars each, but
                  their yankee friend repudiated such a charge in holy horror, and his contraband
                  brothers were compelled to have the bones seized by the constable. Finding that
                  there was no escape, he finally paid the bill, and went on his way rejoicing
                  amidst the universal contempt of his black friends as well as white
                  non-sympathizers."
               We do not doubt in the least the truth of the foregoing statement. It is strictly
                  in keeping with the character of the direct descendants of the Puritans. It is but
                  a species of the same niggardly economy that floods the south with paper-bottom
                  shoes; that varnishes over defective furniture and ships it to the rebels; that
                  mixes sand with sugar; that extracts the greater part of the lead from cedar
                  pencils; that cheats rebel infants some way in the little toys they purchase; but
                  we must pause—we blush to add anything else to the list. Like the priest who
                  commenced to examine Don Quixote's library, we will pronounce judgment on them
                     en masse; and we affirm that there is no
                  article of northern manufacture in which fraud has not been practiced, if there
                  was any possible chance to palm it off as genuine. Since the termination of the
                  war the like was never seen nor heard of before. The truth is, the poor rebels are
                  almost afraid to touch anything that comes in contact with yankee hands. It cannot
                  therefore be wondered at that Coldheart should find among such people coadjutors
                  and abettors. The time had now come when the officers of the army would be
                  mustered out of service; they would again be thrown upon a level with other
                  citizens, and must "eat bread in the sweat of their brows." The question would
                  then very naturally arise, what they must do? Like the unjust steward mentioned in
                  the New Testament, "they could not dig, and to beg they were ashamed." They had
                  tasted the sweets of power, and had led a lazy life of ease for four long years.
                  Honest labor had become positively distasteful. Coldheart therefore offered money,
                  and they grasped at it; he tendered promises of high positions, and they accepted
                  the prospect. But whether or not they were actuated by such motives as these, at
                  any rate a large number had promised to lend their assistance and influence to a
                  conspiracy against the government of the United States. Our yankee friends may
                  settle the question of incentives to suit themselves.
               Just before the news of Gen. Lee's surrender electrified the city of Washington,
                  Coldheart called upon Booth. It was Saturday morning, and the Bloody Junto was to
                  meet that night as usual. Coldheart and the actor went again to the same room in
                  which they had held their first interview.
               "The time has come to strike, Mr. Booth," said Coldheart.
               "Well?" answered the actor in that inquiring tone which conveys an intimation that
                  the first proposition is understood, and that other information is desired.
               "The rebels," contined Coldheart, "will be necessitated to yield in the course of
                  a few days. They cannot possibly hold out a fortnight longer; and this, you know,
                  is the time to which we have been looking forward. The designs of the society must
                  be executed now or never."
               "I know that," replied Booth, "but we have not arranged the details for the
                  accomplishment of the scheme. In fact, I have not mentioned the subjeet since our
                  first conference."
               "What course of action do you propose in regard to the matter?"
               "Indeed, I have formed no opinion concerning it."
               "Have you no suggestion to make as to how the deed should be done?"
               "None whatever," answered Booth. "It is not a question for me to determine."
               "Some course of action will have to be agreed upon?" said Coldheart
                  inquiringly.
               "Yes, but I think it is expected that you will suggest the proper course to be
                  pursued."
               "Who expects this, Mr. Booth?"
               "Well, sir, I do, for one."
               "Do you speak for any one else?"
               "Not directly, sir—only as far as I represent the society. But, according to our
                  usages, it is always expected that the mover of a resolution, or a propositson of
                  any kind, is prepared with all the details. So if you do not take the lead in this
                  affair, it will probably go undone."
               "Do you expect me to execute the deed myself?"
               "I have not thought about that," replied Booth. "I know not who is to do the dirty
                  work. As I have already told you, nothing has been resolved upon, beyond the mere
                  determination to attempt the proposed scheme. I do not think, though, it will ever
                  be mentioned in the society again unless you suggest measures for its
                  accomplishment."
               "Is it not probable that some of the officers of the society might suggest such
                  measures?"
               "I think not, sir. If you are in earnest about this project," continued Booth, who
                  was fully determined that Coldheart should commit himself, "your best plan is to
                  go at it like you intended to accomplish it. If you begin to show signs of doubt
                  and hesitation, the whole thing will miscarry."
               "I am not vacillating, Mr. Booth, at all; but I do not think it is right to throw
                  the whole responsibility upon me. I am not capable of carrying out the enterprise
                  alone, if I were so disposed."
               "That is not expected, Mr. Coldheart. Every man will do his part; I will do mine.
                  But you proposed the general outlines of the plan to the society, and it devolves
                  npon you to propose the details."
               "This is a matter in which all of the members are interested; and I do not think
                  it is quite fair to force the whole business upon me; but nevertheless, I can
                  point the way to do the deed, if that is what is required."
               "Very well, sir; I am ready to assist you."
               "Then," answered Coldheart, "to make a long story short, the trio of criminals
                  ought to go through the form of a trial, in order to secure to the execution of
                  the scheme the semblance of official authority."
               "I do not believe that I exactly understand you," said Booth.
               "I mean," replied Coldheart, "that the three men alluded to ought to be regularly
                  indicted and tried before the society just as felons are tried before the common
                  courts of the country. Allow to the accused the privilege of trial by jury, and
                  the benefit of counsel; in short, let the business be conducted as though the
                  Junto were a legal tribunal, acting under the sanction of the constitution of the
                  United States."
               "You are surely jesting, Mr. Coldheart."
               "No sir, I am not; this is no jesting matter. I mean precisely what I say."
               "Why how, sir, can the defendants be put upon trial regularly in their
                  absence?"
               "That circumstance," said Coldheart, "is the only feature of the case that
                  militates against the justice of the proceeding. If the accused could be present,
                  there would be nothing lacking to render the proposed course proper and regular
                  according to the laws of justice. But their absence must be attributed to
                  themselves; we cannot be held responsible for that. It makes no real difference,
                  however, for the result would be the same if they were present."
               "What do you want them tried for, then?" inquired Booth. "A trial would be a farce
                  if their condemnation is already a foregone conclusion."
               "The trial is not designed for the benefit of the accused," said Coldheart,
                  "because sentence has already been passed upon them, but it is merely to satisfy
                  the members of the society, and quiet their conscientious scruples, if they should
                  be burdened with any. If we go through the form of a trial, and the criminals are
                  fairly condemned, which they will be, then the men whose duty it will be to
                  perform the bloody deed, can consider
                  themselves as acting under the authority of the Junto, and not upon their
                  individual responsibility. They will be mere instruments executing the behests of
                  a tribunal to whose commands they are obliged to yield implicit obedience. Does it
                  not occur to you that this would be the best course?"
               "I have no objection to it," replied the actor. "It will, at least, be a
                  convenient way to ascertain the strength of the opposition to the scheme. I will
                  therefore agree to that. But after the verdict is brought in, and we know what it
                  will be, what comes next?"
               "Well, the next thing is for the judge to pronounce sentence."
               "What next?"
               "Why the sheriff must execute the sentence," replied Coldheart with a laugh.
               "There's the rub," said Booth. "For we have no sheriff."
               "Who has been your executioner heretofore?" inquired Coldheart with a merry
                  twinkle.
               "The d—l!" replied Booth. "We have never had any use for one."
               "I wish," continued Coldheart in his merry mood, "we could procure the services of
                  that mysterious personage in the case before us. In the event of failure he could
                  so easily make off with himself, and not be liable to pursuit. But, seriously,
                  cannot we hire persons to do the job?"
               "That depends altogether upon how it is to be done. If they are to be taken off by
                  poison," continued Booth with a slight shudder, "we could without difficulty find
                  executioners to undertake it for a trifle."
               "That will never do," quickly interrupted Coldheart. "They must never be poisoned,
                  because that would look too much like common assassination or murder. The men must
                  be executed deliberately, boldly and publicly. We need a Brutus, a Ravaillac, a
                  Lawrence, or rather all three. Julius Cæsar was put to death in the most public
                  part of Rome. Henry the IV was killed in the streets of Paris. Andrew Jackson's
                  life was attempted in the capital of the United States. And in like manner must
                  our sentence be carried out. Cæsar was destroyed not because he was loved less,
                  but Rome more! Our trio must be put in the same category with the great Roman.
                  They must die as ambitious tyrants, and not as martyrs. We must strike them down
                  not in wrath, but in patriotism. We must destroy them in calmness, for the avowed
                  purpose of bestowing honorable peace to the whole country, and let the people know
                  our object. They will then offer little resistance to the contemplated change. The
                  blow must be a bold one, to show that we are in earnest, and intend to accomplish
                  our aims. Such is my idea; what is yours?"
               "I concur in your opinion," replied Booth.
               "Do you think," asked Coldheart, "we could find a Lawrence in the Junto?"
               "I suppose so," was the reply. "We have a few very daring men."
               "Would they volunteer to do this job?"
               "No, I think not. Lots would have to be drawn."
               "Well then," said Coldheart, "we will adopt that method of procuring executioners
                  if you think it best."
               "I am willing," responded Booth.
               "The programme for to-night is settled then," said Coldheart. "I will make out an
                  indictment this evening, and hand it to you before the society meets."
               "You would better make out ordinary charges and specifications as for a court
                  martial. The men will have to be tried by a military commission. At least that
                  would be the safest. For if you select twelve jurors from the society, the felons
                  might possibly be acquitted. According to our constitution they will have to be
                  tried by the vice-presidents, anyhow; and it would probably be better not to
                  attempt any other method."
               "You are right, Mr. Booth. I am glad you have made the suggestion. I will then
                  make out charges and specifications."
               "The idea strikes me, Mr. Coldheart," said Booth thoughtfully, "that perhaps there
                  may be no necessity for the execution of this bloody scheme if peace will be
                  restored anyhow. I am of your opinion in regard to the early termination of the
                  rebellion. When that transpires there will be peace, and that is all the object I
                  have in view. I would rather not be accessory to unnecessary murder."
               Coldheart was disappointed. He did not like the purity of the stage-player's
                  motives. Booth was actuated by disinterested patriotism; and the official by
                  exclusive selfishness. But Coldheart never hesitated for an argument. He
                  understood Booth's character well, and knew to what principle he must appeal.
               "You totally misunderstood me, Mr. Booth, if you inferred from what I said that I
                  believed that peace would soon be established. When I spoke of the ending of the
                  rebellion, I merely meant the demolition of the southern armies as organized
                  bodies, and the destruction of the insurgent government. But really we will be
                  farther from peace than ever. Of this I was fully convinced by the conference
                  between the federal and rebel commissioners. Mr. Lincoln will never offer any
                  terms of compromise to which the insurgents can agree without sacrificing every
                  principle of honor. Their armies must soon be disbanded; but the war under a new
                  aspect, a terrible aspect, will be renewed, and will be carried on in a spirit of
                  demoniac rage and hate, that will produce a state of confusion, anarchy and horror
                  beyond any conception of the human imagination. The rebels will form into
                  guerrilla bands, Mr. Booth, and they will fight till extirmination throws the pall
                  of universal death over the southern land. The black flag will be hoisted, and
                  then in God's name, sir, what a picture of horror will he presented! Our army will
                  respect neither age nor sex. Hoary hairs will not secure trembling age from the
                  bayonet. The wild shrieks of frightened women will be hushed in the stillness of
                  bloody death. The unconscious infant's brains will be dashed out before its
                  mother's face:
               
                  "'In a moment look to see
                  The blind and bloody soldier with foul hand
                  Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking daughters;
                  Your fathers taken by their silver beards.
                  And their most reverend heads dash'd to the walls;
                  Your naked infants spitted upon pikes,
                  Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confused
                  Do break the clouds.'
               
               "In short, sir, everything you have ever read or heard of in savage Indian warfare
                  will be re enacted in the southern states. Ought we then to shrink from
                  sacrificing three insignificant men to prevent such scenes of horror and death? Is
                  Lincoln's life of so much value, that the whole south must be converted into one
                  vast, silent tomb, and every hill darkened with human corpses, and every foot of
                  soil crimsoned with blood, and covered with bones? Shall he live, Mr. Booth, I ask
                  you shall he live to become the author of such scenes of devastation and
                  indescribable horror?"
               "No, by the everlasting Gods, no!" cried Booth fiercely springing to his feet, and
                  clinching his fists like a madman. "By heaven, it shall not be. We will do the
                  work this very night, Mr. Coldheart," he said, while his dark eye rolled in his
                  head with savage ferocity. Coldheart had struck the chord that fired up his whole
                  nature. He had been hesitating somewhat, but now his vacillation was all gone, and
                  he was ready for the dark deed of murder.
               "Pray be seated, Mr. Booth," said Coldheart, pleased at the actor's aroused ardor.
                  "I am glad to see that you view this matter as I do."
               "I never thought of the business in this light before," replied Booth.
               "I am glad that you take a correct view of the situation, Mr. Booth; but we must
                  attempt nothing rashly. The deed ought not to be done to-night. We must get
                  everything ready, though, and strike when circumstances indicate the arrival of
                  the proper time. We will not have to wait many days, in my opinion. Then I want to
                  see the reign of terror expire. Peace to the whole country; honorable peace is my
                  object, as well as yours. We will offer to the rebels terms to which they will
                  cheerfully submit, and then a new era of unprecedented glory and prosperity will
                  begin; and you, sir, will be honored and rewarded for contributing so much to the
                  establishment of universal peace. The Bloody Junto will pass into history, and its
                  president be handed down to future generations as one of the benefactors of the
                  human race."
               "I ask no reward," replied Booth. "God knows my motives are pure, and entirely
                  separated from personal ambition."
               Coldheart thought he had said enough. Booth was now wrought up to the proper
                  degree of excitement. The two parted to meet that night, in order to give shape to
                  the bloody destinies of the Junto.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               
                  
                     
                        "Thou art come to answer
                        A stony adversary"——
                     
                  
               
               On the night of April the 8th, 1865, the members of the Bloody Junto held their
                  last regular meeting. Whether or not it had answered the purposes for which it was
                  orginally designed; whether or not the powers granted in its constitution had been
                  perverted and applied to objects which, according to the intentions of its
                  members, could not come within their scope, an event soon transpired that put an
                  end to its existence. What the result might have been, uncontrolled by Coldheart's
                  influence, there can be no plausible conjecture. There was a want of harmony among
                  the members, as is usually the case in all assemblies in which free discussion is
                  allowed and this raised doubts in regard to nearly every important measure
                  proposed. Some of the Juntonians had been dissatisfied with the action of the
                  society, from its very organization. They were however in the minority. Payne was
                  the leader of the opposition: and of all the members of the society he was the
                  most remarkable, the most mysterious, the greatest, most incomprehensible enigma.
                  He was in some respects like Byron's Lara—a dark, gloomy man, returning unknown to
                  the spot of his nativity—wandering like a spectre amid the habitations of men,
                  seeking no one's confidence and avoiding no one's hate; whose purposes none ever
                  knew, whose thoughts none ever shared—appearing amid mirthful scenes of festivity,
                  and in the house of mourning, with the same imperturbable aspect, as if beyond the
                  control of human passion. In like manner came Payne to Washington City. What his
                  true name was, no man knows to this day. All were equally ignorant of his politics
                  and his religion. Why he attached himself to the Junto, none could tell. Why he
                  should be opposed to Lincoln's administration, of which fact there was no doubt,
                  and yet object to nearly every measure offered to retard its despotic tendency,
                  was unknown to any. From his own declarations, he appeared to be urged on by some
                  invisible power, against which he struggled in vain. He seemed to feel it his duty
                  to resist; but when a question was decided against him he acquiesced without a
                  murmur, deeming it useless to strive contrary to the decrees of destiny. But who
                  he was, whence he came, or what his business was—all was shrouded in impenetrable
                  mystery. This man, such as he was, exerted some influence in the society; and had
                  not Coldheart been added to the dominant party, he might have changed the events
                  soon to be recorded.
               "Gentlemen," said Booth so soon as the members had all taken their places, "you
                  all know for what end this society was established; and you know what the result
                  is. We have accomplished nothing for the advancement of our praiseworthy aims. We
                  have been too timid, gentlemen; we have done too much talking, and too little acting. The time has
                  now come when we must act, if we ever intend to accomplish a single one of the
                  objects we have had in contemplation. For the furtherance of our designs, it is
                  thought necessary to put upon trial before our tribunal Abraham Lincoln, Andrew
                  Johnson and William H. Seward. Charges and specifications have been made out
                  against these three individuals, which will now he read." And accordingly a member
                  rose to his feet, and read the following charges and specifications in the case of
                  Abraham Lincoln:
               Charge Treason.
               Specifications.—In this, that on or about the 13th day of April, 1861, certain
                  ships laden with munitions of war and commissioned by the said Abraham Lincoln,
                  did appear in the vicinity of For Sumpter, belonging to the sovereign state of
                  South Carolina and threaten said fort in such a hostile manner as to provoke an
                  attack by the gaurison of the aforesaid fort; that the said Abraham Lincoln
                  considering this attack casus belli, did declare
                  war against South Carolina and certain other states of this union, and thereby did
                  transcend the executive powers granted to him by the constitution of the United
                  States; that having inaugurated an unjust war, he has carried
                  it on for four years, in violation of the principles of common justice, contrary
                  to the usages and laws of nations, to the spirit of republican
                  institutions, and to the intentions of our forefathers; that he has repeatedly,
                  and in divers instances, disregarded the rights of citizens of this union; that,
                  finally, his whole course of action for four years has been such as to come within
                  the meaning of, and to render directly applicable, that clause of the
                  consititution of the United States, contained in Art. 3, Sec. 3, which declares
                  that "treason against the United States shall consist only in levying war against
                  them, or adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort."
               Charges and spenifications similar to the foregoing, but modified to suit the
                  respective offices of the two men, were then read, in the cases of Andrew Johnson
                  and William H. Seward.
               These extraordinary documents were read in the midst of the deepest silence and
                  amazement. It was the first intimation that the members had received of the
                  proceedings, which were to constitute the sole business of this meeting. All those
                  who thought, at once comprehended the intention implied by the several
                  indictments. They knew the penalty of treason to be death: and they knew further
                  that the defendants could be convicted, without any difficulty, before such a
                  tribunal as the Bloody Junto. Others in the society did not at once foresee, from
                  the nature of the charges, the consequences which must unavoidably follow a
                  verdict of guilty. All, however, sat waiting with intense, breathless interest for
                  further developments. As soon as the charges and specifications were through with,
                  Booth asked if the counsel for the accused were present. Of course he knew to the
                  contrary; and no one replied.
               "I would like to ask," at last said Payne rising to his feet, "if the accused
                  themselves are present?"
               "I should suppose not," replied Booth.
               "Do you intend to have the accused tried in their absence, Mr. President?"
               "Certainly," replied Booth. "The business of the society must not be interrupted
                  on account of technicalities. We will not deprive the defendants of the benefit of
                  counsel, though. If any member present desires to plead for the accused, he is at
                  liberty to do so."
               "Then, sir," said Payne, "I will volunteer my poor services."
               "Very well," replied Booth. "I announce Mr. Denham as prosecutor."
               This strange trial was then commenced. It was conducted regularly, however, like a
                  court-martial, with the exception that the accused, who were most deeply concerned
                  in the result, were not present. Two witnesses were introduced, who made affidavit
                  to all the facts as set forth in the indictment. This of course was gone through
                  with for the mere sake of form; because there was nothing depending upon the
                  evidence that could be adduced in support of the charge. A thousand witnesses upon
                  the opposite side would not have benefitted the accused in the least. The counsel
                  for the defendant therefore made no attempt to introduce any rebutting
                  testimony.
               "Gentlemen," said Denham, the prosecutor, "it is unnecessary to enter into any
                  extended remarks in prosecuting the case of Abraham Lincoln, since no evidence
                  whatever has been brought forward in opposition to the charges and specifications.
                  It would probably be nothing but simple justice on my part to submit the case and
                  remain silent. For it must be palpable to every man in the house that Lincoln is
                  guilty of treason within the meaning and intent of the constitution. It has been
                  clearly proved that he has levied war against a portion of the states forming the
                  union, and has prosecuted it for four years with a cruel, savage, relentless
                  barbarity unprecedented in all time from Adam down to the present moment. We have
                  read of the Goths and Vandals rising up in the might of undisciplined strength,
                  coming down like an avalanche upon the old world, spreading destruction broadcast
                  over kingdoms and empires, destroying the literature of centuries, and abolishing
                  nearly all traces of civilization. We have read of the bloody wars of
                  antiquity"——
               "Mr. President," interrupted Payne, "I take the liberty of calling the gentleman
                  to order. He must confine himself to the indictment. We have nothing to do with
                  the wars of antiquity; neither are we discussing the character of the present war.
                  The question is simply, whether Abraham Lincoln is guilty of treason or not.
                  According to our bylaws, no member can introduce into his speech matter irrelevant
                  to the subject under discussion. I therefore have the right to object to the train
                  of thought, (I cannot call it reasoning,) which I see the prosecutor is going to
                  impose upon this society, for the purpose of arousing prejudice and malice."
               "Mr. President," resumed Denham, "it is well known to this society that the member
                  who has so unceremoniously interrupted me, is addicted to the ungenerons habit of
                  endeavoring to embarrass his opponent by illegitimate means. It seems to be a
                  rudeness natural to him."
               "Come to order, Mr. Prosecutor," said the president. "Personalities, especially
                  personalities that tend to wound or insult the feelings, are strictly forbidden by
                  the by-laws."
               "I have no desire, Mr. President, to insult any one; but I do not like to be
                  interrupted in such an unceremonious manner. I shall therefore submit the case. I
                  do not consider a speech necessary anyhow. I may, however, reply to the
                  defendant's speech."
               "Mr. President," said Payne when Denham had taken his seat, "I have been unjustly
                  accused by the prosecutor. I have never been in the habit of attempting to confuse
                  my opponents in debate, in the manner he has said. But, sir, inasmuch as
                  personalities are not allowed, I shall make no apology to the gentleman, nor offer
                  any excuse in vindication of my conduct. Every man can put any construction upon
                  that he pleases. I will proceed at once to the discussion of the question.
               "I confess my surprise, Mr. President, at this extraordinary proceeding, though I
                  am not at all surprised at its aim. I have for some time been expecting the
                  concealed object of this society to be developed; but I did not think it would
                  disclose itself in the shape which it now assumes. I have felt from the beginning
                  that our career as an organized body would end in blood. I am thoroughly convinced
                  of it to-night. I know what will be the final result of this remarkable trial; and
                  I feel that it would be useless to enter my protest. But, sir, I object to the
                  proceeding instituted to-night, from beginning to end. Even supposing that the
                  charges and specifications are true in every particular—that Mr. Lincoln is guilty
                  of treason, and that he has conducted the war in a spirit of merciless ferocity,
                  as asserted in the indictment, I ask is this the tribunal to which he is amenable
                  for his political conduct? From what source do we derive our authority to put men
                  upon trial for their lives who owe no fealty to the Junto? I admit that, according
                  to the agreement into which we all entered, the society can, with some semblance
                  of legal right, hold me and other members responsible for our conduct, to a
                  certain extent. The penalty for the violation of some of our laws is death; yet
                  you know, sir, if we were to execute the penalty, it would be downright murder.
                  Then if this be so—if it would be murder to put our own members to death, who may
                  be guilty of misdemeanors that involve forfeiture of life, what could it be called
                  to kill men over whom we can, by no possible construction of our constitution,
                  exercise the slightest jurisdiction? Would it not be assassination of the very
                  worst character? Would it not be the very worst form that murder could possibly
                  assume?"
               "I must call the gentleman to order," interrupted Booth.
               "Am I out of order, Mr. President?" asked Payne.
               "It so appears to the chair. The question is not whether we have the power or the
                  right to try Mr. Lincoln. It is too late to discuss that. He is now on trial, and
                  it is our business merely to determine the measure of his guilt. Speakers must
                  confine themselves to the question."
               "I would confine myself strictly to the indictment, Mr. President, if the accused
                  were present. But, sir, did you ever hear of a trial being conducted in the
                  absence of the party most deeply interested, in an organized body that makes
                  pretensions to be governed by written laws? Our constitution contains no
                  provisions for such a proceeding as this. How can the trial proceed without a
                  suspension, rather a subversion of the constitution? Where do we find anything in
                  our constitution to warrant this course of action?"
               "Since you are out of order," again interrupted Booth, "I will reply to the
                  question you have asked. You believe in the golden rule, do you not?"
               "To be sure I do, sir."
               "Well then, we have the right to do unto him as he has done to others."
               "I do not understand you, Mr. President."
               "The constitution of the United States," replied Booth, "provides that all powers
                  not delegated to the general government belong to the states or the people. Well,
                  Lincoln has usurped these powers, and has committed many unjustifiable acts that
                  were not prohibited by any clause of the constitution. Besides this, he has had
                  persons executed without any trial at all, thus violating the established laws of
                  the land. Now then, certain powers have been granted to the officers of this
                  society; and all those not granted belong to the members. We have not usurped
                  these reserved powers as Lincoln has done; but putting our construction upon our
                  constitution, we have decided that he can be tried in his absence. It contains no
                  clause that prohibits such a procedure. Therefore, taking the rule that Lincoln
                  has adopted, he ought not to object to its application to himself. If he will not
                  do unto others as he would be done by, we must do unto him as he actually does
                  unto others. I hope the gentleman is answered."
               "I either do not understand you, Mr. President, or it is the strangest perversion
                  of the golden rule I ever heard. I cannot attempt to reply to you upon that point.
                  But, sir, there is one fact which you appear to overlook. Lincoln is not
                  answerable to this society for his actions. He has violated no law of the Junto—he
                  owes it no allegiance; then I cannot see where we get the authority to try him for
                  treason or anything else."
               "I will not allow the propriety of our proceedings to be questioned," said the
                     presiding officer. "The time for the
                  discussion of that point has passed. You must confine yourself to the charges and
                  specifications."
               "I want to know, Mr. President, if this society assumes to be the government of
                  the United States?"
               "That question is out of place, sir."
               "Well then, I desire to know if congress is not the only legal power that can
                  impeach the chief magistrate of the union?"
               "If the gentleman is not going to speak upon the question now before us, and that
                  alone, I must request him to take his seat," said Booth.
               "Mr. President," continued Payne, who saw that he must adapt himself to the
                  surrounding circumstances, "I contend that Abraham Lincoln is not guilty of
                  treason, according to the constitution of the United States. Now sir, only look at
                  a few facts. He was lawfully elected by a majority of the people to the position
                  which he now fills. His elevation to the presidency gave offence to the southern
                  states, and they seceded from the union. Was it not the plain duty of Mr. Lincoln
                  to preserve the integrity of the union? Was it not his duty to avenge the insulted
                  flag of his country? He has made no attempt to overthrow the government of the
                  United States; but he has exercised the powers entrusted to him in opposition to
                  the insurgents, who are levying war against the states of the union. The rebels
                  are guilty of treason, if anybody is, and not Mr. Lincoln. Why sir, according to
                  your mode of reasoning, if a mere handful of men in England should make an attempt
                  to dethrone their Queen, and she should resist the attack against her government,
                  she would be guilty of treason, would she? If any government in the world should
                  offer opposition to aggressions made upon it, its supporters are guilty of
                  treason, are they? Sir, such a conclusion would utterly destroy all human
                  institutions. No form of government could exist. There would be universal anarchy
                  and confusion throughout the entire world. Yet, sir, we are acting upon this very
                  principle to-night—a principle that would destroy the existence of the Junto, if
                  we should carry it out. For instance, suppose I should resolve to withdraw from
                  this society, and reveal its secrets; could I accuse you of treason and a
                  violation of the constitution if you should punish me? Yet this is precisely what
                  we are doing to Mr. Lincoln. You have mentioned the golden rule, Mr. President, as
                  a principle that controls your action in this case. I am willing to apply that
                  rule and be governed by it. Do unto Mr. Lincoln as you would have him do unto you.
                  If you would not be guilty of treason against the Junto by punishing me for
                  offences, neither is Mr. Lincoln for the infliction of punishment upon the seceded
                  states. All I ask of you is to act in this case according to the golden rule.
               "It is allowed me, Mr. President to appeal to the better feelings of the gentlemen
                  whose duty it is to decide this case. I desire to do this, very briefly, before I
                  take my seat. I beseech you, gentlemen, let us do no murder. The Holy Bible says
                  'thou shal't not kill.' Obey that divine law, written by the fingers of God
                  himself. Mr. Lincoln, we all know, is a simple-hearted old man, who in the
                  ordinary course of nature will soon sink to the tomb. Gentlemen, stain not his
                  tomb with his own heart's blood. He is a kind man, generous to a fault, and would
                  not wound the feelings of a cur. He is not responsible for the present war, that
                  has so long deluged the land in blood. He is a mere instrument in the hands of a
                  great political party, and is borne along by the raging tide of fanaticism, in
                  despite of himself. Let the old man live out his few days, then, and fulfill his
                  destiny. He has brought the war to a successful termination. Peace will soon be
                  restored to the country, and our society must then disband; it will have answered
                  its aims. I entreat you then, in God's name, let us not confer everlasting infamy
                  upon it by this deed of blood. The Junto is destined to figure in the history of
                  the country; let its name, then, go down to posterity unstained, unspotted, and
                  clothed in the white robes of purity and innocence."
               Payne seated himself, bowing his head upon his hands, feeling that he had spoken
                  to no purpose. It was a waste of words to address such an assembly.
               "Has the prosecutor any remarks to make in reply?" inquired Booth.
               "I believe not, Mr. President," answered Denham "I will submit the case."
               Thereupon the vice-presidents retired into a private room above the cellar in
                  order to agree upon a verdict. They were gone only a few moments. In fact a
                  consultation was entirely unnecessary, as the verdict had already been
                  pre-determined. The jury soon returned, and amid a solemn silence the verdict of
                  "guilty" was distinctly pronounced by each one of the vice-presidents, as his name
                  was called.
               "Gentlemen," said Booth, "it now remains for me to pronounce sentence. There can
                  be but one penalty for treason; and that is DEATH"
               Not one word was spoken for several minutes after the delivery of this laconic,
                  but bloody sentence. The breathing of the members could he plainly heard from one
                  end of the cellar to the other. Though few could have been ignorant as to what the
                  result would be, yet it had the effect upon them which is invariably felt on the
                  announcement of the final departure of a friend whom we have been expecting to
                  die. Let us be thoroughly convinced that death must come to a friend; yet when the
                  "grim monster" bears his victim away to the dreadful necropolis of eternal
                  silence, and the sorrowful tidings are announced to us, we are momentarily
                  surprised. The promulgation of Lincoln's sentence did not, however, have this
                  effect upon Degroot. He hated the president of the United States too deeply to
                  feel a sentiment of sorrow or pity. At last he rose from his seat.
               "Mr. President," said he, "I propose to submit our action to the society, and see
                  to what extent it will be endorsed."
               "That would be advisable,' said Booth. "Before voting upon it we will hear the
                  opinions of the members. Has any member any remarks to make upon the course
                  pursued by the vice-presidents?"
               A short silence followed this question; but presently a man by the name of
                  Davelier rose and addressed the chair.
               "Mr. President: I have listened with great interest to the trial which has just
                  ended; and I must say I am perfectly satisfied with the result. I have a word or
                  two to say in support of the decision of our tribunal. But I wish first to make a
                  short explanation, that will strip my argument of all appearance of mystery. Some
                  years ago I was a preacher. This announcement may be astonishing to some of the
                  members; but nevertheless, I was a minister of the gospel. I need not mention to
                  what denomination I belonged. It is sufficient to say, I was considered by my
                  brethren a consistent, pious preacher. I abandoned the calling for reasons which
                  it would require too much time to relate. While I was a minister I studied the
                  scriptures closely; but I devoted especial attention to the prophecies. It is a
                  subject which it yet attractive to my mind. I do not think there was a minister in
                  the whole church that could excel me in explaining the old prophets. But there is
                  one passage which always puzzled me until very recently. I have studied over it
                  for years; and have been worrying over it ever since I left the ministry. But
                  to-night my convictions are confirmed. The passage to which I have refered
                  contained in Revelation, xiii chapter and 18th verse. It is as follows: 'Here is
                  wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the Beast; for it is
                  the number of a man; and his number is six hundred, three-score and six." The
                  infamous character mentioned in this passage is Anti-Christ. Many attempts have
                  been made, in various ages of the world, to discover the number 666 in some
                  monarch's name. We read in the history of Charles XII, of Sweeden, that a certain
                  monk endeavored to prove that Peter the Great was Anti-Christ. But the arguments
                  which he adduced in support of his position were answered by another monk, who
                  asserted that Peter could not be Anti-Christ, because the number 666 was not to be
                  found in his name. Peter was so pleased with this refutation that he made the
                  author Bishop of Rezan, and broke his slanderer upon the wheel.
               "I mention this circumstance merely to show that interpreters of prophecy have
                  been endeavoring to decipher this perplexing passage for several centuries. But
                  they have all failed down to this time, because no man whom other circumstances
                  marked out as Anti-Christ, has yet been found whose name contains the number 666.
                  Anti-Christ has never appeared until recently. Abraham Lincoln, gentlemen, is that
                  character. I repeat, he is the Beast alluded to in this passage. I am fully
                  prepared to substantiate my assertion. There are several circumstances in
                  Revelation, which I have not time to name, that point out Lincoln as the Beast;
                  but the strongest argument in favor of my position is, that his title contains the
                  number 666. I will show this very briefly. Lincoln is called the 'Fourteenth
                  Republican President.' These three words contain the number 666. To begin the
                  proof: we will call fourteenth, 14. Taking the old Roman method of notation, we
                  find in the word 'Republican' the three letters LIC, which according to our
                  mathematical system stand for the number 151. The word 'President' contains the
                  two letters ID, which stands for 501. Now add together 14, 151 and 501, and they
                  exactly make the number 666. Abraham Lincoln is then, beyond a doubt, Anti-Christ;
                  and the man who destroys him will find favor in the sight of God. I have traced
                  out this remarkable prophecy further, and I find that Anti-Christ will be
                  destroyed the 14th or 15th of the present month.
               "I have said this much, Mr. President, to show that we ought not to hesitate or
                  falter in our undertaking. Let not the man whose duty it may be to put the Beast
                  to death shrink form the task, because he is the chosen instrument in the hands of
                  the Lord for the accomplisement of a great prophecy. I assign for heartily
                  endorsing the action of the vice-presidents."
               This strange and startling speech of the reverend gentleman was received by the
                  members with extreme wonder, mingled with slight emotions of awe, or more properly
                  with feelings of superstition. It was so unexpected and novel, that with all its
                  discrepancies it produced a powerful impression in favor of the bloody course
                  proposed. Payne thought it necessary to reply.
               "Mr. President," said he, "I never in all my life before heard such an
                  unwarrantable misapplication of Holy Writ. I have listened with utter amazement at
                  our minister's elucidation of a mysterious passage in the abstruse book of
                  Revelation. I have read the Bible, Mr. President; I read it a great deal when I
                  was a boy; and I tell you, sir, it is not permitted to mortal man to foresee the
                  manner of the achievement of the prophecies. God has emphatically declared that
                  this portion of the scriptures is sealed. Why, the good old prophet Daniel asked
                  the Lord the direct question, when the prophecies would be fulfilled. What was the
                  reply? 'Go thy way, Daniel,' says the Lord; 'for the words are closed up and
                  sealed till the time of the end.' Do you suppose, sir, the Lord would refuse to
                  answer Daniel—a holy, inspired prophet, and afterwards, in the modern times of sin
                  and iniquity, reveal himself to a back-slidden preacher? It is perfectly absurd.
                  What is there is this gentlemen's spiritual conduct so acceptable to high Heaven,
                  that God should slight his chosen prophets, and select this minister as the
                  empositor of Revelation—a book, by the way, that no human being ever understood?
                  The prophecies, sir, are so written that no man can understand their application until they are fully accomplished. I make
                  the assertion here to-night, and I defy contradiction, that every commentary which
                  has made pretension to unfold the hidden import of prophecy, is a most eggregious
                  failure. Do you not recollect what an excitement there was about twenty years ago,
                  or may be not so long as that, in regard to the end of time? But yet, in spite of
                  Miller, the world stands, and revolves on its axis every day. And, sir, when its
                  end does come, it will approach like a thief in the night, and no man will be able
                  to foresee it.
               "Now, Mr. President, I want to expose one or two inconsistences of our learned
                  parson. The whole of his elucidation is based upon what he calls Mr. Lincoln's
                  title—'Fourteenth Republican President.' I will admit, for the present, that his
                  conclusion is correct. But, sir, his premises are wrong; for anybody ought to know
                  that Mr. Lincoln is the sixteenth president, and not the fourteenth. Franklin
                  Pierce was the fourteenth president. Therefore he is Anti-Christ, and not Mr.
                  Lincoln."
               "Will the gentleman allow me to correct him?" asked Davelier.
               "Yes sir," replied Payne.
               "Mr. Lincoln," said Davelier, "is the 'Fourteenth President, by election. There
                  were two presidents who were never elected by the people, but came into office by
                  reason of the death of the regularly elected chief magistrates. So my premises are
                  right, sir."
               "If this be so," continued Payne, "the prophets were very particular to notice the
                  slight difference between a president by election, and a president by virtue of a
                  constitutional law."
               "They were devilish particular," flippantly interrupted the yankee parson, amid a
                  burst of laughter from the whole house.
               "Mr. President," continued Payne, "it is folly to argue in this style. Lincoln is
                  no more Anti-Christ than our preacher is. Why sir, I can take the gentleman's own
                  name, and by extracting from it five letters and arranging them in a certain way,
                  I can make him out a very unenviable character. His name is Davelier—and a very
                  pretty name, too, by itself. But I will first take out D, then E, then V, then I,
                  then L; and you see it spells Devil. Now would I not do our scriptural friend
                  gross injustice to conclude that he is the identical King of Torment, or that he
                  is related to his Satanic Majesty, either by the bonds of consanguinity or by
                  marriage, merely because his name contains these five unfortunate letters? Sir,
                  you can take ten thousand names, and by perversions of this kind spell something
                  scandalous or ridiculous. Our biblical friend is so strained for an argument to
                  prop up his premises, that he cannot take the legitimate name of Abraham Lincoln,
                  and work the mysterious number 666 out of it; but he must hunt up a far-fetched
                  title, which perhaps applies as well to the fourteenth president of some forgotten
                  republic of by gone ages.
               "But this is all nonsense, Mr. President. I desire to make a last appeal to the
                  good sense, the reason of the members of this society. I entreat you, gentlemen,
                  in God's name, not to commit this dark deed of shame and murder. It will be an
                  everlasting disgrace to the people of America—a foul blot upon history that ages
                  of time can never wipe away. The man who with a murderous instrument spills the
                  blood of Abraham Lincoln will sink down! to the shades of endless darkness, a
                  miserable wretch, execrated by every civilized nation in the wide earth. He will
                  never obtain Heaven's favor, as our clerical friend has told you; but he may be a
                  fugitive from justice—a vagabond like Cain, in the earth, with the mark of a
                  murderer engraved by the finger of God upon his bloody brow. He will find a
                  resting place nowhere amid the habitations of men. The secret may be buried deep
                  down in the dark recesses of his own trembling heart, but it will be a source of
                  perpetual torment. Conscience will lash him, remorse will sting him, until death
                  hurries him away to the city of the dead. The all-seeing eye of God will look down
                  upon him from the Heavens in withering wrath, and frown upon his guilty soul till
                  the burden of life will appear more insufferable than the gloomy prospect of
                  eternal sleep or the horrors of never-ending hell. Murder, gentlemen, is
                  dissimilar to all other crimes. A man may commit other offences, and may be
                  severely punished by the hand of the law, and yet feel no compunctions of
                  conscience. But murder brings its own punishment. For when a man reaches forth his
                  hand and deliberately takes the life of his neighbor, where is the spot upon the
                  face of this broad earth upon which he can again feel peace of mind? He may flee
                  away to the mountains, where the foot of man has never trod, but he ever carries
                  with him the painful, perpetual consciousness that he is guilty of an unpardonable
                  crime. He can never for a single hour lay aside the memory of his terrible deed.
                  When he closes his eyes to drown his harrowed senses in slumber, his blood-stained
                  victim rises up before him and fixes its sunken eye upon the murderous, writhing
                  heart. That pale countenance is forever reproaching him with his horrible sin. And
                  thus the wretch lives on from day to day in unutterable misery, till his polluted
                  soul goes down to the gloom of everlasting damnation.
               "I beg you then, gentlemen, to beware what we do. But still, Mr. President, if
                  after all I have said it is determined by the members of the society to execute
                  this sanguinary sentence, I say in conclusion, I will not be false to my
                  obligation to the Junto. I have done."
               At the conclusion of Payne's speech, Coldheart rose from his seat, approached the
                  president and whispered a moment in his ear. He wore a mask like all the other
                  Juntonians, and was so disguised that he was recognized by nobody but Booth. What
                  it was which he communicated was soon made known; for Booth immediately commenced
                  to explain the real object to be achieved by Lincoln's death. As the reader
                  already knows what that object was, we will not worry his patience by a repetition
                  of. Booth concluded his statement with an appeal to the members, designed to
                  neutralize the effects of Payne's solemn warning; after which he promised
                  magnificent rewards to all the Juntonians, in the event that the bloody scheme
                  should be crowned with the desired success.
               This explanation of Booth had a very decided and visible effect. The great ruling
                  principle of the yankee character, to which all others are subordinate, was
                  tempted. Here was an opportunity to replenish their empty coffers, or to augment
                  them to overflowing if they were already full. Few full-blooded yankees can resist
                  the temptation to make money, no matter how villainous and abject is the process
                  by which it is to be acquired. Murder or treason loses all its iniquity and horror
                  the very moment it can be made the means of propitiating the God of Wealth.
                  Consequently, no sooner had Booth done speaking than a dozen members sprang to
                  their feet all at once. Each was anxious to approve of the scheme of
                  assassination; and out of the whole dozen not one offered to oppose the fool-hardy
                  project of subverting the government of the United States. Payne saw it would be
                  worse than useless to resist the tide of feeling now raised in support of the rash
                  enterprise. He would bring down upon himself not only the contempt, but the
                  suspicion of his associates. He therefore sat in gloomy silence, listening to the
                  various expressions of opinion advanced by the members, who appeared to be
                  suddenly inspired with exalted patriotism. When the question of sustaining the
                  action of the vice-presidents was finally put to the house, the "ayes" were
                  largely in the majority.
               "Mr. President," said a member, "I now move, since it is growing late, and since
                  Lincoln has had a fair trial and been legally condemned, and Johnson and Seward
                  are qually as guilty as he is, that we proceed to vote upon their punishment. I
                  move furthermore, that these two be put upon the black list with
                  Abraham Lincoln."
               "I second the motion," said another member.
               "This motion was then put to the vote, and carried. Then after a short silence,
                  Booth again spoke.
               "Gentlemen," said he, "It has been determined to put the bell on the cat; the next
                  thing to consider is, who is to do it? Will any one suggest a method by which the
                  three criminals can be executed?"
               Payne was in hopes that these last questions would bring the members of the
                  society to their senses. He thought that when the danger of the deed should be
                  placed directly before them, they might be disposed to reconsider their
                  determination. But he was disappointed; for Degroot well understood those two
                  brief lines of Addison's Cato: 
                     
                        "Conspiracies no sooner should be form'd
                        Than executed."
                     
                  
               
               He knew the importance of striking while the iron was hot; and he therefore at
                  once submitted a proposition.
               "Mr. President," said he, "I move that we draw lots for the performance of this
                  business. We will put into a hat a ticket for each member present; upon three of
                  them we will write the names of Lincoln, Johnson and Seward. Those who draw out
                  the names shall execute the sentences, in any manner they think best. After the
                  drawing, if they do not wish to be known, let the president appoint a place and a
                  time for them to meet and consult."
               This proposition was promptly seconded, and was carried. Then shortly afterwards
                  the drawing commenced. Although Coldheart did not particularly fancy this
                  arrangement, yet he was forced to take his chances, resolving, however, that if he
                  should draw one of the unlucky tickets, he would get out of the difficulty
                  somehow. It did not require a great while to draw forth all the tickets; and the
                  members were soon in their seats again.
               Booth then rose from his seat, and deliberately took off his mask. His countenance
                  glowed with a strange, wild expression.
               "Gentlemen," said he in a clear voice, "it devolves upon me to execute Abraham
                  Lincoln. I care not who among you knows it; for I shall take his life in public.
                  The other two who are to destroy Johnson and Seward will please meet me, next
                  Monday morning, at nine o'clock, in this cellar." He then calmly resumed his
                  seat.
               The members of the Bloody Junto soon afterwaads regularly adjourned. They never
                  met again. For, before the next Saturday night, they were scattering to the four
                  corners of the earth.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               
                  
                     
                        "Here's a large mouth indeed,
                        That spits forth death, and mountains, rocks and seas;
                        Talks as familiarly of roaring lions
                        As maids of thirteen do of puppy dogs."
                     
                  
               
               How the conspirators spent Sunday, the next day after their last meeting, we know
                  not. But we do know it was a gloomy day in the Confederate States. For the noble
                  army of Gen. Lee, covered with the glory of a four year's conflict, was forced by
                  the terrible logic of disastrous events to disband, and bury their hopes and
                  anticipations of liberty in the bloody dust. A scene occurred over which nations
                  might have wept tears of blood. It was a heart-rending spectable to behold
                  thousands of veterans, who for years had faced death in every form, stack their
                  arms, bow thier heads, and pass under the conqueror's yoke. All was indeed lost.
                  The confederacy was overthrown; and the insolent victor laughes in derision over
                  its prostrate ruins. The southern veterans, with slow steps and tearful eyes,
                  commenced to wend their homeward way, with the dismal propect of confiscation,
                  military despotism and national degradation before them. As they marched from the scenes of their former glory,
                  through the defeated south, they beheld the marks of savage desolation wherever
                  the eye might chance to turn. Happy homes destroyed, fertile farms laid waste, and
                  a thousand other grievous circumstances, that make the heart bleed, bore witness
                  but too plainly to the ferocious character of the enemy. The 9th day of April,
                  1865, therefore, was a gloomy day in the downfallen confederacy. It is to be hoped
                  that such another may never again roll up in the history of the unfortunate south.
                  It was however a happy day for the jubilant yankees. Their hell born malice could
                  now be gratified in perfect safety. The old lion was now breathing out his life,
                  and every dastardly beast of the field could dishonor him with impunity. The
                  formidable giant of secession lay bound in fetters of brass, and every sneaking
                  poltroon of New England could vent his envenomed spleen upon his warscarred form.
                  Unlike the subjugated confederates, the yankees could return to their homes,
                  flushed with victory, rejoicing over the wide-spread wreck their barbarity had
                  made, and laden with the rich fruits of southern murder and robbery. May God
                  pardon the hardened wretches and thieves! May God do this; for no southern man,
                  with any sense of dignity and self-respect, can exercise the divine virtue of
                  forgiveness towards men who deserve the deepest damnation of everlasting despair.
                  We who dwell in the ruined south can pray for the yankee only in the language of
                  good old David: "Set thou a wicked man over him; and let Satan stand at his right
                  hand. When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become
                  sin. Let his days be few: and let another take his office. Let his children be
                  fatherless, and his wife a widow. Let his children be continually vagabonds, and
                  beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places. Let the
                  extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the stranger spoil his labor. Let
                  there be none to extend mercy unto him; neither let there be any to favor his
                  fatherless children. Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following
                  let their name be blotted out. Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with
                  the LORD: and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. Because that he
                  remembered not to show mercy, but prosecuted the poor and needy man, that he might
                  even slay the broken in heart."
               Reader, we would not be able to write this volume, if we could not occasionally
                  give vent to our reasonable wrath against the enemies of the south. Confession is
                  a relief to an overcharged heart, though it be charged with anger. We must
                  therefore, now and then, give utterance to our feelings of Christian hate, that
                  revolt from the confinement of submissive silence. We candidly acknowledge that it
                  somehow has a soothing effect upon our turbulent breast—it produces a calm—it
                  lulls to temporary sleep our wicked desire of revenge—and it brings about a
                  comfortable frame of mind, so that we can quietly resume the broken thread of our
                  story.
               Having now partially disburdened ourself of a small portion of our justifiable
                  rage, that will frequently bubble up to the surface of thought in despite of all
                  Christian efforts to keep it down, we will proceed to state that on Sunday
                  evening, the 9th of April, 1865, Booth called on Coldheart by request of the
                  latter. Thereupon the following collocution ensued:
               "Last night's work went off finely," remarked the government official, "much
                  better than I expected. Money works wonders among our people, Mr. Booth. Did you
                  notice what a commotion was aroused when you explained that the execution of our
                  plan would enrich those engaged in it?"
               "Yes sir. It was very easily perceived."
               "I believe the enterprise would have failed without a mention of that pecuniary
                  circumstance. But what reward will you claim for your important service? With the
                  present programme before us, you deserve something very handsome."
               "Sir," replied Booth, "as far as I am concerned individually, I ask no reward. I
                  flatter myself that I am controlled by a higher motive in this business than my
                  own selfish interest. But, for reasons which I do not care to mention at present,
                  I must claim under the royal government the title of Earl of Washington, and
                  sufficient means to support my dignity. We can settle these things, however,
                  afterwards. It, I mean the title, is a secondary consideration with me."
               "You shall have what you claim, Mr. Booth. I shall take great pleasure in
                  conferring it upon you. But, as you say, all these things can be settled after we
                  overcome the difficulties now in the way. I suppose," continued Coldheart, "your
                  mind has undergone no change since the closing scene of last night?"
               Booth understood the allusion.
               "I am not the man, Mr. Coldheart, to shrink from my duty. I generally go through
                  with whatever I undertake. It has fallen to my lot to execute Lincoln, and I shall
                  do it boldly and deliberately."
               "I hope the other two may be as courageous as you are, Mr. Booth. Do you have any
                  idea who they are?"
               "None in the world, sir."
               "How do you expect to accomplish this affair, Mr. Booth?"
               "My part of it, if that is to what you allude, shall be done as I said last night,
                  in public. I cannot consent to become an assassin. I will destroy Lincoln as a
                  tyrant, before the whole world. I will not execute him in private, if I can avoid
                  it."
               "Then the opportunity you desire is close at hand; for I saw Mr. Lincoln this very
                  morning, and he informed me that he would visit Ford's theatre next Friday night
                  to contribute to the benefit of Miss Keene."
               Booth was observed to start slightly at this information.
               "Do you know, Mr. Coldheart, when Lincoln made up his mind to this?"
               "Not precisely. I think not until to-day, though."
               "He did not announce his intention till to-day?"
               "No, I am certain of that."
               "No one of our society knew it yesterday?"
               "Certainly not. But why are you so particular in regard to that feature?"
               "Because if no one knew it, Davelier's prophecy last night was rather remarkable.
                  You recollect that he predicted Lincoln would be destroyed about the 14th or 15th.
                  Next Friday will be the 14th."
               "I was forcibly struck with Davelier's interpretation," said Coldheart, who saw
                  that here was an opportunity to arouse Booth's enthusiasm to the very highest
                  degree. "I am as much disposed to believe his prediction as any event that I ever
                  heard foretold. According to the Bible, Anti-Christ must appear at some time, and
                  I would as soon think it were Lincoln as any other tyrant. At any rate it would be
                  difficult to disprove Davelier's assertion. And if it be true, you are fortunate
                  in being selected by the Supreme Being as an instrument to execute the inscrutable
                  designs of Providence."
               "Next Friday night, then," said Booth with a strange wildness in his brilliant
                  eyes, "I will give the death-blow to Anti-Christ, and claim my reward at the hands
                  of Heaven. I always felt that it was my destiny to do something great and
                  glorious; now I am convinced of it. In this deed, I will confer a favor upon God
                  and man. I will destroy two characters in one—the devil and a tyrant. Heaven will
                  then be under obligations to John Wilkes Booth."
               "You speak nothing more than the truth, Mr. Booth. I look upon the business in
                  that light. But, waiving this for the present, we must consider what arrangements
                  to make for the seizure of the government as soon as the deed is performed. Will
                  those whom you call the soldiers of the society do to rely upon? Some show of
                  force will be necessary in order to intimidate all persons who may offer
                  resistance to the measure. If I can hold the government for three days the whole
                  plan will be successful; for then I can get all the aid I want from officers of
                  the United States army. But, can I rely upon the Junto soldiers for that length of
                  time?
               "I think they will be true, sir."
               "Who will command them?"
               "Winthrop is commander-in-chief."
               "I suppose none of them are into the secret?"
               "No sir. I fear, though, too many already know it. We will have to keep a close
                  watch this week; and as you can have free access to Lincoln, I hope you will guard
                  him vigilantly till he is delivered over to the executioner."
               "I will attend to that," replied Coldheart, and if I discover that he is
                  suspicious of what is brewing, I will inform you at once."
               "Very well," said Booth. "When do you wish to have a consultation with
                  Winthrop?"
               "I do not know that a consultation with him will be necessary. You can see him,
                  can you not?"
               "You would better talk with him yourself; he will have to obey your orders. I
                  shall leave the city immediately after the execution, in order to escape the wrath
                  of Lincoln's personal friends. I will go south, carry the news to the rebels, and
                  prepare them for the proposed change in the government."
               "That is a very good idea, Mr. Booth. Though I beg you not to mention my name in
                  connection with this business, until the certainty of complete success may render
                  it safe to reveal it."
               "Fear not, Mr. Coldheart, I will be prudent."
               "I am not afraid to trust you, sir. Please then, say to Winthrop, I would like to
                  see him at my house to-morrow evening."
               Booth and Coldheart then separated.
               Sunday, the ninth day of April, passed away: and the confederacy was dead. Monday
                  morning came; and it was known in Washington that the commander-in-chief of the
                  southern forces had surrendered. This startling news caused various emotions among
                  the conspirators. But it only rendered John Wilkes Booth more impatient to perform
                  the deed which his fiery soul was burning to execute. He was fearful that the
                  opportunity of acquiring immortal glory by doing his country and Heaven a service,
                  might soon glide away. Therefore when the hour of nine arrived, he went, with a
                  heart all aglow with morbid patriotism, and false religious fervor, to meet his
                  accomplices. He hastily entered the cellar, according to agreement, and found it
                  already occupied by two men. Booth felt somewhat disappointed as soon as he
                  recognized them, and a transitory doubt, as to whether they could really be the
                  lot-chosen executioners of Johnson and Seward, crossed his mind. But he was very
                  soon satisfied that there was no mistake concerning this point.
               "You are to execute whom?" said the actor addressing himself to Payne.
               "William H. Seward."
               "And will you do it?" inquired Booth in surprise.
               "I will," replied Payne with astonishing coolness.
               "What are you to do?" said Booth turning to Atzerott.
               "Ish to kill Antrew Shonshon, py Got."
               "You will not hesitate to do this?" inquired Booth, thoroughly disgusted with the
                  filthy German.
               "No, py Got; I vill kill him tead ash to tevil: I vill, py Got. I shall ten pe
                  Tuke of Ameriky—a tam pig man—mit mine pocket full o' monish."
               "You are the last man in the society," said Booth again addressing Payne, "whom I
                  should have selected for this business. From the decided stand you took against
                  the measure, I was a little fearful you would withdraw altogether from the Junto, and thereby
                  bring us into trouble."
               "You do not understand my character at all," replied Payne. "It is true I opposed
                  the death of Lincoln, and I was in earnest in what I said. I am truly sorry that
                  the society has seen fit to agree upon this bloody measure. But I said in my few
                  remarks, that whatever might be the result of the trial, I would be true to my
                  associates; and so I will. It has fallen to my share to put William H. Seward to
                  death. I somehow expected this destiny. I felt from the beginning, yea, before we
                  organized, that a duty unpleasant to perform awaited me. Time has at last revealed
                  what that duty is; and I must steadily follow the course marked out by the finger
                  of fate."
               "My feelings, Payne, are quite different from yours in regard to this business. I
                  am not at all sorry that the society has devised this measure; I am glad of it. We
                  have seen tyranny and despotism flourish too long already. Lincoln has ruled this
                  country for four years with a sceptre of steel. He has been guilty of usurpation
                  after usurpation; he has committed crime after crime in the name of liberty, until
                  our once bright red stripes look like bloody gashes on the face of Heaven. He
                  ought to be destroyed, and I swear by the Gods above, he shall be. I will be the
                  Brutus of America," continued the actor rising to his feet, while his proud form
                  dilated with pseudo-patriotic emotion. "I will be the Brutus of America, and will
                  prostrate modern Cæsar to the dust. Methinks I can hear voices now calling on me: 
                     
                        "'Brutus, thou sleepest; awake, and see thyself;
                        Shall Rome,' etc. 'Speak, strike, redress!
                        Brutus, thou sleepest; awake'——
                     
                  
               
               "I hear the voices of widows and orphans coming up from the blood-besprinkled
                  south, crying aloud not for vengeance, but for peace. In God's name, they shall
                  have it. The tyrant shall be destroyed. I will strike him down in his stronghold,
                  and before all the hosts of his worshippers. I will bathe my hands in his blood: I
                  will say as Brutus did: 
                     
                        "'Stoop, Romans, stoop,
                        And let us bathe our hands in Cæsar's blood
                        Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords;
                        Then walk we forth, even to the market place
                        And, waving our red weapons o'er our heads,
                        Let's all cry Peace, Freedom and Liberty!'
                     
                  
               
               "O, it will be a glorious deed: it will live forever in history and romance. 
                     
                        "'How many ages hence
                        Shall this our lofty scene be acted over,
                        In states unborn, and accents yet unknown?
                        How many times shall Cæsar bleed in sport,
                        That now on Pompey's basis lies along,
                        No worthier than the dust?
                        So oft as that shall be,
                        So often shall the knot of us be call'd
                        The men that gave our country liberty.'"
                     
                  
               
               Booth spoke on in this strain with such pathos and wildness—quoting exciting
                  passages from Shakspeare, till Atzerott could no longer contain himself. His Dutch
                  sensibility was aroused; he had caught the ardor reflected from Booth's burning
                  soul, and he felt that he could throttle giants, and crush them beneath his
                  feet.
               "Py Got," cried the fussy German, "I vill pe the Cashish of America. I vill plunge
                  mine tagger in Shonshon's shaggy preast, and let hish tam soul out of im. Wat ish
                  it Cashish say?—'Frents, Romans, counytrymens and lovers, hear mine speak.' No,
                  tat ish not it. It ish sometin like tat; put it makesh no differensh: I vill cut
                  te tam fool's plood out o' hish preast. I vill show im tere ish a Cashish—Brutus'
                  brudder—in te land of liberty tat ish patriotic, and can poke te ploody tagger in
                  hish tam sides. I vill set down on hish tead pody, and trink lager peer, ten I
                  vill vash mine hants in hish ret plood, and vill holt tem up to te pig crout: and
                  say in te languidge of Shakspeare:—'Atzerott tid thish ploody teed,' py Got."
               "Hurrah for Atzerott!" cried Booth, sinking into his chair and laughing as though
                  his sides would split.
               "Ten," continued the Duchman, "te pig crout will cry out, 'long live Tuke
                  Atzerott! long live Tuke Atzerott!'"
               "Puke Atzerott, you mean," said Payne in disgust.
               "No—Tuke Atzerott—Tuke of America, py Got,—mit mine fine coach and mine pockets
                  full o' monish, and mine pretty Tukess in te coach mit me, py mine side; and when
                  we goesh along te roat, te pig crowts vill pow ter hets to ush; and I vill fling
                  monish to em, and ten away we goesh to te Tuke's Villa. Wen we gits to te hall, we
                  vinds anoter pig crown of zervints and peoples; and we vlings more monish to em;
                  and tey all vlings up tere hats, and criesh out 'long live te Tuke and te Tukess,'
                  py Got. Ten I takesh te Tukess out o' te coach, and carrish im in ter mine castle,
                  vere we'll be so happy ash te pig King and Queen. Yesh, py Got, I vill kill Antrew
                  Shonson; I vill cut te tam fool's throat mit mine sharp tagger. Ash Hamlet says in
                  Shakspeare, I vill 
                     
                        "'Ten trip 'im, tat hish feets may kick at Heafen;
                        And tat hish soul be ash tamn'd and plack
                        Ash hell, vhere it goes to,' py Got."
                     
                  
               
               At this mis-quotation and murder of Shakspeare, Booth burst into a fit of
                  uncontrolable laughter. Even a smile stole across the stoical physiognomy of
                  Payne, but it was rather a smile of contempt than of mirth. The personal
                  appearance of the ignorant, gabbling German was sufficient to excite any decent
                  man's disgust. His oval head was covered with dry, sandy hair, that did not reach
                  to two ears, which were set so close to his chin that one might suppose the senses
                  of tasting and hearing had been blended into one by the constant use of the jaws.
                  His face was so yellow that the brownness of his uncropped beard did not
                  materially darken it. This specimen of Germany was so filthy that Booth and Payne
                  both felt that Mr. Johnson would be degraded to be murdered by such a man. Booth
                  knew the fellow was a coward, and greatly feared that when the time for action
                  should arrive the frightened German would fly for life. But the matter was now
                  settled, and he must rely upon Atzerott, such as he was.
               "We must now agree upon a plan of action, gentleman," said Booth, so soon as his
                  merriment had subsided. "The executions ought all to take place at the same time,
                  of course. Lincoln goes to the theatre next Friday night; and I propose to strike
                  down the tyrant before the whole audience. Would it suit you and Atzerott," he
                  said addressing Payne, "to discharge your duties at that time?"
               "I know nothing to the contrary, so far as I am concerned," replied Payne. "Mr.
                  Seward is sick, you know; but I suppose it will be as convenient to dispatch him
                  then as any other time.
               "What say you, Atzerott?"
               "Py Got, any time will suit me."
               "Gentlemen, I shall shoot Lincoln. What will be your method, Payne?"
               "The knife," answered Payne with a sigh.
               "And yours, Atzerott?" inquired Booth.
               "Mine wat?"
               "How will you kill Mr. Shonson?" asked Booth.
               "Py Got," said Atzerott drawing from its sheath a long bowie-knife and flourishing
                  it over his head, "I vill cut hish tam preast mit tish. I vaits till he pe asleep,
                  ten me valks up to his ped, and before he can say, 'quit Atzerott,' me plunge tish
                  knife into hish pig preast and splits ter heart out of im; ten I rhuns away and
                  hides till mine Tukedom pe ready, py Got."
               "Then gentlemen," said Booth, "that there may be unanimity of action, let the
                  three executions take place at a quarter after ten."
               "Agreed," responded the two accomplices; after which the trio of prospective
                  murderers left the cellar, each to employ his time as he saw proper until Friday,
                  unless an emergency should arise that would render another conference necessary.
                  Booth went straight to the room of Mrs. Surratt, and in the course of the
                  conversation which followed, he communicated the proceedings of the Junto's last
                  meeting. He requested her to attend Ford's theatre the next Friday night, where he
                  said she would see a real tragedy acted. This revelation was very imprudent on the
                  actor's part as will be seen insubsequent chapters. He thought her a discreet
                  woman, and gave her more credit for devotion to the interests of the society that
                  she deserved; or, in other words, which more nearly express the truth, Mrs.
                  Surratt was not the bloodthirsty creature that the yankees considered her to be.
                  But we will let events themselves vindicate the traduced character of an injured
                  woman.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               
                  
                     
                        "All friendly trust is folly; ev'ry man
                        Hath one, to whom he will commit as much
                        As is to him committed."
                     
                  
               
               The interview between Booth and Mrs. Surratt had scarcely terminated before Mrs.
                  Degroot entered the apartment. The poor seamstress looked the very picture of
                  melancholy. There was a mournful expression in the soft blue eyes, which even a
                  casual observer would have recognized as the natural result of corroding trouble.
                  Little Clarence, who trotted at his mother's side, seemed to be but the visible
                  physical embodiment of his mother's inward emotions and pangs of sorrow. The child
                  looked not and acted not like other children. The boisterous gayety of
                  heaven-blessed childhood, the restless wildness of healthful, smiling infancy, and
                  a thousand other sinless charms, that throw around the first years of human life a
                  halo of angelic brightness that lights up even the gloomy pathway of tottering
                  age—all these appeared to be wanting in the disposition of Mrs. Degroot's son. The
                  little fellow was really old in his actions and habits. He reminded one of a dwarf
                  whose growth had been stunted by care, rather than by any failure of nature to
                  develop the capacities of the physical condition. His appearance could be
                  attributed to two causes: first, disease was preying on his vitals; second, by
                  constant association with his sorrowful mother he had acquired, from a mere habit
                  of imitation natural to youth, those shades of melancholy, which had settled upon
                  he careworn brow. These two causes gave to the boy an air that touched the chords
                  of sympathy in a beholder's breast in an unaccountable manner. His sad face,
                  rendered pale by the white pencil marks of death, made an impression upon a close
                  observer's heart, that would bring up an unbidden tear to the eye. It is, though,
                  natural to pity an invalid child, with a tenderness of feeling that cannot be
                  aroused at any other period of life by the same condition of ill health. There is
                  an indescribable feeling of disappointment; there is a sorrowful conviction that
                  the little innocent is clearly entitled to all the sympathy human nature can
                  bestow. Poverty had little to do with this effect in the case of our young friend
                  Clarence Degroot. Because latterly both he and his mother were neatly dressed; and
                  there was nothing in the appearance of either to justify the conclusion that they
                  were now suffering for the necessaries of life. We must here state that Mrs.
                  Degroot had received a regular monthly remittance of fifty dollars, since the
                  reception of the mysterious letter containing a $100 note. The source whence it
                  came was utterly unknown to the poor lady, and though it puzzled her considerably,
                  yet she looked upon the gift as emanating from Providence, and used it with
                  gratitude. Notwithstanding this mysterious resource, she continued to ply the
                  needle vigorously, and thus made a decent livelihood. It was the infidelity of her
                  husband that caused Mrs. Degroot's heart to bleed. She was afraid of him. She
                  dared not trust him with a knowledge of her mysterious wealth. The painful truth
                  now forced itself upon her that she was an abomination in her faithless husband's
                  sight. She feared even to appear conscious of his unfaithfulness, lest it might
                  lead to an open rupture; and then there would be little chance of reconciliation. She therefore endured her
                  misery in submissive silence, hoping that time might convince her husband of his
                  great folly, and that his own disappointment would produce a revulsion of feeling,
                  and he would return to his first love. Yet even this vague hope was slight—barely
                  sufficient to sustain her above the dark waves of black despair. To do herself
                  justice, she ought to have fled from the base man, and have returned to her
                  friends; but her womanly modesty revolted at the idea of such desertion, and at
                  the thought of the scandal with which her fair name might be connected. She
                  concluded, therefore, to endure the ills she had, rather than fly to others she
                  knew not of.
               We commenced this chapter with the statement that Mrs. Degroot entered the room of
                  Mrs. Surratt, immediately after the departure of Wilkes Booth. Though the former
                  lady had been at the house of the latter upon several occasions, to procure or
                  return needle-work, it was the first time Clarence had accompanied her to this
                  place since the night of her iniation into the Bloody Junto. Mrs. Surratt was
                  painfully struck with the boy's appearance. The little fellow seated himself on a
                  low chair, folded his emaciated hands across his knees, and looked into her face
                  with his sad eyes, till the good lady felt her whole nature yearn towards the
                  sickly child.
               "Here child," said Mrs. Surratt taking a quarter from her purse, "go and buy you
                  some candy."
               Clarence took the money, and handing it to his mother said in a very
                  heart-touching tone, that told a story of misery and privation.
               "Ma, must I buy some medicine? I don't eat candy?"
               "God bless the poor child!" cried Mrs. Surratt, while a tear moistened her eye;
                  "what is the matter with him, Mrs. Eglantine?"
               "I scarcely know; I fear it is consumption."
               "Don't you have a physician to prescribe for him?"
               "I have not had until recently. I have scarcely been able to buy medicine."
               "Why didn't you let me know your situation?" said Mrs. Surratt. "I would have done
                  anything before the little fellow should have suffered."
               "I never like to obtrude my troubles upon my employers, Ma'am. I have found out
                  they would much rather listen to something else."
               "Hard-hearted wretches," said Mrs. Surratt, "that could look at this poor, weakly
                  child, and not feel a desire to relieve him. Come here, my little man," continued
                  the kind lady exhibiting a half-eagle, "take this and buy as much medicine, or
                  anything else as you want, and when it gives out come back to me."
               Little Clarence opened wide his lustrous eyes, looked at Mrs. Surratt, then at the
                  shining metal, and then at his mother, who was so overpowered with emotion that
                  she could not utter a word.
               "What will you do with it?" asked Mrs. Surratt looking at the puzzled boy.
               "I'll give it to ma to buy medicine with."
               "Is medicine all you think about?"
               "Yes, Ma'am; I am trying to be well."
               What do you want to be well for?"
               "So I can help ma work,"
               "Where is your father?"
               "I don't know, Ma'am."
               At this point of the dialogue Mrs. Eglantine began to show signs of uneasiness.
                  Mrs. Surratt saw that it was a very unpleasant topic to the mother, and she had
                  too much generosity to force it further.
               This little episode, however irrelevant it may appear, had a bearing upon some of
                  the prominent events that are to be now related. Trifles very frequently change
                  the destinies of nations, as well as of individuals. It was an accidental remark
                  that raised Robespierre from obscurity, made his bloody name a terror through the
                  vine-covered land of la belle France, and handed
                  it down to posterity, surrounded though it be with a dark circle of gory infamy. A
                  spider's web saved the life of Mahomet, and thus made the Hegira an era in the
                  annals of a powerful religious body. The mere cacklings of a goose, once in
                  ancient times, overthrew the plans of a mighty army, and thereby turned the
                  current of history aside. It was an accident that revealed to the wondering eye of
                  man the hidden mysteries of the starry heavens, and gave to the science of
                  astronomy a power that has demonstrated the omnipotence of God. In short, it will
                  probably be found that all the great events of the world are produced by, if
                  contemplated in the abstract, some unimportant circumstances.
               Mrs. Surratt's heart was softened by merely looking at the bloodless countenance
                  of Clarence Degroot; and her emotion gave rise to a train of thought that might
                  not otherwise have been aroused. Booth had just left her, after disclosing the
                  frightful programme of the Bloody Junto. Little Clarence now somehow reminded her
                  of Mr. Lincoln's petit "Tad,"—the pet of the
                  capitol, whom she had frequently seen frolicking about in childish hilarity. The
                  innocent boy would soon be fatherless, and would shed the bitter tears of
                  unadulterated grief over the mutilated form of a murdered parent. In fine, the
                  whole panorama of the dark deed, with all its distressing accompaniments of
                  horror, passed before her imagination—the terrible agony of the bereaved wife—the
                  inconsolable grief of the mourning children—the deep-felt sorrow of the tearful
                  north—all these gloomy circumstances went through the sensitive heart of Mrs.
                  Surratt like streams embittered with the waters of Marah.
               "Have you heard of the crime that is to be committed this week?" asked Mrs.
                  Surratt.
               "No, Ma'am, I have not. What is it?" said Mrs. Degroot in alarm.
               "I suppose I can tell you, since you are a member of the society."
               And Mrs. Surratt drew near to Mrs. Degroot and whispered in her ear:
               "They are going to murder Lincoln and Johnson and Seward."
               "Who is?" cried Mrs. Degroot in terror.
               "They are—the Bloody Junto, I mean. I learned it this morning, I was
                  never more shocked in all my life."
               "What are they going to do this for?" inquired Mrs. Degroot.
               "I believe they are going to change the government into a monarchy."
               "But why should they murder Mr. Lincoln to do this?"
               "O, he is in the way, I suppose. They say he is a tyrant, and never will make
                  peace with the south. They want to stop the war, and say they will have to kill
                  these three in order to do it."
               "But murder is wrong, Mrs. Surratt."
               "Certainly it is; and I have been thinking if—if—it might not be avoided. I
                  don't," continued Mrs. Surratt, when she saw that Mrs. Degroot was not going to
                  make any reply, "I don't know any better way than to inform Mr. Lincoln of his
                  impending danger."
               "And expose the society?"
               "No, no; that would be a difficult undertaking. But couldn't Mr. Lincoln and the
                  other two be informed of their danger without giving any whys or wherefores?"
               "Yes, Ma'am, I suppose so."
               "Well then, suppose you inform them."
               "Who, I?"
               "Yes," replied Mrs. Surratt. "I don't know any person that could perform the duty
                  with less danger than you can."
               "How do you mean, Ma'am?"
               "Why, you could go to the White House as if in search of work. Nobody would
                  suspect you. But I am known very well by many of the members; some of them board
                  with me, and if I should be seen in the vicinity of Mr. Lincoln's dwelling, I fear
                  I should be detected."
               "Could you not write, Ma'am?" said Mrs. Degroot timidly.
               "I know I could: but not without greater risk than you would run. I am so situated
                  that I could not even write without arousing suspicion."
               "But I never saw Mr. Lincoln," said Mrs. Degroot, "I wouldn't know him if I should
                  see him."
               "Do you know Johnson or Seward?"
               "No, Ma'am; none of them."
               "Why, you must have little curiosity," said Mrs. Surratt. "There are few people in
                  this city that are not familiar with Lincoln's countenance. I can't imagine how
                  you could be here so long and not have seen Mr. Lincoln."
               "I've had so much else to think about, Ma'am, that I have had no time to form
                  acquaintances."
               "Don't you attend church? You might have seen Lincoln at church."
               "I go to church nearly every Sabbath, Ma'am," said Mrs. Degroot modestly, "but I
                  always try to listen to the sermon."
               "So do I," said Mrs. Surratt; "but that does not prevent the exercise of my eyes.
                  I can see the whole congregation before services commence."
               "Yes Ma'am," was all the response Mrs. Degroot made.
               "Why, I wouldn't feel satisfied," continued Mrs. Surratt, "if I did not know the
                  faces of Lincoln and his whole cabinet. I could recognize any of them in Asia. I
                  could never forget the long, lank form and cadaverous face of the president, if I
                  should live a thousand years. I know even little Tad—Mr. Lincoln's son; and a nice
                  boy he is, too."
               "Yes Ma'am."
               "You know Mrs. Lincoln, don't you?"
               "No Ma'am."
               "Well I declare," said Mrs. Surratt with an air of disappointment. "Is it possible
                  you have never seen even Mrs. Lincoln?"
               "No Ma'am; I have never seen her—to know her."
               "Well, I will tell you what you can do," said Mrs. Surratt. "You can write a short
                  note to Mrs. Lincoln, and place it in her hands yourself. This will be the best
                  plan. You can very easily find out the president's wife by going to the White
                  House."
               "But would they let me into the White House?"
               "To be sure they would. The house belongs to the nation. You have as good a right
                  to go there as anybody. If you will do this your fortune will be made. Mr.
                  Lincoln, Johnson and Seward, all three will be under obligations to you, and will
                  bestow a magnificent reward."
               After awhile, when a little more persuasion had been used by Mrs. Surratt, Mrs.
                  Degroot consented to warn the three officials of the mighty danger that hovered
                  over their pathway. It was not any want of sympathy, or abhorrence of murder, that
                  prevented her agreeing at once, without hesitation, to the humane proposition of
                  Mrs. Surratt. A natural timidity of disposition—an inward shrinking from the idea
                  of obtruding upon the great—an inclination opposed to selfencroachments upon her
                  humble obscurity—and a sensitiveness in conflict with the thought of
                  conspicuousness; all these were at war with the resolution which she finally had
                  the courage to form. She returned home, and then commenced thinking what she
                  should write to the president's wife and how she would deliver the letter. But
                  before she took up her pen to begin the task which had been imposed, she thought
                  of the propriety of consulting Degroot in reference to the matter. She soon,
                  however, abandoned this idea. For latterly the worthless man had taken little
                  pains to conceal the evidences of dislike towards herself and her child. Whenever
                  he was at home, which was only at meal times and at night, his moody countenance
                  was sufficient to repel all manifestations of affection that his sensitive wife
                  might feel disposed to make. The consequence sequence was, there was no domestic happiness
                  around the fireside of Percy Degroot. Could his injured wife have only glanced
                  into his black heart, and there beheld the demon of hate, she would have trembled
                  with horror and fright, and would have fled from her unhappy home. But she knew
                  not the full measure of detestation that filled his breast; and she knew not the
                  intensity of emotion, the soul-absorbing devotion, with which he worshipped at the
                  shrine of Flora Louvan. His motives may at first have been associated with
                  pecuniary calculations, but he had been led on by degrees, until now he could not,
                  if he had desired it never so much, have wrenched her fair image from his
                  throbbing heart. If there was any consideration that could have brought Degroot to
                  his senses, and cooled down the ardor of his passion, it would have been the loss
                  of her wealth. He had so much of the yankee in his nature that this was the only
                  consideration that could possibly be efficient in aiding him to overcome the
                  yearnings of his wicked love. But it was a settled fact that Flora was wealthy;
                  she was angelically beautiful; she was accomplished in yankee style; and Degroot
                  was maddened. His bosom was a fair picture of the torments which unrighteous
                  ghosts may be supposed to endure. Not, though, that he was troubled by remorse of
                  conscience; for he reasoned as the ungodly do, that passions had been implanted in
                  the human heart by chance, or some other cause, he did not care what, and that he
                  was not responsible for their development. He loved Flora Louvan; and he saw no
                  reason why he should struggle against the pleasing passion: He hated his wife; and
                  threw the responsibility upon the great First Cause, whatever it might be. Both
                  these opposite impulses he encouraged, not caring whether it was right or wrong,
                  according to any system of morals or laws. He abandoned himself unreservedly to
                  his wild, wicked passion, which Flora encouraged from the mere promptings of
                  thoughtless vanity. He proposed marriage; but she did not positively reject his
                  suit. She encouraged him just sufficiently to make him believe he was the favored
                  suitor, without committing herself so far that she could not at any time easily
                  erase his name from the list of her lovers. Could the thoughtless girl have had
                  any idea of the irreparable injury she was doing the unknown wife, an indignant
                  rejection of Degroot would probably have followed. Flora would been forced to this
                  course in order to preserve respectability in society. She was doing Mrs. Degroot
                  not only a great injury, but was placing her life and that of her little boy in
                  jeopardy. For Degroot had for sometime been devising ways and means to rid himself
                  of all matrimonial encumbrances. Dark thoughts of murder very often crept into his
                  heart, and he brooded over them in silence. These diabolical thoughts of felonious
                  homicide became more frequent, and towards the spring of 1865 assumed the shape of
                  a fixed, settled purpose.
               Such was the state of Degroot's mind and heart when his wife took up her pen on
                  Monday, the 10th day of April, to betray the society, of which he was a prominent
                  member. It was no wonder then that she quickly rejected the thought of consulting
                  such a deliberate villain. She concluded to act upon her own individual
                  responsibility, and accordingly began to write a letter of warning to Mrs.
                  Lincoln. It did not require a great while to finish the short missive; but when it
                  was completed she seemed not to like its contents, for she threw it into the
                  scanty fire. She gazed at the burning sheet till its color became black, and then
                  taking a homely poker crumbled the crisped paper into fragments. After which she
                  gathered up her sewing, and judging from outward action seemed to have laid aside
                  all thought of carrying into effect her praiseworthy resolution. That whole day
                  she ceased not to ply the needle with diligence. Tuesday came, but she still
                  continued at her work, and touched not the pen. Night drew near, but the
                  undertaking had not been essayed. But on the next day, when the sun had crossed
                  the meridian and was gradually declining to the western horizon, a sudden change
                  marked her conduct. For she hastily threw down her work, turned to the rude table,
                  and began to write. In a few moments she folded the sheet upon which she had
                  written, rose from her seat, and telling little Clarence to remain at home until
                  she should return, bent her steps towards the president's mansion. The whole city
                  was alive with savage joy as she passed along the noisy streets. There was no
                  longer any doubt of the complete success of the yankee army. All felt that the
                  poor confederacy would soon sink down into the oblivion of things that were; and
                  all rejoiced over the glorious prospect—the wide field of bloody ruin in which New
                  England malignity could glut itself to bursting satiety. Their hearts swelled with
                  national pride—their breasts heaved with patriotic emotion at the idea of American
                  grandeur. They were American citizens; their mighty arms had carried destruction
                  into the holy temple of southern liberty, and crushed the huge giant of secession.
                  The poor maniacs ran wild with gratitude to the Juggernaut of the north, and they
                  promised a whole hecatomb of living rebels to the merciless God of Tophet. But
                  Mrs. Degroot did not heed the swelling words, the vain boasts, and the drunken
                  revels of the joyful yankees. She hastened along with trembling anxiety in the
                  direction of the White House. When she was within sight of the palatial residence
                  of the chief magistrate, she encountered Degroot and Wilkes Booth coming down the
                  street. She now trembled violently in every limb; for the thought for the first
                  time shot through her brain that her own husband might be one of the conspirators:
                  she was almost overpowered. Degroot looked sternly at her as she passed, but
                  luckily did not choose to recognize her. The poor lady was in no danger of
                  recognition in the capacity of a wife from this quarter, if she had reflected for
                  only an instant. After gaining the distance of a few yards beyond the two men, she
                  almost involuntarily turned her head to look back. A chilling shudder passed over
                  her frame when she saw that they had stopped, and as she imagined were earnestly
                  and narrowly watching her movements. Whether they were or not, she felt like her
                  design was penetrated, and she was about to abandon her intention in the street
                  and return home. But the conspirators suddenly moved off; and something prompted
                  her to go forward, and on she went, traveling though more like a machine than a
                  rational being bent upon the accomplishment of a benevolent purpose.
               "Presently she reached the White House, and somehow instinctively or mechanically
                  found her way to the handsome parlor where Mrs. Lincoln was receiving company.
                  Without any regard to ceremony, she hastily entered the apartment, looking wild,
                  bewildered, and confused. She felt her utter insignificance in that abode of
                  grandeur and wealth, and manifested haste to retrace her steps.
               "Which is Mrs. Lincoln?" whispered Mrs. Degroot in the ear of a splendidly dressed
                  lady near the door.
               "That," said the surprised lady pointing to the upper end of the apartment.
               Mrs. Degroot then strode to a lady whom she supposed to be Mrs. Lincoln, and
                  placed the letter in her hand, without a word of explanation; then turned and left
                  the mansion. The lady to whom the letter had been given read it, and involuntarily
                  sprang from her seat.
               "Is anything the matter?" inquired Mrs. Lincoln kindly.
               "No, no—nothing of importance; but you must excuse my abrupt departure." Saying
                  which she left the parlor as unceremoniously and as rapidly as Mrs. Degroot had
                  disappeared.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               
                  
                     
                        "She's a woman to graceless treach'ry given:
                        A woman that would fain betray her friend,
                        And bring death upon him. Let her quickly die
                        The black death of traitors; and live no more,
                        To blab our secrets forth."
                     
                  
               
               Coldheart was seated in his office, when a messenger from his wife appeared before
                  him. A note was handed to the official, which requested him to come home without a
                  moment's delay. The officer lost no time in obeying the summons; but snatching up
                  his hat, he hastened to his residence, and went straight to his wife's room.
               "What is the matter, Mary?" asked Coldheart.
               "Why, I have unearthed a horrid piece of treachery, Mr. Coldheart."
               "Indeed! What is it?"
               "Read that, Mr. Coldheart, and thank your stars that I am so fortunate. It seems
                  like the work of Providence."
               Coldheart took the paper which she held out, and read as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           MRS. LINCOLN: This is to inform you that Mr. Lincoln, Mr. Johnson and
                              Mr. Seward are to be murdered to-morrow night. There is a society
                              existing in the city, and its members are sworn to destroy the
                              government. I thought it my duty to tell you. Booth, the actor, is
                              president of the society. I do not think, under the circumstances,
                              that an apology is necessary for my giving you this timely
                              information.
                           
                              Your ob'dt servant,
                              MINA EGLANTINE.
                              April 13th, 1865.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Where did you get this, Mary?" asked Coldheart with a terrified look.
               "At the White House, to be sure."
               "Did it reach its destination?"
               "No indeed; and you may thank me for having called on Mrs. Lincoln this evening.
                  It was a mere accident—hardly an accident either; if it was, it seems to have been
                  directed by Providence. I was sitting near Mrs. Lincoln in her parlor a while ago,
                  when a wild-looking creature came striding in, and placed that note in my hands
                  without saying a word. I suppose she mistook me for Mrs. Lincoln. She vanished
                  from the parlor before I could unfold the treacherous document. As soon as I read
                  it I left, and sent for you forthwith. Is it not lucky?"
               "It is so, indeed. But the woman is a poor fool for signing her name to such a
                  paper."
               "Not so much fool either, Mr. Coldheart. She of course expected a reward for this
                  important information, which she could not have received without signing her name
                  or making herself known in some way. But this is no affair of ours. What are you
                  going to do, Mr. Coldheart?"
               "Do about what?"
               "Why, about this letter."
               "I will show it to Booth."
               "Then what?"
               "Why then I guess Mrs. Eglantine will hold her tongue hereafter."
               "Murder?"
               "That is not the proper term, Mary: a legal execution, if you please."
               "How can it be done?"
               "I do not know that it will be done at all. I only suppose so. She has wilfully
                  violated the laws af the society, and I have every reason to expect that she will
                  be severely dealt with."
               "How can such a thing be kept secret, Mr. Coldheart?"
               "Oh, very easy," replied the officer with a smile. "The Potomac is hard by; and
                  there are some few rocks about too. It does not require much weight to sink a body
                  below the surface. Then the Potomac tells no tales. It will watch over its charge
                  in silence."
               "But suppose inquiries should be made."
               "Inquiries may be made; but they will be answered by echo, I guess," said
                  Coldheart with a laugh.
               
               "Well, that is settled then," said the lady. "Everything has worked admirably thus
                  far. But suppose, Mr. Coldheart, there should be a failure in some part of the
                  programme, or indeed in all of it, are you fully prepared to meet any emergency
                  that may arise?"
               "I have provided for every contingency that I thought might occur. If the whole
                  project should fail, which is hardly probable, then I will be in statu quo. My connection with the society is known
                  only to the officers and Mrs. Surratt, who I doubt not will keep it a profound
                  secret. If we cannot overturn the government after the executions are
                  accomplished, I will change my tactics slightly and make an effort to secure the
                  presidency; my chances for the position are as good as any other man's, I think.
                  To avert suspicion from myself, I will endeavor to implicate the rebels in the
                  business. I will even accuse Jeff Davis of complicity, and procure witnesses to
                  sustain the accusation. Prejudice is so bitter against him in the north, that the
                  public mind will believe any kind of a story that may be fabricated. He will be
                  tried, if he should be captured, by a court-martial, and he will certainly be
                  hanged. Then the public will be satisfied, and I will be safe. There are several
                  other prominent rebels whom I can implicate without any difficulty. There is Jacob
                  Thompson, of Mississippi—one of the wealthiest of the slaveholding aristocrats. He
                  is now in Canada. I will place him in company with Davis, and not give either of
                  them time to refute the charges. My statement, I am sure, will be believed. The
                  deed will be considered by the whole world as the last despairing act of a
                  desperate, conquered people."
               "But suppose, Mr. Coldheart, all three of these men should not be killed, how will
                  that affect the scheme?"
               "I can manage the business easily if Lincoln and Johnson are placed hors du combat. But if one of them should escape, I
                  will have to be governed by circumstances altogether. I am very expert, you know,
                  in getting out of difficulties. There is nothing more powerful than a brazen face
                  and a slick, oily tongue. They rarely fail to carry a man through the world, even
                  without brains. But I must go now and see Booth in reference to this matter."
               "It will be attended to to-night, won't it?"
               "I guess so. I shall have nothing to do with it. I will merely give this letter to
                  Booth, and let him manage the business. From what I know of him, he will take
                  prompt action."
               Coldheart accordingly left his amiable, excellent spouse, and went in search of
                  the actor. Booth was soon found without any great difficulty, as a system of
                  secret communication had been established, by means of which the conspirators
                  could be assembled in a very short space of time. The actor was not in his room
                  when Coldheart called, but a note had been left on his desk, stating his
                  whereabouts, in the event that any of the clan should have
                  business with him. When Booth read the letter of Mrs. Degroot, disclosing in a few
                  words the nefarious scheme of assassination, he was at first very much startled;
                  but his fears were soon dispelled when Coldheart explained to him that the
                  villainous document had been fortunately intercepted.
               "What course do you propose now?" asked Coldheart.
               "There is but one," said Booth with a dark frown.
               "And that is——?" said Coldheart, leaving the sentence half finished.
               "Death," replied the actor firmly.
               "That will evidently be safest."
               "Certainly," replied Booth. "'Dead men tell no tales.'"
               "Nor dead women either," responded Coldheart with a laugh.
               "True," said Booth; "though I dislike the idea of murdering women."
               "Yes; but they must be dealt with like other members. This is a case of willful,
                  premeditated breach of the law, in which not even the palliating circumstance of
                  ignorance can be imputed to the author."
               "To be sure not; for both the women were plainly told what would be the
                  consequences of treachery. No excuse, therefore, palliative of Mrs. Eglantine's
                  crime can be offered. She has knowingly violated the law, and now she must suffer
                  the penalty."
               "I am surprised, Mr. Booth, that you should have admitted women into this society.
                  Some such result as has just happened might have been easily foretold by any
                  ordinary judge of human nature. However, it is no use to talk about that now. The
                  mischief is done, and we must now set to work to remedy it. I do not know that it
                  would not be policy to bridle the tongue of this other one also."
               "You mean Mrs. Surratt?"
               "Yes."
               "Do you propose to apply the same process of bridling to her as to Mrs. Eglantine?
                  Is that your meaning?"
               "I did not say that exactly," replied Coldheart with hesitation. "I know it is
                  imprudent to entrust dangerous secrets to the keeping of women. These two women
                  are now in possession of all our plans. The plain question then, Mr. Booth, is how
                  can they be prevented from giving them to the public? How can they be silenced?
                  You have agreed to dispose of one of them; now what shall be done with the
                  other?"
               "You have reference to the grave, Mr. Coldheart?"
               "Well, what do you say to that remedy?"
               "I cannot consent to apply it to Mrs. Surratt."
               "Why?"
               "Well, because she has not proven herself unworthy of her trust yet. I do not
                  apprehend any danger of betrayal from that quarter. Besides, it is very unfair,
                  Mr. Coldheart, to execute innocent members, when there is no ground for even the
                  shadow of suspicion."
               "Very well, Mr. Booth," replied Coldheart, who did not often insist upon severe
                  measures sures, especially when he saw that they would meet with stolid
                  opposition, "very well, I will leave it all to you: though I hope you may not be
                  mistaken in the woman's fidelity."
               "I feel disposed to trust her," replied Booth.
               "Very good, sir; I shall offer no further opposition to your wishes. You are
                  better acquainted with her than I am. It is possible she may be a very prudent
                  woman; and I hope she is."
               After this short conference, Booth sought the other officers of the Bloody Junto;
                  and before the sun went down they were all collected in Mrs. Surratt's cellar.
                  Here it was briefly determined to put Mrs. Eglantine upon trial, as soon as she
                  could be arrested under cover of darkness. As Degroot was the only one of the
                  officers who was acquainted with the woman's whereabouts, he agreed to become one
                  of the two whose duty it was to effect the arrest. Indeed, for reasons which will
                  be obvious, he preferred to assist in the forcible seizure of his wife.
               That night Mrs. Degroot retired to her bed at the usual hour. The light was
                  extinguished, and the shabby domicil in which the unfortunate seamstress dwelt was
                  shrouded in obscurity. She waited not for her husband, who was in the habit of
                  blundering in at the most unseasonable hours. The poor woman lay for some time
                  thinking of what she had done that day, and what might result from the delivery of
                  her communication to Mrs. Lincoln. Her conscience approved the act, and she felt a
                  thrill of happiness at the thought that she had been made the instrument of
                  preserving the president's life. But when she reflected what might happen to Booth
                  and others—what a terrible commotion would follow her exposure of the schemes of
                  the Junto—and that she would doubtless be called upon to face the whole society,
                  and substantiate that which she had written—when she reflected upon all this, she
                  trembled with extreme apprehension. If she could have looked forth from her
                  resting place, and have beheld two human figures stealthily marching up to her
                  door, she might have started up in affright and have fled for life. The two men,
                  who will be at once recognized, stopped near the door, and seemed to listen for a
                  moment. Presently one of them opened the ricketty shutter, and boldly entered.
                  Mrs. Degroot was under the impression that it was her husband; she knew his
                  well-known foot-step, and therefore felt not the least alarm. The figure
                  deliberately walked to the bed-side; and before Mrs. Degroot could move or speak,
                  a gag was rudely thrust into her mouth, and she was quickly rendered incapable of
                  calling for assistance. The seamstress struggled in vain, for the accomplice in
                  this outrageous proceeding, rushed in as soon as she was gagged and the two
                  ruffians bound her hands and feet. All the hope that Mrs. Degroot now had was that
                  the men might be robbers; and that as soon as they had searched the house, she
                  would be set at liberty. She felt assured that it could not be Degroot; he would
                  not have the baseness to treat his own lawful wife in this disgraceful manner. But
                  the worst fears of the terrified lady were confirmed. For the men did not even
                  strike a light; but they silently lifted her from the bed, and bore her out of the
                  room. Poor little Clarence was left alone quietly sleeping, all unconscious that
                  his mother had been taken from his side. This circumstance of leaving the boy
                  utterly alone in the dark came very near dethroning the senses of the distracted
                  mother. She would have begged the ruffians to take the boy with her, but the
                  organs of speech were powerless to act. She was borne a short distance up the
                  road, and placed in a close carriage. The men got in with her, and the vehicle
                  commenced whirling along with considerable rapidity. Suspicions of the most
                  fearful character began to flash through the mind of Mrs. Degroot as she was borne
                  into the city; and though she had no idea upon what grounds this outrageous
                  proceeding had been instituted, yet she naturally attributed her arrest to the
                  junto. It did not once occur to her that the letter she had written to Mrs.
                  Lincoln, had fallen into the hands of those for whom it was not intended.
               The carriage now halted at Mrs. Surratt's, and the prisoner was hurriedly carried
                  into the cellar, the door of which was quickly closed. So soon as the light
                  revealed the forms of her captors, Mrs. Degroot eagerly scrutinised them. Although
                  they were masked, yet she recognized in one of them her own husband. She knew his
                  clothes, and his movements. Indeed he appeared to make no effort to conceal his
                  identity. The wretched woman was horrorstricken. She was filled with such dread,
                  that her faculties seemed to whirl, the light faded from view, a confused noise of
                  footsteps rumbled an instant in her ear, and she lay in a state of temporary
                  unconsciousness.
               "She has fainted," cried a member.
               "Bring water," said another.
               Accordingly a cupfull of water was dashed into the pale face of Mrs. Degroot,
                  which had the effect of restoring her scattered senses. Upon her recovery, she
                  glanced at the figures seated around the apartment. There were not more than
                  twelve or fifteen members present, all of whom were masked except Booth, who
                  looked upon this disgraceful scene with an expression difficult to understand.
                  Except therefore from the enigmatical countenance of the actor, Mrs. Degroot could
                  draw no inference from the looks of those present, as to the fate which awaited
                  her. However she was not long kept in suspense. By order of the president a charge
                  of treachery, followed by specifications, was read against Mina Eglantine.
               "Guilty or not guilty, Mrs. Eglantine?" asked the presiding officer.
               Of course no reply could be made by the gagged woman.
               "Free her from the gag, gentlemen," ordered Booth.
               "Never," quickly cried Degroot, in a
                  stern, energetic voice that went like a death-shock to the heart of the quivering,
                  helpless victim. "There is no need of that, Mr. President," continued Degroot. "I
                  know the woman well. I vouched for her political character when her name was
                  presented for membership. I thought I was not mistaken in her principles, but I
                  acknowledge she has deceived me. She is a willful traitress. There is no use
                  asking whether she is guilty or not. If she has the exercise of her tongue, she
                  will shriek aloud, and have the whole police of the city down upon us. I beg you,
                  therefore, to allow the gag to remain."
               Mrs. Degroot listened to these cruel words of her husband with emotions of
                  indescribable wonder and agony. She had long suspected that Degroot entertained no
                  sincere affection for her; but she never would have believed him capable of such
                  moral turpitude, if occular evidence had not been furnished. The brute had thrown
                  off all disguise, and she saw his true character in all its hideous vileness and
                  depravity. She was so astonished, mortified and pained by her husband's course,
                  that as far as she herself was concerned she cared not what might be the
                  consequences of the trial. All her fears were now for her invalid boy.
               "If there is any danger of her raising an alarm," said Booth in answer to the
                  request of Degroot, "It will probably be best not to remove the gag. "Would you
                  scream, Mrs. Eglantine, if you were allowed to speak?"
               The seamstress answered the question in the only way in which it was possible,
                  with her hands tied behind her back. She shook her head so as to reply in the
                  negative.
               "Believe her not, Mr. President," again exclaimed Degroot. "If you do, she will
                  betray us all the moment her tongue is free to act."
               Mrs. Degroot cast upon her husband a pitiable look of reproach that would have
                  mantled the cheek of a man of moral principle with a blush of shame; but if it had
                  any effect upon the yankeeish heart of Degroot, it only made him the more
                  determined of availing himself of the opportunity that now offered, of breaking
                  forth from his matrimonial shackles.
               "She says she will not," replied the actor to Degroot.
               "I care not what she says. I am better acquainted with her than you are. Where is
                  that letter, Mr. President? That is sufficient evidence."
               Booth produced a letter.
               "Did you write this letter, Mrs. Eglantine?" asked Booth rising and holding the
                  document to her face. Mrs. Degroot was extremely astonished to find that her
                  letter had fallen into the wrong hands; but still she felt no disposition to deny
                  her own handwriting, and she bowed her head affirmatively. Booth returned to his
                  seat.
               "Gentlemen," said Booth, addressing the officers, "she acknowledges the crime:
                  what verdict will you render?"
               "Guilty," replied those composing the tribunal.
               "Gentlemen," said the president, "I want to ask the woman a few questions before I
                  pass sentence. I shall make the sentence dependent upon her answers to a certain
                  extent. There may be circumstances that may tend to extenuate her crime. At all
                  events, it would be best to see. It is possible that she may have acted the part
                  of an amanuensis, and merely have written what was dictated by other persons. Are
                  there any objections to this course?"
               Degroot strenuously opposed this measure, but he was overruled, and it was agreed
                  that Booth should propose such inquiries as he thought proper. It was thought most
                  prudent, however, not to remove the gag, but to free the right hand, and allow the
                  prisoner to write answers to the interrogations that might be propounded.
               "Who told you that Lincoln was to be murdered?" commenced Booth when all was
                  ready?"
               "That question I will not answer," wrote Mrs. Degroot.
               "You wrote this letter to Mrs. Lincoln?"
               "I did."
               "Did you give it to her?"
               "I thought so, but must have made a mistake."
               "Who dictated it?"
               "I did."
               "Did you have an accomplice in this affair?"
               "I will not implicate others."
               "What excuse can you offer in vindication of your unfaithfulness to the
                  society?"
               "I shall offer none."
               "What reason had you for betraying us?"
               "Duty."
               "Have you a husband?"
               Degroot felt rather uncomfortable when this inquiry was propounded, and he was
                  mentally preparing his defence, when the answer was read.
               "I have none that I would claim."
               "Where is your husband?"
               "I claim none."
               Degroot felt a sentiment of beastly gratitude towards his gagged wife. He breached
                  more freely.
               "Why do you not?" continued Booth.
               "Because he has proved himself unworthy."
               "Who is your protector?"
               "Nobody."
               "Have you no friends?"
               "None but God," wrote the poor woman while the big tears rushed to her eyes, and
                  rolled down upon the paper. Booth faltered. He was a human being, and an emotion
                  of pity was stealing into his heart and was gradually mollifying the ascerbity of
                  his judicial severity. He was not a man to persecute a helpless woman. But, under
                  the influence of false convictions of duty, he choked down the bitter feelings of
                  his warm nature, and continued the examination.
               "Are you an informer, or a spy?"
               "I am not."
               "Did you join the society for the sole purpose of betraying us?"
               "I did not."
               "What then was your motive in joining?"
               "To please others."
               "Whom do you mean by others?"
               "I mean the members of this society. I made no application for membership; I did
                  not desire to join. They wanted me to join, and I did so to please them—not
                  myself."
               "Will you give the name of your accomplice in this business, if by that means you
                  can secure your liberty?"
               "I have no accomplice."
               "You undertook to expose us upon your own responsibility, then!"
               "I did."
               "Why did you not betray us long before this?"
               "My object was not to expose the society, particularly, but to save the life of
                  President Lincoln."
               "Are you an abolitionist in principle?"
               "I am not.'
               "Why then do you profess such friendship for Lincoln?"
               "I do not believe it is right to commit murder. I have no friendship for Lincoln.
                  I would have warned any one else."
               "What punishment do you anticipate for your crime?"
               "I do not know."
               Booth paused. During the short silence that followed Mrs. Degroot wrote a few
                  words and handed them to the actor. While he was reading them she looked into his
                  face with the tears rolling down her cheeks.
               The words were as follows:
               "I left a sick child at home alone in the dark. If I return no more, what will
                  become of him? Who will take care of him if I am murdered? Spare me for the sake
                  of my poor, friendless child."
               Booth gazed at the weeping woman, and a keen pang shot through his heart. There
                  are few men in an enlightened country, who are so destitute of chivalry and the
                  refined emotions of higher civilization, as to hear unmoved the appeals of a woman
                  in distress. Nevertheless there are some; but John Wilkes Booth was not one of
                  them. He bowed his head upon the table; his heart yielded to the woman's tears;
                  the rigor of his official dignity relaxed. There was a struggle between his
                  feelings and what he conceived to be his duty; but mercy triumphed over the
                  demands of false justice. Booth could not pronounce the severe sentence which he
                  promised Coldheart. Presently from some cause, he became violently ill. He raised
                  his head, and his countenance was deathly pale.
               "Gentlemen," said the actor, "I am sick. I must retire; I am not able to preside.
                  Mr. Degroot will you occupy the chair?"
               Booth accordingly retired from the cellar, leaving the case in the hands of his
                  associates. Degroot took the vacated chair, and ordered the hand of his wife to be
                  re confined to its mate.
               "It becomes my duty, gentlemen," said the new president, "to pronounce sentence
                  upon the prisoner. According to our constitution, death is the only penalty of
                  treachery. Mina Eglantine must therefore be duly executed to night at twelve
                  o'clock."
               Mrs. Degroot, upon hearing this sentence, sat as if petrified. She exhibited no
                  external indications of surprise or agony. It was the resignation of despair. A
                  short discussion then ensued upon the mode of her execution. It was however
                  finally determined that the criminal should be strangled in the cellar, and the
                  corpse should be conveyed to the Potomac, and sunk silently beneath its dumb
                  waters. Lots were drawn for a couple of executioners in the same manner in which
                  they had been selected for the assassination of Lincoln, Johnson and Seward. Then
                  the members all began to withdraw, the light was extinguished, and the prisoner
                  was left alone in thick darkness, gagged and bound, to await till the hour of
                  midnight should seal her dreadful fate.
               Reader! for Heaven's sake do not forget that these men were Yankees!
                  There was no full-blooded southern rebel among them. They were all
                  yankees—yankees "in deed and in truth."
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               
                  
                     
                        "No tale is told by yon dark river—
                        Its moveless tongue is dumb forever—
                        Thousands dead upon its bottom lie,
                        Yet, no word is breath'd to passers-by."
                     
                  
               
               The city of Washington lay slumbering in darkness. Benevolent Morpheus had kindly
                  closed the eyes of all except the dissipated, and those from whom a lashing
                  conscience had driven "nature's sweet restorer." The sable Goddess of Night
                  reigned supreme—and casting a sombre pall over the earth, rendered partially
                  useless the organ of vision, and thus checked the miserly proclivities of any
                  avaricious mortal that might be inclined to disregard the emblem of her authority,
                  and encroach upon her lawful dominions. The clock tolled the hour of midnight just
                  as two men rose from a bed in a room belonging to the boarding house of Mrs.
                  Surratt. One of them proceeded to light a lamp, then turned a screw so as to
                  render the flame almost invisible, and a dull, dusky appearance was given to
                  everything in the apartment.
               "The hour has come, Vanderbetterton," said one, whose name was Davelier, and who
                  has been mentioned in a preceding chapter.
               "Well?" was the laconic reply of the other.
               "The deed must be done."
               "Yes, of course."
               "This is an ugly piece of work, I'll swear," said Davelier, shrugging his
                  shoulders. I do not fancy it at all."
               "No, I suppose not."
               "It does not suit my feelings nor sentiments," continued Davelier. "I was not
                  raised up to such dirty jobs. On the contrary, I was taught to abhor murder from
                  my very infancy. 'Thou shalt not kill,' was one of the first things I learned. My
                  father, who was a pious and consistent minister of the gospel, taught me never to destroy even an insignificant
                  animal in mere wantonness. That identical doctrine I preached to others for ten
                  years. I do not know that I was by nature so bitterly opposed to bloodshed; but I
                  preached against murder so long, and associated with my good christian brethren so
                  much, that probably the holiness reflected from them has somewhat affected the
                  original inclination of my tastes and emotions. A man may become religious from
                  habit. That was my case anyhow. I was a christian from habit and association. I
                  was a Baptist minister, Vanderbetterton—I wish to Heaven you had a longer name:
                  Why didn't you tack on a ty, or a n-e-s-s to it, and thereby have improved its
                  euphony? But as I was saying, I was a Baptist minister, and preached the doctrine
                  of the impossibility of falling from grace. I thought it right; therefore I still
                  have some hopes of Heaven."
               "You do?"
               "Yes; are you surprised at it?"
               "No, no. But if you have hopes of Heaven, I was just thinking that the devil might
                  have too."
               "I know not what that gentleman's hopes and anticipations may be, as I am not very
                  intimately acquainted with him. You may be authorized to speak for him, but I am
                  not. I battled manfully against his kingdom of darkness for ten years, and I claim
                  a small credit at the hands of Heaven for my meritorious services. There was no
                  such thing as falling from grace in our church. But now, if I do this bloody deed,
                  or am even accessory, I greatly fear for the result—the spiritual result. The
                  truth is, Vanderbetterton, I don't relish this job at all."
               "It is too late to talk about that now. Come, the hour is already passed."
               "How is the deed to be performed?" asked Davelier.
               "She's to be strangled, you know. There's a rope in the cellar for that purpose.
                  This must be tied around the woman's neck and twisted till respiration is
                  impossible."
               "Good God! how horrible?"
               "I've witnessed sights equally as horrible," cooly replied Vanderbetterton.
               "Where, in God's name?" asked Davelier, who appeared disposed to postpone the
                  bloody work as long as possible.
               "In California. I've seen Indians skin their victims alive; and I've seen men
                  roasted to death over slow fires."
               "White men?"
               "Yes, indeed; some of them were my acquaintances."
               "Why did you not prevent it?"
               "I couldn't, by Jove. There were twenty to one against us. But I have not time to
                  tell the tale now. Roasting a man alive," continued Vanderbetterton, "is a
                  horrible torture; but strangling is bad enough, though. It is true, the body is
                  not mutilated as in skinning, but the countenance looks awful while the operation
                  is performing. The eyes sometimes burst from their sockets, the veins swell until
                  they become blue, and the face is perfertly black."
               "God of Abraham!" cried Davelier, looking wildly at Vanderbetterton," is that the
                  way we have got to destroy our prisoner?"
               "To be sure it is. That was the sentence."
               "But can we not adopt some other less revolting to the common principles of
                  humanity? Why can we not tie a rope to the victim's neck, and sink her in the
                  river? We could see no death struggles then. Down, down she would go to the
                  bottom, and there rest till the last trump shall summon her to give an account of
                  the deeds done in the body. That would be a much more decent method than the
                  other, and less repugnant to the heart."
               "That may be so," replied Vanderbetterton thoughtfully, "but it is not the
                  sentence. We are bound to obey the edicts of the Junto, ain't we?"
               "Certainly; but what difference could it make to the society, just so the woman is
                  executed. If I had thought about it, I would have proposed the method I have
                  suggested, as a substitute for the horrible one adopted by Degroot."
               "Degroot desired to make sure work of it," replied Vanderbetterton. "The victim
                  might possibly escape if thrown into the Potomac."
               "I do not see how she could."
               "The rope might break, and she could then rise to the top and swim ashore, or
                  something else might happen. No, no, that will never do. We must know that the
                  criminal is dead. We must look into the livid countenance, and see that no muscle
                  moves; we must feel the pulse and heart, and know that they have ceased to
                  beat."
               "How long will it require for the victim to cross the Jordan of death?"
               "About ten or fifteen minutes, provided the rope is held tight. But come, we must
                  delay no longer. Let us draw lots, and see who must perform the duty. It will take
                  only one."
               "I thought both of us were to go together," said Davelier.
               "Yes; but if I've got the job to do, I do'nt want any one to be looking at me; and
                  if you have it to do, I don't want to see you. It's no very agreeable sight to
                  behold."
               "I would rather both of us should go together. I could not do the work by
                  myself."
               Well, you must take your chances. You have as fair a showing as I have. May be I
                  will draw the unlucky card."
               "And if you do, I need not go into the cellar?"
               "No."
               "And if I draw it, you will not go?"
               "Certainly not; that's fair."
               "Well, I will try it," said Davelier with a sigh.
               Accordingly, Vanderbetterton cut two small papers of different lengths, and put
                  them in his hat.
               "Draw!" said he to Davelier. "The one who gets the longest paper must be the
                  executioner."
               They drew, and the shorter paper was found in Vanderbetterton's hands.
               "My God!" exclaimed Davelier, "have I got it to do?"
               "You have, without a doubt."
               "I do not believe I can."
               "You must though."
               "I do not know how to go about it."
               "I've told you already. Twist the rope around the victim's neck, and hold it there
                  till she dies."
               "Good God!" cried Davelier as he thought of the horrible scene he must witness. "I
                  cannot do this sanguinary deed. How much will you take, Vanderbetterton, to fill
                  my place?" eagerly asked the terrified man as this new idea struck him.
               "Well, I don't know," said Vanderbetterton slowly, as if calculating, "how much
                  will you give me?"
               "I will give you five dollars."
               "Vanderbetterton's heavy mustaches concealed from view the scorn and contempt with
                  which his upper lip curled, at the idea of avoiding the crime of murder for the
                  pitiful sum of five dollars. However, he expressed no surprise at the yankee
                  preacher's estimate of the difference between money and murder.
               "I'll take it," at last said Vanderbetterton.
               "Here is your money then, and much good may it do you," said Davelier running his
                  hand in his pocket and drawing forth a bill.
               "Now," said Vanderbetterton, "do you remain here till I return. I may be gone half
                  an hour, or perhaps not so long. It depends altogether upon circumstances. If the
                  prisoner does not cling to life with too much tenacity, I will come back before
                  that time.
               Otherwise, I will not be here so soon."
               "Very well, I will stay. May Aaron's God go with you."
               Vanderbetterton then left the yankee preacher to spend the time as he thought
                  best, and leisurely proceeded to the cellar.
               It was a short time after twelve o'clock, when Mrs. Degroot. who was suffering
                  much pain from the confinement of her limbs, and the distension of her jaws, heard
                  a slight clicking at the door. She trembled with terror; for she knew that the
                  hour appointed for her to die had come. The door opened. She then heard it
                  silently closed, and the bolt turned in the lock. In a moment a light dispersed
                  the darkness, and she beheld the stalwart form of Vanderbetterton. He deliberately
                  opened a large pocket knife, and advanced to where Mrs. Degroot was sitting. Hope
                  died within the heart of the poor woman as she looked into the rugged countenance
                  of her executioner. His huge whiskers so completely hid the expression of his
                  face, that if there was any indication of mercy or pity, it was invisible. The
                  feelings of the helpless prisoner may be better imagined than described, as
                  Vanderbetterton halted immediately before her.
               "Mina Degroot," said he, "do you know me?"
               She eagerly looked into his face with joyful surprise; but she appeared somewhat
                  disappointed, and sadly shook her head.
               "I should think not, Mina, it has been many years since we met. You were a little
                  girl when I saw you last. I see you would speak, but hold till I explain. I have
                  come to save you, Mina; but now when I free you from these ugly shackles you must
                  make no noise. If you do, all will be lost, and we may both lose our lives. You
                  understand me?"
               She bowed her head.
               Vanderbetterton then cut the cords with which she was bound, and took the gag from
                  her mouth. Mrs. Degroot spoke not for some time, but waited until her pain had
                  somewhat subsided.
               "You say you do not know me, Mina?" inquired Vanderbetterton when he saw that the
                  lady was recovering."
               "I have been thinking," said she, "but I don't recollect ever having seen you.
                  Probably if I knew your name, I could recall you."
               "I am called John Vanderbetterton."
               "My husband was asking me about that gentleman sometime since, but if I ever knew
                  any person by that name, I have forgotten it."
               "My true name, Mina, is Joseph Eglantine."
               "My dear Uncle Joseph, sure enough," cried Mrs. Degroot springing up and throwing
                  her arms around his neck. "Oh, how glad I am you have come. God knows how thankful
                  I am." She wept tears of joy, such as are shed by those who step from death unto
                  life.
               "It was fortunate for you, Mina, that I belonged to this society; for I will save
                  you from a bloody death, or lose my own life in the attempt."
               "Let us go, then, Uncle Joseph. I left my little sick boy alone at home."
               "Not yet, Mina, not yet. You must be patient. Your boy will not suffer; he will
                  sleep till morning, won't he?"
               "But if he should wake, and find himself alone in the dark, I am fearful he would
                  go into spasms."
               "You will have to risk that. You are not safe yourself yet. You must exercise
                  patience. Sit down, and let's talk awhile. We must remain here in the cellar for
                  nearly half an hour."
               "I will do as you think best, Uncle Joseph; but tell me how you came here?"
               "I had business in Virginia," replied Joseph Eglantine, "which required my
                  attention, and I left California some months ago. I went to your father's, who was
                  very uneasy about you, as he had not heard from you for two years. I at last
                  agreed to huut you up, and went to Connecticut, where you last lived, and there
                  learned that you had moved to this city. I then came here, and accidentally
                  discovered Degroot. I saw him at Mrs. Surratt's, and learned from an acquaintance
                  that he was a single man. I at once supposed that you were dead; but my suspicions
                  were aroused by a remark which I overheard Degroot make."
               "Why did you not ask him where I was?"
               "If I had, he would probably have placed
                  you beyond my reach. He might have anticipated the bloody event which was to have
                  taken place to-night. From what I could learn from your father, I knew he was an
                  unprincipled villain. So I determined to watch him. For that purpose I assumed the
                  name of Vanderbetterton, and joined the Bloody Junto, of which I found out Degroot
                  was a member. The very night your name was proposed for membership, he affirmed
                  publicly that he was not a married man. I knew then that he was after some
                  mischief, though at the time I could not divine his motives. The night after you
                  were initiated I followed you home, and have not lost sight of you and Degroot
                  since."
               "Then it was you who sent me money?"
               "Yes. I thought from the appearance of your dwelling you needed it. You married a
                  black hearted villain, Mina—both a gambler and a forger."
               "A forger, uncle?" inquired Mrs. Degroot in great surprise.
               "Yes, a forger. He caused your father to break by forging his name to a check. He
                  would have been prosecuted but for your sake. Rather than expose the husband of
                  his only child, your father retired as a broken merchant. He never mentioned the
                  matter, in order to save your feelings. But Degroot is guilty of other villainies
                  besides this."
               "I know it, uncle, I know it."
               "He has sought your life," continued Joseph Eglantine, "not because he is such a
                  stickler for the rules of the Bloody Junto, but merely to get you out of his way.
                  Do you know he is paying his addresses to a lady in this city?"
               "I suspected as much."
               "Did you never ask him about it?"
               "No, I was afraid. I trusted that Miss Louvan would discover that he was married,
                  and that he would repent of his folly."
               "You were too true to the faithless wretch; but never mind that now. What are you
                  going to do in the future—I mean in regard to Degroot?"
               "I don't know, uncle; what do you advise?"
               "You don't know? Do you suppose he loves you?"
               "No. I fear he hates me," said the lady with tears in her eyes.
               "Then don't shed a single tear for him. He does not deserve it. You must leave
                  him, Mina leave him forever."
               "I will do it, Uncle Joseph. I would be afraid to live with him now."
               "Don't dream about such a thing, Mina. You must leave him. We must quit Washington
                  as soon as possible. You would never be safe in this city."
               "I am ready to go any time; just as soon as I can get my boy."
               "We must begin to make preparations, then. I must now explain the programme to
                  you. You know I was sent here to kill you. I have an accomplice, but I've deceived
                  him thus far. He is waiting for me now. He supposes that I am taking your life.
                  You will have to act the corpse, Mina. All you will have to do is to keep
                  perfectly still. We have to take you to the river, according to the sentence
                  pronounced by Degroot, and sink your body beneath the waves. You must not be
                  frightened at anything that may be said or done. I could easily get rid of my
                  accomplice, but I want him for a witness. Now keep quiet till I return. I will not
                  be gone many minutes."
               "One question more, before you go, uncle?"
               "Well, what is it?"
               "Are you engaged in this conspiracy against Mr. Lincoln?"
               "No, I am not. I joined the Junto for the sole purpose of watching Degroot. I took
                  no interest whatever in the procedings of the society, save, so far as they had a
                  bearing upon my individual designs."
               "Are you not going to inform Mr. Lincoln of his danger?"
               "No, Mina, I am not. I shall not place my life in jeopardy for Mr. Lincoln. This
                  is a yankee plot teetotaly—concocted by Mr. Lincoln's own people. If they want to
                  put him to death, it's none of my business to prevent it. I shall, therefore,
                  occupy neutral grounds in this matter."
               "Did you blame me for what I did?"
               "Not at all. If you thought it your duty to warn Lincoln, you did right: but I
                  don't conceive it is my duty to run my head into a snare to save the life of a
                  man, who has done nothing for four years but heap up coals of fire upon my native
                  state, and murder my friends. If his own people look on him as a tyrant, and wish
                  to kill him, they may do it for all I care."
               Saying this Eglantine left the cellar and returned to Davelier, whom he found
                  lying upon a bed.
               "The deed is done," said Eglantine, as he entered the room.
               "Is she dead?" asked Davelier.
               "I should not like to be any more so, at present, than she is?"
               "Did she manifest much terror at the prospect of entering the valley of the shadow
                  of death?"
               "Very little, I did n't give her much time to think about it."
               "It is an awful thing to die, Vanderbetterton. I have been recalling some of the
                  rousing sermons I used to preach to my congregations upon death. Sir, I could once
                  draw a picture of the "grim monster" on the pale horse, that would frighten the
                  most obdurate sinner. I was a good hand in a revival. There was nobody like
                  'Brother Davelier' when a grand charge was to be made upon the strongholds of the
                  Lord's adversary. I could, single handed, chase a hundred, and put ten thousand to
                  flight?"
               "Well, we've no time to listen" to one of your rousing sermons to-night. Our work
                  is not finished yet. The body must be taken to the river. Do you have the carriage
                  driven near the door. I can carry the corpse from the cellar. I need no
                  assistance."
               "I thank you for that, I never did like to handle the dead.
               "Go on, then, I will excuse you."
               The two separated, and Eglantine returned to the cellar, where he remained till
                  the carriage was driven to the street door. Then taking his niece in his arms, he
                  placed her in the vehicle. Davelier mounted the seat with the driver, who was a
                  member of the Junto, selected for the purpose, and Eglantine got inside with the
                  corpse. The carriage was leisurely driven to the Potomac, below the city, where
                  there was a skiff in readiness. The body was then lifted out by Eglantine and
                  deposited in the bottom of the little boat together with a bag of rocks.
               "You go at this business, Vanderbetterton, like you were accustomed to it. I will
                  swear, I never would take a corpse in my arms—especially one that I had made such
                  myself."
               "You have too much tongue, Davelier, and too little discretion. You ought not to
                  talk out here. Are you going with me to the middle of the river."
               "I do not know. Do you want me to?"
               "I don't care. You can do as you please. I have done the work alone thus far, and
                  I can complete it."
               "If it makes no difference with you, then," said Davelier, "I would rather remain
                  on terra firma. If the boat should happen to
                  upset, I fear I would drown, for I never learned to swim. My mother was so very
                  careful of my health when I was a boy, that she never would allow me to wade in
                  water. Consequently, I have always had some kind of a hydrophobia."
               "Well, if you'll stop your gab, you may go with your hydrophoby. You need not wait
                  for me," continued Eglantine, getting into the water craft. "I'll not return to
                  the shore."
               "Why, where are you going?" asked Davelier.
               "Somebody must take the skiff back to town. I suppose I'll have it to do."
               "Well, good bye, then. You are very accommodating. May the God of Peace bless
                  thee, and save thee with an everlasting salvation."
               The carriage wheeled and dashed up the road, leaving Vanderbetterton alone to bury
                  the dead in a watery grave.
               "Davelier's cowardice will save us the trouble of leaving the shore," remarked
                  Eglantine in a few moments after the vehicle had disappeared. "Rise, Mina, and
                  let's go. I will however heave this sack of rocks into the river, that there may
                  be no trace of my treachery to the Bloody Junto."
               Then there was a splash in the water, the stones sank quietly to the bottom, and
                  Mina thanked God in her heart that it was not her destiny to follow them.
               "There's no telling," remarked Eglantine, how many murdered persons repose at the
                  bottom of this same river. But, thank God, Mina, you're not one of them. Come,
                  let's leave."
               "Where will you go, uncle?"
               "After your boy. Then we must get away from Washington in 'double quick' time. We
                  must be several miles off by day-break."
               Without further delay they hastened to the residence of Mrs. Degroot, which they
                  reached about three o'clock in the morning. When they arrived in sight of the
                  house, Mina was somewhat frightened to discover a light shining through the
                  window. She cautiously approached, having left her uncle on the roadside till she
                  should return with Clarence. Going to the window she looked in, and beheld Degroot
                  seated at a table busily engaged in examining a bundle of papers. Little Clarence
                  lay quietly sleeping on the bed, just as his mother had left him. Mrs. Degroot
                  waited for some length of time, hoping that her husband would shortly retire. But
                  he kept reading and searching among the papers, without appearing to be in the
                  least haste. Half an hour elapsed, and there being no prospect of her husband's
                  leaving, Mina returned to her uncle, in order to consult in regard to what must be
                  done.
               "He is in the house, uncle."
               "Who? Degroot?"
               "Yes; and he seems to have no disposition to leave the house. What shall we do,
                  uncle?"
               "Degroot," said Eglantine slowly, after a moment's reflection, "is an unmitigated
                  scoundrel. He richly deserves any treatment that he might happen to receive, no
                  matter how severe it might be. Death is no more than he merits. I will therefore
                  propose two courses of action, Mina, and you can decide which to adopt. I will
                  advance boldly upon the villain, fell him to the floor before he can recognize me,
                  and take the boy out of the house; or we must go to the country, where you can
                  hide till I return for the child to morrow."
               "No, no; I don't want any fighting about it."
               "Well, We must go to the country then."
               "I don't like to leave Clarence," said Mrs. Degroot hesitatingly.
               "You must decide one way or the other, Mina. If you say so, I'll go right into the
                  house and bring the boy out."
               "I'm afraid of that, uncle. Blood might be spilled."
               "A good bleeding would not hurt Degroot; and as for myself, I'll run the risk. I
                  would as soon face the vile wretch as not."
               "I don't want you to run any risk, Uncle Joseph. If any accident should happen to
                  you, I wouldn't know what to do. I expect, then, we'd better go to the country,
                  and wait till morning. Do you think Clarence will be in any danger?"
               "I hardly know Mina. Degroot is villain enough to do anything that is mean; but it
                  seems to me that if it were his intention to murder the child, he would have gone
                  about it before now. I don't suppose he would wait for daylight to do that."
               "I reckon he would hardly murder the poor child," said Mrs. Degroot with a slight
                  shudder.
               
               "Do you say go, then? We haven't much time to lose.
               "I reckon so, uncle," she replied with great reluctance.
               "Come ahead, then. We must be gone."
               Mrs. Degroot sorrowfully turned her face from the light, and following her uncle
                  was soon lost in the darkness.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               
                  
                     
                        "Self murder, that infernal crime,
                        Which all the Gods level their thunders at."
                     
                  
               
               Degroot sat up the whole night at the table, busied with his papers. Morning
                  dawned, and found little Clarence buried in deep sleep. Just as the sun was
                  casting his first rays upon the lofty spires of Washington City, Degroot rose from
                  his chair, collected the documents into a bundle, and thrust them into a drawer.
                  Then he washed his face and hands. After this, he turned to the rude mantle-shelf,
                  and taking up a wineglass he poured into it a few drops from a vial that he drew
                  forth from his pocket; then to this mixture he added a small quantity of
                  water.
               "This will do the work," thought Degroot to himself. "I might have tried its
                  virtue long ago, and have sent them both on together. I have been too
                  tender-hearted. The job is only half finished, but this will complete the work,
                  and then I will be a free man once more. To-day will I present myself before Flora
                  Louvan. I will know my fate. I do not doubt in the least that my wishes will be
                  crowned with success. I have loved her with an ardor bordering upon madness. I
                  never loved before with such an intensity of emotion. I have loved her with a
                  wildness that has driven me to the commission of crime. I have every reason to
                  believe I will be accepted; for she returns my affection. What reason then could
                  she have for rejecting my suit? Egad! She must be mine. It will never
                  do to commit this crime for nothing. With Flora and seven or eight hundred
                  thousands to accompany her, I can be happy the remainder of my life. She is a
                  noble girl—so different from Mina. I never was happy with old Eglantine's
                  daughter. She was always too weak in the intellect. There is no comparison between
                  the two. Flora is a brilliant girl, whom it would be a sin not to love. I can no
                  more help loving her than I can change my physical form, or my own nature. With my
                  mental constitution I am positively compelled to bestow upon this magnificent
                  paragon of beauty all the warmest affection of my heart. To see her, is to love
                  her. I disclaim all responsibility for this state of affairs, or for any results
                  that may hereafter follow. Old David had a gentleman murdered to get his wife, and
                  I have not acted half as bad as he did; yet the lecherous old rascal went to
                  Heaven. Heaven or h—ll, I would not draw straws for the difference, if I can call
                  Flora Louvan my own. If there is such a being as a God, and he made me and
                  implanted passions in my heart that produce certain results, he is responsible for
                  all consequences. I leave him therefore to deal with me as he pleases. I do not
                  care a——."
               With these profane thoughts in his mind, Degroot approached the bed where his
                  little boy was slumbering in unsuspecting innocence. He held the glass in his
                  hand, and looked into the pale face of the invalid sleeper; but the picture of
                  angelic loveliness which the child presented made no impression on his stubborn
                  heart. He was too far gone in iniquity—too much maddened by his unholy passion to
                  be moved even by the horrors of murder.
               "Clarence," said Degroot, laying his hand on the boy and shaking him till he was
                  awakened.
               "Where is Ma?" said the child half rising and looking wildly around the
                  apartment.
               "She is gone out," replied Degroot. "Here is your medicine, Clarence; come, take
                  it like a good child."
               "Ma never gave me any like that. It's not the right color."
               "Never mind about the color. Your mother left this for you to take. Get up, and
                  swallow it down."
               "Ma told me never to take medicine from anybody but her," replied the boy looking
                  suspiciously at his father.
               "Did she tell you not to take it from me?" asked Degroot with a frown.
               "Yes sir, she did."
               "I do not care. You must take it. Come, get up."
               "Wait till ma comes back; then I'll take it."
               "No, you must take it now. Rise."
               "Where is ma?" asked the little fellow peeping out the window in terror.
               "She has gone out, I told you. Come, get up; I will wait no longer."
               "Oh pa," said the child crying piteously, "please wait till ma comes."
               "Not another minute. Get up and take it, or I will whip you."
               "Don't whip me, pa! Don't whip me!" cried the boy with terrified earnestness.
               "Take the medicine then, and I will not whip you."
               "Oh pa! I don't want to. Ma told me not to take it."
               "Clarence," said Degroot, "you are a naughty boy. Does your mother teach you to do
                  wrong? Does she tell you not to mind your parents?"
               "I know she don't; but she told me not to take medicine from anybody but her."
               "I will not stand it any longer," said Degroot, going to the fire place and
                  picking up a strip of plank intended for kindling. "Now take it, or I will punish
                  you."
               "Oh, pa! I mus'nt."
               Degroot sat the glass down, and lifting the crying child from the bed, struck him
                  several blows. "I'll take it! I'll take it!" at last exclaimed Clarence. "Don't
                  whip me any more. I'll take it!"
               "Well," said Degroot taking up the glass, "swallow it down then."
               "Is it bitter, pa?" asked the sobbing, trembling boy.
               "No. It has no taste at all. Down with it."
               Clarence thus forced by his inhumane father, drained the glass to the bottom.
               "Now go to bed, if you want to, and sleep."
               "Oh, where is my ma?" cried Clarence running to the door, and looking eagerly up
                  and down the road.
               "She will be back presently," said Degroot sternly. "Go to bed."
               Clarence obeyed, and returned slowly to the bed. He lay down a few moments, then
                  suddenly sprang up into a sitting posture. The father was watching him
                  closely.
               "Oh pa! it hurts! it hurts!" he cried laying his hand on his stomach. "Give me
                  water! water!" he continued in the greatest agony.
               "You must not make so much noise, Clarence," said Degroot handing him water. "Keep
                  quiet; it will quit presently."
               The boy threw himself back on the bed, clenched his teeth, and closed his lips
                  firmly over them. But still the medicine did not appear to operate with the
                  rapidity which Degroot desired; for taking the wine glass, he mixed another dose
                  somewhat larger than the first. When, however, he again turned to the bed, such a
                  marked change had come over the child's features, that he sat the glass down, and
                  placed his hand upon the little sufferer's wrist to feel the pulse.
               "Pa," said Clarence rousing up, "I'm so sleepy."
               "Well, go to sleep then," replied the father.
               "Oh my ma! Where is she?"
               "She will be here after awhile. Go to sleep."
               "Let me see her first."
               "Keep still, Clarence. If you do not the medicine will make you sick. You must not
                  talk."
               The child obeyed. He said not another word, but looked piteously into his father's
                  face. In a short time he was speechless. His eyes became set in his head. It was
                  evident that the arrow of death had penetrated the heart. Degroot kept his fingers
                  on the pulse, and watched the progress of the "grim monster" as he developed
                  himself in the lineaments of his little son's countenance. The pulsations grew
                  feebler and feebler, and then entirely ceased. The horrible deed was done. Poison
                  had sapped the foundations of life, and Clarence was transformed into an angel. He
                  lay sleeping in the beauty of that death which is but the beginning of eternal
                  life.
               "There is no earthly incumbrance now," thought Degroot rising. "Both are silent,
                  and can never appear as witnesses against me. I regret the stern necessity that
                  impelled me to the commission of this crime. But it is too late for repentance
                  now, if I were so disposed. I must go and reap the fruits."
               Degroot then broke open an old trunk belonging to his wife, and to his great joy
                  found more than a hundred dollars, which Joseph Eglantine had sent to his
                  niece.
               "Egad!" said he, "this comes in the very nick of time. It will save me the trouble
                  of trying to borrow. Who would have thought that Mina could accumulate such a snug
                  sum. She was very deceitful never to tell me about it. I never had much opinion of
                  her anyhow. However, I will not find fault now. De mortuis
                     nihil, nisi bonum. She was very kind to leave me this substantial
                  token of her affection. No thanks to her, though. This never would have fallen
                  into my hands, had she been the least suspicious of the designs of the Bloody
                  Junto."
               After this, he pushed the trunk under the bed, threw a quilt over the corpse of
                  little Clarence, and left the house. He took the road into the city, and stopped
                  at the first barber-shop to which he came. Here he had himself decently shaved.
                  The next manœuvre was to make some additions to, or rather to replace some of his
                  clothing. Then, with a swelling heart, he hastened to call on Flora Louvan. He
                  rang the door bell, sent in his card, and in a short time the young lady made her
                  appearance.
               "You are early this morning, Mr. Degroot," said Miss Louvan with a radiant smile,
                  after the customary salutations had been exchanged.
               "That is your fault—not mine," replied Degroot.
               "I do not understand you; how can that be?"
               "Why, you are so attractive. I was irresistibly drawn towards you, just as the
                  magnetic needle is attracted to the North Pole. If I were blind, I believe I could
                  find you by the power of love alone."
               "You are very much of a flatterer, Mr. Degroot,"
               "Far from it, Miss Flora. I meant exactly what I said. I am utterly miserable when
                  not in your presence. For months past I have seen no peace. I love you with a
                  madness that is excruciating. I can endure it no longer, and I have come to ask
                  you to put an end to my suspense, my agony, by gratifying hopes which you have
                  raised and encouraged."
               "What mean you, Mr. Degroot?" asked Flora in apparent surprise.
               "I mean, that I have come to ask you to be mine."
               "Indeed?" said Flora without any of that blushing and charming confusion which
                  usually follows a proposal.
               "Have I not a right to ask that great boon?"
               "To be sure you have; and I have an equal right to refuse it," replied Flora with
                  a laugh that might be interpreted in more ways than one.
               "You would have under certain circumstances, Miss Flora; but not after having so
                  wrought upon my affections as to render life insupportable deprived of your
                  presence."
               "I am really much obliged to you for the
                  unmerited compliment, Mr. Degroot, but I am unaware of any intention to create in
                  your mind an interest in my favor."
               "Nevertheless," replied Degroot, not overpleased with the young lady's manner, you
                  have managed to enslave my heart."
               "Managed, Mr. Degroot? I have practiced no arts, and employed no
                  tactics to secure your affections."
               "But yet," said Degroot with uneasiness, "I have loved you, and I have had good
                  reasons to suppose that my feelings were reciprocated."
               "Your reasons, I fear, would not stand the test of sound logic."
               "Tell me," said Degroot turning a shade paler, "if I have been mistaken? Is it
                  possible my affection has been thrown away? Is it possible that my emotions find
                  no response in your heart? Have I loved in vain? Say not so, Miss Flora. Do not
                  let me suppose, for one instant, that I have suffered ages of torturing suspense,
                  all for naught."
               "You might have relieved yourself of suspense long since, Mr. Degroot, by
                  mentioning this subject earlier."
               "In what way?" asked Degroot.
               "You could have received a positive answer; and that, I believe, always ends
                  suspense."
               "True; but would the termination of my suspense have been the beginning of
                  misery?"
               "That would depend upon yourself?" replied Flora laughing.
               "Do not mock me thus, Miss Flora, but tell me with candor what you mean?"
               "Exactly what I say."
               "Is my hope, then, destined to be blasted?"
               What hope, Mr. Degroot?" asked Flora with provoking coolness.
               "The hope which I have so long cherished—the hope with which I have solaced myself
                  until it has become a part of my nature—the hope that you will be mine. Am I to be
                  disappointed?"
               "If that is the hope to which you have reference, it rests upon a sandy
                  foundation, Mr. Degroot."
               "You will not be mine?"
               "Never," replied Miss Louvan with firmness.
               "Oh, do you really mean it?"
               "Most assuredly I do."
               "Then, in the name of common sense why have you deceived me so long? Why have you
                  tantalized me with vain delusions? You have done wrong, Miss Flora," he exclaimed
                  with reproachful energy. "You have done wrong to lure me into a mælstrom from
                  which there is no escape."
               "You do me injustice, Mr. Degroot," interrupted Miss Louvan, "by the use of such
                  language. I have never made any effort to engage your affections; nor can I be
                  held responsible for your hopes and anticipations. I have never even so much as
                  hinted that your visits were agreeable."
               "You never said they were disagreeable."
               "I know I did not. I flatter myself that I have been too well raised to insult
                  gentlemen who see proper to favor me with their calls. There are others, besides
                  yourself, that honor me with their company; but would it not be the heighth of
                  impudence and presumption in me to tell them their absence would be pleasing,
                  merely through fear that I might make conquests?"
               "It would in ordinary, social intercourse," replied Degroot, "but when I addressed
                  you in such a way that you could not possibly misunderstand my meaning, you did
                  not manifest disapprobation. I, of course, thought that you encouraged my suit. I
                  had a right, therefore, to suppose my addresses were not distasteful. You
                  encouraged me, Miss Flora, and I loved you with madness."
               "I never encouraged you, Mr. Degroot," replied Miss Louvan with dignity. "I cannot
                  allow you to say so without denying it positively and emphatically. You can
                  mention no expression of mine that ever was intended to make you believe that I
                  regarded you with more favor than my other visitants."
               "Your actions at least have induced me to believe that my suit would be approved.
                  Your very silence, when I made a declaration of love, which I did more than once,
                  signified acceptance. I could not construe it otherwise."
               "That was your construction, not mine."
               "Yes, but when you saw that I was in error, you should have dispelled it as soon
                  as possible, and thereby saved me a bitter disappointment. This you would have
                  done if you had had any regard for my feelings. But you did encourage me, Miss
                  Flora, by your actions, by your very failure to promptly crush my budding
                  affection. You knew that I loved you; for I frequently told you so. What would
                  have been easier than for you to inform me that my emotion was useless? How much
                  wretchedness you would have prevented. Why did you not do this? You have acted the
                  coquette, Miss Flora," exclaimed Degroot stung to the quick by his rejection. "You
                  have jilted me. You know not what you have done—what you have caused me to do. You
                  have triumphed; you have crushed my heart; you have driven me to desperation. I do
                  not care now what becomes of me. Life is a burden. But this victory will do you no
                  good. Every coquette receives an adequate punishment. You are no exception to the
                  rule, and you will come to no good. Mark it, you will come to no good."
               "This is strange language from a gentleman, Mr. Degroot."
               "I cannot help it, Miss Louvan. I am terribly disappointed. I have a right to
                  reproach you with your extreme cruelty, and the unnecessary anguish you have
                  caused."
               "I cannot allow you to proceed further in this strain, Mr. Degroot, without
                  entering my protest. I will not be responsible for your disappointment. I fear you
                  belong to that unfortunate class of persons who are always construing a lady's
                  friendship, if she should profess any, into a warmer sentiment towards themselves.
                  If you do, you deserve to suffer for your presumption. I have treated you as a
                  friend—nothing more. But if, because I received your visits in kindness and
                  familiarity, you were so vain as to suppose I was in love with you, you are
                  mistaken; and the fault is your own. I do not love you, and never dreamed of such
                  a thing. I cannot be justly blamed for that. I have a right to bestow my affection
                  upon whom I please. I cannot suffer you, therefore, to throw the responsibility of
                  your misfortunes on me. It is unkind in you."
               "Your defence is but a lame one, Miss Flora. But you are like all coquettes. They
                  entice to destruction, and then assume an innocence equal to the hypocrisy they
                  have practiced. You now look astonished—like an angel charged with perjury. You
                  put on an air of amazement at this denouement,
                  which you could not but foresee. Ah, Miss Flora, throw off that disguise. You have
                  been deceiving me all along. You are a consummate jilt; you have studied the
                  coquette's art thoroughly. You have acheived a victory; you have conquered me. I
                  acknowledge it. You have made me a desperate man."
               "Oh, you have your senses about you, Mr. Degroot. You are not yet non compos mentis," replied Flora with a smile.
               "You have transformed me into a murderer!" cried Degroot wildly.
               "I was not aware of that," said Flora with calmness.
               "You will force me to commit suicide," said Degroot rising.
               "I have heard others talk in this grandiloquent style before. I think you will
                  survive the disaster, sir."
               "Perfidious Siren!" thundered Degroot, who had so far forgotten himself as to draw
                  a pistol, "provoke me no longer, or I will send you on before me.—I have half a
                  notion to take you down to the regions of Pluto."
               While the discarded lover was thus raging, his form trembled with anger and
                  frenzy, his eyes glowed with a wild brilliancy, and he looked like a madman. A
                  complete change seemed to have taken place in Degroot's nature. The consciousness
                  that he had committed murder, and all to no purpose, threw him off his guard, and
                  he was reckless. Flora, in despite of her efforts to maintain her self-possession,
                  became alarmed at his terrifying aspect. She could not but fear somewhat for her
                  personal safety. To shriek aloud would only cause the assassin to hasten with the
                  execution of his bloody purpose. She did not doubt that he intended to use the
                  weapon on one of them. While Degroot was standing before her, with the pistol in
                  his hand, seeming momentarily to hesitate what course to pursue, she was
                  considering whether it would not be politic to spring to her feet and escape. She
                  had made up her mind to try the experiment, when a shadow darkened the door, and
                  then J. Wilkes Booth entered the parlor. The scene now rapidly changed; for
                  Degroot suddenly thrust the weapon into its place, turned upon his heel, went at
                  the top of his speed into the street, and hurried along in the direction of his
                  house. The acquaintances whom he chanced to meet stared at him as he went rushing
                  by with undignified celerity, and some even accosted him, but the murderer paid no
                  heed to the noisy world around him. Whatever might be the purpose he had in view,
                  he moved like one determined upon its accomplishment. The world seemed to glide by
                  him as he hurried on. The speed at which he was going soon brought him to his
                  shabby residence. Entering, he glanced at the bed; but nothing had been disturbed.
                  Little Clarence lay still and cold in the dread silence of that sleep which "knows
                  no waking." But Degroot's business was not to attend to the dead. He hastened to
                  the dawer in which the papers he had examined the preceding night were deposited.
                  He seized the poker and stirred up the fire that had nearly died out, then threw
                  the bundle upon the enlivened coals. He gazed at the burning mass, till the blaze
                  ceased, and then covered the blackened fragments with glowing embers, that no
                  trace of them might remain. Just as he had completed the destruction of his
                  papers, Joseph Eglantine walked boldly into the room. The murderer appeared a
                  little surprised to see him.
               "What will you have?" said Degroot.
               "I have come for the child of your wife," was the reply.
               "There he is," said Degroot pointing to the bed, and seeming to have no curiosity
                  in regard to Vanderbetterton or his purposes.
               "You don't deny having a wife then?" inquired Eglantine eyeing him with
                  sternness.
               "No," replied Degroot with cool candor.
               "You sentenced her to death last night."
               "Yes," replied Degroot in the same tone.
               "May I have the child?"
               "Take him, sir, take him."
               "He is your child?"
               "Yes, but take him if you want to."
               "Will you make no provision for his maintenance and education?"
               "No."
               "Why won't you?"
               "Because he will not need it. Look at him."
               Eglantine went to the bed, and uncovered the body; he laid his hand on the boy's
                  face, but it was cold.
               "He is dead?" said Eglantine in a hurried tone of inquiry.
               "I think he is."
               "You talk quite strangely, Mr. Degroot. This child was alive last night. What has
                  caused his death?"
               "I suppose he died for the want of breath."
               "You have murdered him!" exclaimed Eglantine horror-stricken as this conviction
                  seized upon his mind.
               Before any reply could be made to the charge, Mina Degroot came walking swiftly
                  into the apartment. She had been left by her uncle in the country, several miles
                  from Washington. He had promised to go back for the boy, and to rejoin her at a
                     certain hour. But when he reached the
                  city, he was necessarily delayed by the transaction of some business which he had
                  forgotten. The hour expired, and Mrs. Degroot was watching the road with a
                  mother's anxiety for the return of her uncle; but he came not. Another hour sped
                  away, and then she became uneasy and restless. She could not keep still. Taking
                  the road that led to the city, she traveled as she thought slowly along, with the
                  intention of meeting Joseph Eglantine and her boy. She kept moving on, becoming
                  more alarmed at every step. After a while she came within sight of the city. Here
                  she halted for only a quarter of an hour; but it seemed an age to her. She could
                  endure the torturing suspense no longer. She had forgotten her uncle's injunction
                  not to leave the house until he should come back. She feared that some dreadful
                  accident prevented his return. All the instincts of maternity urged her to go
                  forward. The horrible thought that Degroot might have murdered the boy,
                  accelerated her speed. This agonizing suspicion drove all considerations of
                  personal safety from her mind. The terrors of the Bloody Junto sank into
                  insignificance. To save her boy was the only motive that now controled her action.
                  When she arrived at her house she heard voices inside, but she stopped not to
                  listen. She merely glanced at the two men as she entered, and moved to the bed.
                  But when she beheld the pale countenance of her darling child, her grief, horror
                  and agony may be imagined by those who have witnessed such heart-rending
                  scenes.
               "Oh, Clarence, Clarence!" cried Mrs. Degroot, earnestly shaking the child, "wake
                  up, darling. Speak to your mother. It is I, Clarence. It is your mother. Oh, he is
                  dead! he is dead!" screamed the distracted mother in inconsolable anguish. "Oh,
                  Uncle Joseph, he is dead! he is dead! what shall I do? Clarence, Clarence!" she
                  cried gathering him in her arms, "wake up, darling. I have come after you. Speak
                  to me, Clarence!"
               At that moment the wine glass caught the eye of Joseph Eglantine, and the color of
                  the liquid at once aroused his suspicious.
               "You have poisoned the child!" he cried turning to Degroot.
               "Oh, Percy, Percy, why did you do this?" exclaimed the weeping woman.
               The murdered made no direct reply to this accusation; but he slowly rose from his
                  seat, and turned his back upon his accusers.
               "I have lived long enough," said he, talking more to himself than to any person in
                  the room. "I would henceforth be a disgraced man. I might even swing from the
                  gibbet, an accused felon. Kill me," he continued, facing Eglantine, "kill me. I am
                  ready."
               "Wretched murderer," said Joseph Eglantine sternly, "you deserve death, but I will
                  let the law take its course."
               "Kill me! kill me!" cried Degroot drawing his pistol.
               "The hangman will do that job for you."
               "Never, never!" exclaimed the murderer fiercely. "The law shall be cheated of its
                  victim. I will never stand upon a platform before that sea of human faces upturned
                  to behold the criminals death. I will rob the savage multitude of that pleasure.
                  Mina, you want to be revenged, and you shall be. Here is my blood."
               While Degroot was speaking he had been preparing the weapon for use, and by the
                  time the last words had escaped his lips, he placed the muzzle against the centre
                  of his forehead, and pulled the trigger. The contents were blown into his head,
                  and he fell heavily to the floor. The murderer's lips slightly quivered, and the
                  guilty soul of Percy Degroot had passed beyond the confines of mortality.
                  Eglantine had made an effort to prevent the suicide, but he was too late. When he
                  reached forth his hand the ball was in Degroot's brain.
               Here we must leave Joseph Eglantine and his miserable niece. To trace their
                  history further, though it might be interesting, would swell the present volume
                  beyond its intended limits. We will simply state that they left the City of
                  Washington as soon as circumstances would allow, and our kind reader must imagine
                  the rest. There are many thrilling incidents connected with the Bloody Junto,
                  which we have not the space to relate. Some of them have passed into history, and
                  will be read by future generations with feelings of horror. But discarding all
                  collateral incidents, except those that are necessary to a clear understanding of
                  our story, we will hasten on.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               
                  
                     
                        "Then come the wild weather—come sleet or come snow,
                        We will stand by each other, however it blow;
                        Oppression and sickness, and sorrow and pain,
                        Shall be to our true love as links to the chain."
                     
                  
               
               When last our attention was directed to J. Wilkes Booth, he had just entered the
                  parlor of Dr. Louvan. He was considerably surprised to see Degroot standing in the
                  floor, in the presence of Flora Louvan, with a pistol in his hand. Flora could not
                  but exhibit some indications of uneasiness and alarm: and the actor was about to
                  ask and explanation of the strange scene, when, as already stated in the preceding
                  chapter, Degroot suddenly put up his weapon, and dashed out into the street.
               "You were just in time to do me an important service," said Flora, after the
                  murderer had disappeared, and she had somewhat recovered from her momentary
                  fright. Here upon followed an explanation, which would not be interesting to the
                  reader to repeat, as it embraced only ground that we have already traveled
                  over.
               "I deem myself very fortunate, Miss Flora," said the actor after the young lady
                  had finished her explanation, "to step in in at such a moment. It is so like a
                  romance that you must excuse my haste, when I tell you I must endeavor to make the
                     denoument interesting, at least as much so as
                  is usual under circumstances of this character."
               "Qui est ce?" inquired Flora, her gayety
                  returning.
               "You have often read, in romances of savage ruffians making attacks upon
                  beautiful, but defenceless damsels?"
               "To be sure I have. That is a picture which is a perfect sine qua non in all thrilling novels."
               "But the picture would not be complete if a high-spirited, dashing beau did not
                  rescue the lovely damsel."
               "And then claim her hand as a reward for his great services," said Flora with a
                  smile."
               "Not so fast, Miss Flora. That would be quite ungenerous and cruel to the poor
                  maid, unless the same romantic attachment should spring up in her heart, that
                  induces the preserver of her life to claim the reward you have mentioned. The
                  romance without that consideration would be imperfect. But when affection becomes
                  reciprocal, then begins a most delightful story. You know the result."
               "Certainly, the course of true love never runs smooth. So they undergo many
                  grievous and tear-producing trials. Perhaps they are captured by merciless
                  savages, and are tied to the stake two or three times to be burned, or some other
                  disaster happens: then they finally escape."
               "But what is the finale—the grand winding-up
                  scene, without which no reader would think the story worth a perusal?"
               "I know what you want me to say," replied Miss Louvan. "A most magnificent wedding
                  is the conclusion."
               "Now you have come to the point," said Booth. "I want that to be the record of our
                  history, whose monotony has been slightly disturbed by the scene which has just
                  transpired."
               "You are in too much of a hurry, Mr. Booth," replied Flora gaily. "Your programme
                  would end the story in the middle of the volume. We have not gone through any of
                  the difficulties of the romance yet."
               "In some romances, Miss Flora, the difficulties come after marriage. Our history
                  at least, if the fates are auspicious, will begin with a marriage; and, no doubt,
                  afterwards you will think it romantic enough."
               "Why will I, Mr. Booth?"
               "That I cannot yet disclose—at least, only in part," replied the actor changing
                  his manner to one of more solemnity. "You recollect when I conversed with you
                  last, I told you I was dissatisfied with my condition in life. I was thirsting for
                  honorable distinction. My profession, it is true, has given me considerable
                  notoriety, but I am not satisfied with eminence of that character. My ambition
                  aims at posthumous fame. An actor, when he dies, is soon forgotten. His glory
                  clings to him, and goes down to the grave with him. That does not suit the
                  cravings of my soul. I want to live in the memories of men, after my bones rest
                  beneath the sod. My glory must not follow me like a shadow into eternity; it must
                  remain in the earth to perpetuate my fame, when I can no longer increase it by
                  action. I am therefore going to appear in history. The iron pen of truth shall
                  trace my name in ineffacable letters on the undying pages of time's ponderous
                  volume. Before another month is added to the past, the name of John Wilkes Booth
                  will be on every tongue throughout christendom. A deed will have been accomplished
                  that will startle the political and social circles of all Europe and America. I
                  will be the hero, not of an hour, but of an age."
               Flora made no reply to these extravagant assertions: but she was not indifferent
                  to the energetic voice that uttered the wild, maniacal words. There was an
                  influence in its very intonations, that was more charming to her than the sweetest
                  sounds of music.
               "These honors," said Booth, after a pause, "I now ask you to share."
               "Your honors are too far in the future, Mr. Booth," replied Miss Louvan, "to
                  dazzle an unimaginative mortal like myself."
               "Not so far as you night suppose," said the actor. "The sun will not rise again
                  ere Washington City will be in a perfect commotion."
               "Why? is mutiny brewing?"
               "I can say to you that a great movement will begin to-night—a movement that will
                  soon carry joy to thousands, yea millions of hearts, for it will bring peace to
                  our bleeding country. I am the projector of this movement. It has been going on
                  secretly for sometime past, but the hour is nearly at hand when it will be made
                  public. I am not permitted to reveal more than that, at present."
               "And 'that' is all Greek to me," said Flora smiling.
               "But it will all be disclosed before you are many hours older."
               Then there followed a short silence, such as sometimes takes place when two
                  awkward lovers lose their loquacity. The last remark, however, must not be thought
                  applicable to Booth and Miss Louvan, both of whom were well versed in the arts of
                  polite society. Their silence was but the natural pause precedent to a new
                  paragraph.
               Miss Flora," resumed Booth presently. "I must now ask you to decide my fate. Will
                  you share my destiny? You know that I love you. There is no use of a repitition of
                  that fact. You have had sufficient proof of it. Am I to be kept in suspense
                  longer? That is the question."
               "'To be, or not to be, that is the question,'" said Flora sportively.
               "We have had enough of this light talk, Miss Flora. I have asked you a serious
                  question that ought to be answered seriously and promptly; and it must be answered
                  so right now or never"
               "Why so, Mr. Booth?"
               "Because, if you discard me, or refuse to
                  give me a positive answer, either one way or the other, I shall leave Washington
                  City this very night to return no more."
               "Suppose I should answer affirmatively, what would be your course?"
               "There will have to be an elopement."
               "When?"
               "To-night."
               "What is the necessity for an elopement?"
               "One good reason is, that your father would be opposed to our union."
               "How do you know that?"
               "I learned it from Mrs. Coldheart."
               "Is that all the reason?"
               "No; another is that my affairs may be so situated that I cannot return to
                  Washington at all."
               "And in that case——?"
               "I will go to Europe."
               "How do you like the arrangement?" said Booth, after a short pause, during which
                  Flora seemed to be reflecting.
               "I am not very well pleased with it," replied the girl decidedly.
               "To what do you object!"
               "The whole arrangement is objectionable. This great movement that you speak of,
                  and which you say is destined to make you the hero of a world, appears to me
                  rather suspicious. There is a mystery concerning it which you fear to explain to
                  me. You talk sometimes like you had doubts about it yourself. But if the result is
                  to be as you affirm, why not wait till it becomes an absolute certainty?"
               "If I should, would you become Mrs, Booth?"
               "Oui, Monsieur," said Flora laughingly."
               Booth looked astonished at the young lady who had answered his question in such a
                  blind, wanton manner. No blush overspread her beautiful features, but her
                  countenance was gay with laughter at Booth's seeming amazement.
               "I scarcely know whether you understood the question or not," said the actor with
                  an air of perplexity.
               "Certainly I did, Mr. Booth,"
               "You must be jesting, then."
               "No sir; I am in cold earnest. What is so astonishing about it?"
               Booth was somewhat puzzled.
               "You treat the matter with too much levity," he said at length.
               "Do you want me to cry about it?"
               "No, of course not."
               "Do you want me to go into convulsions about it?" she archly inquired, and then
                  laughed more than ever.
               "I would rather you would do anything than laugh about it," said the actor. "It is
                  nothing to laugh at."
               "Very well. I can be as serious as a solemn sister of charity. I see you are
                  disappointed. If you do not like my reply I will change it, 
                     
                        'Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
                        I'll frown, and be perverse, and say thee nay.'
                     
                   Now go on. What next?"
               "That is for you to say," replied Booth. "I have told you plainly how matters
                  stand. We must be married this very day or probably not at all. The sooner the
                  better, as far as I am concerned. I have much business to transact to-day, and I
                  must therefore urge you to decide at once. If your decision is favorable to my
                  wishes, the ceremony will be performed in the course of an hour. Then to-night we
                  will leave the city."
               "To return when?"
               "That depends entirely upon circumstances. If the movement, of which I have been
                  speaking, be successful, we will return in a short time, in a triumph at that. If
                  by any mishap, though, it should not, we will go to Europe on a bridal tour. I
                  have an abundance of wealth, and we can live in the old world in splendor.
                  Whatever may the result of to-night's work, I will be a hero. Of that you may be
                  certain. Become mine then, Flora, in another hour, and we will fly from these
                  blood-stained shores, or be equal to the very proudest in the land. I believe your
                  father will have no cause to blush for his son-in-law. But in a fortnight from now
                  he will be proud to own J. Wilkes Booth as a relative. If, however, I should be
                  mistaken, we can be happy anyhow. Despite the world and the scorn of its self
                  inflated aristocrats, we can be happy. The consciousness of possessing your esteem
                  and affection would be sufficient happiness for me in any clime, or under any
                  circumstances; and if you feel half the affection for me that I do for you, we can
                  be independent of the world, even should poverty scatter its thorns along our
                  pathway. Will you agree to my proposition?"
               "I have my doubts as to the propriety of such a course, Mr. Booth."
               "You must decide one way or the other, Flora," said the actor showing a little
                  disappointment. "My time is very pressing. I must know my doom right now."
               It was fortunate for the actor that at this moment a third party appeared. The
                  wiry, scheming Mrs. Coldheart joined the two lovers. She seemed to be a confidant
                  of both parties. Thinking that it would be advantageous to the plans of the Bloody
                  Junto, to unite Booth and Flora in the holy bonds of wedlock, her persuasions were
                  now added to those of the actor. Miss Louvan did not readily accede to the
                  proposition of Booth. There was a struggle between love and pride. She had gloomy
                  forebodings in regard to the future; but she could not endure the thought of an
                  eternal separation from the handsome actor. So she at last yielded her better
                  judgment to that of Mrs. Coldheart, and consented to an elopement. The parties
                  then separated. Flora and Mrs. Coldheart went to the house of the latter to
                  prepare for the secret marriage. Booth soon made all necessary arrangements, and
                  rejoined his affianced in the course of an hour, accompanied by a minister. And
                  there, upon Friday, in the presence of only two witnesses, Miss Louvan gave her
                  hand and heart to an actor. She was Mrs. J. Wilkes Booth.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               
                  
                     
                        "He hastes him on with cautious heed—
                        Prepares to do the dreadful deed—
                        Then mounts upon his prancing steed,
                        And proudly rides away."
                     
                  
               
               Immediately after the marriage ceremony, John Wilkes Booth left his beautiful
                  bride to prepare for their flight, and proceeded leisurely down to Pumphrey's
                  stable situated on C street, in the rear of the National Hotel. Here he engaged a
                  couple of fine saddlehorses, promising to call for them in the middle of the
                  afternoon. It was now about half past eleven o'clock. From the livery stable he
                  went to the Kirkwood Hotel, on the corner of Pennsylvania avenue and Twelfth
                  street, where calling for a card, and a sheet of note paper, he sat down and wrote
                  upon the former as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              For Mr. Andrew Johnson:
                           
                           I don't wish to disturb you; are you at home?
                           
                              J. W. BOOTH.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "To this message," says a northern writer, "which was sent up by the obliging
                  clerk, Mr. Johnson responded that he was very busily engaged. Mr. Booth smiled,
                  and turning to his sheet of note paper, wrote on it. The fact, if fact it is, that
                  he had been disappointed in not obtaining an examination of the vice-president's
                  apartment and a knowledge of the vice-president's probable whereabouts the ensuing
                  evening, in no way affected his composure. The note, the contents of which are
                  unknown, was signed and sealed within a few moments. Booth arose, bowed to an
                  acquaintance, and passed into the street. His elegant person was seen on the
                  avenue a few minutes, and was withdrawn into the Metropolitan Hotel." Here taking
                  his seat in a private room, he composed his paper.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
                           "It not unfrequently happens when men's political designs are only
                              partially accomplished, that their names are coupled with infamy, and
                              their memories traduced, for the mere want of some vindication of
                              their motives and conduct. The present paper, in the event of my
                              failure to achieve all the purposes I have in contemplation, is
                              intended to give to posterity a clear insight into the motives that
                              prompted me to the commission of a bloody deed. To all those who may
                              be disposed to cast reproach and obloquy upon my name and memory, I
                              would say, extend sufficient charity as to believe I was controled by
                              principles of patriotism, and influenced by convictions of duty to a
                              suffering people. Do this, and my act may stand upon the gory pages of
                              history without any other defence or apology. Abraham Lincoln has
                              tyrannized over the people of the United States for four long years.
                              He has brought great calamities upon all classes of society, and
                              caused millions to shed tears of bitter sorrow. In a word, his
                              administration is characterized by a train of abuses and oppressions,
                              such as no people would endure from a crowned head. I cannot but
                              believe his death would lead to the immediate restoration of peace. He
                              is a tyrant, and I have determined, after mature deliberation, but
                              with the patriotism of a Brutus, to rid the country of his presence. I
                              bear him no malice whatever. It is not the man at whom the blow is
                              aimed, but the despot. Such in brief is my motive. If I am condemned,
                              I shall at least carry with me the approval of my own conscience.
                           "I know how foolish I shall be deemed for undertaking such a step as I
                              now have in view. On the one side, I have many friends and everything
                              to make me happy; where my profession alone has gained me an income of
                              more than twenty thousand dollars a year, and where my great personal
                              ambition has such a wide field for labor. On the other hand, I can
                              expect little from the south; a place now where I have no friends,
                              except beneath the sod; a place where I must become a private soldier
                              or a beggar. To give up all the former for the latter, besides my
                              mother and sisters, whom I love so dearly, (although they differ so
                              widely from me in opinion.) seems insane; but the God of truth and
                              justice is my judge.
                           "Right or wrong, God judge me, not man. For be my motive good or bad,
                              of one thing I am sure, the lasting condemnation of the north. I love
                              peace more than life. I risk my own life to secure this great blessing
                              to our distracted country. I have loved the union beyond expression.
                              For four years have I waited, hoped and prayed for the dark clouds to
                              break, and for a restoration of our former sunshine. To wait longer
                              would be a crime. All hope for peace is dead. My prayers have proved
                              as idle as my hopes; but God's will be done.
                           "Southern men! To you I owe a debt of gratitude. It was from you I
                              received the first words of encouragement, after I had been hissed
                              from the northern stage. It is for your sake, principally, that I
                              hazzard my personal safety, to secure to you the blessings of peace.
                              If I should fall in my attempt to free you from the shackles of a
                              galling despotism, call me not an assassin, as I think a portion of
                              the north will. I once volunteered among the noble sons of Virginia,
                              when John Brown endeavored to inaugurate a revolution, designed to
                              exterminate the whites of the south. I stood near him as a guard, when
                              he suffered the extreme penalty of the law, and paid the price of his
                              folly. I allude to this not in a spirit of braggadocio, but simply to
                              excite in your minds some sympathy for one who may go down to a grave
                              reddened with his own heart's blood. Whether this should be the case
                              or not, I may not soon have an opportunity of presenting to you the
                              reasons by which I have been governed. I may become a wanderer upon
                              foreign shores, and there may be none to palliate the 'so-called'
                              crime of John Wilkes Booth. Do not traduce my name. If you can shed no
                              pitying tear to my memory, do not at least join in the cry of those who may endeavor to
                              stigmatize me as a murderer. I leave my name and deed with you. If
                              they revive no fond associations in your memories, let them remind you
                              of the sacrifices I have made, in order to stay the tide of blood in
                              your sorrowful south. Remember, if I fall, I die in that 'last ditch,'
                              which the north has so long derided. Do this, and I am content.
                           
                              J. WILKES BOOTH."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Having carefully sealed the foregoing document, Booth again appeared upon the
                  street, and happened to meet with Clark, his brother-in-law. They both entered the
                  hotel, and the actor drew a letter from his pocket.
               "Clark," said he, "I am going to leave Washington to-night, and I have a request
                  to make of you."
               "Where are you going?" inquired Clark.
               "I have business that will require me to be absent for a few days," replied the
                  actor evasively, "perhaps two weeks. I may possibly be gone longer than that. But
                  no matter about the length of time. I want you to take care of this paper for a
                  short time. If by any accident I should not return at all, you are at liberty to
                  open it."
               "What is the matter?" asked Clark in surprise.
               "Nothing at all," replied Booth calmly. "In these days one cannot see what a day
                  may bring forth. I might," he continued with a smile, "be captured by the rebels,
                  and boarded in the hotel at Andersonville! Or I might take a notion to go out
                  west, or farther than that. If you hear anything of that sort, I want you to open
                  this paper. But I want you to keep it ten days any how, whatever you may hear. If
                  I get back in that length of time, you must return it to me unbroken."
               "Why, what is in it?" asked Clark.
               "That you will find out in due time."
               "Is it your will?"
               "No, no," replied Booth. "You will know soon enough—that is if I do not return in
                  ten days."
               "This is a strange movement, Wilkes," said Clark as if in doubt.
               "No, it is not," said the actor. "But if you do not wish to do me this small
                  favor, I will deposit the paper with some one else. It contains something that may
                  be useful, if I do not return shortly."
               "Oh, I can keep it for you," replied Clark, concluding that the document related
                  to Booth's pecuniary affairs.
               "Thank you. Let's go now and dine."
               It was now about one o'clock, and the two sat down to dinner. Clark discovered
                  nothing unusual in Booth's manner, or conversation. He was perfectly calm and
                  composed, and chatted along with his accustomed ease and gayety.
               A short time after the meal was finished, Booth went to Pumphrey's livery stable,
                  and calling for one of the horses which he had engaged, rode leisurely up F
                  street, turned into an alley between Ninth and Tenth streets, and thence into an
                  alley releading to the rear of Ford's Theatre, which fronts on Tenth street,
                  between E and F streets. Here he alighted, and deposited the animal in a small
                  stable off the alley, which he had hired sometime before for the accommodation of
                  a saddle horse that he had recently sold. Having done this, he entered the theatre
                  where Spangler, the stage-carpenter, was at work.
               "Good evening, Spangler," said Booth in an agreeable, familiar manner, as he
                  advanced to where the workman was engaged.
               "Good evening, Mr. Booth," replied Spangler, pausing and gazing at the
                  well-dressed person of the actor admiringly.
               "What's up now, Spangler? What is this box decorated with flags for?" inquired
                  Booth looking at the festoons of "stars and stripes" that hung down from the front
                  of the box.
               "Why, this is the president's box. Didn't you know that Mr. Lincoln and lady are
                  to attend to-night?"
               "Indeed!" said the actor in a tone indicating that this was news to him.
               "Yes, and Gen. Grant too."
               "They are all to occupy this box?"
               "I s'pose so."
               "What is the play to-night?"
               "I'm sure I don't know."
               "It ought to be Macbeth," said Booth with a smile which Spangler did not
                  understand. "That play would probably interest the president more than any other,"
                  he continued after a pause. "I should like to take a part in that play myself.
               "I aint seen you on the stage in a long time," remarked the carpenter slowly
                  resuming his work.
               "No, Spangler, I have quit the stage."
               "What have you done that for? I am sure you was doin' well."
               "So I was," replied Booth picking up a gimlet, and while Spangler's back was
                  turned boring into the door that closed the opening to the box prepared for Mr.
                  Lincoln. "So I was. My income is now sufficient to enable me to abandon the
                  profession of a stage-player, and I have done so. I am now trying something else.
                  I am in the oil business, which is very profitable. Sometime ago I gave eighty
                  dollars for a piece of oil land; how much do you suppose I am now offered for
                  it?"
               "I'm sure I don't know."
               "Fifteen thousand dollars," said the actor.
               "That was a lucky speculation," said the carpenter.
               "It was so indeed," replied Booth still turning the gimlet, that was gradually
                  making its way through the yielding wood. 'Anything I turn my hand to seems to
                  become profitable."
               "Some people are born lucky'" remarked the carpenter driving a nail, while Booth
                  favored by the noise of the hammer rapidly worked the gimlet. When Spangler had
                  struck the last blow Booth had made a small aperture through the door. Then
                  drawing his pocket-knife he commenced, as if absently, to clear the orifice in
                  order that he might have an unobstructed view of the interior of the box. Although
                  Spangler was afterwards sent to the penitentiary for six years upon the mere
                  supposition that Booth could not have made the gimlet-hole without his knowledge
                  and consent, yet the actor was so dextrous that Spangler did not observe that a
                  gimlet or a knife had been used on the door. After talking with Spangler a short
                  time, and having done all he thought necessary, Booth leisurely quitted the
                  building.
               He next returned to Pumphrey's livery stable, and calling for the other horse
                  which he had engaged, rode at an easy gait to Coldheart's residence. This animal
                  he deposited in a stable of the government official. Then going into the house, he
                  remained there talking with Mrs. Coldheart and Flora till the shades of night
                  began to appear.
               All things were now ready for the execution of Abraham Lincoln.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               
                  
                     
                        Now I will unclasp a secret book——
                        I'll read you matter deep and dangerous."
                     
                  
               
               The sun had now nearly completed his western journey, and his golden beams were
                  resting upon the domes of Washington City. Men hurried along the streets in order
                  to finish the business of the day, that might have been neglected for the want of
                  time. Fine officers, whose elegant persons were decorated with the blue uniform of
                  the United States, strutted about with arrogance, but halted occasionally to let
                  all have a full view of their magnificent forms—which view, they reasoned, could
                  be best furnished by a stationary position. After halting a sufficient length of
                  time to satisfy a reasonable curiosity, they would move forward to a new position
                  for the accommodation of other admirers of blue relieved by stripes and bars of
                  gilt. Gay ladies, ornamented with flashing silk and sparkling jewelry, some of
                  which was stolen from the highborn dames and beauteous belles of the rebellious
                  south, were seen promenading, when there was no danger of detriment to their arsenic whitened complexions from the mild rays of the occidental
                  sun. Momus and Bacchus were abroad, hand in hand. And why should they not be? The
                  great and terrible rebellion was now throttled: and the temple of Liberty, around
                  which the storms and tempests of half a century had howled, at last lay prostrate
                  in wide-spread ruins. The south was covered with blood and bones, and her heroes
                  consecrated every hill-top with libations of human gore. Orphans wept for bread,
                  and widows mourned for lost husbands, from the wave-lashed coast of North Carolina
                  to the confines of the "Lone Star" state. A broad band of frightful desolation,
                  marked with the black traces of fire, stretched across the whole extent of a
                  ruined, impoverished, conquered, mourning country. In many places bats flitted and
                  owls hooted amid the deserted ruins of demolished towns and cities. Grass grew
                  green and fresh in the streets. The picture of military devastation that met the
                  eye at every turn, caused the yankee heart to swell and throb with emotions of
                  lofty pride and exalted patriotism. It was indicative of the tremendous power of
                  the United States, whose proud emblem streaked with blood flapped defiantly in the
                  breeze over scenes of wholesale murder and misery. It was indeed a subject worthy
                  of rejoicing, and the yankees of Washington City slaughtered the "fatted calf" in
                  honor of the downfall of the hated confederacy. Senseless idiots! Let them rejoice
                  in blind folly till their joy shall be converted into mourning.
               We must now turn to the president's mansion, where Lincoln happened to be sitting
                  alone in his office. It was that hour which naturally brings up recollections of
                  the past—at which memories of days gone by come thronging pensively into the mind.
                  The hour of sunset—it divides light from darkness—it is saddening—it somehow
                  typifies the gloom of death, and reminds man of the moment when the light of human
                  life shall fade away, and he shall quietly pass to the realms of eternity. Such an
                  hour was now telling out its sacred moments, and Mr. Lincoln sat seemingly buried
                  in thought. What his reflections were on that evening, his last in this world, we
                  know not. He may have been thinking of the mighty struggle that had just ended, or
                  of matters entirely disconnected with his political duties. His thoughts may not
                  have been evil—especially when softened by the effect of the hour to which we have
                  alluded. We do not look upon Lincoln as a very bad hearted man. He never was
                  popular in the south; but still he was not so destitute of moral principle, and of
                  the tender, more elevated emotions of nature as some of our injured people appear
                  to believe. We candidly confess that we have no respect for the memory of Abraham
                  Lincoln. He never did anything in his whole life to endear him to our
                  "confederate" nation in the south. On the contrary, he adopted a line
                  of policy well calculated to render his name, in the southern mind, synonymous
                  with despotism. Notwithstanding this, he was not systematically cruel. From all
                  accounts, he was a man of great good humor, and of considerable sympathetic
                  feeling. His exterior was rude and rough, yet a soul possessing some of the nobler
                  qualities of humanity had taken up its abode in this unpolished habitation. No
                  doubt Lincoln frequently felt compunctions of conscience, when he reflected upon
                  the horrid havoc for which he was responsible. Yet, according to the southern
                  view, he might have consoled himself with the thought that he was a mere
                  instrument in the hands of a fanatical party. It would hardly be fair to hold him
                  alone responsible for the great calamities which his policy brought upon the
                  country. If Lincoln had been left to himself, with his medium intellect and
                  pacific, mirth-loving nature, free from party pressure, we do not believe the
                  disastrous war of 1861 would have been recorded on the pages of history. He was, without a doubt, a man in whom the
                  milk of human kindness flowed. Some anecdotes are told of his good nature, like
                  the following for instance:
               A gentleman visited the president one night in high dudgeon. He was a newspaper
                  proprietor, and one of his editors had been arrested.
               "Mr. Lincoln," he said, "I have been off electioneering for your re-election, and
                  in my absence you have had one of my editors arrested. I won't stand it, sir. I
                  have fought better administrations than yours."
               "Why, John," said the president, "I don't know much about it. I suppose your boys
                  have been too enterprising. The fact is, I dont interfere with the press much, but
                  I suppose I am responsible."
               "I want you to order the man's release to-night,' said the applicant. "I shant
                  leave here till I get it. In fact, I am the man who should be arrested. Why don't
                  you send me to Capitol Hill?"
               This idea pleased the president exceedingly. He laughed the other into a good
                  humor.
               "In fact," he said, "I am under restraint here and glad of any pretext to release
                  a journalist."
               So he wrote the order, and the editor got his liberty.
               It must not be inferred that Mr. Abraham Lincoln was a devotee to literature. Few
                  books were to be found in his office. Orpheus C. Kerr, and Artemus Ward were his
                  favorites.
               But we are guilty of an unnecessary digression. Begging the reader's pardon, we
                  will resume the thread of the story.
               As Mr. Lincoln was quietly sitting in his office, and the shadows were
                  lengthening, and gradually fading away before the approach of the dusky queen of
                  night, he heard voices on the outside of the apartment. In a moment afterwards a
                  pair of small feet stole gently over the well-worn carpet, and a little girl stood
                  at the president's side.
               "Is this Mr. Lincoln?" inquired she.
               "Yes, my child," replied the president kindly, "what can I do for you?"
               "Here is a letter for you. Please read it now."
               "Certainly I will," said Lincoln taking the letter."
               The little girl waited till she saw the document unfolded, and the president's
                  eyes rivetted upon the written lines, then she noiselessly vanished from the room.
                  The note was short. It merely stated that Mr. Lincoln was in danger, and requested
                  him not to go to the theatre that night, promising to call the next day, and enter
                  into fuller explanations. To it was attached the signature of Mary Surratt. She
                  had heard that morning of the arrest of Mrs. Degroot, but not of the attempt to
                  deprive her of life. She thought it now devolved upon herself to warn Lincoln or
                  he would go unsuspicious into the snare laid for him. She had no desire to betray
                  Booth or his accomplices; and she deemed it sufficient merely to inform Mr.
                  Lincoln that there was danger ahead, not doubting that he would be influenced by
                  her timely warning. But what effect it had upon the president may be seen in the
                  train of thought it aroused in his mind.
               "This is about the twentieth or thirtieth time I have received secret warning of
                  impending danger; but nothing has ever happened to me yet. I'm still alive and
                  kicking. I was threatened with murder when I was elected president of the United
                  States, and started to the capital. But I played a nice trick on the assassins, if
                  there were really any. I slipped in, disguised so that my own mother would not
                  have recognized "honest old Abe." Wouldn't it be a rich joke if I should be
                  frightened from the theatre to-night and this very letter should be published
                  tomorrow in the papers? Old Abe frightened from the theatre by a woman—a
                  fictitious one at that. It would be a magnificent joke indeed. Who is Mary
                  Surratt? It reminds me of Julius Cæsar, whose wife dreamed that he ought not to go
                  to the senate. So it would be said that old Abe was frightened by an old woman's
                  dreams, if it is a woman. It is probable that some of my friends are trying to
                  make an April fool of me. I've got many such notes as this, and never been killed
                  yet. I'll treat it with the contempt it deserves."
               Accordingly the president took the note in his powerful hands, tore it into
                  fragments and dismissed the matter from his mind.
               Two hours afterwards Mr. Lincoln and Colfax, of Indiana, were sitting together in
                  the same room. The president reached out his hand, took the walking-cane of the
                  latter, and commenced rattling away in the following grandiloquent manner:
               "I always used a cane when I was a boy. It was a freak of mine. My favorite one
                  was a knotted beech stick, and I carved the head myself. There's a mighty amount
                  of character in sticks. Don't you think so? Your man of energy of character
                  carries a stout, heavy stick, and he puts it down with a vim, while your
                  ring-fingered dandy, twirls a limber switch that wouldn't support the weight of a
                  full grown rat. He carries it for ornament. You have seen these fishing poles that
                  fit into a cane? Well that was an old idea of mine. Dogwood clubs were favorite
                  ones with the boys. I s'pose they use 'em now. Hickory is too heavy, unless you
                  get it from a young sapling. Have you ever noticed how a stick in ones hand will
                  change his appearance? Old women and witches wouldn't look so without sticks. Meg
                  Merriles understood that."
               "That is a very sensible observation," said Colfax.
               "I've always tried to study out the philosophy of small things like that,"
                  continued Mr. Lincoln. "There are a great many curiosities in small matters,
                  Colfax. For instance did you ever observe that if you place two objects so as to
                  form an angle of fifteen degrees on the retina, and close one of the eyes only one
                  of the objects can be seen, although both are directly before you? This was first
                  noticed by Ben Franklin."
               "Not Franklin," interrupted Colfax. "It was Sir David Brewster."
               "Well, may be it was. I am not well posted in the works of philosophers. Anyhow, I
                  saw it somewhere, and I've tested it frequently. Then there is another little
                  experiment which anybody can try, that is very surprising and puzzling. If you
                  cross two fingers and rub 'em on a bullet, it will feel like there are two
                  bullets. Do you recollect who discovered that, Colfax?"
               "Not exactly, but if you are fond of such things as that, I would refer you to
                  Brewster's letters on natural magic."
               "There are a great many little things curious and interesting, that can be found
                  out without referring to works on magic, but they are noticed only by few
                  persons."
               "Unfortunately," said Colfax, "men do not have much time in this life to study the
                  philosophy of nature."
               "Yes they do, Colfax, that is to a certain extent. They are too indolent, or
                  rather, are too greedy after "filthy lucre," to think about things that might
                  gratify the intellect. They think more about food for the body than the mind. That
                  is the great fault with the people of America. England is a long ways ahead of us
                  in this respect. The English are more literary than we are; and they have more
                  distinguished poets and historians than we do. I was very much pleased with
                  Macauley's 'Lay of the Last Minstrel.'"
               "Macauley's 'Lays of Ancient Rome' you mean."
               "No, no," said Lincoln, "Lay of the Last Minstrel."
               "Wasn't that the production of Scott?" asked Colfax, delicately.
               "No, no; Scott wrote the 'Bride of Abydos.' Youv'e got it mixed up Colfax,
                  somehow. But wasn't it a little strange that Shakspeare never wrote a play about
                  Napoleon Bonaparte. He was certainly more of a hero than Julius Cæar."
               "Good Heavens, Mr. Lincoln!" exclaimed Colfax, no longer able to control his
                  surprise, "what are you talking about? Shakspeare was dead and buried before
                  Bonaparte was ever thought of!"
               "I know the old man was; but didn't one of his descendants write plays?"
               "The law! no,—not that ever I heard of."
               "Anyhow," said Lincoln, laughing, "I am reminded of a good anecdote that amused me
                  very much the other day. There was a Dutchman lecturing on spiritualism, and a
                  minister took up a notion that he would test the fellow's knowledge of the
                  Testament. So he asked him if he knew who died to save sinners.
               'Oh yes,' quickly replied the Dutchman, 'tat vas Cot.'
               'Not exactly,' said the preacher. 'It was Christ, the son of God.'
               'So-oh' cried Dutchman. 'It vas vone of te poys, vas it? I always tought it vas te
                  olt man.'"
               "So, Colfax," said Mr. Lincoln, after a hearty laugh, "I always thought that 'vone
                  of te poys' might have written poetry after his daddy died. But I'm liable to make
                  mistakes in these matters. Iv'e never read poets like Scott, Byron, Allison, and
                  so on much. I don't think they are suited to the feelings of old age. There is not
                  much pleasure to be derived from these, after the ardor of youth has died out. I
                  now read only such books as 'Milton's Paradise Lost, and 'Pollok's Night
                  Thoughts.'"
               "How long has it been since you read the 'Night Thoughts?'"
               "Since I come to think about it," said Mr. Lincoln thoughtfully, "I believe it has
                  been about ten years."
               "I thought it must have been sometime ago," said Colfax.
               "Why, Colfax? what made you think so."
               "Because you have forgotten the author."
               "Who was the author?"
               "It was not Pollok—it was Young."
               "Did I say Pollok?"
               "Most assuredly you did."
               "Well, I meant Young. I'm not much of a hand at recollecting names—especially when
                  my head gets to wool gathering. It makes no great difference about names, nohow.
                  The rose would smell as sweet by any other name. If I can only get a good idea
                  into my cranium, I don't care who is the author."
               "Your excellency is right about that," said Colfax.
               "Many persons," continued Mr. Lincoln, "spout about Shakspeare, Byron and Milton,
                  and Jeffreys, and they couldn't give you a single idea advanced by any of these
                  great poets. Don't you think so."
               "I am sure I do. There is no doubt of it."
               "My forte, though, is politics, Colfax—not literature and science, I leave such
                  things as that to Willis, Emmerson, and other northern writers."
               "You leave out southern writers, I suppose," said Colfax.
               "There are so few in the south, they're not worth mentioning."
               "What is the reason of this, Mr. Lincoln? I have thought of it frequently. It can
                  not be that there is want of talent."
               "No, that isn't the reason. The scarcity of southern authors, is undoubtedly to be
                  attributed to the great evil of slavery, which always retards the progress of
                  civilization, and the advancement of literature. But apart from this there are
                  other difficulties in the way of southern writers, and one of these is the strange
                  disposition of the southern people to sneer at the literary efforts of their own
                  men. There is such poor encouragement that writers soon become disgusted, and
                  abandon the quill. Those people seem to prefer northern literature, even when it
                  pours forth its bitterest invective and sarcasm against their cherished
                  institutions. 'Uncle Tom's Cabin' was circulated more widely in the south than any
                  novel that ever was written. Many answers were written to that book, but they all
                  fell still-born from the press. Our
                  authors meet with more encouragement than those at the south. When a book is
                  published here, the press blows it and puffs it, and thus the author is encouraged
                  to try again. But in the south, when a young author comes out, his book is perhaps
                  very severely criticised, and his faults so greatly satirized, that he becomes
                  disheartened, and fears to adopt the profession of a writer. I don't know of a
                  single southern man that has adopted authorship as a profession. He couldn't live
                  at it, unless he should write for northern periodicals and papers. The southern
                  press never holds out any inducements sufficient to procure regular contributors,
                  and thus promote the development of talent. The consequence is that our magazines
                  and journals are a long ways ahead of the very best the south can afford. We have
                  paid contributors who make a handsome living by their writings. But I expect
                  better things of our southern brethren in the future. Slavery, that horrid
                  incubus, which has always cramped southern talent, is now abolished, and the
                  people will pay more attention to their moral and intellectual improvement. They
                  will, no doubt, spend their money for something else besides negroes and
                  mules."
               "I do not know about the mules," said Colfax, with a grin, "but I do not think
                  they will purchase many more negroes. Thank God, the vile traffic in human flesh
                  is done with."
               "Yes, we ought to be thankful for that, Colfax. I'm mighty sorry for our southern
                  friends. They will all have to go to work now. The negro is free, and the white
                  man will have to 'root hog, or die.'"
               "That they will, and I m glad of it."
               "I feel sorry for them, Colfax. I can't help it. I know they have erred seriously,
                  but that is like human nature, you know. They've done a heap of suffering since
                  1860, but may be it will teach them a good lesson. They won't try to secede from
                  the union again. They're a heroic people, and have made some mighty hard fights.
                  We ought to respect 'em for it. Because it's a proof that they're the true grit.
                  In a few years from now they'll be as ready to fight for the honor and dignity of
                  the United States as for their confederacy. I hate to see such a proud spirited
                  people humbled; but I'll make it all right with them. They are expecting
                  confiscation, and dreadful measures like that, but they'll be agreeably surprised.
                  I'll pursue a course of policy that will soon restore our good old union to its
                  original integrity. It will be established on a firmer basis; because the bone of
                  contention is gone. We will indeed be one vast, powerful nation."
               Just at this juncture Mrs. Lincoln came into the office.
               "Are you going to the theatre with me, Mr. Lincoln?" said she.
               "Do you want me to go?" inquired Lincoln good-humoredly.
               "It is expected that you will attend, Mr. Lincoln."
               "I guess I'll have to go, Colfax," said the president. "It's a mighty poor place
                  for old people, but I'll go in order to redeem my promise. The time for such
                  amusements with me has passed away. I'm getting too old to enjoy it. Are you
                  going, Colfax?"
               "No, I believe not."
               "Well, you must excuse me, for leaving you so abruptly."
               "Certainly I will," said Colfax, quitting the apartment.
               They parted to meet no more on this side of eternity.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Ere the bat hath flown
                        His cloister'd flight; ere to black Hecate's summons
                        The shard-borne beetle, with his drowsy hums,
                        Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
                        A deed of dreadful note."
                     
                  
               
               The lamps in Ford's Theatre were throwing a brilliant, pearly light upon the merry
                  countenances of a host of lively yankees. All seemed to be extremely happy. The
                  time had now come when the era of restored peace was to begin; and the great
                  yankee Moloch of horrid despotism had trampled the crushed form of Liberty under
                  his brazen heel, and his bloody altars could now be erected in the conquered south
                  without fear or molestation. His sway was now completely established over all the
                  length and breadth of the mournful confederacy, and there was none to dispute his
                  right. All must now pay homage at the shrine of the Baal of Abolitionism. The
                  Yankees at Ford's Theatre were unusually gay, jubilant and flippant. They were
                  ready to laugh at everything uttered by the actors, intended to provoke mirth,
                  whether it was worthy to produce that effect or not. Then they would shed tears
                  when Miss Keene told them they ought to, although they might under other
                  circumstances have been disposed to turn up their noses at her execrable wit. But
                  they were determined to enjoy the play, if for no other purpose, to temper the
                  violent emotions produced by the sudden termination of a calamitous war with
                  circumstances of a neutralizing character. Without something to divert their minds
                  from the political prospects of the country, their intolerable joy might have
                  caused their blood-vessels to burst, and thereby have produced sudden death. There
                  were hearts, however, in the smiling audience that did not partake of the general
                  joy. There were persons there in whose minds thoughts of a far different character
                  were playing. The nature of these thoughts, however, was not revealed by any
                  external signs. These individuals were scattered about in the assembly in
                  different parts of the crowded house; and although they appeared to be deeply
                  interested in the play, yet in reality they heard little that was said. Our reader
                  will know at once that they were members of the Bloody Junto.
               Presently Mr. Lincoln and his lady entered. They were followed by Major Rathbone,
                  of the provost marshal general's office, and Miss Harris, daughter of Senator
                  Harris, of New York. They were received with great applause, manifested by
                  stamping of feet, clapping of hands, and other demonstrations of approval and
                  affection. Before entering the box prepared for his reception, Lincoln turned to
                  the audience and bowed a courteous acknowledgment of the compliment paid him. Just
                  at the moment of his arrival Mr. Hawks, one of the actors, performing the
                  well-known part of Dundreary, had exclaimed:
               "This reminds me of a story, as Mr. Lincoln says."
               This was vociferously encored by the audience,
                  and the actor was compelled to repeat the story for the benefit of Uncle Abraham.
                  It certainty pleased the president, who laughingly turned to his wife and made a
                  remark, which was not overheard. Poor fellow! it was the last sly thrust at his
                  homely manners and his provincial bluntness that he ever heard in this lower
                  world.
               The box in which the president sat consisted of two boxes turned into one, the
                  middle partition being removed, as on all occasions when a state party visited the
                  theatre. The box was on a level with the dress circle, about twelve feet above the
                  stage. There were two entrances—the door nearest to the wall having been closed
                  and locked; the door nearest to the balustrades of the dress circle, and at right
                  angles with it, being open, and left so after the visitors had entered. The
                  interior was carpeted, lined with crimson paper, and furnished with a sofa covered
                  with crimson velvet, three arm chairs similarly covered, and six cane-bottomed
                  chairs. Mr. Lincoln seated himself comfortably in one of the arm chairs, and
                  looked on the histrionic scene with an expression of interest. Sometimes a brief
                  smile would play over his solemn face, and his iron like features would
                  momentarily relax their sternness, whenever anything in the form of a good joke
                  struck his fancy. Mrs. Lincoln was leaning forward with her elbows upon her
                  husband's knees, and gazing at the actors with a woman's relish. Miss Harris sat
                  next to her, and behind these was Major Rathbone. A servant stood at the door to
                  prevent intrusions upon the distinguished visitors.
               The play was pleasantly progressing, when suddenly there was a murmur near the
                  audience door, as of a man speaking above his bound. He said:
               "Nine o'clock and forty-five minutes!"
               These words were reiterated from mouth to mouth until they passed the theatre
                  door, and were heard upon the side-walk; but none knew what they meant except the
                  conspirators.
               J. Wilkes Booth now stepped to the door of Mr. Lincoln's box.
               "This is the president's box," said the servant.
               "I know it," replied Booth. "I wish to enter."
               "What for?" inquired the servant.
               "I have business with the president."
               "Can't you wait till some other time? The president does n't wish to be disturbed.
                  Won't to-morrow do?"
               "My business is of the utmost importance," replied Booth. "I must see him this
                  very night—right now."
               "Come in then."
               The servant stepped to one side, and Booth entered. But inside he met with further
                  opposition. Major Rathbone rose.
               "Do you know upon whom you are intruding?" said he. "This is the president's box,
                  and none are allowed to enter."
               To this Booth made no reply, but merely glanced at the position of the parties,
                  then hastily withdrew as if he had gone into the wrong box. Mr. Lincoln had
                  partially turned his head to see what was causing the disturbance, but Booth had
                  disappeared.
               Directly a voice cried:
               "Nine o'clock and fifty minutes!"
               This also passed from man to man until it reached the street.
               "Nine o'clock and fifty-five minutes!" said the same relentless voice, after the
                  next interval, each of which narrowed to a shorter span the life of the
                  unsuspecting president.
               Ten o'clock here sounded, and conspiring echo said in reverberation:
               "Ten o'clock!"
               So creeping from lip to lip it went:
               "Ten o'clock and five minutes!"
               Here followed an interval.
               "Ten o'clock and ten minutes!"
               Another interval.
               "Ten o'clock and fifteen minutes!"
               Scarcely had the last words died away before Booth again appeared at the door of
                  Lincoln's box. This time he halted not to be told that he was intruding. He
                  fearlessly entered, while apparently sparks from the glowing fires of ambition and
                  pseudo patriotism shot forth from his brilliant eyes. There was no resisting him.
                  Rushing to where Lincoln sat, he leveled his arm and pulled the trigger of his
                  pistol, a Deringer. A keen, quick report and a puff of white smoke—a close smell
                  of powder, and the president's head dropped upon his shoulder: the ball was
                  imbedded in his brain. Mrs. Lincoln screamed and Miss Harris shrieked; but Booth
                  stayed not to watch the consequences of his deed. He dropped his pistol on the
                  floor, and drawing a bowie-knife struck Major Rathbone, who opposed him, ripping
                  through his coat from the shoulder down, and inflicting a severe flesh wound in
                  his arm. He leaped then upon the velvet-covered balustrade at the front of the
                  box, between Mrs. Lincoln and Miss Harris, and parting with both hands the flags
                  that drooped on either side, dropped to the stage beneath. Arising and turning
                  full upon the audience, he exclaimed in a loud, clarion-like voice, that reached
                  to every part of the crowded house:
               
               "SIC SEMPER TYRANNIS! VIRGINIA IS AVENGED!"
               In another instant he had fled across the stage and behind the scenes. Colonel J.
                  B. Stewart, the only person in the assembly who seemed to comprehend the deed
                  which had been committed, climbed from his seat near the orchestra to the stage,
                  and attempted to pursue the conspirator; but Booth's motions were almost as quick
                  as thought, and he vanished like a spirit. Meeting Mr. Withers, the leader of the
                  orchestra, just behind the scenes, he struck him aside with a blow, which however
                  was not a wound; overturning Miss Jennie Gourlay, an actress, who came next in his
                  path, he gained without further hindrance the back door previously left open, at
                  the rear of the theatre; rushed through it; leaped upon the horse held by Mr.
                  Spangler, and without vouchsafing that person a word of explanation, rode out
                  through the alley leading into F street, and thence rapidly away.
               After the lightning-like exit of Booth, a scene ef indescribable confusion ensued.
                  Miss Harris shrieked for water, and the full, horrible truth broke upon all—"The
                  president is murdered!" Some women fainted, others uttered piercing screams, and
                  cries for vengeance and unmeaning shouts for help burst from the mouths of men.
                  Miss Laura Keene, the actress, proved herself in this awful time fully able to
                  sustain a part in real tragedy. Pausing one moment before the footlights to
                  entreat the audience to be calm, she ascended the stairs in the rear of Mr.
                  Lincoln's box, entered it, took the dying president's head in her lap, bathed it
                  with the water she had brought, and endeavored to force some of the liquid through
                  the insensible lips. But all was useless, useless, useless. Lincoln was totally
                  unconscious. He never uttered another word.
               As soon as the confusion was partly overcome, and the crowd was dispersing, the
                  form of the president was conveyed from the theatre to the residence of Mr.
                  Peterson, on the opposite side of Tenth street. Here upon a bed, in a little
                  hastily prepared chamber, it was laid, and attended by Surgeon-General Barnes, and
                  other physicians. But Lincoln was beyond the reach of all human aid. His destiny
                  was now fulfilled—the sand had all trickled to the bottom of the hour-glass, and
                  the medical skill of all yankeedom could not restore his waning life. He lingered
                  through that awful night, and breathed his last the next morning at twenty-two
                  minutes past seven o'clock. Then yankees were mourning, and rebels were mourning:
                  from different causes, however.
               The one nation wept over the prostrate form of a single individual; the other over
                  a ruined country, desolated by the mere nod of the man who now lay calm and cold,
                  and who was not permitted to gaze longer upon the fields of carnage his folly had
                  created.
               Thus died Abraham Lincoln, the chief victim of the Bloody Junto.
               While this frightful tragedy was enacting in the theatre, another equally as
                  horrible was transpiring at the residence of Secretary Seward. Payne deliberately
                  rode to Mr. Seward's house, which was a solid three-story brick building, and was
                  formerly the old Washington Club-house. There were no signs of trepidation
                  discoverable in any of his movements. His countenance wore an expression of sad
                  calmness rather than ferocity. He acted exactly like a man who was going to
                  perform a disagreeable but a necessary duty. Considering himself a mere
                  instrumentality under the control and guidance of destiny for the achievment of
                  some hidden purpose, he rode leisurely along as if he were in no way responsible
                  for the terrible deed in contemplation. And such may have been the case for aught
                  any one knows to the contrary. It is not the province of mortals to decide upon
                  the ways of Providence.
               Payne's part in the tragedy was more remarkable and mysterious than Booth's, or
                  any other man's who was engaged in the conspiracy. He appeared to act almost
                  without motives, if such a thing is possible. Booth was partly controled by a
                  restless ambition, that was burning to achieve some deed of daring which would
                  hand down his name to undying immortality. Closely associated with this incentive
                  was a strange combination of gratitude, pity and patriotism. He felt somewhat
                  grateful to the southern people, who had offered him sympathy and encouragement
                  when he was striving to subdue the difficulties that beset his youthful pathway;
                  and he could not now but pity the unparalleled sufferings and privations they had
                  endured in the contest for national existence. He was patriotic, so far as he
                  wished to restore peace to both north and south, and prevent the further
                  outpouring of blood. Even the miserable Atzerott was not without incentives. He
                  was perhaps lured on by the hope of gain, and by the fact that he had become a
                  very important personage in a grand scheme, whose execution would cause the whole
                  world to reel with astonishment and horror. If his ambition was not as exalted as
                  Booth's, yet he may have been governed by that principle to a certain extent. The
                  dazzling prospect of becoming a Lord in a splendid monarchy, might have had no
                  little to do with arousing his shrinking courage to the proper degree of murderous
                  enthusiasm.
               But Payne was uncontrolled by any motives of this character. He could not have
                  acted from a principle of patriotism: if he had a country, none knew where it was.
                  He was not ambitious; because he was studious to keep his identity wrapped in
                  impenetrable obscurity: his very name is to this day unknown. He was not
                  avaricious; because in all the transactions of the Bloody Junto, he opposed every
                  scheme that appeared to promise wealth. Indeed, he offered resistance to nearly
                  every measure proposed by the conspirators. But strange to relate, when the time
                  for action came, and a deed was to be performed that was revolting to the human
                  heart, Payne was the coolest, most determined ed man of all the members of the
                  Junto. A man is much braver and more daring when he acts before the eyes of his
                  fellow men, than alone. This circumstances must have worked up Booth's feelings
                  till he was temporarily super-human. But while he was enacting a tragical scene
                  before hundreds of amazed faces, and was rendered more bold by this fact, Payne
                  was alone discharging the bloody duty assigned him, with the sang froid of the coolest, most stubborn stoicism.
                  Booth seemed to think, to calculate, and to plan; Payne struck—and with the
                  merciless indifference of a machine. This will be seen in the manner in which he
                  carried out the part of the programme allotted to him.
               No sooner had he quietly hitched his horse in front of Seward's house, than he
                  rang at the door. The summons was answered by a servant.
               "I desire to see Mr. Seward," said Payne.
               "He is very sick," replied the servant. "No visitors are admitted."
               "But I am a messenger from Dr. Verdi, Mr. Seward's physician. I have a
                  prescription which I must deliver to him myself."
               "My orders are positive to admit no visitors," said the servant.
               "I can't help it," replied Payne. "Dr. Verdi instructed me to deliver a
                  prescription to Mr. Seward, and I am a going to do it."
               So without further parley he easily pushed the servant aside, and ascended the
                  stairs. Moving to the right, he proceeded towards Mr. Steward's room, and was
                  about to enter it when Mr. Frederick Seward appeared from an opposite doorway.
               "Who are you? demanded Mr. Frederick Seward.
               "I am a messenger from Dr. Verdi, sir. I have come to see Mr. Seward."
               "That you can't do. My father is in no condition to see any one."
               "I know my business," said Payne. "I will see him."
               "No, you shall not," replied Frederick firing up.
               "We will see," calmly replied Payne, suddenly closing the controversy by striking
                  Mr. Frederick a severe blow across the forehead with the butt of a pistol. This
                  felled the young man senseless to the floor. No sooner was this hasty performance
                  concluded than Major Seward, another and younger son of the secretary, emerged
                  from his father's room. Payne had no desire to bandy words with any one. So he
                  drew a knife, without speaking, and struck the Major several blows with it,
                  rushing into the chamber as he did so; then after dealing the nurse a horrible
                  wound across the stomach, he sprang to the bed upon which the secretary was lying,
                  and stabbed him once in the face and neck. Mr. Seward arose convulsively, and fell
                  from the bed to the floor. Payne thought he was dead. Turning and brandishing his
                  knife anew, he walked from the room, passed the prostrate form of Frederick Seward
                  in the hall, descended the stairs, remounted his horse, and rode away as if
                  nothing unusual had happened. He traveled in an easy pace till he had gotten to
                  the suburbs of the city; and then quickened his speed to a full gallop. The lights
                  in the city were fast fading from view, and the houses were becoming more and more
                  scattered, as he went rushing away. He thought he was in the road Booth was to
                  travel. They were to meet at a certain spot previously agreed upon. When he had
                  reached the last house bordering upon the suburbs, he discovered that he had taken
                  the wrong road. He now came to a halt, and after reflecting a moment. concluded to
                  go through the woods and get into the right road. Suddenly turning his steed at
                  right angles to the highway, he plunged the spur so deep into his side, that the
                  animal sprang forward and unfortunately threw Payne to the ground, then darted off
                  too swift to be pursued. Payne was in a dilema; he knew not what to do, and like a
                  confused man usually acts, at last did the very thing which he ought not to have
                  done. His presence of mind seemed all at once to leave him. He hastily pulled off
                  his coat, which was stained with blood, and threw it on the road-side. Then
                  besmearing himself plentifully with dirt, and passing by a house picked up a spade
                  that he accidentally stumbled on lying near the middle of the road. In this
                  disguise he started back to the city, intending to pass himself off as a
                  ditcher.
               The performance of Atzerott in the tragedy was anything but creditable to himself.
                  Absent from the impulsive Booth and the resolute Payne, and left alone to his own
                  reflections, the perk little German appeared to place a lower estimate upon his
                  prospective dukedom, with all its brilliant accompaniments, than he had formerly
                  done. All day Friday he was seen loitering about the Kirkwood Hotel, occasionally
                  strutting around with airs of importance which he could sustain only for a short
                  time. For whenever the thought of what he was to do that night, would come
                  creeping into his mind, the risk he would have to run was somewhat terrifying, and
                  he felt disposed to shrink back into the natural nothingness, in which he was
                  born, and in which he had heretofore lived. In the latter part of the afternoon he
                  walked in to the bar room of the Kirkwood Hotel, and while under the influence of
                  a fit of transitory self esteem, approached the bar-keeper.
               "I vants a room mit you to-night," said Atzerott with a toss of his empty
                  head,
               "Very well," replied the bar-keeper turning to his book in search of an unoccupied
                  chamber. "You can get one."
               "Ish not Mr. Shonson in tish hotel?"
               "What Mr. Johnson, sir?"
               "Mr. Antrew Shonson—te vice-president."
               "Yes sir. He has a room here."
               "I vants my room close to him," said Atzerott attempting to look proud. "He ish an
                  vriend of mine. I vas talk mit im many time when he lived in Greenville."
               "I can put you in No.——. That is directly over Johnson's," said the bar-keeper manifesting no curiosity to hear an
                  account of the German's acquaintance with the vice-president.
               "Dat vill do," replied Atzerott. "I vants to talk mit him to-night. I knows he
                  vill pe glad to see me. It's pin long time since I talk mit Mr. Shonson. He pe von
                  creat man sir, an if he live, will pe te nex president. He ought to pe; for he
                  loss mooch in dish war. Ish you pe acquainted mit Mr. Shonson?" he continued
                  addressing the barkeeper.
               "No sir. I have not that honor."
               "Den I will introduce you to im sometime," said Atzerott patronizingly. "I knows
                  you will like im mooch."
               Atzerott suddenly ceased. He accidently caught the eye of Major
                     O'Breme, of New York, fixed contemptuously upon him. The
                  fussy German could not endure the gaze, and immediately "was himself again." He
                  tucked down his head like a sheep-killing cur, and sneaked out of the room.
               That night Atzerott retired at a very early hour to his chamber. Having closed the
                  door, he drew a tremendous bowie-knife and a Colt's cavalry revolver, and after
                  gazing at them awhile, and aiming the pistol at the bed-post to see if his nerves
                  were steady, he deposited them between the mattresses of his bed. A little after
                  nine o'clock he heard some one enter the chamber under his own, and he supposed it
                  to be Mr. Johnson. This caused a violent throbbing in Atzerott's breast, and a
                  cowardly trembling from head to foot. So he lay quaking upon his bed, fearing even
                  to move, lest Johnson's ghost might discover him, and wishing he was any where
                  rather than where he was. Atzerott had no idea of murder now. He would not have
                  gone into Mr. Johnson's room for a hundred dukedoms. At last ten o'clock arrived,
                  and half an hour afterwards Atzerott heard a great commotion in the
                  street.—"President Lincoln is murdered?" fell upon his ear like a thunder clap. He
                  started up from his bed in a fit of terror, and rushed down stairs, leaving his
                  baggage and his murderous weapons. Gaining the street, he passed through the
                  excited crowd, found safer quarters, and betimes the next morning he fled to his
                  uncle's in Montgomery county.
               Thus at least a part of the programme of the Bloody Junto was carried out ad literam. To the southern people the death of
                  Abraham Lincoln appears to have been providentially ordered, to save an already
                  ruined country from the lowest depths of political and social degradation. We know
                  that such language as this will sound like blasphemy and sacrilege to yankees; but
                  still it is believed by southern men that if Lincoln had lived, our condition
                  would have been wretched in the extreme. We considered the president's murder,
                  immediately after it occurred, a great calamity to the south. Because it was
                  supposed that Andrew Johnson would be more of a radical in his policy than his
                  predecessor, and that he would deal more harshly with his countrymen than the most
                  rabid yankee could desire. It was remembered that he had been grossly insulted in
                  his own state, at the beginning of the war, and his name was for a long time used
                  as a substitute for "traitor." It could not be expected, therefore, that he would
                  overlook the injuries that he had received at the hands of his neighbors. He could
                  have taken a revenge that would have gratified the bitterest malignity. He could
                  have out-Heroded Lincoln, and it would have been in accordance with southern
                  expectation. As events have happened, we cannot now but consider Andrew Johnson—a
                  second Joseph banished by the decrees of Deity into a land of darkness for the
                  political salvation of his brethren. Abraham Lincoln never would have taken the
                  noble stand for constitutional liberty, which has exalted his successor and his
                  administration in the eyes of all civilized nations. The former drank the sour
                  milk of abolitionism from his very birth. He would therefore have forced negro
                  suffrage upon the conquered south, and perhaps might have attempted to establish
                  the odious doctrine of the social equality of races. Taking this view of the
                  subject, it does seem to us that the finger of Providence is palpable in his
                  timely removal. It occurred exactly at the right time. If it had taken place
                  sooner, Johnson might have been committed, by the force of political
                  circumstances, to a course of action opposed to his own better judgment; later he
                  might have been compelled to carry out a disastrous system of policy, inaugurated
                  by his predecessor. It might have been so far advanced that it could not have been
                  changed without the greatest difficulty. We assert therefore that it Lincoln's
                  death was not providential, it was a very strange, remarkable incident.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               
                  
                     
                        "He therefore wisely cast about,
                        All ways he could t' ensure his throat—
                        And to the utmost do his best
                        To save himself, and hand the rest."
                     
                  
               
               All that fearful night of Lincoln's death, Washington was in a most terrible
                  uproar and commotion. As soon as it was fairly ascertained that the president was
                  shot, the crowd broke from Ford's Theatre, and commenced scattering through the
                  different streets. "The president is murdered!" "The president is shot!" cried
                  thousands of voices, and on they rushed pell-mell in order to have the pleasure of
                  spreading the news. After a short time they met with other crowds coming from
                  different directions, exclaiming, "Secretary Seward has been assassinated!"
                  "Secretary Seward has been killed in his bed!" Then a variety of inquiries and
                  exclamations followed. The wildest excitement prevailed. Parts of the crowd went
                  on with the combined news—"Mr. Lincoln and Seward have been murdered!" bawling it
                  at the top of their voices. Presently all kinds of rumors were afloat. Suspicious
                  of an organized conspiracy fastened upon the minds of the people, and they began
                  to bawl out lustily ly, "Where is General Grant?" "Where is Secretary Stanton?"
                  "Where are the rest of the cabinet?" "There's an insurrection in the city!" "We
                  are attacked by the rebels!" "Mosby is upon us!" "To arms! to arms! to arms!" And
                  they went flying through the city like gangs of frightened sheep.
               Coldheart heard all these various, wild cries with a violently throbbing heart. He
                  and his wife were sitting in their room by a very dim light. They were waiting
                  impatiently and anxiously to hear that Winthrop had seized the presidential
                  mansion with his force, and had taken possession of the government. He did not
                  intend to proclaim himself emperor until he could see that the enterprise would be
                  crowned with success. Presently a quick rap was heard upon the door.
               "Who is that?" inquired Coldheart.
               "It is I—Winthrop."
               The door was very hastily opened, and Winthrop entered puffing and blowing as if
                  he had been running a foot race.
               "What news, Winthrop?" asked Coldheart before his visitor could be seated.
               "Bad enough, sir, bad enough."
               "What in the name of heaven is the matter?"
               "Our scheme has proved an entire failure—thats all."
               "Why has it?"
               "Well, sir, to be brief, one half of our force got drunk."
               "That would make them the more desperate," interrupted Coldheart.
               "They are beastly drunk." replied Winthrop with a long breath. "They are perfectly
                  unmanageable. Not many can stand on their feet."
               "What did you let them have whiskey for?"
               "I did not know they had it."
               "That is provoking," replied Coldheart, "but could you not act with the remainder?
                  They might be sufficient."
               "I thought so too, and I had concluded to take the White House. But a few moments
                  since, as the news of Lincoln's death reached us, and a crowd of citizens came
                  wildly tearing along the street, our soldiers joined in with them. There was no
                  doing anything with them; they nearly all deserted me. So I left in order to
                  report the result to you."
               "Did any of them know why you had them under arms?"
               "Not a solitary one of them."
               "We are in no very great danger, then," said Coldheart.
               "I am afraid we have missed the figure in keeping our design so profoundly secret
                  from our soldiers," said Winthrop. "If they had known exacly what they were to do,
                  they might have acted very differently. I almost know they would."
               "That is very questionable, Mr. Winthrop. It would have been very dangerous in the
                  event of failure. The wretches would betray us as quick as they would take a dram.
                  As matters have turned out, it is a good thing they did not know it. It is always
                  best to be on the safe side. But there is no use talking of what might have been.
                  Where is Johnson?"
               "I do not know."
               "He is living then?"
               "I suppose so, or we would have heard of his death."
               "That is bad, bad, bad," said Coldheart; "but do you not think you might gather up
                  some of your men, and carry out the plan, yet?"
               "I am afraid not. I do not know where to find one of them now. They are scattered
                  all through the city. Besides, the police is rapidly collecting, and it would be a
                  most hazardous experiment. I have had all the telegraph wires cut, and this will
                  arouse suspicion that there is an organized band of insurrectionists in the city.
                  The citizens will all be under arms, and in sufficient force to overpower the few
                  of our fellows that I might find. We would all certainly be captured. No, no, Mr.
                  Coldheart, I would not like to attempt such a thing. We have made the wrong start
                  in the business somewhere or somehow, sir."
               "Somebody has blundered grievously," said Coldheart bitterly as he saw all of his
                  hopes tumbling to the dust. "I thought everything was working finely."
               "I am sure I did all I could" replied Winthrop. "I was deserted by my company; I
                  could not do the job alone."
               "You have no time to lose, Mr. Coldheart," now spoke up the official's wife, who
                  had been listening all the while with trembling curiosity. "You must take measures
                  for your own safety. What are you going to do.'"
               "I expect we will have to abandon the project."
               "I guess we will, sir," replied Winthrop. "We can do nothing else. I am very sorry
                  we have failed; but there is no help for it."
               "Winthrop," said Coldheart thoughtfully, "you must have this woman—Mrs. Surratt
                  arrested."
               "By whom? inquired Winthrop, "and how will I have it done."
               "By the police. All you will have to do, is simply to put the detectives on her
                  track. I have a notion that she will endeaver to betray us. I have always been
                  afraid of her. I never did like her feline looks. But she can't betray us easily,
                  if she is herself charged with complicity with Lincoln's murder. We can manage her
                  much better in prison. You would best attend to this immediately."
               "I guess I can have it done" replied Winthrop rising, "and I think myself it would
                  be advisable."
               "Please return as soon as you can," said Coldheart as his visitor was
                  starting.
               Accordingly, Winthrop took his departure to accomplish this iniquitous deed—an
                  outrage upon a helpless, innocent, woman.
               "Mr. Coldheart, what will you do?" inquired Mrs. Coldheart, in an
                  excited tone, as soon as Winthrop had disappeared.
               "Keep cool, Mary. I will get out of the difficulty. It is a most wretched
                     failure, though, and I am greatly
                  vexed. Winthrop has caused the whole thing to miscarry. I understood from Booth
                  that these fellows were a desperate set, ready for anything. If they are, their
                  discipline is miserable. Winthrop is a poor general to allow his forces to get
                  drunk, just at the time they were needed most. He is a pitiful commander."
               "But that is not the question, Mr. Coldheart," interrupted his wife. "You will
                  have to give up the scheme. Now I want you to tell me how you are going to get out
                  of this difficulty. I am afraid you are in danger?"
               "Well, I will implicate some of the prominent rebels, as I told you sometime ago,
                  I would do. The time for that is very favorable too. The murder will be considered
                  a desperate act of a despairing people. I will have Jeff Davis charged with it.
                  The whole north will be disposed to believe the charge. They will want a good
                  pretext to hang him anyhow. His life ought to be taken, but I do not believe it
                  can be done upon a charge of treason. I will manage if he is captured to have him
                  tried by a military commission, from which he will meet with no mercy. If he is
                  tried by a civil tribunal, the proceeding will stultify nearly all the prominent
                  politicians of the north. Because, whatever they may now say, however much they
                  may now twist and turn, yet they all once advocated the right of self-government,
                  and the doctrine of state supremacy. They would all, therefore, much prefer to
                  deprive Davis of his life upon some other pretext than treason. I will have no
                  difficulty in implicating him. There is also a fine opportunity of bringing in
                  that rabid old secessionist Jacob Thompson, whom I bitterly hate. He was in Canada
                  about the time Booth went there. So also was Clement Clay, and two other fellows
                  by the names of Sanders and Tucker. It can be very naturally supposed that they
                  were all agents of the rebel government, and that they were sent to Canada for the
                  achievement of this very object. If they are captured, there is not the slightest
                  doubt that they will be hanged; and so they will go, and the world will be better
                  off. The public will not be satisfied unless some few victims are sacrificed to
                  the manes of Mr. Lincoln. It might as well be Davis and Thompson as any body."
               But Booth, Mr. Coldheart—if he is captured?"
               "He will have to take care of himself. I can make it all right with him. A man of
                  Booth's disposition and honor is not apt to expose his friends. He has sense
                  enough to know that I could do him no good, if I were incarcerated in a dungeon. I
                  will induce him to think that I will save him, if he will hold his tongue."
               "You don't apprehend any danger, then?"
               "Very little. I have been watching my points very closely, and have made
                  preparations for this very result. Mrs. Surratt is the only one likely to betray
                  me. No person will believe what she says, if she is imprisoned. It would be a very
                  improbable tale for her to tell that I was the instigator of Lincoln's death. I
                  can suborn witnesses to prove everything I want."
               But, for the present, we must leave Coldheart and his wife concerting measures to
                  save him from deseved death, and follow up the movement which he set on foot for
                  the entanglement of an innocent woman. Winthrop, after quitting the government
                  official, went in search of a vile creature who was both a member of the city
                  police and of the Bloody Junto. This despicable wretch we will not drag forth from
                  the purlieus of degradation, by mentioning a name that constituted the chief
                  distinction which placed him above the brute creation, and in the order of
                  humanity. It would turn our ink to gall to record it upon a decent page of
                  history. Suffice it to say that he was one who would do any deed of infamy for a
                  few pence. This loathsome creature "on the mere winking of authority" from Mr.
                  Winthrop, hinted to some of the police officers that Mrs. Surratt was engaged in
                  the conspiracy. The officers, glad of an opportunity to display their great zeal
                  and immaculate loyalty in ferreting out treason, at once set out for Mrs.
                  Surratt's residence. Arriving at the house, they very unceremoniously summoned the
                  defenceless widow into their presence.
               "You are Mrs. Surratt?" said one of the officers as the lady appeared.
               "That is my name, sir."
               "We have an unpleasant duty to perform, Madam."
               "What is that?" inquired Mrs. Surratt with a trembling heart.
               "We have come to arrest you."
               "To arrest me!" cried the unprotected widow manifesting considerable alarm.
               "What for? what have I done?"
               "You are charged with a very serious offence, Madam."
               "What is it?" exclaimed the lady in the greatest astonishment.
               "It is not my business to tell you, Madam. You will know it at the proper
                  time—soon enough, I guess."
               "But I have the right to know it now," said Mrs. Surratt with firmness, but with
                  womanly dignity. "No man can force me from my premises, sir, unless by authority
                  of the law. You may be robbers for all I know. I expect you are."
               "We are policemen, Madam. You might know it from our dress."
               "That is no proof. Any one might assume the dress for wicked purposes. I shall
                  resist the arrest, sir," she continued with spirit. "I will call for help. You
                  can't drag me from my house without telling me what for. You have no authority for
                  such a proceeding. You are thieves, and I won't be arrested by you."
               "If you doubt my character, Madam," said the officer drawing a paper and handing
                  it to her, "read that. It will satisfy you that I'm no impostor. Now," he
                  continued when Mrs. Surratt had hastily read the document, "you may as well
                  quietly submit. It is a disagreeable duty, but I must perform it, nevertheless. If
                  you will go peaceably with us, you shall be treated with the respect due to your
                  sex. If not, we will have to carry you along by force."
               "But can't you tell me what I am arrested for?"
               "Tell her," spoke up another policeman. "I don't know that it makes any great
                  difference."
               "Well, Madam, if it will be any consolation to you, I will tell you. You are
                  charged with being accessory to the murder of Mr. Lincoln."
               "Gracious Heavens!" cried Mrs. Surratt overwhelmed with horror and surprise at
                  this astounding accusation; and this ejaculation was all the poor woman could
                  utter for several minutes. Her daughter Annie now came into the apartment, and
                  noticing the look of terror depicted in her parent's face, inquired what was the
                  matter.
               "They accuse me of murdering Mr. Lincoln, Annie," said Mrs. Surratt in a tone
                  indicating the imposibility and absurdity of such a thing.
               "You, mother! Why, she hasn't been out of the house to-night," said Annie turning
                  to the policemen.
               "Your mother is accused of complicity," said the officer.
               "Mother never thought of such a horrid thing," earnestly pleaded the affectionate
                  daughter. "She's too good a woman for that."
               "Come, Mrs. Surratt, We must be going," said the officer.
               "Going where?" cried the frightened girl.
               "Going to prison, Annie, to prison. They want to take your mother to a filthy
                  prison."
               "They shan't do it!" screamed Annie frantically throwing her arms around her
                  parent's neck, and clinging to her with desperation. "You shan't take my mother to
                  prison." Then she buried her face in Mrs. Surratt's bosom, and wept aloud.
               "This is a nice scrape we've got into," said one of the policemen. "Let's take the
                  old she rebel by force."
               "Mrs. Surratt," spoke the officer, "you must terminate this interesting scene.
                  We've got to do our duty; and if you won't go, we'll take you forcibly."
               "Sir, you are mistaken in this business," said Mrs. Surratt after telling her
                  sobbing daughter to be calm. "You surely don't mean me. You have got the wrong
                  name. Why I never thought of murdering Mr. Lincoln in my life. What in the world
                  would I want him killed for? He never did me any harm."
               "He never done Jeff Davis any harm either," interrupted one of the sneaks, "yet I
                  guess he wanted Mr. Lincoln killed. "You're a rebel, Ma'am. I've hearn of you
                  afore to-night. I don't doubt but what you had a hand in murderin' the
                  president."
               "You are no gentleman, sir, to talk thus to a defenceless woman," said Mrs.
                  Surratt.
               "No lady 'ud a done murder neether, Madam," rejoined sneak.
               "I wish you were as clear of murder as she is," sobbed Annie.
               "This 'ere hand," replied sneak, "has got narthing on it but rebel blood, Miss;
                  and I wish it had a sight more. I don't keer how mean I'd a bin, I never 'ud a
                  killed sich a good man as Mr. Lincoln, that was too kind to make a child cry. My
                  fingers is just eeching to tie the rope round that old she rebel's neck. She ort
                  to be burnt alive. Hanging's too good for her. But I guess she'll get what she
                  deserves."
               "Will you suffer that wretch to insult me thus?" said Mrs. Surratt to the
                  officer.
               "You'll be insulted worse'n that afore this is done with," replied sneak.
               "Am I to be thus abused in my own house?"
               "Come, Mrs, Surratt," said the officer, "are you going quietly with us, or
                  not?"
               "I had nothing to do with Mr. Lincoln's murder," replied Mrs. Surratt. "I don't
                  see that you can make me go."
               "Perhaps you didn't, Madam; but I am not the one to decide that question. If you
                  are not guilty, you can easily prove your innocence. It is our duty to arrest you,
                  and we must do it. If you don't wish to get up an unpleasant scene in your own
                  house, you had better not resist. It will do you no good whatever. Will you
                  go?"
               "Where are you going to take me?"
               "Where we usually carry law-breaking people."
               "To a cell in the penitentiary," joined in sneak.
               "Oh, God have mercy!" cried Mrs. Surratt clasping Annie to her bosom.
               "You'd better begin to pray," said the sneaking policeman.
               "Have I come to this? Is there none to protect a lonely widow? Will you, sir,"
                  continued Mrs. Surratt freeing herself from Annie, and wringing her hands in
                  agony, "will you, sir, drag a respectable, innocent woman to that loathsome
                  penitentiary? Have you no mother; no sister?"
               "You should have conducted yourself, Madam, so as to have been above suspicion. It
                  is the law that drags you to the penitentiary, not me. But I've fooled here long
                  enough. You must go now, Madam. Decide quick whether you will go along peaceably
                  or not."
               "I suppose I can't help it," replied Mrs. Surratt, crying piteously at the
                  revolting thought of the dark and gloomy penitentiary. Poor Annie wept as if her
                  young heart would break; but the policemen were inexorable. Mrs. Surratt tried to
                  comfort her; and told her to take care of the house till she returned; that as she
                  was innocent, it would soon be found out, and she would come back next day. Then
                  the unprotected widow made hasty preparations to quit her house.
               When the policemen, with their prisoner, were turning to make their exit, a most
                  grotesque figure suddenly appeared in the door, He was a tall, giant-like looking man, and wore
                  upon his unkempt head what might be called a flannel rag, rather than a cap. His
                  whole dress was besmeared abundantly with dirt, and the original color of his
                  hands could not be seen. Upon his shoulder he carried a spade. The policemen at
                  first drew back in astonishment, as this startling apparition burst upon their
                  sight; but when the figure in apparent confusion, attempted to withdraw, they
                  recovered their equanimity. The man acted in such a manner as to arouse
                  suspicion.
               "Halt, sir!" exclaimed the police officer authoritatively.
               The figure obeyed, and gazed at his opposers without speaking.
               "Who are you?" demanded the officer.
               "My name is Powell, sir."
               "Where are you going?"
               "I am a ditcher."
               "But where are you going?"
               "I have come to do some ditching for Mrs. Surratt," was the reply.
               "Do you know this fellow, Mrs. Surratt?" inquired the officer.
               "I never saw him before, that I recollect of."
               "Did you engage him to do any ditching?"
               "No sir, I did not."
               "Come then, old fellow," said the officer, "that tale won't do. You must give a
                  better account of yourself than that."
               "You're a rare bird, I'll swar," remarked sneak, after attentively surveying the
                  overwrought disguise of Payne. "You're after some devilment, I guess. That
                  elephant carcass o' yourn ain't hid under them dirty rags for narthing. Where's
                  your hat, Mr. Ragman?"
               "I have none, sir."
               "Where do you live?" inquired the police officer.
               "Just where I find myself," said Payne coldly.
               "That's a purty yarn, Mr. Vagabond," joined the sneak. "You're the dirtiest fellow
                  ever I seen—dirtier than thar's any use fur. Let's see if the gent ain't in
                  disguise," he continued, addressing the officer.
               "So we will," replied the officer. "Come, Mr. Powell, walk into the bar-room, and
                  wash your face and hands."
               "And take a drink," sniggled the sneak.
               Payne could not but do as he was ordered; so they went into the bar-room.
               "Off with your coat, Mr. Goodplayer, and wash them hands."
               "I shall not do it, sir," replied Payne standing like a statue. He had now
                  recovered his presence of mind.
               "I garney, he's game," exclaimed the sneak stepping back a pace, as if he did not
                  relish the idea of coming in contact with Payne's dirty fist.
               "What will you do then, Mr. Powell?" asked the officer mockingly.
               "Nothing. You have seen proper to arrest me upon your own suspicion, and you may
                  do whatever you think best."
               "You are very independent, I declare."
               "I am that independent, sir."
               "I will have you searched."
               "Search away, sir."
               "Feel in his pockets," said the officer to the sneak.
               The sneaking policeman accordingly did so, with caution, and soon drew forth a
                  tooth-brush and a delicate pocket-knife.
               "Ditchers don't carry sich tools as them," remarked the sneak holding up the
                  implements. "They'd have no use for this 'ere little knife."
               "A ditcher has as good a right to use a little knife as any one else, I should
                  think," remarked Payne with a sneer. "I never knew before that the size of a man's
                  knife was an indication of his character or his trade. But you may be more
                  skillful phrenologists than other people."
               "But the tooth-brush, Mistifer," flippantly said the sneak. "You're the fust
                  ditcher ever I seen with one."
               "That may be owing altogether to your raising," said Payne contemptuously.
               "You're a keen old chap," quoth sneak with a wink to his comrades.
               "What did you tell that lie for, Mr. Powell, about having some ditching to do
                  here?" inquired the officer, who began to think Payne was in reality what he
                  professed to be.
               "I did not say that I had any to do here. I was merely in search of work, and came
                  to see if Mrs. Surratt had any to do."
               "Why don't you hunt work in the day time? What are you prowling about after
                  midnight for, when people are asleep?"
               "That is my business," coolly replied Payne. "I do not know that the police is
                  authorized to prescribe my hours of labor and rest."
               "Turn him loose," said one of the policemen. "I guess he's an old ditcher sure
                  enough. Let him go."
               "Look here! look here!" suddenly exclaimed the sneak throwing back Payne's vest
                  from his shoulder. "Blood, by George, blood!"
               "It is blood indeed," remarked several of the policemen examining the exposed
                  shirt.
               "I'll bet he's one of the murderers!" cried the sneak.
               "What say you to that, Mr. Powell?" quoth the officer.
               "You are a set of fools," replied Payne coldly.
               "Let's take the gent along," said the sneak. "He can't give a good account of his
                  self. We'll put him in the penitentiary, and in a day or two maybe he can study
                  out his history."
               Accordingly the two prisoners were hurried off to the old penitentiary. Payne went
                  like a true stoic. His temporary fear and confusion had been overcome, before his
                  examination in the bar-room commenced, and his habitual calmness was re-assumed.
                  To the questions of the policemen he made no reply. He had now become almost a
                  machine without feeling or passion, and merely fulfilled what he regarded as the
                  demands of his destiny: that is, he took no thought for the future, but moved
                  blindly along, determined mined to make no effort to defend himself against any
                  allegation. But Mrs. Surratt acted very differently. She behaved as any woman of
                  delicacy and refinement would under such circumstances. What her emotions were
                  when she was hand-cuffed and chained in that dark cell of the old penitentiary,
                  the reader must imagine. We do not just now feel like describing the agony of this
                  defenceless woman.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               
                  
                     
                        "Bring thou to me this man of changing hue,
                        He'll suit the aim and end that we've in view."
                     
                  
               
               As soon as Winthrop ascertained that Mrs. Surratt had been arrested, he returned
                  to Coldheart's, according to the request of that individual. There he remained
                  till the next morning, and then another interview took place between this dual of
                  worthy gentlemen.
               "Are you acquainted with one Sanford Conover?" inquired Coldheart after some
                  preliminary remarks.
               "Slightly," was the reply. "I know him when I see him."
               "I know him well," continued Coldheart. "I have had occasion for his services more
                  than once, since I came into office. He is a keen, shrewd fellow too, and is as
                  good a hand at procuring witnesses for any kind of a trial as I ever met with. He
                  does not mind swearing to a lie himself, for a consideration. You must hunt him,
                  Winthrop, at once. We will strike a bargain with him forthwith. If you will find
                  him, I will try not to trouble you any more about this business."
               Winthrop very readily agreed to this proposition; and in the course of the day he
                  found Sanford Conover, whom he requested to call upon Coldheart.
               "Well, Conover," said the official as that gent entered his office. "I have
                  another job for you."
               "I am always ready," quoth Conover, "if there is any pay in it."
               "There is pay in the business I want you to transact. I will engage to remunerate
                  you handsomely."
               "If such be the case, you can count on me."
               "I knew I could, when I sent for you."
               "Let's hear the business," said Conover.
               "You have no doubt heard of the arrest last night of Mrs. Surratt, and a fellow by
                  the name of Payne?"
               "Yes sir, I heard it this morning."
               "They were arrested for complicity with the murder of Mr. Lincoln."
               "So I understood."
               "To my mind there is no moral doubt of their guilt, but the legal evidence,
                  Conover, is not quite sufficient to sustain an indictment—that is, to the extent
                  which the principles of justice demand—you understand?"
               "I think I do," was the reply with a smile.
               "This fellow Payne acted in a very strange manner last night. He professed to be a
                  ditcher, but in his pocket was found a pen-knife."
               "Dear me," said Conover, "a ditcher with a pen-knife?"
               "And besides this, Conover, a tooth-brush!"
               "I declare!" exclaimed the procurer of witnesses, who could clearly see what the
                  official was driving at, "what use would a ditcher have for a
                     tooth-brush?"
               "None, of course. It is a perfect absurdity. Tooth-brushes and pen-knives are
                  instruments that gentlemen use. These two implements of luxury found in Payne's
                  possession, prove to my mind that he assumed a disguise. They were incompatible
                  with the character he professed to be."
               "Certainly," said Conover, chuckling in his sleeve.
               "But the most conclusive evidence of his guilt, is the fact that there were spots
                  of blood seen upon his shirt. This blood," continued Coldheart, "could not have
                  come from his nasal organs. No man allows his nose to bleed upon his apparel, you
                  know."
               "Of course not.'
               "The guilty, Conover, ought not to escape the punishment due to their offences, on
                  account of trivial technicalities and flaws in the proceedings of our tribunals of
                  justice. But the sentiment of the nineteenth century is rather squeamish in regard
                  to circumstantial evidence—especially when it dooms the criminal to suffer the
                  most severe penalty known to the science of jurisprudence. The testimony of this
                  character, as I have just shown you, is strong against Payne, and also Mrs.
                  Surratt; but still, Conover, I would rather have something more substantial, which
                  would completely overcome the conscientious scruples of the public. I want the
                  testimony so strong that even their warmest friends will be content to mourn in
                  silence—you understand?"
               "Certainly I do, sir."
               "The assassination of Mr. Lincoln was most atrociously wicked," continued
                  Coldheart with assumed solemnity and sympathy. "Because the president was a good,
                  kind hearted man."
               "He was indeed, sir," chimed in Conover.
               "His untimely death is a burning disgrace to the American nation. All who had a
                  hand in it deserve the most rigorous punishment."
               "That they do," quoth Mr. Conover.
               "I am satisfied that Mrs. Surratt and Payne are involved in this conspiracy
                  against a good ruler's life, and I want them convicted. You understand that,
                  Conover. You know what I want you to do."
               Mr. Sanford Conover smiled grimly, and then bluntly replied:
               "You want witnesses to sustain the indictment, which you will draw up."
               "You are correct, Conover. Do you know of any such?"
               "I can find them with the 'needful.'"
               "You shall have it, of course. When can you be ready with the witnesses?"
               
               "That depends altogether upon the amount of cash I may be able to control. If you
                  deal that out sparingly, it may take some time. Not a great many gentlemen like to
                  commit perjury for the mere fun of the thing. But with a liberal quantity of
                  'green-backs' I can procure as many witnesses as you want, in a short time."
               "How much will be required?"
               "In the first place," replied Conover with deliberation, "A No. 1 must not be
                  overlooked. The law of self-preservation demands that."
               "Very well: how much for A. No. 1?"
               "That individual's services are estimated at three thousand."
               "And how much for the other witnesses?"
               "Whatever I can get them at. You must foot the bill. This will be the best
                  arrangement, if you want the business done expeditiously."
               "I will agree to it, if the bill is not beyond all reason. You must endeavor to
                  get them as cheap as possible."
               "I will do that most assuredly. I will let you know the price of each witness, and
                  you need not engage him, if you think it is too much."
               "You must procure them at all hazards, Conover. I will not stand back on the item
                  of money. You must let them know what they will be required to swear to, that
                  there may be no wrangling afterwards."
               "Is there anything else besides the guilt of Payne and Mrs. Surratt?"
               "Oh, yes. Their testimony must convict Davis."
               "What, sir! Jeff Davis?" exclaimed Conover in great surprise.
               "Yes; and Jacob Thompson, and several other rebels implicated in the plot."
               "The accusation against them is gratuitous, is it not?"
               "No, no. I have received a hint—rather some evidence that implicates them. In
                  fact, they are more guilty than the criminals now confined. Mrs. Surratt and Payne
                  were mere tools in the hands of the rebels. Jeff Davis and Jacob Thompson were the
                  instigators of this outrageous murder."
               "What evidence have you to that effect, Mr. Coldheart?"
               The official answered this pointed question evasively.
               "We would better understand each other clearly, Mr. Coldheart, in regard to this
                  affair," said Conover with a quiet smile. "In matters of this character that
                  involve perjury—I use plain terms, sir—it is always best to have a free
                  interchange of opinion. Do you desire me to find witnesses to swear to the guilt
                  of Davis in toto, or do you want additional
                  testimony to render the chain complete? I might easily find witnesses to establish
                  some little facts that would be highly essential; but it will require a shrewd
                  fellow to swear to the guilt of the conspirators in
                     toto, and defy detection throughout. It becomes a pecuniary question
                  you see, sir. It will take more money to bribe a man to swear to the whole thing
                  from beginning to end, than a few separate facts."
               "You are right, Conover," said Coldheart reflectively. "It is impolitic to have
                  misunderstandings when they can be avoided. I will be plain with you."
               "It would be advisable, sir, if you want the business managed properly."
               "I have no evidence against Mr. Davis, nor any other rebel—except, Conover, except
                  my own convictions and suspicions."
               "And they would not be taken in a court of justice."
               "No. So you must find witnesses to sustain the whole thing. You see, Conover, it
                  will never do to let the assassination of the president be saddled upon our
                  people. It would be an eternal disgrace to us. I thought that it would be natural
                  for the world to suppose that it is the last disgraceful act of the rebellion. My
                  motives are pure and patriotic, you see."
               'Yes, sir; and the plan is a good one. I think it will succeed."
               "That depends upon you, Conover—upon the witnesses you get."
               "Have no fear on that score, sir. I will do my duty."
               "I believe you, and am willing to trust the matter in your hands."
               The conversation was here changed to Judge Advocate General Holt. It may be
                  improper to record what passed upon this subject, as there appear to be various
                  opinions concerning the part the judge advocate played in the infamous plot to
                  implicate Mr. Davis. Some assert that he was a mere "cats paw." Charity, perhaps,
                  demands that we should take sides with these persons rather than with those who
                  take the position that he was privy to it. But this is a matter for the public to
                  decide. We will merely give some of the letters written by Holt, Conover, and
                  others; and the reader can form his own opinion. In a short time after the
                  interview between Coldheart and Conover, the following documents were written.
                  They have gone into history, and their authenticity cannot be questioned:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              MR. CONOVER:
                           
                           
                              Dear Sir: I have just parted with the party I thought
                              would do to represent Lamar. He will go into the game and swear all
                              that is wanted; but he places his price at a pretty high figure. He
                              wants $3,000, and says he won't sell his soul for less. You told me
                              not to go above $1,500, but the judge told me afterwards that if
                              necessary I could go $500 more. But even this is far below the mark.
                              What am I to do! I have written the judge how the matter stands, and I
                              hope you will urge him to come to the terms. Dick is a good fellow,
                              and we can depend on him without fear, and he has the faculty liars
                              need most—a mighty good memory. I hope to receive a message from you
                              to-morrow, telling me to strike the bargain. At any rate let me know
                              how to act as soon as possible.
                           
                              Truly yours,
                              WM. CAMPBELL.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              MR. CONOVER:
                           
                           
                              Dear Sir: I have been trying to see you for several
                              days, but hear that you are out of town. I shall leave this at station
                              A, that you may get it as soon as you return. I am in great need of
                              more money—my last investments did not pay, and I am dead broke, and
                              so is Snevel. The Judge told me when I last saw him to communicate
                              with him only through you, and I don't like to write him; but I must
                              have money in a few days. Get him to send me $500, for nothing less
                              will be of any use to me. I wish I could get in bulk all I am to
                              receive, and then I could get into safer business; but I suppose you
                              are all afraid that if you should give me all in my hands at once, I
                              could not be found when most wanted. I don't like to be suspected, but
                              anything is better than being poor, so I will take what I can get; but
                              of course not less than $500. Don't keep me waiting again for God's
                              sake, for I shall hardly be able to raise cock-tails and cigars till I
                              hear from you.
                           
                              Truly yours,
                              WILLIAM CAMPBELL.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              MR. S. CONOVER:
                           
                           
                              Dear Sir: Since writing you and enclosing draft as
                              requested, I have received a letter from Campbell, to which I replied
                              this morning, mentioning the funds remitted to you for himself and Mr.
                              Snevel, and asking him to see you. He does not know precisely where to
                              find you, and I presume you have not his address, which is the Whitney
                              House, corner of Twelfth street and Broadway. I hope you will place
                              the funds in his hands with the least possible delay, as he seems to
                              be greatly in need.
                           
                              Very respectfully, your ob't serv't,
                              J. HOLT,
                              Judge Advocate General.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              GENERAL:
                           
                           I am glad to be able to report that I have succeeded beyond my
                              expectations. Besides the parties I had in view, we can count on two,
                              and perhaps four others, who will testify to all that may be required.
                              After securing Harris, who will prove the most important witness we
                              have yet had, he assured me that he had several friends in Harrisburg
                              whom he was confident would assist us, and as the expense would not be
                              great, I deemed it advisable to dispatch him at once to confer with
                              them. He is discreet and shrewd, and no fears need be entertained of
                              his blundering. I received a letter from him this morning, which I
                              enclose, and this afternoon I shall set out to examine the parties he
                              refers to. If satisfied that they will answer my purpose, I shall as
                              soon as I can get them thoroughly posted come on with them. I am
                              fearful if I engage all in hand, that my funds will not hold out, so
                              that you had better send me $100 more, to be used if needed. Direct
                              your letter simply to Philadelphia, as I put up from time to time
                              where I find it most convenient to keep track of the witnesses already
                              on hand.
                           
                              Respectfully, your ob't serv't,
                              S. CONOVER.
                              
                                 To Brig. Gen. Holt, Judge Advocate.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The following is the letter referred to as being enclosed in the foregoing:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              FRIEND CONOVER:
                           
                           I saw Morgan the night before last, and he is ready to go up to his
                              neck on the same conditions as myself. Herman and Ross have both gone
                              to New York. We went yesterday to see two female friends of Morgan's
                              whom he thought would back us. We felt of them cautiously, and I am
                              satisfied they will swear to anything you want. One whose husband ran
                              away from the draft to Canada, knows Clay, and is down on him like
                              thunder, as he enlisted her husband for the rebel army, and sent him
                              south, where he was killed. She has only been back from Canada a few
                              months. She says that she has heard Clay say that he was going to have
                              Lincoln put out of the way; and it may be true. At any rate, you have
                              only to put in her mouth what you want her to swear, and she will spit
                              it out in style. Their appearance is first rate, and if women will do,
                              you can't get better ones. You better come right on and see them
                              yourself They are worth a trip here to see whether they will do or
                              not. I am staying with Morgan, and will wait till I see or hear from
                              you.
                           
                              Truly,
                              M. N. HARRIS.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              MR. S. CONOVER:
                           
                           
                              Dear Sir: Your letter of the 13th inst. has been
                              received. Enclosed please find draft for $150, which I suppose will be
                              needed, from the number of witnesses you seem to have in hand. Sign
                              the receipts and send them to me. Make all the haste you can; but do
                              your work thoroughly, and do not lose sight of any witness you may
                              deem important. Campbell has returned, having failed in his
                              mission.
                           
                              Very respectfully, your obd't serv't,
                              J. HOLT,
                              Judge Advocate General.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              DEAR CONOVER:
                           
                           I came in last evening, and have been all day endeavoring to find you.
                              That villain Campbell has divulged the whole arrangement to Davis'
                              friends, and will if possible be pushed before the committee. I have
                              been sent on to assist you in getting him sweet again, so that he will
                              stand by his story, or else keep out of the way. It must be done at
                              any cost. I am prepared with the needful. Old 279 and No. 8 were at
                              headquarters the day before yesterday, and are furious. We shall be
                              well rewarded if we save their bacon. It must be done. Call the moment
                              you receive this. I shall wait till you come, for I can do nothing
                              without you. I have also written for your old address.
                           
                              As ever, yours,
                              M.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               We have no comments to make upon the foregoing letters. They will show to the
                  world the character of the man who presided at the trial of Mrs. Surratt, and the
                  nature of the evidence adduced. We will now proceed to show how another remarkable
                  document happened to make its appearance. When Coldheart had learned from Conover
                  that sufficient testimony had been collected for the object to be attained, he had
                  an interview with President Johnson, and told him that Jeff Davis and other rebels
                  were implicated in the murder of Mr. Lincoln. President Johnson did not in the
                  least doubt the official's word; whereupon he issued the following
               
                  
                     
                        
                           PROCLAMATION.
                           WHEREAS, It appears from evidence in the bureau of military justice
                              that the atrocious murder of the late president, Abraham Lincoln, and
                              the attempted assassination of the Hon. W. H. Seward, secretary of
                              state, were incited, concerted and procured by and between Jefferson
                              Davis, late of Richmond, Va., and Jacob Thompson, Clement C. Clay,
                              Beverley Tucker, George N. Sanders, W. H. Cleary, and other rebels and
                              traitors against the government of the United States, harbored in
                              Canada;
                           
                              Now, Therefore, To the end that justice may be done, I,
                              Andrew Johnson, president of the United States, do offer and promise
                              for the arrest of said persons, or either of them within the limits of
                              the United States, so that they can be brought to trial, the following
                              rewards: One hundred thousand dollars for the arrest of Jefferson
                              Davis; twenty-five thousand dollars for the arrest of Clement C. Clay;
                              twenty-five thousand dollars for the arrest of Jacob Thompson, late of
                              Mississippi; twenty five thousand dollars for the arrest of George N.
                              Sanders; twenty-five thousand dollars for the arrest of Beverly
                              Tucker, and ten thousand dollars for the arrest of William C. Cleary,
                              late clerk of Clement C. Clay.
                           The provost marshal general of the United States is directed to cause
                              a description of said persons, with notice of above
                                 rewards, to be published.
                           In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set [L. S.] my hand and caused
                              the seal of the United States to be affixed.
                           Done at the City of Washington, the second day of May, in the year of
                              our Lord one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five, and of the
                              independence of the United States of America the eighty-ninth.
                           
                              ANDREW JOHNSON.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It will be seen that the above proclamation, which at the time of its publication
                  caused such feelings of indignation and mortification among all reasonable,
                  conservative men throughout the United States, was not really the work of Andrew
                  Johnson, but of Coldheart. The president was imposed upon and acted honestly and
                  sincerely, though he was in error. He soon discovered his grievous mistake, and in
                  a short time declared the proclamation null and void. It was a virtual
                  acknowledgment that he did not believe that these patriotic gentlemen, whose
                  spotless character he had assailed at the instigation of others, were guilty. But
                  these things belong to history. Therefore, begging the reader's pardon for this
                  digression, which we thought necessary, we will proceed with the story.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               
                  
                     
                        "With smooth dissimulation skilled to every grace—
                        A devil's purpose with an angel's face."
                     
                  
               
               Mrs. Surratt had now been confined in the penitentiary several days, and during
                  all this time she had heard nothing whatever from the outside world. In vain had
                  she questioned the sentinel that peeped through the iron grating into her dismal
                  cell. He appeared to be both deaf and dumb. The wretched woman thus totally
                  deprived of the sympathy and consolation of her friends, and cut off from all
                  communication with her fellow-beings, fell into violent paroxysms of grief. She
                  wept till her tears absolutely refused to flow, and till she became quiet from
                  physical exhaustion. Her daughter, Annie, had entreated every day, with the
                  mournful eloquence of feminine grief, to be allowed to visit her parent, but the
                  authorities were inflexible, and were unmoved by her earnest pleadings.
               The fourth day of her incarceration Mrs. Surratt, on glancing at the face of the
                  sentinel, who had just taken his position, was surprised to recognize one of the
                  vice-presidents of the Bloody Junto. The discovery caused a thrill of joy; because
                  she looked upon it as an indication that she was not entirely forgotten by her
                  friends.
               "You can speak to me, Mr. Gloster," said she. "I know you are not dumb."
               "No Ma'am," replied Gloster, "but it wouldn't be prudent to talk."
               "What are you doing here, then?" inquired Mrs. Surratt in a tone of reproach.
               "Keep calm, Ma'am; you will know presently."
               "I have been shamefully treated, Mr. Gloster; chained here for three days like a
                  vile murderer, and allowed to talk with no one. I have done nothing, either, to be
                  imprisoned. You are one of the guilty parties. Mr. Gloster, not I—a poor helpless
                  woman."
               "For God's sake hush, Ma'am, if you want to be saved."
               "I will not hush, Mr. Gloster, till I know when I am to be let out of this vile
                  den."
               "If you will keep quiet, Ma'am, you will learn that presently."
               "How will I, sir?"
               "Mr. Coldheart is coming to see you directly rectly. We are doing all we can for
                  you. But don't say anything more to me till Mr. Coldheart comes."
               Mrs. Surratt was gladdened by this intelligence, and she kept silent. She felt
                  safe, and was now inclined to assume an air
                     rechigne for her insulted dignity. In the course of half an hour,
                  Coldheart made his appearance and entered the cell. He greeted the female prisoner
                  with assumed kindliness of manner, which was returned by Mrs. Surratt with one of
                  those reproachful looks peculiar to women alone.
               "How are you fareing, Mrs. Surratt?" asked the official.
               "That is a useless question," replied the prisoner. "You might know that no
                  respectable lady could be contented in such a place as this, chained like a
                  condemned felon. What have I been imprisoned for, Mr. Coldheart?"
               "You can answer that question better than I can, Madam. Who arrested you?"
               "Some impudent policemen."
               "You know why, do you not?"
               "I do not know why I was suspected. I was astonished as much as mortified, as I
                  was an innocent member of the Bloody Junto. I accidently learned that Mr. Lincoln
                  was to be murdered—that is, I had it unofficially from a friend, and I—I—I—"
               "You what, Mrs. Surratt?" said Coldheart looking searchingly in her face.
               "I was very much startled to hear it," replied the prisoner, evidently changing
                  the original sentence on the end of her tongue. "But I had nothing to do with his
                  murder, Mr. Coldheart. I am in fact the most innocent member of the society. You
                  knew all about it, Mr. Coldheart; you might have prevented it, if you had so
                  wished. Then how does it happen that I am the only one who has been apprehended?
                  How does it happen that you are free?"
               "Perhaps I have been more prudent than you have."
               "That can't be it, sir; because I have never mentioned the matter to any one
                  outside of the Junto, and I don't see how I could have been suspected, even."
               "I do not either, Madam, but it seems you have been."
               "Why didn't you prevent my arrest, Mr. Coldheart? and why didn't you have me set
                  at liberty sooner?"
               "You are rather unreasonable, Mrs. Surratt. I did not hear of your imprisonment
                  till last night."
               I don't see how you could have been ignorant of it. It is certainly known all over
                  the city. It must be, before this time."
               "You are mistaken about that, Madam. At any rate I never heard it till last night,
                  and I resolved to see you as soon as I could get a trusty man to act as sentinel
                  before your door. I could not do this till just a short time ago."
               "I don't like the way I've been treated," continued Mrs. Surratt. "It is a
                  disgrace to the authorities to suffer an innocent woman to be imprisoned so long
                  for nothing. Here I've been shut up, in chains, for four days in this filthy
                  place, and allowed to see no one except a dumb guard. None of my friends have
                  visited me, and I know there is something wrong. They couldn't get permission, Mr.
                  Coldheart. I know they couldn't, or I would have seen some of them here."
               "I do not know whether they tried, Madam."
               "Whether they did or not, I want to know by what authority I am imprisoned?"
               "You ought to know more about your arrest than I do," said Coldheart.
               "What I want to know is, whether by the authority of the United States, or the
                  Junto?"
               "The United States, of course, Madam."
               "How do you know this, Mr. Coldheart? I was arrested by some saucy wretches, that
                  pretended to be policemen, but they may have been acting for the Bloody Junto.
                  Mrs. Degroot was tried by the Junto, I have heard, and I've not seen her since.
                  What became of her, Mr. Coldheart?"
               "She betrayed her trust, Madam. You know what became of her as well as I do."
               "I didn't know but what the same fate might be in store for me."
               "Why? Are you guilty of a similar offence?"
               "Have you any evidence that I am?"
               "No, Madam; but you talk like you thought you deserved the same fate."
               "I may, in your opinion, deserve it, Mr. Coldheart, if I am not released at
                  once."
               "What do you mean?" inquired the official.
               "I won't stand this treatment, Mr. Coldheart," said Mrs. Surratt, manifesting some
                  show of feminine anger. "If you don't set me at liberty, I may tell all I know
                  about the Bloody Junto, and your connection with it."
               "Would you have no regard for your oath, Madam?"
               "Certainly I would in an ordinary way; but when it becomes a question of
                     oath or life, I don't think I would hesitate long."
               How would a betrayal of me benefit you?" inquired Coldheart.
               "Why you know I am innocent, Mr. Coldheart, and you are guilty. You would be
                  arrested, and I would be set at liberty. That is how I would he benefited."
               "You are very much mistaken, Madam, in your suppositions. If it should be known
                  that there is a regular organization concerned in this matter, and that you
                  belonged to it, which you would have to confess, I would not give the snap of my
                  finger for your chances. Possibly you might cause my arrest, but that is very
                  doubtful. And if you did, your own chances of escape would 'grow small by degrees,
                  and beautifully less.' You ladies have too little patience, Mrs. Surratt,"
                  continued the official with a grin that was intended for a bland smile. "Your
                  situation is unpleasant, I have no doubt, but you must be patient."
               "I don't like to be confined like a criminal, Mr. Coldheart."
               
               "I know it must be mortifying to your feelings, Madam. No one likes to be
                  incarcerated in a gloomy cell; but when we find ourselves in such an undesirable
                  situation, we ought not to fall out with our friends, who are doing all they can
                  to effect our release. You will be set at liberty as soon as it can possibly be
                  done."
               "Why, have'nt you come to turn me out now?" exclaimed the prisoner in both
                  surprise and alarm.
               "No. Madam—not to-day—it cannot be done."
               Mrs. Surratt's feelings of fear were now in the ascendancy, as this startling
                  announcement sounded the death knell to her hopes of liberty. She had been all
                  along under the impression that Coldheart had come to the cell for no other
                  purpose. But when he informed her in plain terms that such was not his intention,
                  the stronger feelings of her energetic nature yielded to the more timid emotions
                  of women She was seized with the most fearful apprehensions and suspicions.
               "Is it possible, Mr. Coldheart?" said she with tears starting in her eyes.
               "Unfortunately it is," was the reply.
               "I don't understand this, Mr. Coldheart?"
               "What is it you do not understand?"
               "Why I can't be set at liberty, when you know I'm innocent."
               "I can easily explain that, Madam. You see you have laid yourself liable to
                  suspicion somehow, and that led to your apprehension. There was nothing but
                  suspicion against you at first."
               "And there is nothing now but that," said Mrs. Surratt.
               "There you are mistaken again," replied Coldheart. "For I understood last night
                  there was strong testimony against you."
               "It is false, Mr. Coldheart—you know it," cried Mrs. Surratt indignantly.
               "Please let me explain, Mrs. Surratt. I will admit that the testimony is false—I
                  know it, as you say; and if the public only knew it as well as I do, you would be
                  set at liberty forthwith."
               "You ought to release me anyhow," said Mrs. Surratt interrupting, "in spite of the
                  public, if you know I'm innocent."
               "If I should," replied Coldheart, "I would lose my head—politically, I mean—and
                  then I could be of no service to you whatever. But as I was saying, there is
                  strong testimony against you, and the officers of the government seemed disposed
                  to credit it; and worse than that—yet in order to do you a service—though it is
                  harrowing to my conscience, I affect to believe it too."
               "My Heavens! Mr. Coldheart, do you say this publicly? Are you trying to destroy my
                  good character?"
               "Please hear me through, Mrs. Surratt. I merely affect to believe it, I said. Of
                  course I know such a belief is slanderous to you. But if I should assert in the
                  face of the testimony that you are innocent, I would be suspected, and might
                  myself be arrested; then I would be utterly powerless to lend you the least
                  assistance. I have not the slightest doubt that the witnesses will all be
                  rejected, and your innocence will be established when your trial takes place."
               "You don't mean that I've got to be tried for the murder of Mr. Lincoln?" cried
                  Mrs. Surratt turning pale.
               "I fear you will, Madam. At present I do not see how it can be avoided. I cannot
                  totally disregard public opinion—consistently with my own safety and that of my
                  friends—yourself among the number. But if you are tried you need not apprehend any
                  danger."
               "It's not the danger I'm looking to altogether, sir. I don't think I can be in any
                  great danger, innocent as I am. But the idea of being dragged before a vulgar
                  crowd—gazed at and pointed at as a wild brute—I can't stand it, Mr. Coldheart. My
                  character will be gone; my friends will spurn me from their society; my children
                  will be ashamed of their mother; I will be an outcast—Oh, sir, the thought is
                  intolerable!"
               "You look too much at the dark side of the picture, Mrs. Surratt," said the
                  official, endeavoring to soften his voice into a sympathetic tone. "Because this
                  trial will exalt you to something of a heroine in public estimation, by the
                  complete vindication of your assailed character. It will furnish a glorious
                  opportunity for the triumph of justice and truth over slanderous accusation and
                  foul calumny. Instead of being an outcast from human society, you will come forth
                  from this difficulty like 'gold tried in the fire,' and no one will rejoice at
                  this happy result more than myself. But you must be patient, my dear Madam, and
                  however gloomy your prospects may appear, do not think that I will, desert you.
                  Even if you should be condemned to death, of which there is a possibility"——
               "Oh, my Heavens!" interrupted the prisoner, "you don't mean that?"
               "I only said there was a possibility of it," continued Coldheart. "But something a
                  little worse than that may happen. You may have to stand upon the scaffold with a
                  rope round your neck"
               "God pity me!" cried Mrs. Surratt in unutterable agony and terror. "Is there any
                  probability of such an occurrence?"
               "There is a possibility of it, Madam."
               "And will you allow the proceeding to be carried to such an extent?"
               "I may not be able to prevent it."
               "Won't you allow them to execute me?" she asked with a shudder.
               "Most assuredly not, Madam, unless you yourself deprive me of the power of saving
                  you."
               "How could I do that?"
               "By not keeping silent. All I ask you to do is, to be dumb concerning the Bloody
                  Junto, and I will save you even at the last moment. But if you ever expose the
                  society and my connection with it, or attempt it, the act will place you beyond my
                  control. Only let your tongue be moveless, and I solemnly swear you shall be
                  saved. If the rope is round your neck, and that is not an improbable
                  circumstance—persons you know are frequently pardoned upon the scaffold in that
                  very position; but still if you should be reduced to that fearful extremity, I
                  swear to you on the Holy Bible you shall be saved. Only be silent, and never
                  entertain the thought of revealing this secret. You recollect that you once swore,
                  anyhow, that you would never mention my name in connection with the Junto?"
               "And I never have," said Mrs. Surratt emphatically.
               "And you never will?"
               "No, I never will speak your name in connection with tho Junto, while I live?"
               "Very well," said Coldheart, "you need have no fears, no matter what happens. Your
                  trial will take place in a day or two."
               "Will I have to wear these chains till then?" asked Mrs. Surratt, who saw clearly
                  that she would be forced to the trial.
               "I am afraid you will, Madam. I must act in such a manner as to avoid suspicion,
                  you know. I am doing evil that good may come. The chains do not hurt, do
                  they?"
               "Not much, but I don't like them—they are troublesome—and they hurt my feelings,
                  Mr. Coldheart."
               "Well never mind. The trial will take place soon, and they will be taken off. I
                  will attend to it immediately. Now, Madam, I will not be able to have another
                  interview with you—it might not be prudent. Let me warn you again to be wise and
                  discreet—be on your guard. You may sometimes feel like betraying me; because all
                  these circumstances which I have hinted at as possible, may occur. Whenever you
                  may be so disposed, remember that I will come in at the last dark moment. Do not
                  be the least alarmed—all will be well."
               What reply could the poor, distressed, defenceless woman make? She was in the
                  power of this man, and she knew it. She shuddered and trembled as he withdrew, and
                  the iron door creaked upon its rusty hinges. The key was turned, and the prisoner
                  was alone.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               
                  
                     
                        "If I shall be condemn'd
                        Upon surmises; all proofs sleeping else,
                        But what your jealousies await; I tell you,
                        'Tis rigor and not law."
                     
                  
               
               One of the most disgraceful events ever recorded in the annals of jurisprudence,
                  occurred in the United States, during the month of May, 1865. We can hardly
                  imagine upon what plea of "military necessity," the radicals venture to justify
                  the sham trial of Mrs. Surratt and others implicated in the murder of Abraham
                  Lincoln. We are aware that very many disgraceful acts of the war, repugnant to all
                  ideas of Ameican liberty, and antagonistic to the principles of common justice,
                  were vindicated upon this miserable subterfuge. But we did not think, before we
                  were furnished with occular demonstration, that any set of men pretending to live
                  under a democratic goverment, would attempt to deprive a citizen of the privilege
                  of a trial by jury. Although we know not upon what plea our northern brethern
                  justified their legal proceeding, yet we can conjecture why Payne and
                  others were tried by a military commission.
               It is known that the courts martial are severe and cruel in the extreme. Unlike
                  the ordinary civil tribunals, that existed in the United States prior to the year
                  1861, they are restrained by no established laws; but their members are left
                  perfectly free to act in accordance with their peculiar notions of equity. The
                  administration of impartial justice is a secondary object. Indeed that
                  consideration has nothing to do with the making up of the verdict. These courts
                  are organized for the good of the army, and that alone. The will of their members
                  is the only law by which their opperations are limited. If it is thought that for
                  the sake of discipline the army needs an example, the culprit, no matter what may
                  be the nature of his offence, or what circumstances mitigate his alleged crime,
                  may be certain that the rigor of his punishment will be commensurate with the
                  object to be attained. Death is frequently adjudged as a penalty, when the
                  offender is really entitled to an acquittal, or at least to only a reprimand. What
                  care military officers, accustomed to the sight of bloodshed, for the lives of a
                  few men, if they can render more efficient a demoralized army? They would hesitate
                  no length of time to murder in cold blood a score or two of innocent soldiers, if
                  by that means, an army could be made more submissive to the will of its despotic
                  commanders. Any offender, who is to be tried by such a court, in order to know
                  what may be his chances of escape from its bloody clutches, must endeavor to
                  discover the purpose which its members have in view. Evidence is nothing—it weighs
                  not a feather in the balance; it is always subordinate to the object to be
                  accomplished by the victim's punishment.
               It is therefore an easy matter to conjecture why Payne aud Mrs. Surratt were tried
                  by such a court. If Payne had been a soldier, charity might induce us to make some
                  allowance for his trial, which was a sham and a disgraceful formality. But he was
                  a citizen, and consequently was entitled to a fair and impartial hearing before a
                  jury of his countrymen. Admitting however that Payne was a soldier, and was
                  therefore subject to the flagrant despotism that makes military rule revolting to
                  the better feelings of nature, what excuse can possibly be offered in vindication
                  of Mrs. Surratt's trial by a court-martial? It will be admitted by every man, who
                  is not a fanatic, or a stark fool, that she was not a soldier, and that she was
                  not acting even in the capacity of one. There could be not the slightest doubt
                  that she was clearly entitled to a privilege, which, never before the dark period
                  of 1861, was denied to an American citizen. Reverdy Johnson one of the ablest jurists that the United States
                  can boast of, pleaded with all the eloquence he could master against this foul and
                  outrageous proceeding; but he was addressing men whose opinions were already
                  formed, and whose verdict was already made up concerning the accused in this
                  affair. Judge Holt and his coadjutors were governed by the old principle—"an eye
                  for an eye and a tooth for a tooth." Someboby had murdered Abraham Lincoln, and as
                  he was an important personage, it would require the blood of several victims to
                  satisfy his manes. The northern mind was inflamed, and the angry passions of the
                  Radicals were aroused to 212 degrees, Fahrenheit, and nothing but human gore could
                  reduce their burning ardor to a point consistent with comfort.
               Four persons were arraigned before the court over which Judge Holt presided, upon
                  a charge of complicity with the murder of Abraham Lincoln. The first was a woman,
                  who is now believed by all candid persons to have been perfectly innocent. This
                  conclusion is arrived at upon the showing of the accusers themselves. The next was
                  Payne, who looked upon the sceness transpiring around him with utter
                  indifference—even with contempt. The multitude gazed at him as if he had been a
                  wild beast. The scene reminded one of those lines of Bryant: 
                     
                        "Upon the market place he stood—
                        A man of giant frame,
                        Amid the gathering multitude
                        That shrank to hear his nam e;
                        All proud of step and firm of limb,
                        His dark eye on the ground—
                        And silently they gazed on him
                        As on a lion bound."
                     
                  
               
               Next to Payne was Atzerott, the little German whom we have described in a
                  preceding chapter, and whose natural timidity of disposition would scarcely have
                  permitted him to murder a full grown chicken-snake. Add to these three a miserable
                  boy by the name of Harold, and you have the four persons accused of conspiracy
                  against the government of the United States. What Harold really had to do with the
                  murder, it would probably puzzle the distinguished gentlemen who condemned him to
                  tell. If there was any reliable evidence, beyond the mere fact that he was
                     intimately acquainted with John Wilkes Booth, it does not appear. The
                  fact just stated was however amply sufficient with men who acted upon the
                  testimony which they did. We will not anticipate, but will allow the honorable
                  gentlemen to speak for themelves.
               The testimony nearly all of which had been procured by the industry of Conover,
                  was taken by the court, and the four victims were remanded to their cells. The
                  culprits were dumb struck by the astounding evidence evoked during the remarkable
                  trial. Men whom they had never seen before, swore to statements, that filled the
                  prisoners with extreme suprise. It was also evolved in the course of the
                  proceedings that Jeff Davis and others previously named, were the chief
                  instigators of the murder of Abraham Lincoln. After the room was cleared the court
                  proceeded to deliberate upon the guilt of the four culprits.
               "Gentlemen," said the presiding officer, "are the prisoners guilty or not guilty
                  of complicity with the murder of President Lincoln?"
               "This fellow Payne," said Gen.——"is charged with making an assault upon Secretary
                  Seward, I believe?"
               "That is one of the charges," replied Judge Holt.
               "I do not think the testimony in his case is full and complete."
               "It is mostly circumstantial evidence, but it is very strong.,'
               "What evidence is it to which you attach so much importance?"
               "Why," quoth Judge Holt with superior wisdom beaming from his countenance, "did
                  you notice Payne's hands?"
               "No, not particularly. What is remarkable about them?"
               "They are as soft and white as a delicate girl's," said Judge Holt emphatically,
                  proud that his legal acumen had enabled him to discover a clinching argument,
                  which had seemingly escaped his associates.
               "Well, suppose they were?"
               "Why that one circumstance is utterly incompatible with the caracter he professes
                  to be. When arrested by the policeman, he said he was a ditcher, and he carried a
                  spade upon his shoulder to corroborate his statement. Now gentlemen," continued
                  the Judge blandly, "did you ever know a workman of that profession to possess soft
                  and white hands?"
               "To be sure not," said one surprised that he had not thought of this before.
               "That then," quoth Judge Holt, "is one very strong point. Besides this there are
                  several other circumstances that render Payne's statement as to the nature of his
                  avocation extremely improbable, yea impossible. This little pocket-knife," he
                  continued holding it up, "was found upon his person. It is an instrument which
                  could not be used in the department of a ditcher. It is an absurdity to suppose
                  that a common workman could have the means to give two dollars for an implement
                  that would be of no use whatever. I argue, gentlemen, judging from the appearance
                  of this knife, it must have cost at least two dollars. I see it is manufactured by
                  George Wostenholm—one of the most celebrated cutlers in the world. It has had six
                  blades, though two of them are gone. Nevertheless there are two empty jaws, and it
                  is presumable that two blades were once riveted into them. There can be no
                  reasonable doubt then that this knife once possessed six good and sound blades.
                  Fron what we know of the price of such articles, it must have cost two dollars, or
                  upwards. The conclusion then is unavoidable that no ditcher would have abstracted
                  that amount from his limited capital, for the purpose of purchasing a luxury that
                  could afford him no enjoyment. Such an act might reduce his family to beggary, or
                  if he had no family, it might so cripple his resources that he would not be able
                  to procure the implements indispensable to his calling. This, then, is a very
                  strong argument to oppose the assertion which Payne made, that he is a ditcher by
                  trade."
               "That is so," remarked a member, thoroughly convinced by the profundity of the
                  Judge's reasoning."
               "There is another circumstance, gentlemen," continued the Judge, "that is as
                  equally strong and conclusive. This tooth-brush was taken from one of Panye's
                  pockets. He must have purchased it too."
               "Is it not possible, Judge," inquired a member, "that some person might have given
                  it to him, or that he found it?"
               "I have thought of that," replied General Holt, "because mercy requires us to give
                  a prisoner the benefit of every doubt. But after mature deliberation, I have come
                  to the conclusion that such could not have been the case. Either hypothesis is
                  repugnant to the principles of sound logic, as I will show, if you will give me
                  your attention."
               The judge advocate here took a swallow of water, cleared his throat, and commenced
                  to unfold his stubborn arguments. The other members with great respect "lent him
                  their ears that they might hear."
               "You know, gentlemen, that a tooth-brush, as well as a delicate pen-knife, is a
                  luxury enjoyed principally by the more refined, the upper circles of society. The
                  lower classes scarcely ever have such a regard for the preservation of their
                  health, as to cleanse the organs of mastication at all. They are too careless and
                  imprudent in this respect. But when they are sufficiently elevated to understand
                  the necessity of cleansing these organs, which are attached by nature to the
                  maxillary bones, they perform the operation with a fragment of linen or cotton
                  fabric, suitable hardly for any other purpose, unless they have female children,
                  to whom the fragments are often given for the decoration of those little images,
                  that are in common parlance called 'dolls.' If that be the case, then the poor
                  classes chew a switch, ordinarily black-gum, until the end is reduced to a fibrous
                  condition, and this is used as a substitute for a brush. When a switch of this
                  character is not convenient, they use the naked fingers of the right hand, and
                  sometimes the left. These, gentlemen, are the habits of the poor classes,
                  ascertained by actual observation. If Payne, then, was a ditcher, he could not
                  have owned this brush. It is a most excellent one of the kind, and must have cost
                  at least a dollar. I argue further, that Payne must have purchased this implement.
                  Because tooth-brushes are not carried about like pocket-knives and tooth-picks.
                  Americans, you all know, are accustomed to leave these articles in their rooms.
                  This brush could not therefore have been lost. Hence the conclusion is
                  irresistible that the prisoner could not have found it. It is equally illogical to
                  suppose that any person gave the said brush to Payne. Because, if the brush had
                  been used, no man of any delicacy of feeling or any sense of propriety would offer
                  to a friend an article saturated with human spittle. The idea of presenting a new
                  tooth-brush to a friend is also preposterous. Any one who would afford to spare a
                  dollar for the purchase of a present, would hardly offer a tooth-brush to a
                  friend; because, gentlemen, that would be a direct insult. It would convey the
                  insinuation that the presentee was filthy in his habits. So I arrive at the
                  conclusion that Payne purchased this brush; and if he did, he is no ditcher. He
                  has been found prevaricating at a very dangerous time, when it behooved every man
                  to sail under true colors, if he knew himself to be in the right. I take it for
                  granted that if he had not been implicated in the conspiracy, he would have made
                  known his true character without hesitation or evasion. Add to all these
                  circumstrnces that blood was found upon his under garments, and it amounts to
                     prima facie evidence that the prisoner is one
                  of the parties to the frightful tragedy. It must have been the gore of Secretary
                  Seward. It has already been proved that John Wilkes Booth is the murderer of
                  Abraham Lincoln, and he was the only person who committed the outrageous deed.
                  Allow me, gentlemen, to apply the test of sound logic to this circumstance, and no
                  reasonable doubt as to the guilt of Payne can arise in your minds. Blood was found
                  upon Payne's shirt. Mr. Seward's blood was spilled by a savage and ferocious
                  phlebotomist, not pretending to act in that capacity, however. It follows,
                  therefore, that Payne is the identical phlebotomist who attempted the life of
                  Secretary Seward. Now, gentlemen, put these circumstances together, and you see
                  they constitute one of the strongest cases of circumstantial evidence on record.
                  In all my legal experience I have never met with a case sustained by more reliable
                  evidence of this character. What say you, then, gentlemen, to Payne's guilt?"
               Of course after this lucid exposition of the case the members could not hesitate,
                  and they all answered "guilty."
               "Mrs. Surratt—guilty or not guilty?" asked the judge advocate.
               "Guilty;" was the response.
               "And Atzerott?"
               "Guilty."
               "And Harold?"
               "What's the charge against him?" inquired a member.
               "He was undoubtedly an accomplice. He was Booth's particular friend, and of course
                  knew all about this affair."
               "Yes," said Gen.——"they all belong to the same nest. Harold was caught in bad
                  company; he was guilty I guess."
               And all the other members echoed "guilty." Thus the prisoners were condemned.
               "What punishment, gentlemen, will you inflict?" asked Jndge Holt.
               "What would you say, Judge?" asked the youngest member of the court.
               "I would suggest death by hanging."
               Accordingly it was so entered upon the books of this learned military tribunal.
                  The sentence was approved by the higher military authorities without delay, and the victims were
                  allowed four days in which to prepare for eternity. Here we must be
                  allowed to make a single reflection. It is frequently asserted by the radicals
                  that the south is an uncivilized country, and they seek to sustain this assertion
                  by reference to our former treatment of negroes. We beg leave to oppose southern
                  barbarity, as exhibited in the trial of that cut-throat John Brown, to the
                  superabundant mercy shown in the trial of Mrs. Surratt. Brown was not even
                  entitled to a trial by the civil tribunals of the land. He deserved the fate of an
                  outlaw. Nevertheless he was allowed an impartial hearing, and was not deprived of
                  the benefit of counsel. No false witnesses testified in his case. He was condemned
                  by a lawful jury, and thirty days granted him to prepare to give an
                  "account of the deeds done in the body." After his execution, his remains were
                  deposited in a decent coffin, and delivered up to his friends. Now "look on this
                  picture—then on that."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "'Tis not the stoic's lessons got by rote,
                        The pomp of words and pedant dissertations,
                        That can sustain thee in that hour of terror:
                        Books have taught cowards to talk nobly of it,
                        But when the trial comes they stand aghast.
                        Hast thou consider'd what may happen after it?
                        How thy account may stand, and what to answer?"
                     
                  
               
               Mrs. Surratt went through the trial without any great apprehension as to the final
                  result. Mortification at being exposed to public gaze in the character of a
                  criminal, was the predominant feeling in her heart. Her modesty was so shocked by
                  the scenes through which she was compelled to pass, that she could take but little
                  note of the trial. She was somewhat surprised at some of the witnesses, who made
                  statements that she thought must appear palpably false to every unprejudiced mind;
                  but this only made her rely more upon the promise of Coldheart, inasmuch as he had
                  told her that these things would occur. She was induced to believe that the trial
                  was a mere formality, and she was tired of the tedious proceedings. In a few
                  hours, therefore, after its termination, the announcement of the sentence did not
                  at first produce any great uneasiness, except that aroused by the reflection that
                  she might be forced to complete the programme marked out by Coldheart. Thus far it
                  had been carried out to the letter, and she began to think of receiving a pardon
                  upon the scaffold. Then, after awhile, the suspicion gradually crept into her mind
                  that Coldheart might probably prove a villain; and if so, there was no hope. She
                  would have but a poor opportunity to expose his rascality and complicity with a
                  rope around her neck; perhaps she might not be allowed to speak at all. This
                  frightful thought occasioned her no little anxiety; and she counted the weary
                  hours as they dragged along, hoping that every moment would bring her the promised
                  pardon, and thus spare her the mortification of the gallows scene, that Coldheart
                  had referred to as a probability.
               The second day after her trial, when her suspense began to change into real agony,
                  and hope was beginning to tremble upon the verge of despair, the cell door
                  suddenly swung open. Mrs. Surratt expected to see Coldheart enter, but she was
                  grievously disappointed. In his stead a catholic priest, with a solemn mien,
                  slowly moved into the narrow apartment. His very appearance filled the heart of
                  Mrs. Surratt with emotions of an unpleasant nature. However, she smiled faintly,
                  and endeavored to assume an air of cheerfulness, which she by no means felt. It
                  was a vain effort. Human nature cannot deceive itself.
               "I'm glad, good father," said Mrs. Surratt extending her hand, "that you too have
                  not forgotten me. My friends are treating me badly. None have visited me, and I
                  need company to help kill time."
               "My daughter," said the priest, who did not wish her to mistake the object of his
                  visit, "your time is short enough without any killing."
               "I know it, father, but we poor mortals when we get into difficulties, need and
                  wish for the consolation of our friends."
               "One in your situation," replied the priest with great solemnity, "should seek
                  comfort from another source. Friends cannot save us from death, nor offer
                  consolation equal to that of our Holy Catholic Religion."
               "That is true, Father Walter. I often think of it."
               "But, my daughter," said the priest earnestly, "you should devote your whole
                  thoughts to this subject—day and night. You will soon be called upon to travel the
                  rugged path of death. Day after to-morrow you must ascend into the presence of the
                  Holy Saints. Are you prepared for this trial, daughter?"
               Mrs. Surratt trembled violently.
               "You have been thinking of this, daughter?" said the priest seeing that the
                  wretched prisoner was not disposed to reply.
               "Oh, father, yes, but not seriously. I didn't believe my end to be that near."
               "It is natural," said Father Walter, "to seek to deceive ourselves as long as
                  possible with the illusions of hope, but I entreat you not to indulge in them. Let
                  every hour, as it speeds away, be freighted with holy devotions. Do not idle away
                  the few, fleeting moments you have to live. Confess your sins, my daughter, and
                  let us pray that you may be forgiven,"
               "Oh, Father Walter," said Mrs. Surratt in anguish, "do not talk thus to me. I
                  can't believe I'm going to die that soon."
               "Why," answered the surprised priest, "you have surely heard your sentence. The
                  authorities have certainly informed you that you are doomed to die. You will be
                  executed day after to-morrow. You doubtless know this?'
               "I don't believe it—I don't believe it. It's a sham, good father," exclaimed Mrs.
                  Surratt with a desperate effort of reason to confirm herself in the belief that
                  such was the case.
               Father Walter looked at the miserable woman with an expression of pity, while at
                  the same time he was a little suspicious that she was becoming a maniac.
               "It is an unpleasant, disagreeable truth to admit," he said at last. "I wish I
                  could bid you hope; but to do so would be deceiving you. It is my solemn duty to
                  say 'prepare to meet thy God.' Do not flatter yourself with the delusive hope that
                  you can live longer than two or three days. While we are talking the span of your
                  life is rapidly narrowing. Life is sweet, my daughter, but you must resign it to
                  the God who made you."
               "I won't, Father Walter—I won't die that soon," interrupted Mrs. Surratt in a fit
                  of transient frenzy at the obstinacy of the priest, who she appeared to forget
                  knew nothing of Coldheart's promise. "You don't believe I am guilty of the
                  scandalous charge brought against me. You know I never committed that horrible
                  crime, good father. I'm as innocent of it as the Holy Virgin, Father Walter. I
                  can't believe that my friends, knowing this, will allow me to be put to death. No,
                  they won't, good father."
               "Your friends have no control over the case," remarked the priest.
               "If they have'nt, some of the officers of the government know that I was not
                  concerned in the murder of Mr. Lincoln, and they won't suffer me to be executed. I
                  was a friend to Mr. Lincoln, father—one of the best he had, and I warned him not
                  to go to the theatre that night."
               "You did!" exclaimed the astonished priest. "Is it possible you were privy to that
                  foul murder?"
               "I knew it several days before it occured, and twice attempted to convey
                  information to Mr. Lincoln. I persuaded a female friend to tell Mrs. Lincoln all
                  about it, but she was detected somehow, and they arrested her, good father, and
                  she has not been heard of since. After she failed I wrote to Mr. Lincoln myself,
                  the very day the murder was committed, and I know he got the letter. I am
                  innocent, good father."
               While Mrs. Surratt was relating this, Father Walter looked perplexed, and he
                  greatly feared that she was implicated in the plot."
               "This is no time for prevarication," said he sternly. "Why did you not make these
                  things known pending your trial? Do not try to deceive God, daughter, while you
                  are almost in the presence of death."
               "I'm speaking the truth, good father," said Mrs. Surratt firmly and earnestly.
                  "The reason I did not make it known, was because I didn't think it was necessary.
                  I didn't want to expose or embarrass those who have promised to save me."
               "No one will save you, my daughter. You must not hug any such delusion to your
                  heart. You will find out your mistake when it may be entirely too late."
               "I'm looking for my pardon every moment, father."
               "All the pardon you will ever receive will come from above," said the priest
                  pointing upwards solemnly.
               "Father, father," cried Mrs. Surratt with something like childish energy, "don't
                  try to make me believe so. I don't want to die so soon. I can't leave my children.
                  Who will take care of them?"
               "The fiat of law regards not the private relations of any individual," said the
                  priest pityingly. "You have been condemned, daughter, and you must die. I deeply
                  sympathize with you in your distress—I sympathize with your children in the
                  bereavement they must soon sustain. But, daughter, attend to the interests of your
                  immortal soul first. God, who, does all for the best, will take care of your
                  children."
               "Say not such cruel things, good father," begged poor Mrs. Surratt. "You would not
                  talk this if you knew all."
               "What do you mean by these words?" asked the priest.
               "Oh, father, advise me what to do," exclaimed Mrs. Surratt wringing her hands.
                  "I'm wretched—I'm miserable, good father."
               "I am trying to advise you to look to this," said the priest holding up a little
                  cross, "but Satan seems to blind your eyes."
               "I don't mean that, father. I want your advice in regard to another matter. Will
                  you befriend me, good father?"
               "Yes," replied the priest, seeing that she distressed woman was not disposed to
                  listen to his spiritual advice.
               "Father," said Mrs. Surratt sinking her voice to almost a whisper, "I've been
                  promised a pardon. It was promised me before the trial came off, and that is the
                  reason I made no defence. I was told that I'd be condemned to death, and pardoned
                  afterwards."
               "Who told you this, my daughter?"
               "I'm forbidden to reveal that. I'm sworn not to mention his name. It was a man
                  high in authority, though."
               "You know that he has the power to procure your pardon?"
               "I'm certain of it, father."
               "When did he tell you that you would receive the pardon—I mean at what day
                  subsequent to the trail?"
               "He did not say exactly. He told me," continued Mrs. Surratt shudderingly, "that I
                  might probably receive it on the scaffold, and bade me to fear nothing, even if
                  the rope should be——"
               "Placed around your neck," said the priest finishing the sentence for the choking
                  prisoner.
               "Yes, father—he said that."
               "Why should he interest himself in your fate to such an extent?"
               "Because he was engaged in the conspiracy, and he knew that I was aware of it—but
                  you'll keep it secret, good father?"
               
               "By this sacred cross I will, my daughter; confess freely."
               Mrs. Surratt then related the particulars concerning her initiation into the
                  Bloody Junto—with which our reader is acquainted. When she had told all that she
                  deemed necessary, she said:
               "What do you advise me to do, good father?"
               The priest reflected several moments before he replied.
               "You cannot mention the name of the officer who promised to save you."
               "I obligated myself not to give his name in connection with this matter. It would
                  not be right to violate my oath, would it?"
               "You did wrong, my daughter, to bind yourself in any such a manner. You may depend
                  upon it there is treachery intended. This officer, whoever he may be—I dislike to
                  give you pain, my daughter—but he will have you executed. There is no confidence
                  to be placed in any man who would commit murder for his own personal
                  aggrandizement. It is my conviction that you may prepare to die."
               "Oh, father, save me—save me from this horrid death!"
               "I will do all I can," replied the priest shaking his head, "but I fear my efforts
                  will all be fruitless,"
               "Why, father? You don't believe I'm guilty, do you?"
               "No. I am satisfied of your innocence."
               "Then, father," said Mrs. Surratt earnestly, "it's not right that I should be put
                  to death. You won't allow it, will you?"
               "This officer you spoke of," continued the priest, "is no friend of yours—I can
                  see plainly enough. He is making a scape-goat of you, and you will find it out,
                  but it will be too late. The knowledge of that fact will come upon you amid your
                  death struggles."
               "Holy Virgin, save me!" cried Mrs. Surratt terrified by the awful words of the
                  priest, Then in another instant she fell to entreating.
               "Oh father, father, tell me what to do. I don't want to die now. I'll expose this
                  wicked man—shall I do it, good father?"
               "I do not at present see how that would benefit you," replied the priest, who was
                  too honest to deceive the poor woman. "The officer has every advantage of you. You
                  have no witnesses, according to your own statement, to prove what you have
                  said."
               "Oh, good father, tell me then what to do?" cried poor Mrs. Surratt in perfect
                  agony at the dismal prospect before her.
               "I will investigate this affair," said the priest after a moment, "though I advise
                  you to expect the worst, and to prepare accordingly. I firmly believe the
                  intention is to put you to death, my daughter. It is an awful truth, but you
                  should begin to face it squarely. You need not rely upon the promise of that
                  officer—who is engaged in this iniquitous business. He will deceive you, as sure
                  as you are now imprisoned."
               "Then, father, if he does," said Mrs. Surratt, conquering the shrinking timidity
                  which she had heretofore shown, "if he does, I have one request to make. I want
                  you to expose him after I am gone."
               "How can I do that, my daughter?"
               "I only swore that I'd never mention his name in connection with the Bloody Junto
                     while I lived, good father; and I will not. If I'm executed, then
                  my obligation ceases. The very day the officer persuaded me to this step, which I
                  took without much reflection, I wrote his name on one of the walls of my cellar.
                  After he left me, I got to studying about it, and I thought may be I'd done wrong.
                  I had something like a presentiment that he was after no good. His name is written
                  on the wall in large, black letters, and covered over with white-wash, which will
                  easily come off."
               "Did you anticipate any such events as have happened?" interrupted the priest.
               "No, father, I anticipated nothing. I could not tell myself why I did it. The idea
                  suddenly came into my head, and I seemed to be urged on by some invisible
                  power."
               "Strange, strange," muttered the priest. "On what part of the wall is the name
                  written?" he inquired.
               "About as high from the floor as my head, and half way between the two
                  corners."
               "Your request shall be granted, my daughter. I will furthermore see if I can
                  discover some reliable evidence of your innocence, and if I do I will make it
                  known."
               Father Walter then took leave of Mrs. Surrat, and proceeded to the cell of Payne,
                  whom he found leaning back in one corner against the walls. He was gazing
                  listlessly at the ceiling, without any of those indications of troubled thought
                  that might naturally be supposed to disturb one's equanimity in such a situation.
                  No physiognomist could have guessed the nature of his reflections from the
                  expression of his countenance. His face was somewhat grave, but its seriousness
                  seemed to be of a negative character, proceeding from the mere absence of mirthful
                  excitement. In short, his whole manner, whether assumed or not, was indicative of
                  a mind at ease.
               The priest spoke kindly as he entered, and Payne returned the salutation, but
                  without changing his attitude in the least.
               "I am a priest, my son," presently said Father Walter.
               "Thank you for the information," replied Payne in the coldest tone imaginable.
               "I have come to hear you confess," said Father Walter, who wished to broach the
                  subject of his mission without delay.
               "What for, good father?"
               "You know you have to die."
               "Yes, so do we all, sooner or later."
               "But your time is probably very short."
               "And yours too, good father."
               "But the very day and hour of your death is fixed."
               "So is yours, and every body else's."
               "Why will you jest thus, my son," said the priest reproachfully, "when you know
                  that you have not many hours to live?"
               "I am not jesting, kind father. Considering ring the uncertainty of human affairs,
                  you may die now before I do."
               "That is true," replied the priest. "But you have been condemned by the law, and
                  the hour of your execution is recorded."
               "Why so I have been informed, good father."
               "Are you ready then," inquired the perplexed priest, to meet death?"
               "Suppose I should answer in the negative?"
               "Then I will prepare you," said Father Walter.
               "That would be a great kindness, good father, and would place me under lasting
                  obligations. How will you do it?"
               "You must confess your sins to me," said the priest.
               "Agreed," replied Payne, "upon one condition?"
               "What is that?"
               "You must make a mutual thing of it?"
               "I do not understand you, my son."
               "Well, I will confess to you if you will confess to me. We will perform a mutual
                  service for each other in that way."
               At this Father Walter piously crossed himself, and began to lecture the prisoner
                  for his blasphemy. Payne gazed at the priest as if he had been examining a wild
                  beast of same strange character.
               "I do not belong to your church, good father," said Payne quietly, when the priest
                  had made a pause.
               "What church do you belong to then?"
               "None."
               "Then, my son, you may as well take shelter under the wing of the Holy Catholic
                  Church. You have no time to waste now with the various theories of the different
                  nominations."
               "Father," said Payne without the least change in his countenance, "how much will
                  you charge by the yard to pray me out of purgatory?"
               The priest appeared dumb-struck.
               "Make it as cheap as you can, good father, continued Payne, as if he thought the
                  priest was making the calculation in his own mind. "You see I might advance so far
                  into the fiery regions as to make a cent or two on the yard a considerable item in
                  the bill."
               "My son you are very, very wicked."
               "Why so, good father?"
               "You are making sport of the Holy Catholic Religion."
               "Why, do you not say mass for people in purgatory?" asked Payne in apparent
                  surprise.
               "Yes, to be sure we do."
               "It is to accomplish good, is it not?"
               "Certainly it is."
               "You have pay for this kind father?"
               "The church must be sustained," meekly replied the priest.
               "Very well," continued Payne. "I am willing to pay you as much as the job is
                  worth, But what security will you give, good father, for the faithful performance
                  of your duty? After I am dead I cannot, you know, reach you through ordinary
                  modes. I must therefore have approved security before I pay for this service.
                  Would it not do as well to have a policy of insurance, good father, guaranteeing
                  that I will not enter purgatory at all? I should like an arrangement of this
                  character much better than any other. What say you, father?"
               "My son, you talk very strangely for a man who is to die."
               "I see, father, you are not disposed to enter into a contract. Well, I have no
                  other proposition to make. I can do my own praying. It is true I am poor, very
                  poor, kind father, but the good book says I can but without money or price."
               "I will charge you nothing for absolution, my son."
               "I suppose not, replied Payne now changing his manner somewhat. "I suppose not,
                  provided I would make a suitable confession. You no doubt think that I am a vile
                  murderer, and that my story would be extremely interesting, and would itself
                  overpay the charge for absolution. It might also satisfy the consciences of the
                  military judges who condemned me. They may have sent you for this very purpose.
                  You may be an oldfashioned Jesuit, deputed to take my confession, and thereby
                  complete the pitiful evidence brought forward in my trial, by the addition of
                  something more substantial."
               The priest reddened at this severe charge.
               "Your accusation is very unjust," said Father Walter with meekness.
               "I shall make my confession to no man," continued Payne. "The truth is, good
                  father, I have always had a perfect horror of the Catholic Church, from my very
                  boyhood. My imagination was so affected by the 'Book of Martyrs,' that I can
                  almost see the fires of Smithfield as they crackled around the bodies of stubborn
                  heretics. I have been taught to hate your church, and I candidly acknowledge that
                  I have no more respect for your robes, your beads and your crosses, than I have
                  for the absurd rites of Jove or Bacchus. You need not frown, father. I care not
                  that," snapping his fingers, "for the anathemas of both priesthood and laity of
                  the Catholic Church. Just so you do not apply the cruel thumbscrew, nor-break me
                  on the wheel, nor throw me to ravenous beasts to be devoured, you may tongue-lash
                  and excommunicate me till doomsday, if it will afford you any pleasure of benefit
                  your church."
               "You are incorrigible, my son, said Father Walter, without exhibiting the least
                  anger. "I will resign you to Satan."
               "Thank you, kind father. The probability is, I can compromise the matter with him
                  in a manner more satisfactory to myself than with you, if you will not interfere
                  with my transacations by saying mass for my soul. Let me have fair play, good
                  father. It is all I ask."
               Father Walter, seeing that nothing could be done with the strange prisoner,
                     abruptly quitted the cell, and Payne
                  was again left in solitude to contemplate the gloomy prospects before him.
               During all this time clergymen were in the respective cells of Atzerott and Harold
                  Both these miserable wretches had barely sense enough to comprehend the nature and
                  consequences of death. They knew, from observation, that corpses were buried
                  beneath the sod, and it was this state of darkness they feared more than the
                  horrors of purgatory. But it might be debated whether they had any rational ideas
                  as to the immortality of the human soul, and the import of eternity. They shed a
                  quantity of tears, sufficient to induce any reasonable preacher into the belief
                  that they were truly penitent. But if their emotions had been critically analyzed,
                  it is highly probable that their putative sorrow for sin emanated from grief at
                  the prospect of the silent tomb, and the horrible road they were forced to travel
                  in order to reach it. We will not, however, detain the reader by a description of
                  the sickening scenes that occurred in their cells. We will leave them, and proceed
                  to details more interesting.
               After his departure from the penitentiary, Father Walter called on Mr. Stanton,
                  and requested the secretary to accompany him to the White House, stating that he
                  believed Mrs. Surratt was innocent, and that she had written a letter of warning
                  to Mr. Lincoln. They both proceeded to the president's office and searched
                  closely, but no trace of the letter could be discovered. They then questioned Mrs.
                  Lincoln, and all who might be supposed to know anything of the president's
                  affairs; but no one had ever heard Mr. Lincoln make mention of such a
                  document.
               "I knew you were mistaken, Father Walter," said Mr. Stanton. "You have been duped
                  by the prisoner."
               "Sir, she is an innocent woman," replied the priest shaking his head.
               "The court has determined otherwise, father, and it is not your province to
                  reverse their decision. Mrs. Surratt has had a fair trial, and the proof against
                  her was so strong that she attempted no defence whatever. This story about a
                  letter she pretends to have written is all twaddle. Her acknowledgment of her
                  privity of the assassination is additional proof of complicity. You have been
                  deceived, good father, in regard to this matter."
               "Mrs. Surratt has herself been deceived," replied the priest, "and those who did
                  it will repent on their death-beds, if not before."
               "You would better reserve these remarks, good father, for your sermons. They are
                  not applicable to me. I have no control over Mrs. Surratt's destiny. I did not
                  condemn her; neither is it my duty to acquit her."
               "She will die an innocent woman," said the priest solemnly.
               "You will stultify yourself before the public, father, if you talk thus."
               "Still my belief in her innocence will be unshaken.'
               "I have no time to lose," said Secretary Stanton suddenly breaking off. "Go to
                  Judge Holt, if you desire an investigation."
               So saying the secretary went about his business, and Father Walter proceeded in
                  search of the judge advocate general. But from this dintinguished individual he
                  met with nothing but insulting rebuffs. In short, all the efforts of the good
                  father to procure some additional evidence of Mrs. Surratt's innocence, proved in
                  vain, and he was at last forced to give it up in despair. His only duty now was to
                  attend to the spiritual interests of the doomed woman. Accordingly the next day he
                  applied to Secretary Stanton for a pass to visit the criminal.
               "I shall have to refuse you, father," said the secretary.
               "Why will you?" asked the priest in unfeigned surprise.
               "Simply because you have taken upon yourself functions that do not legitimately
                  belong to your calling. You seem to have been acting more the part of lawyer than
                  priest. Instead of endeavoring to prepare the prisoner to die, you have been
                  attempting to reverse a fate to which a just sentence has condemned her. You went
                  about yesterday proclaiming Mrs. Surratt's innocence, thus seeking to turn the
                  tide of public opinion against the lawful authorities of the government. Under
                  these circumstances it would be imprudent to grant the small favor you ask, and I
                  cannot do it."
               "Is it possible you will deprive a dying woman of the consolations of
                  religion?"
               "I do not take that view of it, father," replied Secretary Stanton. "I am merely
                  protecting the dignity of the government. If you had only discharged the duties
                  that appertain exclusively to your holy profession, free communication with the
                  prisoner would have been allowed you. But when you abandon your high calling,
                  father, and assume another office, in the exercise of which you cast obloquy upon
                  the legal courts, established by authority of the United States, it becomes my
                  duty to prevent your interview with the prisoner. And however disagreeable the
                  duty may be, I shall discharge it with firmness."
               "I was in the discharge of the duties pertaining to my calling," replied Father
                  Walter. "I heard Mrs. Surratt's confession, and was convinced of her innocence. My
                  efforts, yesterday, in her behalf, were prompted by a christian desire to assist
                  an injured, friendless woman. I would have done the same for any one of my
                  flock."
               "Attend to the eternal interests of your flock, good father," said the secretary
                  with a slight but perceptible sneer, "and do not attempt to impede the progress of
                  earthly justice."
               "I ask only to be allowed that privilege," replied the priest humbly. "I wish to
                  talk with the prisoner only in regard to religious matters."
               "I will give you permission on one condition, father."
               "Name it?" said the priest.
               "You must correct the assertions you made yesterday, and hereafter express the
                  opinion that Mrs. Surratt is guilty."
               "Whether I believe it or not?"
               "Yes, whether you believe it or not."
               "Never! Never!" said the priest firmly. "I will not belie my own conscience, and
                  slander the memory of an innocent woman."
               "Then, father, I emphatically refuse your request."
               "So be it," replied the priest with great solemnity. "Let God judge between us
                  concerning this matter; and let this great sin be laid at the door of him to whom
                  it belongs."
               And Father Walter turned from the secretary of war, and with slow steps went his
                  way with a sorrowful heart.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               
                  
                     
                        "No marble marks the spot where they lie,
                        Defam'd, disgrace'd they were doom'd to die—
                        And there they sleep, alone in the vale,
                        Unmourn'd except by the wind's wild wall."
                     
                  
               
               The fourth day from the trial had now dawned; and during this time, Mrs. Surratt
                  had been left utterly alone, in a state of suspense and agony that no words can
                  justly portray. Her daughter Annie had made various attempts to visit her
                  distracted mother, but she was unsuccessful. The poor girl was rendered frantic by
                  the repeated failures she had made; but nevertheless she was not deterred from
                  making another, on the last day, both to see her only parent, and procure her
                  pardon. A scene is said by northern writers to have taken place, that might have
                  aroused the sympathy of the most obdurate heart. For the miserable girl, with eyes
                  red and swollen from weeping, and with dishevelled hair, hastened early in the
                  morning to the White House. Here she was met by General Muzzy, the president's
                  military secretary.
               "I want to see Mr. Johnson," she said hurriedly.
               "The president is indisposed to-day," replied General Muzzy kindly. "He cannot see
                  any one."
               "Let me see Mrs. Johnson, then."
               "She too is ill."
               "Where is Mrs. Patterson? can I see her?"
               "She is also indisposed."
               "Oh God!" screamed the poor girl, "are they all sick at once Will no one help me?
                  Oh, good sir," throwing herself upon her knees before General Muzzy, "please help
                  me."
               "My dear young lady," said Gen. Muzzy, raising her up and leading her to a seat,
                  "what can I do?"
               "Help me to intercede for my poor mother. Oh, sir, she had nothing to do with the
                  murder of Mr. Lincoln. Everybody that is acquainted with her, knows that she was
                  too good a woman to do such a horrid thing. She ain't guilty, and you oughtn't to
                  let them hang my poor mother. Oh, sir, I can't stand it, indeed I can't. It will
                  kill me, if she is taken from me. Oh, Lord have mercy!" she exclaimed throwing
                  herself at General Muzzy's feet, where she cried with all the bitterness of
                  girlish agony. Then in a moment she sprang to her feet, and recommenced her
                  heart-rending entreaties. Seizing the hand of General Muzzy, she eagerly looked
                  into his face.
               "Oh, sir, won't you help me?"
               "God knows I would if I could," said General Muzzy, in whose heart the chords of
                  sympathy were touched by the girl's deep distress.
               "Oh, talk with Mr. Johnson, then," she exclaimed earnestly, "beg him to spare my
                  innocent mother."
               "The president is not able to converse about any kind of business," replied
                  General Muzzy. "He is violently ill."
               "Please see somebody then," begged poor Annie. "For Heaven's sake do something. I
                  will lose my senses if you don't."
               "I would do anything in the world that I could, consistently, to relieve your
                  distress," replied General Muzzy. "Your mother has been tried lawfully, and
                  sentenced; and I would be set down as an idiot if I should ask her release,
                  without some evidence of her innocence upon which to base my petition. If I had
                  such evidence, I would cheerfully exert myself to procure her pardon of the
                  authorities. But without it, I do not feel like subjecting myself to the
                  mortification of refusal at the hands of all I would approach upon the subject. If
                  I can favor you in any other way, though, I will do so."
               "Won't you let me see my mother before she dies?" asked Annie in a subdued, humble
                  tone.
               "Why, have you not been with her all the time?"
               "No, sir. I have'nt spoken to her since she was arrested."
               "Have you asked permission of any of the officers?"
               "Yes sir, but I was refused every time."
               "That is too bad," said General Muzzy, speaking partly to himself. "Stay here till
                  I return. I will get permission for you to see your mother. I have no doubt this
                  poor favor will be granted."
               General Muzzy then hastened to the office of the secretary of war.
               "Mr. Stanton, said he, "has Miss Surratt applied for permission to see her
                  mother?"
               "She has," replied the secretary.
               "And you refused her?"
               "I did."
               "May I ask your reason for such a course?"
               "Yes. I refused that the prisonor might have no possible chance of escape. I do
                  not wish to have persons running to the cells and furnishing the criminals with
                  implements with which to file off their chains, and circulating reports derogatory
                  to the government of the United States. Here is old Father Walter, whom I
                  permitted to visit Mrs. Surratt for the purpose of discharging his clerical
                  duties—he has been bruiting it about
                  the city that she has been unjustly condemned, and the Lord knows what all. I
                  conceived that my duty to the government required me to put a stop to such
                  proceedings, which I have effectually done by prohibiting all intercouse with the
                  prisoners. I regret the necessity which forced me to take this step. It is a
                  severe measure, I acknowledge, but I am forced to it ex
                     rei necessitate."
               "It is a little too severe," replied General Muzzy. "I cannot perceive the
                  necessity for such a course towards Mrs. Surratt. For God's sake, Mr. Stanton,
                  give the poor child a permit to see her mother before she dies. If you do not, the
                  public voice will pronounce it the most harsh, cruel and unjust treatment ever
                  exercised towards any criminal. It will partake of the character of barbarism.
               "Do you ask this as a personal favor, General Muzzy?"
               "I will put it upon that ground, if necessary."
               "I can grant it upon no other."
               Very well, I shall take it as a personal favor."
               "And besides this, I will hold you responsible for whatever may happen."
               "Give me the permit, Mr. Stanton. I will run considerable risk to gratify a
                  friendless orphan, whose tears have burnt a passage to my heart. I never could be
                  satisfied, if she is denied this small favor."
               Secretary Stanton, thus appealed to, could not refuse the permit without laying
                  himself open to universal censure, and therefore complied with Gen. Muzzy's
                  request.
               While General Muzzy was interceding for Annie Surratt, that young lady was
                  manifesting her agony in paroxysms of grief that greatly moved the hearts of all
                  who happened to be in the vicinity of the White House. She threw herself upon the
                  door-steps, and her wild, piercing screams of heart-breaking anguish penetrated
                  the halls of the president's mansion. She implored the aid of all visitors in the
                  melting language of frantic sorrow. Few who looked upon the wretched girl, the
                  very embodiment of the wildest grief, went away from the White House without
                  shedding a tear at the touching exhibition of filial affection. Indeed, the sight
                  of this beautiful girl, bathed in the bitterest tears that human nature can shed,
                  was sufficient to call forth the warmest sympathies of all passers-by. For the
                  case is without a parallel in America since the landing of the Mayflower, unless
                  we except the treatment of those poor women in New England who were burnt or
                  drowned as witches, or put to death in some other barbarous manner, for the
                  horrible crime of worshiping God according to the dictates of their own
                  consciences. Those startling shrieks of Annie Surratt will ring in the ears of
                     some, even upon their beds of death, and it may be, follow them
                  down to the black regions of eternal despair!
               It was nearly ten o'clock when General Muzzy handed to Miss Surratt the written
                  permit to visit her mother. There was no time to lose. Every fleeting moment was
                  rapidly hurrying on the hour of death. Certain that lingering longer at the White
                  House would be productive of nothing but disappointment, Annie hastened to the
                  prison. Showing the permit, she was allowed to pass to Mrs. Surratt's cell. Upon
                  entering a spectacle burst upon her sight that sent a pang of horror tearing
                  through her trembling frame. Mrs. Surratt was sitting with her back to the wall.
                  Her eyes stared wildly around, and her face was haggard and overspread with the
                  pallor of death. When her daughter entered she made a slight movement with her
                  feet, which caused the iron chains to rattle. The child cast one hurried glance at
                  these rude manacles, which told too plainly the tale of snffering, disgrace and
                  misery, then with a wild shriek that reverberated in the gloomy corridors of the
                  penitentiary, fell shuddering into her mother's arms. It was a meeting too
                  distressing to witness; and even the war-scarred sentinel brushed a tear from his
                  eye, and turned his head away. Neither parent nor child spoke for some length of
                  time. Grief like theirs was too deep to be uttered, except in the silence of that
                  heart-breaking sorrow and anguish that feel the poverty of human language. When,
                  however, the first paroxysms of grief had passed away, Annie broke the awful
                  silence.
               "Oh, mother! mother! mother! what shall I do?"
               Mrs. Surratt was incapable of making any reply.
               "Speak to me, mother," she piteously begged. "Say something to me. Let me hear
                  your voice once more."
               "God bless you, my poor child," sobbed Mrs. Surratt with a desperate effort to be
                  calm. It was in vain. She could only clasp the daughter closer to her trembling
                  breast, and bedew her face with a fresh outburst of scalding tears.
               "Oh mother! will they murder you?" asked Annie with a shudder.
               "I'm afraid they will, my daughter," replied Mrs. Surratt choking down her
                  struggling emotions.
               "Then I'll die too. I don't want to live if they kill you. Oh, I can't live
                  without you."
               "Annie, my child, you mustn't talk so. You must live to take care of your little
                  sister."
               "Oh, mother, it will kill the poor child. She does nothing but cry from morning
                  till night. She hasn't eaten anything hardly for four days. She nearly goes into
                  spasms."
               At this harrowing intelligence Mrs. Surratt raised her hands imploringly to
                  Heaven.
               "Oh God!" she cried with emotions that seemed to rend her very heart, "protect my
                  orphan children: and may they meet their mother in Heaven!"
               "Oh, mother, we will! we will! and I hope it won't be long first."
               "Annie," said Mrs. Surratt with comparative calmness, "you must try to train up
                  your little sister as I have taught you. Let her kneel at your feet every night as
                  you have done at mine, and say her prayers. Take her to sabbath-school; tell her
                  to be a good child and meet her mother in Heaven."
               "Oh, mother, I can't bear to hear you talk so."
               "I have not long to live, Annie, and you must listen to what I have to say."
               "Oh mother," interrupted the sobbing daughter, "they surely won't hang you, will
                  they? It would be a disgrace to the government to murder as good a woman as you
                  are."
               "Do not trust to that, my child. God sometimes permits men to do wickedness for
                  the accomplishment of his own wise purposes. The innocent are often treated
                  unjustly in this world. But everything happens for the best. My death, dear child,
                  will ever be a warning to you to do what is right. Think of me often, then, and
                  whenever you may be tempted to do wrong, recollect the dying words of your
                  mother."
               "Oh mother, you'll kill me to talk in this way."
               "You will miss me sadly for awhile, continued Mrs. Surratt, "for none can fill a
                  mother's place. But in the course of time you will learn to do without me, and
                  will probably think of your mother as one who went down to a premature grave.
                  Maybe you will forget me entirely."
               "Never! never! Oh mother, how can you say so?"
               "I know you think so now, my daughter; but God has wisely ordered that we shall
                  not always mourn for departed friends, and it is right, too, that we shouldn't.
                  But I want you sometimes to think of me, especially when you feel disposed to
                  commit a wrong act. Don't forget in your prayers those who put your innocent
                  mother to death. The Holy Bible commands us to pray for our enemies, and to
                  forgive them, even as we hope to be forgiven. The time will come when the
                  innocence of your mother will be talked of, and her enemies will be found out.
                  They may be tried for the great injury they have done me; but do you pray for
                  them, Annie, and forgive them in your heart, and God will certainly reward you. In
                  short, be a good child, and you will meet your mother in Heaven."
               "Holy Virgin, have mercy!" cried Annie clinging more closely to her parent.
               "Annie," continued Mrs. Surratt after a short pause, "I want you to have me buried
                  by your father's side."
               The child lay moaning piteously in her mother's lap.
               "Bring your little sister to our graves sometimes"——but the poor woman's feelings
                  overcame her, and she could not complete the sentence.
               "Oh, mother, please don't talk so."
               "Will you do this, Annie?" inquired Mrs. Surratt when she could speak.
               "Yes, mother; I'll do anything you wish."
               Mrs. Surratt then spoke of the disposition of her little property—how it should be
                  used so as to benefit her children. She occasionally shuddered while speaking,
                  when she heard the sound of the hammers driving nails into the scaffold erecting
                  in the penitentiary yard. She knew that arrangements for her execution were
                  making, and thoughts too horrible for description passed through her mind, as the
                  sounds of the preparation penetrated to her dismal cell.
               There was quite a contrast between the scenes transpiring within the narrow
                  prisons, and those without. A considerable crowd of persons, whose contemptible
                  curiosity to witness the death-struggles of a fellowbeing had overcome all sense
                  of shame, had begged passes of the authorities, and were now assembled where the
                  gibbet was erecting. Impertinent newspaper reporters, prying into everybody's
                  face, listening at every word that might be dropped, and searching into every nook
                  and corner for sensational items with which to fill their blank sheets, were
                  looking eagerly about, note-book and pencil in hand, ready to take down every
                  particle of intelligence as it occurred. In proof that their duty was well
                  discharged, we notify the reader that the greater portion of the remaining part of
                  the present chapter is taken from an account furnished to the press by a reporter
                  who seems to have examined everything worthy of the least notice. We do not use
                  quotation marks, for reasons obvious to searching critics.
               Our reporter states that he entered a large, grassy yard, surrounded by an
                  exceedingly high wall. On the top of this wall soldiers with muskets in their
                  hands were thickly planted. The yard below was broken by irregular buildings of
                  brick. Many officers sat at the windows of the central building, and looked awhile
                  at the strange scene on the grassy plaza. On the left the longbarred, impregnable
                  penitentiary rose. The shady spots beneath it were occupied by huddling
                  spectators. Soldiers were filling their canteens at the pump. A face or two looked
                  out from the barred jail. There were many umbrellas hoisted on the ground to
                  shelter civilians beneath them. Squads of officers and citizens lay along the
                  narrow shadow of the walls. The north side of the yard was enclosed on three sides
                  by columns of soldiers drawn up in regular order, the side next to the
                  penitentiary being short to admit of ingress to the prisoner's door; but the
                  opposite column reached entirely up to the north wall.
               Within this enclosed area a structure to be inhabited by neither the living nor
                  the dead was fast approaching completion. It stood, gaunt, lofty, long. Saws and
                  hammers made dolorous music on it. Men in their shirt sleeves were measuring it
                  and directing its construction in a business way. Now and then some one would
                  ascend its airy stair to test its firmness; others crawled beneath to wedge its
                  slim supports, or carry away the falling debris.
               Toward this skeleton edifice all looked with a strange nervousness. It was the
                  thought and speculation of the gravest and the gayest.
               It was the gallows.
               A beam reached horizontally in the air,
                  twenty feet from the ground; four awkward ropes at irregular intervals dangled
                  from it, each noosed at the end. It was upheld by three props, one at the centre
                  and one at each end. These props came all the way to the ground, where they were
                  morticed in heavy bars. Midway of them a floor was laid, twenty by twelve feet,.
                  held in its position on the farther side by shorter props, of which there were
                  many, and reached by fifteen creaking steps, nailed on either side. But this floor
                  had no supports on the side nearest the eye, except two temporary rods, at the
                  foot of which two inclined beams pointed menacingly, held in poise by ropes from
                  the gallows floor.
               And this floor was presently discovered to be a cheat, a trap, a pit-fall.
               Two hinges only held it to its firmer half. These were to give way at the fatal
                  moment, and leave only the shallow and unreliable air for the bound and smothering
                  to tread upon.
               The traps were two, sustained by two different props.
               The nooses were on each side of the central support.
               Was this all?
               Not all.
               Close by the foot of the gallows four wooden boxes were piled upon each other at
                  the edge of four newly excavated pits, the fresh earth of which was already dried
                  and brittle in the burning noon.
               Here were to be interred the broken carcasses when the gallows had let loose its
                  throttle. They were so placed as the victims should emerge from the goal door they
                  would be seen near the stair directly in the line of march. It was a long waiting,
                  and the roof of a high house outside the walls was seen to be densely packed with
                  people. Others kept arriving, moment by moment; soldiers were wondering when the
                  swinging would begin, and officers arguing that the four folks "deserved it, damn
                  them!" Gentlemen of experience were telling over the number of such expiations
                  they had witnessed. Analytical people were comparing the various modes of
                  shooting, garroting and guillotining. Cigars were sending up spirals of soothing
                  smoke. There was a good deal of covert fear that a reprive might be granted.
                  Inquiries were many and ingenious for whiskey, and one or two were so expectant
                  that they fell asleep.
               How much those four dying, hoping, cringing, dreaming felons were grudged their
                  little gasp of life! It was to be a scene, not a postponement or a prolongation.
                  "Who was to be the executioner?" "Why had not the renowned and artistic Isaacs
                  been sent for from New York?" "Would they probably die game, or grow weak-kneed in
                  the last extremity?" Ah, the gallows workmen have completed the job! "Now then we
                  should have it."
               Still there was delay. The sun peeped into the new-made graves, and made
                  blistering hot the gallow's floor. The old pump made its familiar music to the
                  cool plash of blessed water. The grass withered in the fervid heat. The bronzed
                  faces of the soldiers ran lumps of sweat. The file upon the jail walls looked down
                  into the wide yard yawningly. No wind fluttered the two battle standards compelled
                  to unfold their trophies upon this coming profanation. Not yet arrived. Why? The
                  extent of grace had almost been attained. The sentence gave them only till two
                  o'clock! Why are they so dilatory in wishing to be hung? Why not hurry up? What
                  difference would a few moments make to the criminals?
               Thus the crowd was wishing, and calculating, and mocking. Presently a scream, so
                  loud, piercing and agonizing, burst upon their ears, that every one stopped short
                  in astonishment. It was poor Annie Surratt. An officer, accompanied by Fathers
                  Walter and Wigett and some soldiers, entered the cell to inform the miserable
                  woman that her hour had come. The heart-broken Annie could not endure this, and
                  she shrieked till the gloomy corridors rang. She clung to her mother with a
                  wildness, with a frantic affection that melted all to tears. There was not a dry
                  eye in that dismal cell, consecrated by the heart-rending parting of a mother and
                  child. No person can envy the soldiers their feelings, who tore that weeping
                  orphan from her mother's bleeding bosom. But the time had expired, and the stern
                  voice of law must be obeyed. Mrs. Surratt was incapable of speech. She suffered
                  herself to be pinioned in silence, while the dumb eloquence of hot, burning tears
                  pleaded in vain with her executioners.
               Oh, God! was there no help for this defenceless woman, bound and dressed for a
                  murderer's gibbet?
               The sullen answer from Judge Holt was "none." And he was sustained by the crushing
                  power of the United States.
               And now the most agonizing, pitiable hearttouching incident that ever occurred
                  upon American soil, transpired in that old penitentiary. Mrs. Surratt being firmly
                  pinioned, the daughter was told to bid her mother farewell. But when Annie raised
                  up her head, and saw her mother's wet face, and the cruel ropes around her arms,
                  she was dumbstruck. The blood receded from her face, and left it as pale as
                  marble; her eyes were motionless. Then with a groan of anguish, barely audible,
                  but yet heard by the angels in Heaven, she sank into a state of insensibility.
                  Mrs. Surratt lost all control over her feelings, and she too fell fainting into
                  the strong arms of one of the soldiers.
               "My God! I can't stand this," cried one of the soldiers rushing out of the
                  building as if he were choking.
               "Holy Virgin! What a scene of horror!" exclaimed Father Walter.
               "May the saints not strike you dead on the spot!" said Father Wigett to the
                  soldiers, and crossing himself devoutly.
               The officer looked sternly at Father Wigett, and then said:
               "This will never do. Take the young lady out, men."
               And two soldiers raised up the senseless body of Annie Surratt, and carried it out
                  of the cell. Then it was placed in a hack, and wheeled away to Mrs. Surratt's
                  house. No effort was made to restore the grief-stricken child to her senses, and
                  how long she lay in this condition is unknown. But the mother was soon restored by
                  the application of the proper remedies. When she looked around, Annie was
                  gone.
               "Where is she?" asked the wretched woman.
               "She has been sent home," replied the officer.
               "Not to return?"
               "You will see her no more in this life, my daughter." said Father Wigett.
               "God's will be done!" said Mrs. Surratt.
               "Come, Madam," said the officer, "the hour has come. Are you able to walk?"
               "I am," replied the prisoner with the firmness of despair.
               Then the procession to the gallows commenced.
               Suddenly the wicket opened, the troops sprang to their feet, and stood at order
                  arms, the flags went up, the low order passed from company to company; the
                  spectators huddled a little nearer to the scaffold; all the writers for the press
                  produced their pencils and note books.
               First came a woman pinioned.
               A middle aged woman, dressed in black, bonneted and veiled, walking between two
                  bare-headed priests.
               "One of these held against his breast a crucifix of jet, and in the folds of his
                  blue-fringed sash he carried an open breviary, while both of them muttered the
                  service for the dead.
               Four soldiers with muskets at shoulder followed, and a captain led the way to the
                  gallows.
               The second party escorted a small and shambling German, whose head had a long
                  white cap upon it, rendering more filthy his dull complexion, and upon whose feet
                  the chains clanked as he slowly advanced, preceded by two officers, flanked by a
                  Lutheran clergyman, and followed as his predecessor by an armed squad.
               The third preacher and party clustered about a shabby boy, whose limbs tottered as
                  he progressed.
               The fourth walked in the shadow of a straight, high stature, whose tawny hair and
                  large blue eye were suggestive rather of an ancient barbarian striding in his
                  conqueror's triumph, than an assassin going to the gallows.
               All these, captives, priests, guards and officers, nearly twenty in all, climbed
                  slowly and solemnly the narrow steps; and upon four armed chairs, stretching
                  across the stage in the rear of the traps, the condemned were seated with their
                  spiritual attendants behind them.
               The findings and warrants were immediately read to the prisoners by General
                  Hartrauft in a quiet and respectful tone, an aid holding an umbrella over him
                  meantime. These having been already published, and being besides very
                  uninteresting to any body but the prisoners, were paid little heed to, all the
                  spectators interesting themselves in the prisoners.
               There was a fortuitous delicacy in their distribution, the woman being placed
                  farthest from the social and physical dirtiness of Atzerott, and nearest the
                  unblanched and manly physiognomy of Payne.
               At first Mrs. Surratt was very feeble, and leaned her head upon alternate sides of
                  her arm chair in nervous spasms; but now and then, when a sort of wail just issued
                  from her lips, the priest placed before her the crucifix to lull her fearful
                  spirit. All the while the good Fathers Walter and Wigett, murmured their low,
                  tender cadences, and now and then the woman's face lost its deadly fear, and took
                  a bold, cognizable survey of the spectators. She was probably looking for
                  Coldheart; but that individual was not to be seen. It can never be known in this
                  world how eagerly and anxiously the helpless woman expected to be redeemed from
                  the dreadful rope that dangled before her.
               Payne, the strangest criminal in our history, was alone dignified and
                  self-possessed. He wore a closely-fitting knit shirt, a sailor's straw hat tied
                  with a ribbon, and dark pantaloons, but no shoes. His collar, cut very low, showed
                  the tremeudous muscularity of his neck, and the breadth of his breast was more
                  conspicuous by the manner in which the pinioned arms thrust it forward. His
                  height, his vigor, his glare made him the strong central figure of this
                  interesting tableau. The smooth hardness of his skin seemed like a polished
                  muscle. He spoke no word; and not a single muscle quivered. He did not look abroad
                  inquisitively, nor within intuitively. He had no accusation, no despair, no
                  dreaminess. He was only looking at death as for one long expected, and not a
                  tremor nor a shock stirred his long, stately limbs. Now and then he looked half
                  pityingly at the woman, thus showing that he had not forgotten the sympathy and
                  respect due to the sex, in this trying hour. Few who looked at him, forgetful of
                  his supposed crime, did not respect him. The crowd was filled with admiration, and
                  they were itching to know who he was, and whence he came. One individual, whose
                  curiosity could not be restrained by the solemnity of the scene, asked to be
                  gratified.
               "Payne," he exclaimed in a loud voice, who are you? What is your true name?"
               Payne cast his eyes slowly over the eager, upturned faces, and then replied in a
                  clear voice:
               "I am the child of FATE."
               "What state are you a native of?" asked the "down-easter."
               "FATE," replied Payne in a solemn tone.
               "Did you stab Mr. Seward!"
               "Not I. It was FATE."
               And to every question propounded to this strange man by the curious yankees,
                     there was but one answer—"Fate." No
                  confession did he make at any time; unless his reply to questions propounded upon
                  the scaffold might be construed into such. He listened to what the ministers said
                  with an indifference that would have done credit to a disciple of the school of
                  Plato. He seemed to have no friend in the wide world, nor to care what might be
                  men's opinions concerning his guilt or his innocence.
               After General Hartrauft ceased reading, the spiritual attendants in behalf of
                  Atzerott and Harold returned thanks to all who had shown them kindness—jailors and
                  guards.
               But Payne had nothing to say. He appeared to feel under no obligations to any one
                  for kindness or favors. If he had received kind treatment, he knew it was similar
                  to that of a merciless cannibal, who pampers the appetite of his victim, that his
                  flesh may be more palatable. Payne had been fattening for the gallows, and his
                  death struggles would fully compensate for any sacrifices that might have been
                  made for his accommodation while in prison. Therefore he remained to the last a
                  silent, immovable stoic.
               The stage was still filled with people; the crisis of the occasion had come; the
                  chairs were all withdrawn, and the condemned stood upon their feet.
               The process of tying the limbs began.
               It was with a shudder, almost with a blush, that a few of the more decent yankees
                  saw an officer gather the ropes tightly three times about the robes of Mrs.
                  Surratt, and bind her ancles with cords. It must have appeared to her at this
                  moment that Coldheart was not going to redeem his solemn promise. She half
                  fainted, and sank backward upon the attendants, her limbs yielding to the
                  extremity of her terror, but uttering no cry, only a kind of sick groaning that
                  was pitiable to hear.
               Payne, with his feet firmly laced together, stood straight as one of the scaffold
                  beams, and braced himself up so stoutly that this in part prevented the breaking
                  of his neck.
               Harold stood well beneath the drop, still whimpering at the lips, but taut, and
                  short and boyish.
               Atzerott, in his groveling attitude, while they tied him began to indulge in his
                  old vice of gabbling. He evidently wished to make his finale more effective than
                  his previous cowardly role, and perhaps was strengthening his courage with a
                  speech, as we sometimes do of a dark night with a whistle.
               "Shentlemens," he said with a sort of choke and gasp, "take ware!"
               He evidently meant "beware," or "take care," and confounded them.
               Again when the white death-cap was drawn over his face, he continued to cry out
                  under it, once saying "Goot pye, shentlemens, who ish pefore me now;" and again
                  "May ve meets in te udder world." Finally he drifted away with low, half
                  intelligible ebullitions, as "Got help me," "Oh! oh!" and the like.
               The mechanical preparations were clumsy and inartistic, and the final scenes of
                  the execution, therefore, revolting in the extreme. When the death-caps were all
                  drawn over the faces of the prisoners, and they stood in line in the awful
                  suspense between absolute life and immediate death, a man at the neck of each
                  adjusting the cord, the knot between the ears of each protruding five or six
                  inches, and the cord was so thick that it could not be made to press tightly
                  against the flesh.
               So they stood, while nearly a thousand faces from window, roof, wall, yard and
                  housetop gazed, the scaffold behind them still densely packed with the assistants,
                  and the four executioners beneath, standing at their swinging beams. The priests
                  continued to murmur prayers. The people were dumb, as if each witness stood alone,
                  with none near by to talk to him.
               This was an awful moment for Mrs. Surratt, who had better reasons for hope than
                  any of the others. We can easily conjecture what thoughts were in her mind; for
                  she shrieked out under the death-cap:
               "My pardon! Oh where is my pardon?"
               None in that breathless crowd understood the import of these last words of the
                  halfdead woman, but Father Walter.
               Scarcely were the words uttered before the great beams were darted against the
                  props. The two traps fell with a slam. The four bodies dropped like a single
                  thing, and in a few moments the horrible work of death was done.
               It only remains for us to say that three of the bodies were applied for by the
                  friends of the deceased, but they were peremptorily refused. Why, it would be
                  difficult to tell. They were buried in the penitentiary yard; and there they
                  sleep, to be no more disturbed till summoned to face their accusers before the
                  tribunal of eternal justice.
               Mrs. Surratt was now free from suffering, but how her wretched children spent the
                  night following her execution—may God save us from ever knowing! Our imagination
                  pictures two lone orphans in a silent, deserted house, clasped in each other's
                  arms, and weeping with anguish which no human being could calm. They were
                  motherless—they were friendless—they were almost unpitied—and they could appeal
                  for consolation only to Heaven.
               God grant that such another revolting, heart-touching scene may never again
                  transpire in the boasted "land of justice!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               
                  
                     
                        "Along the plain with watchful eyes,
                        He spurs his steed and swiftly flies."
                     
                  
               
               When we last mentioned John Wilkes Booth, he had just vanished from Ford's
                  Theatre, mounted his horse, and dashed away. We will now follow his motions.
               He rode rapidly to the dwelling of Coldheart, and after hitching his animal at the
                  stable, where Flora's was ready bridled and saddled, he hurriedly entered the
                  house. Going without ceremony into the parlor, he found our wiry official, his
                  wife and Flora. In the countenance of the latter there was a strange expression of
                  gloomy love. In her heart was a commotion resulting from the struggles of pride,
                  shame, and wild affection. The clashing of these various passions gave to Flora
                  the appearance of a rather pensive bride. Sometimes she appeared to repent the
                  step she had taken, and once she burst into tears in spite of herself. Coldheart
                  and his wife easily guessed at the state of her perturbed feelings, and they
                  attempted to cheer her up. They inquired what was the matter, in order to induce
                  her to talk, but she made no reply. She buried her face in Mrs. Coldheart's lap,
                  and wept in a way that only women can understand. After a while she raised up her
                  pretty face, and it looked quite sad and thoughtful. Coldheart and his wife then
                  tried the effect of raillery, but it was of no avail. Flora seemed to be in no
                  humor for indulging in jests and jokes. Finding this course to be useless, they
                  changed their tactics, and talked more seriously in regard to Booth, hinting
                  vaguely concerning the bright wreaths of glory that would soon decorate his brow,
                  and re-congratulating the young bride upon her good fortune in captivating so
                  promising a man. But Flora listened to all they said in a kind of sad silence, and
                  seemed to be no ways affected by what she heard. Mr. and Mrs. Coldheart therefore
                  felt relieved when the elegant form of John Wilkes Booth appeared at the door.
                  Flora momentarily forgot everything but her unquenchable love, as she proudly
                  looked at the handsome figure of the actor, upon whose countenance there now
                  played a smile of triumph. Booth nodded to Coldheart, and said in a low tone:
               "I have done my duty. All is right."
               Then he turned to his blushing bride.
               "Come, Flora," said he, "we must ride; be quick."
               The beauteous young wife rose to her feet and hastily donned her hat. Then after
                  kissing Mrs. Coldheart, and bidding the officer farewell, she and her husband went
                  out at the back door. Booth went to the stable, brought the horses, then mounting
                  they rode off at a moderate gallop. They traveled down the Potomac in complete
                  silence. Flora addressed a question or two to the actor, but he requested her not
                  to talk till they were out of the city. When the lights of Washington had all
                  faded away in the rear, Booth came to a halt upon the banks of the river. He
                  listened for an instant, then in obedience to what appeared to Flora to be a
                  signal, a man emerged from the bushes.
               "Is everything ready?" inquired Booth.
               "Yes—all right," was the reply.
               "It's here. I had hard work to get it though. What do you guess I paid for
                  it?'
               "I do not know."
               "The enormous sum of three hundred dollars."
               "Well never mind now what you paid for it. Will it carry two?"
               "Oh yes—it will do that."
               "Are our horses on the other side?"
               "Yes, Jake has them. Jest fetch three whistles when you land, and he will bring
                  them."
               "Dismount," said Booth to Flora, "we must cross over."
               "Where are you going?" inquired Flora.
               "We have not time to talk now. Wait till we are safe on the other side; then I
                  will explain all."
               Flora did as she was directed, and Booth placed her in the boat, then giving up
                  the horses to his accomplice, jumped into the fragile craft and pushed off from
                  the shore. It was but the work of a few moments to land on the opposite side and
                  give the signal. A man soon appeared with a couple of horses, and the actor and
                  his wife once more dashed away. When they had gained the distance of about five
                  miles from the Potomac, they slackened their speed to a gentle pace.
               "Mr. Booth," said Flora at last, tired of the long silence which had been broken
                  only by a few sentences, "I do not understand the meaning of this rapid
                  flight."
               "Did Coldheart tell you nothing in regard to our designs?" asked Booth.
               "Not the first thing."
               "I may as well tell you all, then, since Washington is in a wild commotion before
                  this time."
               "Why is it?" asked Flora.
               "Because the government is overthrown."
               "By the Bloody Junto?"
               "Yes. But you knew all about the Junto, didn't you!"
               "I knew there was such a society, and that you were president of it."
               "Did it never occur to you what might be the object of that society?"
               "I did not trouble myself much about it. I at first thought it was a conspiracy of
                  some character; but afterwards I concluded it was none of my business; so I quit
                  thinking about it."
               "It was not exactly a conspiracy," replied Booth. "It was the germ of a great
                  revolution, which has commenced this very night. The government of the United
                  States is doubtless overthrown, and a monarchy is established in its place, The
                  independence of the Southern Confederacy will be acknowledged in a few days, and
                  then as the originator of this great revolution in politics I will be, dear Flora,
                  the 'observed of all observers.'"
               "What are you flying from then?" inquired Flora. "Why this unseemly haste? It does
                  not square with my ideas of a bridal tour."
               "Few bridal tours have ever been connected with such momentous events as ours,"
                  said the actor.
               "To what particular events do you allude?"
               "You ought to know," replied Booth with deliberation, "that no great revolution
                  can progress without bloodshed. Its incipiency is generally marked with human
                  gore. At least that which commenced in
                  Washington to-night was so characterized."
               "But what has this to do with our flight?"
               "Flora, if you were back at the city you would know that Abraham Lincoln is no
                  more. I slew him in Ford's theatre."
               "Great Heavens! you did?"
               "I slew the wicked tyrant," said Booth with enthusiasm, "and have thus restored
                  liberty to millions of human beings." And he went on to expatiate in glowing terms
                  upon the magnitude of the tragical deed.
               Flora knew not with what lofty emotions the breast of John Wilkes Booth was
                  swelling. The naked, horrid truth stared her in the face that she was flying from
                  her home in company with a fanatical murderer. The thought was staggering, but she
                  managed to maintain both her physical and mental equilibrium. While her husband
                  was explaining the results to be achieved by the Junto, she was deciding upon her
                  future course of action. What should she do? Should she leave Booth and return to
                  her home? What report could she make to her friends in Washington? How could she
                  face them? Would she not be forever disgraced? Might not Booth be mistaken in his
                  calculations concerning the recognition of the confederacy Was he not an
                  extravagant dreamer? Indeed, might he not be a madman? All these self-propounded
                  questions, and others besides, rapidly rushed through her mind, but with the quick
                  intuition of woman, she settled upon her line of policy. She was now the lawful
                  wife of Wilkes Booth, and she loved him to madness. To separate from him would be
                  worse than death. Her fixed determination was therefore to follow him, right or
                  wrong, to whithersoever fate might lead. If Booth's plans should be successful,
                  then all would be right; if not she would be disgraced whether she returned home
                  or not. So the matter was settled, and Flora quietly addressed her husband.
               "If you anticipate such brilliant results," said she, "from the execution of the
                  designs of the Junto, why should you leave Washington at all?"
               "As a matter of personal safety," replied Booth. "Whether our designs are
                  successful or not, I would be in greater danger than any one else. Because I slew
                  the tyrant publicly. Everybody knew who did it. Lincoln's friends might hunt me
                  down. He has a goodly number in Washington, and I do not know that we will return
                  there at all—at least not until Coldheart is firmly established on the
                  throne."
               "He is to be the king, is he?"
               "Yes; that is the understanding."
               "And what are you to be?"
               "I can have any position I want. I thought the title of the Earl of Washington
                  would suit me; but I will leave it to you, dearest, to select our position."
               "Oh, that will do," said Flora hurriedly, as if this was an unpleasant topic.
               "Flora," said Booth suddenly, "I have now to make a queer sort of a proposition to
                  you."
               "What is that?"
               "I want you to dress in male attire."
               "What for?"
               To facilitate our flight."
               "How will it have that effect?" inquired Flora in surprise.
               "It will baffle our pursuers."
               "What! are we pursued?"
               "Not that I know of; but we might be, and I want to be on the safe side. If we
                  should be pursued, we could be too easily traced, traveling as we now are. Two men
                  cannot be as easily tracked up as a man and a woman."
               "Very well," said Flora in a kind of halfdespairing tone. "I will do as you wish.
                  Where is the apparel?"
               "Here, in my saddle-bags."
               Booth then dismounted and assisted Flora to the ground. Then in a trice she was
                  clothed cap-a-pie in a suit belonging to the
                  actor. The garments were somewhat full, but this circumstance was remedied by
                  Flora's ingenuity. The length of the pants was concealed in the boot-leg, which
                  reached nearly to the knee. Her hair was hidden by a close-fitting cap. When this
                  nocturnal toilet was completed, the young lady presented the appearance of a
                  corpulent boy, with rather a small face. She could not but smile at the figure she
                  would cut when the light would fully discover the oddity of her dress.
               "This is a side-saddle, Mr. Booth," said Flora when about to remount. "It comports
                  ill with my attire."
               "That is so," replied Booth. "I did not think of that. Hovever, I can remedy it,"
                  he continued after a brief pause. I have a friend who lives not a great distance
                  from here. We will go to his house and exchange."
               They accordingly remounted, and rode along for sometime in silence. It was past
                  midnight, and nature had thrown a pall of darkness over all sublunary things. A
                  few scattering stars peeped forth timidly from their arched homes, but failed to
                  shadow upon the ground the two forms of the fugitives as they paced along the
                  highway. Flora's thoughts during this nocturnal ride in company with a confessed
                  assassin, were anything but very pleasant. Yet she moved on with an energy
                  resulting from a desire to place as great a distance as possible between herself
                  and Washington. She felt that she was flying from disgrace.
               Presently they came to the house which Booth had mentioned. All about it was
                  still, dark, silent. The inmates were probably buried in deep, refreshing sleep.
                  As they stopped at the yard gate, a furious cur came tearing out, and made the
                  welkin ring with his fierce barking. It aroused the proprietor of the house, who
                  advanced cautiously to where the vigilant canine watchman was baying his game.
               "How are you, George?" said Booth as soon as his friend had reached the gate.
               'Who is it?" said George.
               "It is I—John Booth."
               "Ah, John, how are you? Come, get down."
               "We have no time," replied Booth. "The mischief is to pay in Washington. I am on
                  the run."
               "Why? What has been done?"
               "Lincoln has crossed over Jordan."
               "Ah, has he? Any one else?"
               "I expect so, though I do not know positively."
               "Who is with you?"
               "A friend; do not be alarmed. George, we got a side-saddle by mistake, and I want
                  you to exchange with me."
               "You want a man's?"
               "Yes."
               "Well, you can take mine."
               "Be in a hurry then," said Booth dismounting. "We must be several miles from here
                  before sunrise."
               The saddles were soon exchanged, and the fugitives again mounted and started off
                  in the darkness. They had not, however gone fifty yards from the house before a
                  serious accident happened. For Flora's horse from some cause suddenly became
                  unmanageable, rearing and plunging so violently that she was thrown headlong to
                  the ground. The animal stepped upon her leg, and the pain caused her to shriek
                  aloud. Booth sprang from his own steed and rushed to her assistance, raising her
                  from the earth, but she could not stand upon her wounded limb.
               "Are you hurt much, Flora?" asked Booth anxiously.
               "I am afraid my leg is broken," said she.
               "I will carry you back to the house, then."
               But at this moment Booth's friend, who had heard the shriek, came up leading the
                  horse that had run back to the gate and stopped.
               "What is the matter, John?" said he.
               "My companion has broken his leg, I fear. How far is it to a surgeon's?"
               "Doctor Mudd lives about a mile from here."
               "On the road?"
               "Yes; the first house you come to."
               "Can you ride there, Flora?" said Booth.
               "I can try it."
               "Flora?" said George. "Your companion is a woman then?"
               "Yes," replied Booth. "I have betrayed myself. But say nothing about this, George.
                  She is in disguise."
               "You need not fear me," replied the friend.
               In a few moments, having exchanged horses, our fugitives started off again, and
                  rode slowly till they reached the house of Dr. Mudd. Booth roused up the
                  unfortunate physician, and stated what had happened. The Doctor invited them in,
                  and hastened to examine Flora's wound. It was found that the limb was not broken,
                  but only severely bruised, and the physician soon applied the proper remedies to
                  prevent soreness. During the operation Flora endeavored to conceal as much as
                  possible all the indications that would betray her sex, and tried to keep her face
                  hidden; but the Doctor was not to be so easily deceived.
               "If you are not a woman in disguise," said he, after having done all that his
                  professional duty required, "you have a most singular form."
               This blunt remark was unexpected to the fugitives, and Booth fearing that Flora
                  would be embarrassed, came to the rescue.
               "Are you through, Doctor?" said he as if he had not heard the remark.
               "Yes sir," replied Dr. Mudd still gazing at Flora. "But this is a woman."
               "That is none of your business," replied the actor nettled at the close inspection
                  with which his wife was honored.
               "I'm afraid there's something wrong in this," quoth Dr. Mudd, without appearing to
                  be moved by Booth's sharp tone.
               "How much do I owe you for your services sir?"
               "Five dollars."
               "Here is your money," said Booth presenting a bill. "Now you have done your duty,
                  and I have done mine. There are no thanks due either party. Having received your
                  pay, you have no right to demand your patient's secret."
               "No, but this seems to be an extraordinary case—something rather unusual. It looks
                  a little odd, perhaps a little suspicious, to see a lady traveling in disguise at
                  midnight. I don't know what to make of it. I think I have a right to know who my
                  patient is. I am entitled to an explanation."
               "Do I owe you anything more?"
               "No sir—not a cent."
               "Well then, we are even. So, sir, good bye."
               Booth and Flora then abruptly quitted the house, and pursued their journey. They
                  were compelled to travel rather slowly for fugitives, but still the distance
                  between them and Washington was gradually widening. So they rode along at an easy
                  gait, and in less than an hour and a half reached the former tavern of Mrs.
                  Surratt, which as the reader knows was situated in the little village called
                  Surrattsville. It was now kept by one Lloyd, who although suspected by the yankees
                  of complicity with the murder of Lincoln, according to their own showing knew
                  nothing positive concerning the conspiracy. Some days previous to the
                  assassination he had hidden a carbine or two in the house, but he was unaware of
                  the purpose they were to serve. It appears that all who in any way aided the
                  flight of Booth, though they did it in ignorance, were put upon trial for their
                  lives. This probably is the first instance to be met with in the history of
                  jurisprudence in which persons were tried for the mere fact of having seen a
                  criminal, or having been acquainted with him. But it is not our province to
                  comment.
               Booth advanced to the tavern, aroused Lloyd, asked for the arms which had been
                  there deposited a few days before. Lloyd brought out a couple of carbines, but Booth remarked that only one of them
                  would be needed. When about to ride off, he said to Lloyd:
               "Do you wan't to hear some news?"
               "Yes," was the reply. "Is there any?"
               "There is something quite interesting."
               "What is it?"
               "Lincoln is dead."
               "You don't say so! When did he die?"
               "To-night. But that is not all."
               "What else?"
               "I expect Seward followed in his tracks, and Johnson right after him."
               "Why, what does all this mean?" asked Lloyd with wonder.
               "I did the job for one of them."
               "What did you do?"
               "I killed the tyrant—Abraham Lincoln. You will hear all about it to-morrow."
               After this confession, wheeling his horse, he and Flora continued their flight.
                  They traveled leisurely without meeting with any other accident or incident worthy
                  of note. When day-light dawned, a considerable space intervened between the
                  fugitives and Washington City. Just as the sun was casting his first rays over the
                  earth, enlivening all nature, Booth informed Flora that they must now quit the
                  highway, remarking that he expected to receive news from Washington before
                  advancing any farther south. Accordingly they took a path that turned to the left,
                  with which the actor seemed to be acquainted, and following this about a mile they
                  came presently upon a small framed house that was pleasantly, though lonesomely
                  situated in the forest. As our business at present is not with long descriptions
                  of rural scenery, we will not fatigue the reader's attention with such things. We
                  will merely remark that the cottage was a good hiding place for persons who had no
                  desire to see much company. Our two fugitives were hospitably received by the
                  owner of this country retreat, whose name we forbear to mention. After partaking
                  of a substantial repast, Flora retired to her chamber in order to sleep; but Booth
                  did not appear to need slumber, at any rate he kept wide awake. Soon after his
                  wearied wife fell into a deep sleep, he left the house, and taking the path which
                  led to the highway, he went on foot till he came to a dark thicket about twenty
                  steps from the narrow pathway. Turning aside he entered this, and was completely
                  hidden from view, though he was in such a position that he could see any one who
                  might chance to pass along. Here he remained till nearly eleven o'clock in the
                  day, and no person had disturbed the deep silence of the forest. Presently,
                  however, a horse's hoof was heard coming down the path, and the sounds resulting
                  from its contact with the well-trampled earth indicated that the animal was in a
                  rapid pace. In a moment more he was opposite the thicket in which Booth lay
                  concealed, and the actor peeping forth discovered that the horse was mounted by
                  the person for whom he was looking. Placing his hands up to his mouth he made a
                  signal that brought the horseman to a sudden halt, who looking all around and
                  seeing nobody, answered the signal with a similar one.
               "Come out here," cried Booth.
               "The devil take thee for a witch," replied the horseman with a laugh. "Where are
                  you hidden?"
               "Come and see," said Booth.
               He obeyed, and riding up to the thicket peeped in and saw the actor.
               "What are you hiding from?" said he to Booth.
               "I did not care to be seen by every passerby. But come, Davelier, let us get
                  farther from the road before we talk."
               "I have had a hard ride of it," said Davelier, when they were about three hundred
                  yards from Booth's hiding place, "and besides have had nothing to eat since supper
                  last night, of which I partook very sparingly, I feel that I would fain fill
                  myseff 'with the husks the swine did eat,' but I should like just now to see a
                  more palatable breakfast than that."
               "Never mind your breakfast till you tell me the news."
               "You have been to——'s?" inquired Davelier, naming the owner of the cottage at
                  which Booth and Flora had put up.
               "Yes. He is at home. We will go there presently, and you can get some
                  refreshments. But I want you to tell me what has taken place in Washington City.
                  When did you leave?"
               "About two hours before light; and I have traveled like a lightning express
                  since."
               "Well what was going on?"
               "The angel of discord was troubling the pool considerably, and the whole city was
                  in much of an uproar."
               "Was Lincoln dead?"
               "No, not exactly; but there is no doubt in my mind that Anti-Christ will expire
                  some time to-day. You recollect that I predicted he would be destroyed yesterday
                  or to-day; which circumstance proves clearly that his number is 666."
               "Never mind that now," said Booth impatiently, "but tell me the news."
               "Well, just ask such questions as will bring out what you wish to know, and I will
                  answer as briefly as the nature of your interrogations will allow. Proceed."
               "What about Seward and Johnson?"
               "Seward is mortally wounded, from what I could learn. His nurse and two of his
                  sons were also horribly mutilated, and one of them will hardly recover."
               "And Johnson?"
               "He was not injured in the least; at any rate I heard nothing said about him."
               "Do you know whether Winthrop took possession of the White House?"
               "I know he did not."
               "What was the reason?"
               "His forces were nearly all in a state of disgraceful inebriety."
               "What! do you tell me that no attempt was made to seize the government?"
               "None whatever."
               "Curse the rascals," exclaimed Booth. 'What did they mean?"
               "I am sure I do not know."
               "Well, go on," said Booth. "What else?"
               "I am waiting for you to question me; but I can inform you that Mrs. Surratt is
                  arrested, and Payne too."
               "Indeed? When did that happen?"
               "Directly after the taking off of Lincoln; but that is not all."
               "Well, what else?"
               "The police is on the watch for you."
               "They are a set of fools to think I would remain in the city."
               "Yes, but when they are convinced of the fact that you have 'left for parts
                  unknown,' what do you suppose they will do?"
               "Try to find me, I guess."
               "You are correct in your hypothesis. They will leave no stone unturned to find
                  you, either. All of Lincoln's friends are terribly enraged by his premature
                  decease. They will strain every nerve to discover his murderer"——
               "Do not call me a murderer," interrupted Booth.
               "I mean," said Davelier quickly, "what they call you. Any how, if you do not act
                  with great circumspection, you will unfortunately find yourself lodged in the same
                  quarters with Payne and Mrs. Surratt."
               "How did they happen to suspect Mrs. Surratt?" inquired Booth.
               "I have not the most remote idea; but I think we would best devise some measures
                  looking to our own safety. We can do Mrs. Surratt no good."
               "We are in no immediate danger."
               "That may be true; but none can guess what a day may bring forth. The whole
                  country will be aroused, and everybody will be on the lookout for you."
               "Let them catch me if they can."
               "But I do not want them to apprehend me."
               "Well, what are you going to do?"
               "I shall visit Canada for a short time, at least till I can see what may be the
                  fruits of your deed. Afterwards, if I deem it compatible with my own personal
                  safety, I will return to the United States, and probably resume my old calling. I
                  enjoyed myself much better while I was a preacher than I ever have since. Somehow
                  I always felt that I was under the special protection of the Lord, and that Heaven
                  was indebted to me for my services."
               "Have you plenty of money," interrupted Booth, "to pay your traveling
                  expenses?"
               "Sir," replied Davelier smiling, "if salt were worth a cent and a half per bushel,
                  I could not purchase enough to preserve a snow bird. But this gives me no great
                  uneasiness, though it is sometimes a little inconvenient to have one's treasury so
                  provokingly empty. The old disciples, you know, were commanded to travel without
                  scrip or purse, and I can follow their example. I can metamorphose myself into an
                  itinerant Methodist preacher, and gain a respectable living out of my fund of
                  solemn piety."
               "I had no idea you were so poor," remarked Booth.
               "Few ministers of the gospel have been distinguished for the possession of great
                  wealth, good brother," replied the vivacious Davelier. "I never expected to lay up
                  an enormous treasure where thieves break through and steal, though I acknowledge
                  that I was fool enough at one time to flatter my worldly ambition with the promise
                  that I would be a Lord or a Duke under the new government. Like the credulous
                  Sancho Panza, I hoped to be made the governor of a small island. However, when I
                  get to Canada, if I can find a parvenu Lord,
                  maybe I can get to be his valet de chambre."
               "I will give you something," replied Booth "with which to support your new
                  dignity. You have been a faithful member of the Bloody Junto, and deserve
                  something for your trouble. I have money in Canada, and I will give you an order
                  on my banker. The probability is, I will never go there. Here is a hundred
                  dollars," handing two bills, "which will defray your expenses till you get beyond
                  the limits of the United States."
               "Blessings on you," exclaimed Davelier, "you have made me rich. Thanks, good
                  brother, many thanks. I will ever remember you in my prayers. But," continued
                  Davelier, noticing the solemnity of Booth's countenance, "I am not very particular
                  about going to Canada. If you prefer it, I would as soon accompany you as not, if
                  you will hurry up."
               "No, no," replied Booth. "If I should be captured, and you were caught with me,
                  death would be the inevitable consequence. I will never be taken alive, Davelier.
                  I shall fight it out to the bitter end, whenever my pursuers come within reach. I
                  can manage best alone. But let us go to the house. We have no time to lose."
               Upon returning to the house of his friend, Booth found Flora still asleep. She had
                  been much fatigued by the long, dark ride, and by her wound, as was evidenced by
                  the sound sleep in which she was buried. The actor went to the bed and aroused
                  her. Flora sprang up, and looked around in seeming astonishment; but in an
                  instant, her senses returning, she comprehended the terrible realities of her
                  position. She glanced into her husband's face, but with the quick perception of
                  woman, at once knew that something was wrong. Booth's countenance was overshadowed
                  with gloom too dark to be mistaken.
               "What is the matter, Mr. Booth?" she asked tenderly.
               "Flora," replied Booth solemnly, "will you ever forgive me?"
               "What have you done?" she inquired in surprise.
               "I have deceived you."
               "How?" she asked, turning somewhat pale.
               'Not intentionally, though, dearest. I
                  have been deceived and disappointed myself."
               "You have heard from Washington, then?"
               "Yes, and heard nothing at all encouraging. In a word, all is lost. I have slain
                  the tyrant to no purpose, and am branded like a Cain."
               "Are they pursuing you?"
               "I think so. If not, they soon will be."
               "Then let us he gone at once."
               "What! will you follow a murderer?" exclaimed he.
               "I am your wife, and your destiny shall be mine."
               An expression of joyful pleasure overspread Booth's face.
               "God bless your noble devotion!" exclaimed the actor kissing his blushing bride,
                  "will you give up all for me?"
               "All, all," replied Flora with a flashing eye. "I would die with you."
               "I was going to propose, that for your safety we should separate."
               "Never! never!" said Flora with wild energy. "I will not hear to it."
               "Then let us travel. We may outstrip our pursuers."
               Accordingly, in a few moments the horses were at the door, and our fugitives
                  recommenced their flight.
               Davelier soon afterwards started northward. He must have reached Canada in safety,
                  as he has never been heard of since. But we must now turn our attention to other
                  matters.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               
                  
                     
                        "The chase begins—the game's astir,
                        Pursued by many a yelping cur."
                     
                  
               
               No criminal was ever pursued with as much relentless vigor, untiring energy, and
                  indomitable perseverance as John Wilkes Booth. The police resources of the country
                  were fully tested during this exciting manhunt. In conjunction with the police
                  force was a small army of detailed soldiers. Not less than fifteen thousand men
                  were engaged in the search for one solitary stage actor, and all these were
                  stimulated, besides the reputed incentives of patriotism, ambition and love of
                  justice, by the prospect of magnificent pecuniary remuneration in the event of
                  success. For rewards were offered for the apprehension of Booth, amounting to
                  nearly a hundred thousand dollars. All the police forces of New York,
                  Philadelphia, Richmond, and other cities too numerous to mention, swelled the
                  distinguished detective ability of that of Washington. Yet all this grand parade
                  for the capture of a single criminal, would have been a "much ado," without any
                  results except chagrin, disappointment, and baffled rage, but for the sagacity of
                  one individual—Col. Lafayette C. Baker, chief of the secret service. This
                  distinguished personage, whose name will float down the stream of time for a few
                  years, but will finally drift to the shore, possessed a very hard, grizzly,
                  unprepossessing face. We will honor him with a brief description, by merely saying
                  that his hair and whiskers were as red as these ornamentals ever get to be upon
                  any human being. An inconsiderable forehead pinched itself into a hard knot
                  directly over two searching eyes of spotted gray, that glared with the fierceness
                  of a savage wolf. A terribly broad mouth showed itself when he spoke, between two
                  long, insatiate jaws, that would have enhanced the value of a bloodhound.
               This was Colonel Baker: He was absent from Washington when the assassination
                  occurred. He returned however on the third morning, and was besought by Secretary
                  Stanton to join the hue and cry against the escaped Booth. He found everything in
                  a dreadful state of confusion. The whole territory of southern Maryland was
                  scoured by vast bodies of men, treading upon each other's heels, and roving up and
                  down, around and around, without plan or compass. Baker obtained from the war
                  department all the information in its possession, which was very vague and
                  indefinite. However, he immediately set about his task, and asked a detail of
                  twenty-five men; then he drew down his coast survey maps. With that quick
                  detective intuition amounting almost to inspiration, he cast upon the probable
                  route and destination of the refugees, as well as the point where he would soonest
                  strike them. Booth, he knew, would not keep along the coast, with frequent deep
                  rivers to cross, nor indeed in any direction east of Richmond, where he was liable
                  at any time to encounter the federal lines of occupation. But he would travel in a
                  direct course from Bluff Point, where he would cross to East Tennessee, and this
                  would take him through Port Royal, on the Rappahannock river, in time to be
                  intercepted by the out-going cavalrymen.
               When, therefore, twenty-five men under a lieutenant arrived at his office door,
                  Baker placed the whole under control of two individuals, whom, as we have some
                  regard for the refined tastes of our readers, we will designate by the euphemisms
                  of Slang and Billings. To these worthies Colonel Baker said:
               "Do not return until he is captured. Bring him dead or alive."
               The party then set out in high glee at the prospect of a magnificent reward. Being
                  now clothed with a little "brief authority," they ill-manneredly searched every
                  house they came to, and questioned everybody, insulting many persons suspected of
                  sympathy with the rebellion. If they denied having seen Booth, then they were
                  flatly accused of lying, and were threatened with torture. But no trace of the
                  actor was found till they came to the residence of Dr. Mudd, who declared that two
                  persons had stopped at his house a night or two before, but that he did not know
                  their names. While he was undergoing an examination by Slang, the house was
                  diligently searched by several of the party. Presently one of them came out
                  bringing a pocket-handkerchief in his hand.
               "See here," said the fellow to Slang.
               "What is it?"
               "Look in the corner."
               "Slang did so, and saw written in legible letters—J. W. Booth; then he turned to
                  the puzzled Dr. Mudd.
               "You say you did not know the nanes of the persons?"
               "I do not know them," firmly declared the sincere physician.
               "You are a liar!" thundered Slang, prefacing the last word with an ugly oath.
                  "I've treed you, old fellow. What are you doin' with Booth's handkerchief?"
               "As God is my judge," replied the astonished physician, "I never saw it
                  before."
               "Where did you find this, Jim?" inquired Slang.
               "In Dr. Quack's office, here."
               "A pretty story that, good doctor," continued Slang mockingly. "You never saw it
                  before. O, come, sir, that won't begin to do."
               "I speak the truth," replied Dr. Mudd energetically. "I never saw this article
                  before. I suppose it must have been forgotten by Booth, if it was he. I never saw
                  Booth in my life, and it may have been he for aught I know."
               "Where is he now? Which way did he go?"
               "I know not, sir."
               "What was Booth doing at your house, you know-nothing rascal?"
               "One of them had his leg injured, and I dressed the wound."
               "You did, eh? So you've helped the felons to escape instead of arresting 'em."
               "I did not know they were felons. I merely discharged my duty as a physician."
               "Your duty?" thundered Slang with an oath. "I'll teach you a different duty from
                  that. I'll bet you are as deep into the murder as Booth is. Get your horse, sir
                  rebel, and come along. You're a prisoner."
               It was in vain that Dr. Mudd pleaded his innocence. He was forcibly dragged from
                  his house, with the wails of his terrified wife ringing in his ears. Forthwith he
                  was sent back to Washington.
               As we may not again have occasion to mention Dr. Mudd, we may here state
                  incidentally that for the mere discharge of his professional duty in this
                  particular instance, he was sent to the Dry Tortugas for life.*
                   It was supposed by his judges that he ought to have known who Booth was;
                  and knowing that, he ought also to have known Booth had committed murder; and
                  knowing that, he ought to have delivered him up to the officers of justice. The
                  yankees endeavored to force everybody into the position of detectives. Dr. Mudd's
                  case stands not alone. One man, by the name of Claggert, they arrested and
                  confined in jail, simply because a mail-carrier declared that Claggert must have
                  seen Booth during his flight from the capital. The stage carpenter, Spangler, it
                  will be recollected, was sent off in company with Dr. Mudd, because it was
                  supposed that the gimlet hole could not have been perforated through the box door
                  without his knowledge. It is not our province to comment upon the character of
                  these proceedings, but we will hazzard the prediction that our descendants will
                  blush to acknowledge that their ancestors were so cruel, oppressive and regardless
                  of common justice.
               
                  
                  *After the MS was placed in the hands of the publishers, Dr. Mudd was
                     pardoned by President Johnson, and is now at home, impoverished by his
                     misfortunes.
               
               Our party of detectives was now rendered extremely hilarious and jubilant by the
                  capture of Dr. Mudd, and the discovery of Booth's pocket-handkerchief. They felt
                  sure they were on the right trail. So they commenced to scour the country for
                  miles around Mudd's residence, assisted in the search by other detectives. But we
                  will follow the motions of only Slang and his party. They took to the woods,
                  deployed like a line of skirmishers, and peeped into every hollow log, and every
                  other place in which it was possible for a human being to conceal himself. A short
                  time after dark they came upon an old out-house, standing a solitary survivor of
                  its fellows. Once there had evidently been several others to keep it company, but
                  whoever had lived here had removed away, and his habitation with its surroundings
                  had gone to decay, with the exception of this single, crazy building, which bore
                  marks of by-gone days upon every part of it. It made one think of ghosts, rising
                  up as it did, silent, and gloomy in a grass-covered yard, which formerly might
                  have witnessed the gleeful sports of happy and mischievous urchins. It was now
                  taken possession of by a gang of innocent, harmless sheep.
               As our detectives approached this rickety building, one of them thought he
                  discovered a light glimmering feebly through the gaping cracks, and whispered to
                  his comrade that he believed somebody was in the house. Slang himself saw it about
                  the same time, and he promptly passed an order along the line in a low voice to
                  come to a halt. Here a brief consultation took place between himself and Billings,
                  the result of which was a conclusion to surround the establishment, and gradually
                  close in on all sides in the fashion of an ancient tinchel, driving the game to
                  the centre. When they were about twenty steps from the building, Slang broke the
                  sileuce.
               "Surrender in there," bawled Slang in a peremptory tone.
               To this demand the sheep returned no answer.
               "I say, come out o' there," cried Slang in a louder voice.
               This time there was a slight movement within, as of some one stepping upon a
                  rattling floor.
               "They're in there," said Billings to Slang, "I hear em."
               "If you don't surrender pretty quick," exclaimed Slang, "we'll fire on you. You
                  can't get away. We've got you entirely surrounded ed. I know you're in there; I saw your light."
               "I see it now," said one of the party as he caught a glimpse of some
                     fox-fire sticking to one of the logs.
               Still no answer did the inmates return.
               "Boys," resumed Slang sotto voce, "two of you go
                  to the door."
               None obeyed. The command was too general, and no one felt that the order was
                  directed to himself; so each was waiting for his neighbor to move.
               "By jingo, I'll go then. I ain't afraid," said Slang dismounting and giving his
                  horse to one of the men, and walking towards the door with drawn sabre.
               "Now I want——"
               But before the sentence was completed, such a strange noise was heard within that
                  he stepped backwards to the base of operations.
               "The place is haunted!" shrieked one with his hair on end.
               "My Lord! there's a ghost in there," cried another.
               "Run, boys, run, the devil's in there!" exclaimed a third. In an instant a deadly
                  fear came over the whole party, and wheeling their horses they commenced to fly
                  for very life. Slang saw that this would never do; so taking after them he halloed
                  as loud as he dared to:
               "Halt, men! halt! What are you running from? There ain't no ghost. It's Booth! Are
                  you goin' to let 'im git away, and lose that seventy-five thousand? Halt! or I'll
                  have you shot for cowardice!"
               The men by this time finding that no ghost was really after them, soon came to a
                  halt and collected around their brave leader.
               "You're a pretty set, I'll swear," said Slang angrily, "to run off just as the
                  game was treed."
               "Be jabers, Captain," interrupted an Irishman, "the divil a bit could I stay, wid
                  the ould boy riddy to dhrag me down to purgatory. I kin fight rebels, but not
                  ghousts and divils, at all, at all."
               "Form again," quickly said Slang, "and let's return."
               The fellows, now a little ashamed of their dastardly conduct, reformed and
                  returning again surrounded the house in which the noises could occasionally be
                  heard. When everything was ready, Slang again challenged the inmates.
               "Now I want you to surrender in there. I'm not a going to fool with you any
                  longer. Will you surrender, or not?"
               No reply was received to this question.
               "Come round to the front, men," resumed Slang in a tone indicative of solemn
                  determination and desperate energy.
               "We'll try a volley of musketry on the stubborn rascals," joined in Billings;
                  "that'll bring 'em to their senses."
               "Ready!" ordered Slang when the command was in line.
               Slang paused an instant to give the victims time to consider.
               "Won't you surrender?" he asked again; but with no better success.
               "Aim!"
               Another pause succeeded.
               "Fire!" thundered Slang in a terrible voice.
               The murderous weapons belched forth sulphurous flames, and the deadly lead whizzed
                  into the crumbling logs. In an instant, before the sound of arms had died away, a
                  most tremendous rattling was heard inside, as if the whole building was tumbling
                  in. Then a quick, heavy step was heard on the outside, then another, then another,
                  following in rapid succession. The detectives seemed to think an army of giants
                  was springing up out of the earth.
               "They're gwine to charge us!" bawled one.
               "I hear em formin'!" said another.
               "Thim's no humans," said the Irishman. All—'s turned loose!"
               This last observation completely demoralized the little command, and they all took
                  to their heels.
               The giants meantime ran round the house several times, making a thundering noise,
                  and then broke off in the reverse direction. They had not gone far before several
                  of them bleated most piteously. Slang and Billings were the only two who stood
                  their ground.
               "We've played the d—l," said Slang breaking out into a horse-laugh. "They are
                  sheep."
               "Listen at them cowardly dogs—how they're running. Let's after them, or they never
                  will stop."
               Accordingly the two detectives followed their retreating command as rapidly as
                  possible. It was sometime, however, before the frightened horsemen were overtaken.
                  But at last, when they thought that they were beyond the reach of immediate
                  danger, they slackened their speed somewhat, and hearing the voices of Slang and
                  Billings, who were attempting to rally their panic-stricken forces, they
                  reluctantly came to a halt.
               "Where is Lieutenant Dobbs?" asked Slang riding up.
               "Here," answered a voice from the crowd.
               "Lieutenant, I shall report you for cowardice, sir."
               "You'll do wrong," whined Dobbs. "I was only keeping up with my men."
               "Keeping up? What did you let them run so for?"
               "I couldn't prevent it; they were off before I knowed it, and I followed to rally
                  'em."
               "Men," said Slang, "if you're goin' to act this way, we never will catch Booth. I
                  never saw such cowardly conduct in my life."
               "We haven't come across Booth yet," interrupted a yankee. "Booth was not in that
                  old haunted house."
               "Haunted the—," said Slang contemptuously. "What do you think was in there?"
               "Be jabers, it was ould Nick, and his whoul family."
               "It was a gang of sheep, your skeery fools. Now haint you fixed it?"
               "Du tell!" exclaimed a yankee in wonder. "You don't say so?"
               "Yes, nothing but a gang of sheep, and you've been running from them like all—was
                  after you. I'm ashamed of every one of you."
               "So am I," chimed in Dobbs, whose courage had now returned.
               "An sure you was wid us, Leftenant."
               "If I was," replied Dobbs with an oath, "I was trying to bring you to a halt. If I
                  hadn't followed, you never would 'a stopped."
               "Be jabers, you was before me."
               "Dry up!" thundered Dobbs.
               "Come, men," said Slang, "we've got no time to lose. Are you all here?"
               "All but Tim O'Flaherty, and he wont stop this side o' Washington. Be jabers, Tim
                  niver could stand fire, but whin he hears fire arms off he puts for life, an
                  there's no use to give 'im any ordher, barrin to 'double-quick' it fasther."
               "Let's leave him then," said Slang. "Forward!"
               So the little command, after this Quixotic adventure, pushed on in better spirits,
                  and feeling glad that they had not invaded the headquarters of his Satanic
                  Majesty. They now struck out for the residence of Dr. Mudd, which had temporarily
                  become the centre of the search, and to which the various reports of the
                  detectives were to be brought. But no sign of the fugitives had been discovered;
                  so Slang and his party moved on, luckily for them following the footsteps of
                  Booth, though they were unaware of it.
               Before the pursuit came to an end, the party more than once provoked Slang to the
                  utterance of profane language. For when they arrived at the very next house, after
                  leaving Mudd's, and were about to surround it, a frightful scare-crow was seen in the garden, which the owner had placed there to prevent
                  hares from attacking his vegetables. Some of our detectives soon saw this, and
                  abandoning their position on the line, rushed to Slang.
               "There's a ghost this time!" they cried. We saw it."
               "You—fools, where?" asked Slang, going to the garden. When they got to the
                  scarecrow, and examined it, Slang cursed the dastardly wretches till he was
                  completely exhausted. But he evidently did wrong; because the men were totally
                  unacquainted with the customs of the country. Few of them had ever been so far
                  from the city before in their lives—especially at night. They had constituted a
                  portion of the provost guard while the bloody war was in progress. Therefore, it
                  was unreasonable to expect them to act like veteran soldiers. At any rate, they
                  did not so act, and Slang's patience was sorely tried before the light of day
                  dispersed the hideous shades and aspects of night; especially was he vexed by
                  another instance of very singular ignorance of sylvan inhabitants. For as the
                  party was approaching a house, deployed in line, they came to a small branch,
                  meandering through a narrow but heavily timbered bottom. It so happened that a
                  colony of owls had settled down here, and judging from their numbers, had lived in
                  undisturbed tranquility. When our party of gallant detectives had nearly reached
                  the stream, one of these nocturnal birds spoke out an astonishingly plain
                  "who."
               Instantly three-fourths of the detectives came to a breathless stand-still.
               "Who—o—o?" cried the owl.
               "Be jabers, we are challenged," said the Irishman.
               Then the challenge was repeated.
               Houly Saints! he kin see a long ways. We'ud better answer."
               Who—o—o?" shrieked the owl.
               "Be jabers, he's tongue-tied."
               "Who—o—o? Who—o—o?"
               "Answer, Mike," spoke one of the trembling detectives. "He's gitting angry, answer
                  him."
               "It's a friend, wid no countersign," bawled Mike.
               "Who—o—o? Who—oo—ah?"
               Be jabers, its Mike O'Clannahan, thin."
               "Who—o—o?" came from another direction.
               "There's anither one—the twin brother; because they talk jist alike."
               "Three or four owls now screamed out "who?"
               "I've tould ye it's Mike O'Clannahan. Ain't you satisfied?"
               At that moment half a dozen screams pierced the air, causing Mike's eyes to start
                  from their sockets. Then these wild, unearthly shrieks were quietly followed by
                  boisterous laughter, that appeared to come from all directions. The owls hooted,
                  laughed and talked, high and low, and the detectives trembled from head to
                  foot.
               "My Lord! what do they mean?" said a quaking detective.
               Before his comrades could return an answer, the voice of the owls was considerably
                  increased by a concert of hoarse frogs from a pond hard by.
               "Holy St. Patrick! we've rin slap into purgatory; and the foulks are all drunk,
                  too," said Mike gathering up the reins of his bridle.
               "I'm a gwine to leave here," cried a yankee starting off.
               Then nearly all the detectives took to their heels, and went dashing and splashing
                  through the branch, tearing through the brush, and paying no regard to the loud
                  laugh of Billings, who could no longer contain himself after listening to Mike's
                  conversation with the impertinent owls. Slang was at first a little amused, but
                  his mirth was soon succeeded by a feeling strongly tinctured with wrath.
               "They're the d—st fools I ever saw," said he to Billings. "It's folly to think of
                  capturing Booth with such a set. "What's to be done?"
               All the reply he received was a violent
                  outburst of laughter from Billings, who slipped from his horse, and lay upon the
                  ground roaring and rolling in convulsions of merriment.
               "Look here," said Slang, "its time to stop this nonsense."
               "Well, I can't help it," replied Billings, when he could command his organs of
                  speech. "It's enough to make a dog laugh, to hear that infernal Irishman talking
                  to the owls."
               "Mount!" exclaimed Slang sternly, "we must pursue the—rascals, or they'll desert
                  us entirely."
               And away they went thundering along the road after their terrified command.
                  Although they traveled at almost a break-neck speed, they did not come up with the
                  discomfited forces until sunrise. When daylight made it unsafe for ghosts and
                  hobgoblins to render the night hideous with their horrible orgies, the wearied
                  detectives all stopped at a farm house, and were quenching their thirst at the
                  well. Some were washing their faces, and others combing their tangled hair; and
                  others again jabbering flippantly about the night's adventures.
               "Be jabers, Capting," said Mike as Slang came riding up, "I'm glad ye're safe. We
                  wuz afeard the divils had thrapped ye. Och! there wuz a whoul host of them, to be
                  shure."
               "Of what, you ragged fool?" replied Slang, smiling grimly as he glanced at Mike's
                  garments, which were somewhat tattered by his nocturnal flight.
               "Well may ye call me ragged," quoth Mike dolefully scrutinizing his stringy
                  apparel. "Bridget O'Clannahan will hardly recognize me, and the very childers will
                  run from me."
               "They won't run as fast as you did last night."
               Be jabers, Capting, I didn't run half as fast as I wanted to. I thought ould
                  Nick's sodgers would nab me any how, afore I could retreat in good ordher. Did ye
                  ever hear foulks wid sich curious voices? Be jabers, they must 'ave bin
                  vantriloquizers, the last one of thim, or their length was outrageous high, becase
                  I could hear thim in the tra tops, and thin on the ground, whin they'd stoop
                  afther us. Thim ugly scrames an horrid laughs—och! be jabers, I niver heerd the
                  likes of thim before."
               "And who do ye guess they wuz?" quoth Billings.
               "Fath, I'd no likin' for an acquaintance wid the deaf gints."
               "How do you know they were deaf.
               "Becase, they all jabbered loud to ache ither, like they were hard o' hearin'; and
                  whin they axed who I was, I answered at the top of my voice, but the divil a bit
                  did they seem to hear for all that, an kep on axin 'who,' widout givin' me time to
                  answer thim. Be jabers, whin they all got to scraming 'who?' an the whoul set
                  commenced to giggle and laugh at me, I thought they'd got some of the strong
                  crathur among 'em."
               "But what were you running fur?" said Billings. "They didn't trouble you."
               "No, but they wuz preparin' to throuble us. Och! didn't ye hear thim all clumping
                  togither, and didn't you hear their dhrums in the woods?"
               "Them was frogs, Mike."
               "Not thim. I could hear their dhrums pat enough, and thin they'd step into the
                  wather, like their feet wuz as broad as flat boats. Och! it wuz the infantry
                  afther us, an the divil of a host wuz there, too."
               "You—fool," said Slang, "they were frogs—frogs jumping into the
                  water."
               "And the others was owls," added Billings.
               "Now don't you feel ashamed, you whole—set," said Slang, "to be caught running
                  from owls and frogs? A pretty night's work you've made of it, haven't you? What a
                  glorious report I can make to Col. Baker, you—cowards."
               In this style Slang delivered a long lecture to his troops, some of whom really
                  felt ashamed that they had shown the "white feather" so plainly. Others only
                  laughed at what they now considered a good joke. It would do to laugh about when
                  they should return to the city. The poor own-reared wretches scarcely knew the
                  difference between bravery and cowardice. They merely thought that Slang and
                  Billings were foolhardy for not joining them in the flight. Such a thing as regard
                  for one's character, as far as military matters were concerned, had never entered
                  into their heads. But we will have occasion to bring them forward again in a
                  subsequent chapter.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               
                  
                     
                        "On and on they steady fly,
                        Yet the hounds are drawing nigh."
                     
                  
               
               It is now time to return to our fugitive bride and bridegroom, whom we left just
                  as they were quitting the house of Booth's friend. They were compelled to lay by
                  one whole day; and this delay gave their pursuers considerable advantage. However,
                  on the next day, which was Monday, the flight was resumed. They traveled
                  leisurely, in order to economize their own strength as well as that of their
                  horses. Indeed, Booth seemed to apprehend no danger of capture, and acted not at
                  all like he thought he was pursued. As they were pacing along quietly, Flora
                  questioned Booth more particularly in regard to their ultimate destination.
               "It will be best," said he, "to quit the United States."
               "I think so myself; but what country are you going to?"
               "What do you propose? I will leave it to you."
               "La belle France," replied Flora with sparkling
                  eyes.
               "C'est mon choix," remarked Booth.
               "I have always had a desire," replied Flora to see the vine-clad land of
                  Lafayette. It appears to me that the French are more thoroughly impressed with
                  rational ideas of true liberty than any other people. And as their political
                  sentiments approximate so nearly to ours, we would probably be more at home among
                  them than with the English, who would be my second choice."
               "I cannot agree with you," replied Booth, in regard to the political sentiments of
                  the French; but still I would rather cast my lot among them than the English.
                  Those old purse-proud, stiff Lords of England, I never could endure. I do not like
                  the English anyhow. They are tyrannical and oppressive in their dispositions, and
                  they think England is the headquarters of civilization, art and science. The way
                  they have always kept Ireland down in degradation, has given me a decided dislike
                  of the bigoted government of England. In France the people are more polite, more
                  social than gruff old John Bull. I therefore cheerfully approve of the selection
                  you have made; so to France we will go."
               "What part?"
               "You may make the choice yourself. It is indifferent to me."
               "I should like Paris, I think."
               Very well then, let it be Paris."
               "You seem to be very easily pleased," remarked Flora.
               "My happiness depends more on you, dearest, than on the country we may go to.
                  Clime and season can not have much effect on my mind in your presence. But, Flora,
                  let me warn you not to anticipate too much happiness in Paris, or you will be
                  disappointed."
               "Why will I?"
               "Because there is no spot like one's native land. As the old song says, 'there's
                  no place like home.' I have no doubt we will sometimes sigh for the shores we have
                  left, and look longingly to the United States. We can never identify ourselves
                  with foreigners; we will feel that we are not of them, and that country is not
                  ours. We can never renew in another land the pleasant associations which we have
                  now severed. Do you recollect those beautiful lines of Montgomery? 
                     
                        'Home, kindred, friends and, country—these
                        Are ties with which we never part;
                        From clime to clime, o'er land and seas,
                        We bear them with us in our heart:
                        But oh! 'tis hard to feel resign'd,
                        When these must all be left behind!'"
                     
                  
               
               "You draw a rather gloomy picture," said Flora faintly smiling. "If such is to be
                  our destiny, I regret the necessity that compels us to flee."
               "So do I, now; but, dearest, you are not forced to go, as I am. You can remain if
                  you so wish."
               "Maybe you want me to remain, Mr. Booth, since you propose it so often."
               "Nothing in the world could give me greater pleasure than your company during my
                  life-long exile; but the very love I feel for you, makes me wish not to drag you
                  down to what I fear will be my own gloomy destiny. If in the land of our adoption
                  you are disappointed, I could not but look upon myself as the cause of your
                  unhappiness. Consequently, that would make me feel miserable. It would give me far
                  more pleasure—I could be better satisfied to know that you would be happy in your
                  native country, than to carry you broken-hearted into dismal exile."
               "Do not talk to me about remaining, Mr. Booth. If you propose it again, I shall
                  take it for granted that your ardent professions of undying affection are not to
                  be relied on."
               Very well, I will not mention it any more. For if I should have to go alone, no
                  tongue could express my wretchedness of heart. Flora, I fear I will be more happy
                  than you. I love you with such inexpressible madness, that I can come nearer
                  living upon emotions than you can."
               "If you will always be thus affectionate," replied Flora with a radiant smile,
                  "you need not give yourself any uneasiness on my account."
               "I will always be thus," said Booth firmly.
               "Nous verrons."
               "Flora," said Booth after a short pause, "I expect I have drawn rather an
                  unwarrantable picture of our future prospects. I was looking too much at myself
                  when I spoke. I do not wish you to contemplate the 'dark side' altogether. What I
                  meant is, that we must depend upon each other for happiness, and not upon external
                  objects. In my present mood, I suppose I am rather disposed to look gloomily into
                  the future, and you must make some allowances for my words. All the aspirations of
                  my political ambition have been suddenly blighted. I had conceived great hopes of
                  restoring peace and liberty to the United States, by the destruction of the
                  tyrant, but I have ingloriously failed, and you cannot imagine how bitter is my
                  disappointment. The love which I bore you entered deeply into my plans, and this
                  circumstance makes my failure more hard to be borne. I expected to lay at your
                  feet almost a crown, and I can offer you nothing but a—a—
               "A what, Mr. Booth?"
               "I came very near saying a murderer's hand. But I will not say that.
                  God knows I am no murderer in the common acceptation of that word."
               "Never mind, Mr. Booth, we can still be happy if you have failed. I am persuaded
                  that happiness is not confined exclusively to the circles of kings and queens,
                  lords and ladies. You have talents, and very probably can find means to gratify
                  your lofty ambition in the country to which we are going. But if you cannot, we
                  can be happy anyhow."
               "I am glad to hear you talk so."
               "I should like to remain awhile in Paris—but," continued Flora breaking into a new
                  strain, "can we not have two residences, like some of those proud old Lords—one in
                  the city, and the other a country villa, situated in some romantic spot."
               "That will depend to some extent upon our means.
               "Means?" said Flora, suddenly drawing out several brilliant diamonds and
                     handing them to Booth, "what do you
                  suppose they are worth?"
               "I do not know."
               "Eight hundred thousand, only. My whole fortune is invested in them."
               "You can go beyond me by three hundred thousand," said Booth exhibiting a bill of
                  exchange for $500,000, upon an English bank. "But adding both our fortunes
                  together, we can live in regal splendor."
               "And so we will," replied Flora.
               Thus they continued to converse throughout the day, in regard to their future
                  prospects, totally unaware of the danger that was now rapidly following in the
                  wake of their flight.
               Tuesday they pursued their journey, feeling comparatively safe, since they had
                  heard nothing to disturb their equanimity, Wednesday, however, Flora seemed to be
                  unusually depressed. Her gayety of manner was all gone, and an expression of
                  sadness had banished every trace of youthful buoyancy of spirit. Booth could not
                  but observe the change which had come over her.
               "What is the matter, Flora!" he asked.
               "Why? Do you observe anything unusual?"
               "Yes; your pretty face looks as solemn as a Pharisee's on fast-days."
               "I was thinking," she replied absently.
               "It must be something very serious."
               "Yes, rather."
               "What is it?"
               "You will laugh at me if I tell you."
               "No. I could not laugh at anything that gives you uneasiness."
               "Well," answered Flora slowly, "I was troubled by a dream I had last night."
               "Indeed? Are you a believer in dreams?"
               "I cannot say that I am. But did you never have a dream that seemed to cling to
                  you, and follow you like a spectre?"
               "I do not recollect that I ever did. I never would suffer myself to be disturbed
                  by such things as dreams. They are unreliable, of course."
               "Certainly they are; but sometimes they make a deep impression on our minds, so
                  vividly is the picture presented to our imaginations, that howmuchsoever we
                  attempt to shake off the spell, we cannot free ourselves from it."
               "I never was troubled with things of that kind. But what is the dream which has
                  had such an unpleasant effect upon you? Maybe I can interpret it. I used to read
                  dream-books when I was a boy."
               "I dreamed about you once," said Flora, "and it proved true; that is why I am so
                  disturbed."
               "Your dream was in reference to me, then."
               "In reference to both of us."
               "Very well, let us hear it."
               "I can tell it in a very few words; it is short and dismal. I dreamed that we were
                  burned up alive."
               "That is short, sure enough; but how did it happen?"
               "I thought it was night, and we were sleeping at a strange house. After awhile I
                  heard some one shrieking 'fire' in my ears. I sprang up, awoke you, and then ran
                  to the door, but it was locked, and no key could be found."
               "Why did we not go out at the window?" said Booth with a quiet smile, which was
                  unobserved by Flora.
               "I thought we looked around for the window, but to our horror there was none.
                  There was only one outlet to the room, and that was closed."
               "I think I would have battered the door down then."
               "I thought you did try that very thing. I dreamed that you seized a log of wood
                  and dealt blows upon the door with the strength of a giant, but they seemed to
                  have no more effect than if you had beaten upon the rock of Gibraltar with a
                  handful of straws. Scarcely any sounds issued from your tremendous blows, but the
                  log appeared to rebound noiselessly, as if it had possessed the property of
                  elasticity."
               "Why, you had an attack of incubus," exclaimed Booth.
               "Of course I did; but what of that? You speak about it, Mr. Booth, like I was
                  telling it as a reality," said Flora, a little vexed.
               "No, no," replied Booth quickly, "but if it was only incubus, I hope you will
                  attach no importance to it."
               "It was so much like a reality—the picture was so vivid and lifelike, that I
                  cannot overcome the impression it has made. Mon Dieu! methinks I can see those
                  lapping, hissing flames now, as they whirled around the apartment, and seemed to
                  be hunting after us like voracious cannibals."
               "Well, did they find us?" inquired Booth half amused.
               "They did."
               Here Flora paused as if she were still gazing at the frightful picture.
               "Well, what then?" asked Booth.
               "They seized upon us, Mr. Booth," answered Flora, speaking rapidly as if the
                  subject were painful, "they wrapped themselves around us, and our flesh crackled
                  and blazed up, till nothing was left but our skeletons standing in the middle of
                  the floor black horrid, smoking, but still alive."
               "Somewhat a la Prometheus."
               "Do not make sport of me, Mr. Booth, in that way," said Flora solemnly. "I have
                  had dreams to come to pass very frequently."
               "Why, Flora, I am afraid you are superstitious."
               "Perhaps I may be. At any rate the dream has made a deep impression upon my mind,
                  that I cannot get rid of."
               "Do not think about it, dear. That is the best way to get rid of it."
               "Few persons can control their thoughts to such an extent," replied Flora. "If I
                  could think about what I pleased, I would have my mind under a very enviable
                  discipline, to be sure."
               "I told you," remarked Booth, seeing that Flora was really distressed, "that I
                  would interpret your dream."
               "Well?"
               "Just reverse it—that is the rule. To dream of death is a sign that you will hear
                  of a wedding. I suppose your dream then has reference to our own marriage."
               "I have thought of a different interpretation from that."
               "What is that?"
               "The ship in which we sail may take fire. The door will then indeed be closed.
                  There would be no escape from death. That is the most natural interpretation that
                  suggests itself to my mind."
               "If the ship takes fire," said Booth, "we can jump into the water."
               "Then we would drown."
               "Yes, but that is not your dream. We were to be burnt."
               "I do not contend, Mr. Booth, that my dream will prove true to the letter, nor
                  indeed, that it will come to pass at all. I only fear that it portends some
                  dreadful calamity—perhaps death."
               "O, pshaw, Flora," said Booth exhibiting intolerance, "I am astonished at you. It
                  seems you are determined to believe that we will be unfortunate."
               "I cannot help it, Mr. Booth."
               "It is just as easy to put a favorable construction upon your dream, and regard it
                  as a lucky omen. It is unwise to be anticipating evils that may never happen. If
                  calamities are to overtake us, wait till they come. If we are even to die, as you
                  will have it, I beseech you let us not commence dying now, and thus prolong our
                  suffering. My motto is, 'enjoy the present, and let the future take care of
                  itself.' There is sound philosophy in it, too. I will laugh at you about this
                  dream when we get to France."
               "I earnestly hope you may," said Flora with great solemnity.
               The subject of the dream was then dropped, and Booth endeavored to remove its
                  disagreeable impression by diverting Flora's mind from it. He only partially
                  succeeded; for although Flora herself struggled hard to subdue her depression of
                  spirits, yet the fiery offspring of the incubus would often rise up and assert its
                  terrible sway over her thoughts. It haunted her, and the horrid demon could be
                  exorcised only by stolid resolution, of which her feminine mind was incapable. So,
                  very frequently through the day, Booth would find her silent, pensive and
                  absent-minded.
               Towards the close of the evening, they were suddenly overtaken by four men, who
                  came into the road the fugitives were traveling, at right angles. It was a captain
                  and three soldiers of Mosby's disbanded command, returning to their homes, after
                  having seen the "last ditch" of the gory war. They were gallant, dashing,
                  chivalrous horsemen, who had followed the far-famed Mosby through his brilliant
                  series of guerilla victories. As they rode up, Booth entered into conversation
                  with them, more for the purpose of diverting their attention from Flora, than from
                  any desire to talk.
               "Any news, gentlemen?" asked Booth.
               "Nothing in particular," replied the captain. "I suppose you have heard of the
                  murder of Lincoln?"
               "Yes, I heard it; but do you think the report is reliable?"
               "Oh, yes; there is no doubt about it. He died last Saturday."
               "Have they found out who killed him?"
               "It was a man by the name of Booth."
               "Do you know whether he has been arrested or not?"
               "No. But I heard that there were about ten thousand men after him. He will be
                  captured unless he is a sharp traveler. However, if I had the start which they say
                  he did, I would bid defiance to four times that many. They never would catch
                  me."
               "How would you prevent it?"
               "Selim," said the captain patting his fine looking charger on the neck, "would
                  attend to that. We have been in a great many close places, and never been captured
                  yet."
               "You are a confederate, I see," said Booth.
               "Yes—a rebel."
               "What command do you belong to?"
               "Mosby's."
               "Ah, Mosby was a dashing warrior."
               "That he was. We do not meet his equal every day."
               "Methinks," said Booth, "if I had killed Lincoln, I would hunt up Mosby's command,
                  and place myself in their hands for safety."
               "There was a time," replied the captain, "when we would have carried him through
                  the federal army, if necessary, or lost every man we had. But that time is gone
                  now."
               "Why is it?" inquired Booth, who could barely conceal an expression of dangerous
                  interest.
               "Because, we are powerless now. Another reason is, we believe, at least I do, that
                  Lincoln's murder at this particular time will prove a great calamity to the
                  southern people."
               "You do? Why so?"
               "It will go harder with us defeated rebels. It will furnish our enemies with a
                  pretext to wreak their vengeance upon the helpless south. I fear this event will
                  place a worse man than Lincoln in the presidential chair. We have nothing to hope
                  from Andy Johnson. He will be more bitter against us than Lincoln would, because
                  he has personal wrongs to avenge. We cannot expect him to forgive the rough
                  treatment he has received, and let this opportunity for the gratification of his
                  revenge pass away."
               "What do you think he will do?"
               "He will confiscate all our property, and try to reduce us to a state of slavery.
                  He will attempt to make the negro our equal."
               "That will be very unjust," remarked Booth.
               "So it will," answered the captain, "but it will not injure me."
               "Why will it not?"
               "Because I have no land; and then I am going to quit the country."
               "Where are you going?"
               "To Mexico."
               "What will you do there?"
               
               "I do not know yet. I will find something to do though. Anyhow, I cannot stay here
                  in these conquered provinces."
               "I feel sorry for the southern people," said Booth, "for I fear the state of
                  affairs which you predict may become a reality. After all, though, Johnson may
                  have the magnanimity to lay aside his prejudices, and may be a different man from
                  what you anticipate. If so, we cannot conjecture what turn events may take. At any
                  rate, let us hope for the best."
               "You are not a rebel, are you?" asked the captain.
               "No, not exactly. I am a conservative."
               "I thought you were dressed too fine for a rebel."
               "I suppose the confederates were sometimes put to it for clothing," said
                  Booth.
               "Indeed were they. But we did not mind that so much as the leanness of our
                  commissary department. Many a day have we lived on parched corn and acorns. All
                  this, however, we could have endured without a murmur, if the independence of the
                  confederacy had been gained. Indeed, we could have laughed over our hardships and
                  long fasts."
               "It is very grievous, no doubt," remarked Booth, "to be forced to yield after
                  having suffered so many privations."
               "So it is; but maybe some good may result from it."
               By this time they had come to the house of a man by the name of Garrett. Here
                  Booth announced to his confederate companions his intention of stopping for the
                  night, as the sun was now nearly down. The confederates, however, preferred to go
                  on, the captain remarking that he had an acquaintance who lived farther up the
                  road. So they rode on, and Booth took the road that lead to Garrett's, which was
                  several hundred yards from the one they had been traveling.
               "Mr. Booth," said Flora as soon as the horsemen were out of hearing, "I am afraid
                  we are too careless."
               "Why so, dear?"
               "Did not those men tell you we are pursued?"
               "Yes, but I expected that."
               "I fear we will be overtaken. We have traveled too slow."
               "They will hardly overtake us; but could you travel faster?"
               "Certainly, if I thought there was any danger of capture."
               "I will tell you what we will do then. We will stop at this house, rest till after
                  midnight, and make a big day's travel to-morrow. What do you say?"
               "I am willing."
               Accordingly they rode towards the house, but before they got to the gate Flora
                  turned deadly pale.
               "Mr. Booth!" she said, suddenly checking her horse.
               "What is it, dear?" inquired the actor, noticing the pallor of her
                  countenance.
               Flora was gazing at the house before her with a wild expression of interest.
               "Are you ill?" asked Booth in alarm.
               "No, not ill."
               "What is the matter then?"
               "That is the very house I saw in my dreams!"
               "Good Lord, Flora! is it possible you will let an idle dream trouble you so?"
               "Yonder is the very room too. How strange! how strange!"
               "Flora, are you crazy?"
               "Let's not stay here, Mr. Booth, let's not stay here!" she exclaimed earnestly,
                  abruptly turning her horse and riding off.
               "Where are you going?" cried Booth.
               "I am going to leave here. No good will happen to us if we stop at this place. Let
                  us go somewhere else!"
               Booth was forced to yield to this whim of his wife, and they kept on till they
                  were about a mile from Garrett's house, not on the same road, however, which they
                  had been traveling all day. It was dusk before they came to another residence, at
                  which they tried to put up. The owner refused to entertain them for the night,
                  affirming that he was not prepared to accomodate strangers. Booth then inquiring
                  how far it was to the next house, was told that it was several miles; he was also
                  informed that Garrett's was the only place anywhere near at which he could be
                  entertained. The fugitives then turned and rode away.
               "Flora," said Booth, "we will have to go back to that house. You are too foolish
                  about that dream."
               "You cannot see as I do, Mr. Booth, or you would not want me to stay there. I know
                  I have been warned in a dream."
               "What will we do then? We cannot stay in the woods."
               "I would rather not stay in that house."
               "Suppose," said Booth after a moment's reflection, "we go back to the house, have
                  our horses fed, get supper, and not stay in the house? Do you object to that?"
               "Where will we stay?"
               "I do not know yet, but not in the house, if you are afraid."
               "I will go, Mr. Booth, if you insist upon it: but I tell you something dreadful
                  will happen to us before we leave."
               "Come on then," said Booth laughingly. "I will show you that there is no truth in
                  dreams."
               In the course of half an hour they arrived at the house which they had so
                  unceremoniously left. Here Booth called Garrett. who was an old man, out to the
                  gate, and stated what he wanted.
               "I am afraid," said Booth, "our horses may be stolen, and prefer to watch them. So
                  if you will let us have some supper for ourselves and provender for our horses, we
                  will not give you any further trouble."
               Old man Garrett accordingly showed them to his barn, and then at Booth's request
                  went after their supper, with which he soon returned.
               "Mr. Booth," said Flora after they had partaken of the meal, "I never felt so
                  strange in all my life. I feel like this place was haunted."
               "Why, you do not believe in ghosts too, do you?"
               "No, but I have read of haunted houses."
               "Only in novels."
               "Admit that; still such stories have their influence on one's mind. But I am not
                  talking about ghosts now. How do you account for my dream about this house, when I
                  never saw it before?"
               "You merely fancied this was the house after you saw it."
               "There was no fancy about it. I knew the house the very moment I had a good view
                  of it."
               "Which room did you dream we were in?" asked Booth.
               "The front room at this end."
               "Look at the light shining through the window; the room you saw in your dream had
                  no window in it. So that circumstance proves conclusively you have made a
                  mistake."
               "I only hope I have. But do not let us stay here long. I will feel miserable till
                  we get away."
               "We must rest till two o'clock, and then we will start."
               After a short time they retired into the barn. Booth was soon buried in a deep
                  sleep, but Flora was troubled. She felt that some great danger was hovering over
                  her, and she could not close her eyes. At last she commenced crying, and wept till
                  she was somewhat relieved. Then her thoughts began to scatter, and she gradually
                  fell into an uneasy slumber. All about the gloomy barn was now dark and
                  silent.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Come one, come all! this rock shall fly
                        From its firm base as soon as I."
                     
                  
               
               "Hilloa!"
               This was bawled out by Mike O'Clannahan at the gate of a small farm house that
                  stood by the road-side. It was now Wednesday evening, and the party of pursuers
                  were still after the fugitives. They would take it by turns in inquiring at the
                  houses which they came to, for the murderer of Mr. Lincoln, and it was now
                  O'Clannahan's turn.
               "Hilloa!" thundered Mike the second time, hardly waiting for a reply to his first
                  exclamation.
               "Hilloa!" responded the proprietor of the cottage advancing to the gate.
               "Have you seen inything of Walkes Booth thraveling along here?"
               "Listen at that fool," said Billings with a laugh.
               But the blunt, straightforward question of the Irishman, developed intelligence
                  which was rather unexpected by the detectives; for the farmer without any
                  equivocation promptly replied:
               "Yes, I have."
               "Whin?" inquired Mike.
               "This morning."
               "Be jabers, why didn't you catch the dirty spalpeen!"
               "What for?" inquired the surprised farmer.
               "Shure, an ye knowed that the ugly poltroon murdered Mr. Lincoln the last Friday
                  night, and thin ran away, widout so much as sayin' 'good bye' to iny one? Och!
                  we've had many a rake and a scratch through the briar thacket, wid ould Nick and
                  his whole family tearing afther us! Capting," he continued as Slang rode up to the
                  gate, "Be jabers, I've arristed the spalpeen; and thim greenboks is mine."
               "Who have you arrested?" asked Slang.
               "Walkes Booth, shure."
               "Where is he?"
               "Be jabers, he was seen this morning, shure."
               "You're a fool!" said Slang angrily, modifying his assertion with an oath that did
                  not add much to its euphony, except to military ears. Then he turned to the
                  wondering farmer.
               "You say you saw Booth?"
               "To be sure I did."
               "Are you certain it was Booth?"
               "Just as certain as I could be about any body."
               "How did you know it was Booth?"
               "I've seen him several times in the theatre."
               "Did you speak to him?"
               "Yes, a few words were passed between us. He and another young gentleman stopped
                  at the gate and asked for water, which I gave them."
               "Which way did they go?"
               "They kept that road, straight ahead."
               "Were they riding fast?"
               "No—not very."
               "Didn't you know that they had murdered the president?"
               "No; I had not heard it."
               "You are a liar!" thundered Slang. "You can't make me believe that. You know all
                  about it."
               "I didn't know a word about it," exclaimed the thunderstruck farmer. "And if I
                  had, I could not have arrested them; they were both armed with pistols, and Booth
                  had a carbine."
               "Bring him on, men!" ordered Slang. "He's telling lies. He is one of the
                  accomplices. Oh, come on, old fellow, you've got to go."
               The farmer's protestations of innocence, and his entreaties, were of no avail. He
                  was forced to accompany the pursuers; and off they all dashed like hounds, in
                  hunters' phrase, on a warm trail. Finding that Booth was riding at a traveler's
                  pace, they continued to inquire for him at every house, and heard of him more than
                  once. Late in the evening they came to a negro cutting fuel, at the fork of the
                  road where Mosby's men had by mere accident joined Booth.
               "Hello, Mistifer," cried Slang, "how long have you been here?"
               "All dis 
                     hlessed
                     blessed
                   day, Masser."
               
               "Did you see two men pass by here to-day?"
               "Yes, Masser, more dan dat."
               "Yes sar. One cumd long wid a gun, and anoder boy wid 'im. Right here dey met four
                  more comin' dat road, den dey all went long to-gedder."
               "Were the four men armed?"
               "No, masser, but dey was sogers."
               "What kind?"
               "'Federates, I reckin; dey had on gray cloze."
               "He's got with some of the rebels, by—," said Slang. "Forward, men, we're on the
                  right trail."
               "Capting," shouted Mike, "ain't ye goin' to arrist this gentleman? Be jabers, he
                  must be one o' the 'complices. He's seen Booth."
               "The blacks is all loyal," said Billings.
               "Forward!" ordered Slang.
               They arrived at Garrett's house without any further adventure, just as the last
                  rays of the sun had disappeared from the treetops. Unluckily for them, Booth and
                  Flora had left the house a few minutes previously, without having been seen by any
                  of Garrett's family. The detectives then pushed on in hot pursuit after Mosby's
                  men, whom they would soon have overtaken on the road, but for a delay which was
                  very foolish under the circumstances. In the course of an hour, after they left
                  Garrett's, Booth and Flora returned. Garrett said nothing about the pursuers, as
                  he very naturally supposed that the actor and his wife belonged to the party. The
                  pursuers had not gone more than a mile from the resting place of the fugitives,
                  before they came to a halt in order to refresh themselves. If they had kept on
                  they would have overtaken Mosby's men in less than twenty minutes. But it appears
                  that this was a lucky party. Their very blunders seemed to put them
                  on the right trail; and they kept on it not by their detective sagacity, but by a
                  series of fortunate hap-hazards. Their very blustering airs, which would have made
                  them unsuccessful detectives in a city, seemed to cause them to stumble along in a
                  most wonderful manner upon Booth's track. It is highly probable that shrewd
                  detectives would have been extremely puzzled, and might not have overtaken the
                  fugitives at all. But our party went dashing along, hurry-skurry, pell-mell,
                  stopping when they felt like it, and then taking almost any road, traveled till
                  they became weary, halted, and afterwards pushed onward in the same uproarious
                  manner. Our Yankee friends professed to see in it the finger of
                     Providence; but we think it sufficient to denominate it
                     lucky blundering.
               
               As we have already said, they came to a halt almost in sight of Mosby's men. They
                  forced the farmer at whose house they were stopping to prepare supper for the
                  whole party, after having impressed as much provender for their horses as they
                  wanted. Although this unlooked-for invasion of his poultry yard, and this tax upon
                  his larder seriously injured the poor farmer, not a particle of difference did it
                  make with the detectives. They were privileged characters, and used their little
                  authority with a despotism in a manner annoying to all who were so unfortunate as
                  to come under its influence. Slang and Billings were the only two who were
                  anything like detectives; but they had been reared in the city principally, and
                  were not very skillful in the capacity in the woods. A short time after supper,
                  these two worthies held a military consultation. It did not require the lapse of a
                  great while for them to decide that it was best to go on immediately after the
                  fugitives. So they went round to their command, nearly all of whom had dropped off
                  to sleep, just as soon as their appetites were gratified, and aroused them by
                  vigorous application of feet to their sides. They were all at last awakened, and
                  made to understand that they must march. So they sullenly continued the pursuit.
                  After traveling about three miles, they came to the house at which Mosby's men had
                  put up. Having surrounded this, Slang and Billings, followed by a dozen trembling
                  wretches, went blundering into the rooms, and at last entered that which contained
                  the sleeping confederates.
               "Surrender in here!" thundered Slang in a tone worthy of a full-grown general.
               The rebels were quickly awakened by the terrible voice, and straightened up in
                  their beds. There were only three of them.
               "Be jabers," said Mike making ready with his gun, "ye'd better give up quiet, Mr.
                  Booth. If ye thries to shoot, ye're a dead man, by St. Patrick."
               "Peace, babbling fool," said Slang. "They are unarmed."
               "Och! an there's no knowing that, shure. They may have the murdherous weapons
                  concealed among the bed-clouths. Better watch thim, Capting."
               "What means this intrusion, gentlemen?" asked the confederate caption, nearly
                  blinded by the sudden flash of a dark-lantern, which one of the detectives
                  carried.
               "We want you to surrender," said Slang in an emphatic tone.
               "We have already done that, and been paroled," answered the captain.
               "Have you no arms?"
               "No—none at all."
               "Where is the rest of your crowd?"
               "There were only four of us. Here are three; the fourth is with our horses."
               "Where is Booth?"
               "Booth?" asked the astonished captain.
               "Yes sir—Booth. He was with you."
               "You are mistaken, sir," was the mild reply of the confederate.
               "You're a liar!" exclaimed Slang, using his favorite expression.
               But this time he met with a most unexpected reply. For the captain deliberately
                  rose from his bed, and before any one was aware of his intentions, planted a blow
                  in Slang's face that felled him to the floor. The two other rebels, guessing how
                  matters would result, in a twinkling seized each a gun from the soldiers standing
                  by. The captain also did the same; and all this was accomplished so quickly, that
                  the bewildered pursuers hardly knew how it was done, until the feat had been
                  achieved. The three men thus suddenly armed began in an instant to make an
                  aggressive movement.
               "Och!" shrieked Mike, "don't shoot, good Mr. Rebel! We'll surrender. Here's my
                  gun. Take it, so you don't shoot jist."
               "And mine too!" exclaimed a half-dozen more.
               "Stack them in the corner!" ordered the captain. "Be quick too."
               "Be jabers, that will we," said Mike, hurriedly dashing his gun into the corner as
                  directed. "I niver could use the thricky spalpeen, nohow."
               The other detectives who had happened not to enter the apartment, look to their
                  heels, as soon as their loader struck the floor, and went rushing out of the house
                  for very life. The panic was instantly communicated to those outside, who were
                  startled by the terrible cry:
               "The house is full of rebels!"
               "Frightened by this alarming cry, all retreated disorderly to the distance of
                  several hundred yards from the scene of action, leaving Slang and his men to fight
                  it out, or surrender, as they might deem it most prudent. The confederate captain,
                  finding himself master of the situation, and seeing no indications of further
                  resistance, soon calmed his military ardor.
               "Who is the commander of this party?" said he.
               "He is," said Billings pointing to the crest-fallen Slang.
               "Sir," said the captain addressing Slang, "I want you to explain yourself. We are
                  rebels, legally paroled, returning peaceably to our homes, and not disposed to
                  interfere with any body. It is true the south has been defeated; but I am not
                  going to be personally insulted, when I have the power to defend myself. You asked
                  where Booth is. I never saw the man in my life. If you are not satisfied with my
                  reply, you can help yourselves. I am not going to be arrested for not having seen
                  Booth. If that is the game, I would as soon fight it out right here as
                  anywhere."
               "Och! there's no use fighting about it, good Mr. Rebel," interrupted Mike. "We're
                  not afther ye. I'ts Booth we're afther. We thought he was wid ye."
               Here Billings entered into a brief explanation of matters, at the conclusion of
                  which the captain told him that they had overtaken two men at the forks of the
                  road, but that they had stopped at a house four miles back; whether it was Booth
                  or not, he did not know.
               While mutual explanations were taking place in the house, the lieutenant was
                  rallying his men, after they had retreated to a safe distance from the spot where
                  Slang had met with such a sad disaster. Having collected his little command, he
                  marched to within a hundred yards of the house, and ordered a volley to be fired
                  at the roof, in order to let Mosby's men know what they might expect. As soon as
                  the report was heard, Mike rushed from the room in hot haste.
               "Quit shootin'," he bawled at the top of his voice, "we've all surrendered."
               "Who did you surrender to?" cried out the lieutenant.
               "To the ribils. Come up and surrender; they are all good gentlemen. You won't be
                  kilt."
               "How many rebels are there?"
               "There's the whoul three of thim, be jabers."
               "What! You all surrendered to three men?"
               "Be jabers, did we. They're the very divil, ivery one of thim, and fight like
                  blazes. Och! they laid the capting on his back afore he could ax thim to quit it.
                  If we hadn't gived in quicker, we'd all 'a bin dead men, be jabers, in a jiffy. We
                  was glad of an opporthunity so surrender. Ye'd better come and give up widout
                  baing kilt at all."
               The lieutenant was consulting with his men whether they should surrender or not,
                  when Slang ordered them to advance. He and Billings had effected an amicable
                  adjustment with Mosby's men. The three rebels kindly returned the arms they had
                  captured, but fearing treachery, they saddled their horses, and left the yankees
                  in possession of the battle-ground.
               The detectives now retraced their steps, arriving in an hour at Garrett's. Leaving
                  their horses at some distance from the house, in charge of two of their party, the
                  remainder cautiously proceeded to dispose themselves so as to command all the
                  outlets from the dwelling. These arrangements being completed, Slang, Billings,
                  and several others went to the kitchen door, and rapped furiously. Presently an
                  old man, en dishabille, undid the bolts, and
                  stood on the threshold, peering shiveringly into the darkness. Slang seized him by
                  the throat at once, and held a pistol to his ear.
               "Who—who is it that calls me?" cried old Mr. Garrett.
               "Where is them men that stay with you?" asked Slang. "If you tell a lie, you are a
                  dead man, by—."
               Garrett was so overawed and paralyzed that he stammered and shook, but said not a
                  word.
               "Go light a candle," cried Slang with an oath, "and be quick about it, too."
               The trembling old man obeyed, and in a moment the imperfect rays flared upon his
                  whitening hairs and bluishly pallid face. Then the question was repeated, backed
                  up by the glimmering pistol.
               "Where is them men?"
               Garrett was so frightened by the threatening appearance of armed soldiers, that he
                  had forgotten about the two in the barn. He held to the wall, and his knees smote
                  each other.
               
               "There are no men in the house," he at last stammered.
               Just then sounds and whisperings were heard in the main building adjoining, and
                  Slang strode to the door. A ludicrous instant intervened; the old man's modesty
                  outran his terror.
               "Don't go in there," he said feebly, "there are women undressed in there."
               "D—n the women," cried Slang, "what if they are undressed? We shall go in if they
                  haven't got a rag on."
               Leaving the old man, Slang utterly regardless of what is due the fair sex bolted
                  through the door, and stood in an assemblage of bare arms and night robes. His
                  loaded pistol for a moment disarmed modesty of its delicacy, and substituted
                  therefor feminine terror. Here he repeated his summons, and the half-light of the
                  candle gave to his ugly countenance a more than bandit ferocity. But the women,
                  thus rudely interrupted, were too much alarmed to make an intelligible reply. They
                  all huddled together, and eyed Slang with horrible suspicion.
               "You women," thundered Slang, "I want you to tell me whar them men is."
               "What men?" asked one at last, trembling however from head to foot.
               "Them men you've hid. Don't deny it. They're here in the house."
               Before they could answer, a young man suddenly appeared as if he had arisen from
                  the ground. The eyes of every body were turned upon him in a second. Though he
                  blanched, he did not lack loquacity.
               "Father," said he to the old man who had also entered the bed-chamber, "I guess
                  they mean those men who are sleeping in the barn."
               "Is that what you mean?" cried Garrett, as if he had suddenly comprehended their
                  object. "There are two men in my barn, if that's what you are after. They came
                  here about dark."
               "I thought you knowed, you——," said Slang with an oath. "One of you," he continued
                  turning to some of his men, "must stay here and guard these women and the old
                  man."
               "I'll stay," quickly cried half a dozen, anxious to perform this duty, and thereby
                  avoid all personal hazard in the approaching conflict.
               "Be jabers, Capting," begged Mike, "let me stay. I'm more dacent to remain wid
                  famales than the ithers. Och! leddies, I was born a gintleman in ould Ireland, and
                  niver insulted a lady since I was a baby. I will be as mannerly as any gintleman
                  could be. Be jabers, I'm the perlite bhoy, leddies. I haven't looked at ye
                  to-night."
               "Hush,——fool," interrupted Slang, "you shan't stay, you cowardly cuss. Here, Dick
                  Manigan, you stay."
               Then all the rest, with cocked pistols at the young man's head, followed on to the
                  barn. It lay a hundred yards from the house, the front door facing the west gable,
                  and was an old and spacious structure, with floors only a few inches above the
                  ground level.
               The detectives were stationed at regular intervals around it, and ten yards
                  distant at every point; four special guards placed to command the door, and all
                  with weapons in supple preparation, while Slang and Billings went directly to the
                  portal. It had a padlock upon it, and the key of this Billings secured
                  immediately. In the interval of silence that ensued, the rustling of planks and
                  straw was heard inside, as of persons rising from sleep. Booth and Flora had been
                  aroused.
               "My dream, Mr. Booth, my dream!" she faintly whispered. "I knew I was warned. I
                  hear several persons creeping outside. There is a light, too. We are
                  overtaken."
               "Keep quiet," replied Booth in a low whisper, "you may be mistaken."
               But she was not, for Slang hailed:
               "To the folks in this barn. I've a proposition to make: We are about to send in to
                  you the son of the man who owns this barn. Either surrender to him your arms, and
                  then give yourselves up, or we will set fire to the place. We mean to take you
                  both, or to have a bonfire and shootin' match."
               "I knew it, Mr. Booth," whispered Flora, we will be burnt."
               "Never," whispered Booth in reply between his grating teeth.
               No reply was made to the proposal of Slang. The lad John Garrett, who was in
                  deadly fear, was here pushed through the door by a sudden opening of it, and the
                  door was then locked on the outside. As no yankee, who has the slightest regard
                  for truth, will deny that this was an actual occurrence, it may not be amiss to
                  suggest, that it certainly was very creditable to the bravery of Slang and his
                  men, to force a little boy into a position from which they all shrank. Nothing is
                  detracted from the disgrace of this circumstance by the consideration that the
                  proportion of strength was largely in favor of the detectives. It was as
                  twenty-five to two.
               Young Garrett was heard to state his appeal in an undertone.
               "Get out of here," cried Booth angrily.
               At the same time he placed his hand in his pocket as for a pistol. A remonstrance
                  followed, but the boy quickly slipped over the re-opened portal, reporting that
                  his errand had failed, and that he dared not enter again. All this time the candle
                  brought very foolishly from the house to the barn was burning close beside the two
                  detectives, rendering it very easy for any one inside to have shot them dead. This
                  observed, the light was suddenly and prudently blown out, and Slang took the dark
                  lantern from one of the men and carried it. By this time the crisis of the
                  position was at hand, and the pursuers began to exhibit variable inclinations, the
                  majority to run away, a few to shoot Booth without a summons. The men at the back
                  of the barn abandoned their several positions, and slipped off towards the house.
                  If Booth had only made a forward movement with boldness, there is little doubt
                  that the whole party would have retreated in astonishing disorder. At the house
                  near by, the females were seen collected in the doorway, and the necessities of
                  the case provoked prompt conclusions. The summons was now repeated by Slang.
               "You must surrender inside there. Give up your arms and appear. There is no chance
                  for escape. We give you five minutes to make up your mind."
               "Be jabers, we'll give ye half an hour, if ye'll only surrinder like gintlemen
                  widout fitin," exclaimed Mike O'Clannahan.
               A bold, clarion reply came from within, so strong as to be heard at the house
                  door.
               "Who are you, and what do you want with us?"
               "We want you to give up your arms, and be our prisoners," replied Slang.
               "But who are you?" hallooed the same strong voice.
               "That makes no difference," answered Slang. "We know who you are, and we want you.
                  We have here fifty men, armed with carbines and pistols. You cannot escape, so you
                  may as well give up."
               "Plaze surrinder, Mr. Booth," cried out Mike, "and save us the throuble of a
                  bloody fight. We don't want to murdher you alive."
               There followed a long pause, and then Booth said:
               "Captain, this is a hard case. Perhaps I am being taken by my own friends."
               To this the detectives made no reply.
               "Well, give us a little time to consider," said Booth.
               "Very well," replied Slang. "Take time."
               "Yis, be jabers," quoth Mike confirming the stipulation, "take as much as ye want,
                  jist so ye concludes to surrinder."
               "Dry up, you cowardly dog," interrupted Slang.
               While the detectives were standing in solemn silence anxiously awaiting the result
                  of the consultation, Booth and Flora were holding a whispered interview, that must
                  have been peculiarly distressing to a young bride.
               "Flora," he said, "what will you do?"
               "What will you do?" she asked.
               "I have deliberately made up my mind to escape or die."
               "Then I will die with you."
               "You need not do that," quickly said Booth. "You can surrender. They will not
                  trouble you. But if I should surrender, it would be merely to die upon the
                  gallows. I will fight then to the last."
               "Then I will stand by your side," replied Flora in a tone of firmness that showed
                  she had gained at least a temporary victory over the proverbial weakness of
                  woman.
               "I would rather you would not."
               "What would you have me do then?"
               "Surrender. No harm will come to you."
               "Never, never! Do not persuade me."
               "God bless you, my brave darling!" whispered the actor. "Kiss me once more."
               And there in the darkness of that old barn, threatened by bayonets, he folded the
                  feverish bride to his heart. The embrace seemed to infuse a more than human
                  courage into his proud form. It maddened him, and if his pursuers could only have
                  seen the fierce glare of his eye, indicative of the stern resolution of an
                  inflexible spirit, the probability is that Booth would have
                     outnumbered them in the combat. But they saw it not; and Slang at
                  last hailed for the last time.
               "Well, we've waited long enough," said he. "Surrender your arms and come out, or
                  we'll fire the barn."
               "Will you listen to a proposition, Captain?" asked Booth.
               "Yes, what is it?"
               "You say you have fifty men. Withdraw them one hundred yards from the barn, and we
                  will come out and have a fair fight. Give us a chance for out lives. We will never
                  be taken alive."
               "We didn't come here to fight, but to capture you."
               "No, be jabers, we don't want to fight ye, Mr. Booth. Plaze give up like a good
                  gintleman, as I know ye is, barrin that ye committed a little bit of a murdher;
                  but we don't want to fight ye for that."
               "You must have a fight, boys, and a bloody fight," cried Booth, starting to the
                  door with Flora at his side. "We will conquer or die."
               "Och! I'll——" But Mike's tongue refused to act, and his legs started off with him.
                  He was followed by several of the party.
               "Come back!" thundered Slang, or I'll blow your—brains out."
               "They are retreating," whispered Booth. Be courageous, dearest; we will whip them.
                  My God! the door is locked!"
               "And there is no window!" said Flora. "My dream! my dream!"
               "Never mind," answered Booth. "I will knock the building down, or we will get
                  out."
               "Useless! useless!" said Flora now in despair.
               But Booth rapidly reconnoitered the inside of the barn, and fortunately for him he
                  found that a plank in the floor at the back end of the building was not fastened
                  down. By raising this up he could crawl out without being seen by the enemy. So he
                  called to Flora in an undertone, and then made a feint attack on the door, as if
                  it had been his intention to batter it down. Then turning he whispered to Flora to
                  follow him, and retreated towards the place of egress. But Flora, the powers of
                  whose mind were now almost paralyzed by the apparent fulfillment of her dream,
                  stopped suddenly in the middle of the barn. Booth supposing that she was close to
                  him, commenced to crawl out. But ere his head was fairly outside, Billings slipped
                  around to one side of the building, drew some loose straws through a crack, and
                  lit a match upon them. They were dry, and blazed up in an instant, carrying a
                  sheet of flame and smoke through the parted planks, and heaving in a twinkling a world of light and
                  heat upon the magazine within. The blaze shot up between Booth aud Flora, and lit
                  up the black recesses of the great barn till every wasp's nest and cobweb in the
                  roof was luminous, flinging streaks of red and violet across the tumbled farm gear
                  in the corner, plows, harrows, hoes, rakes and sugar mills, and making every
                  separate grain in the high bin adjacent gleam like a mote of precious gold. They
                  tinged the beams, the upright columns, the barricades, where clover and timothy,
                  piled high, held toward the hot incendiary their separate straws for the funeral
                  pile. We might remark, parenthetically, that old Mr. Garrett paid a rather high
                  price for this bonfire, by the loss of his barn, grain, farming utensils, and so
                  on—all on account of the pusillanimity of the pursuers, who did not dare to make a
                  fair attack upon one man; but we will say nothing about this, as it does not
                  particularly concern our story.
               Poor Flora stood stone-still in the middle of the barn, confused, bewildered,
                  gazing with superstitious awe and fright at the angry flames bursting up from the
                  yielding straw. A strange species of fascination, mingled with despair, seemed to
                  have rooted her to the spot where she stood. Upon her beautiful features there was
                  a settled expression, evincing a despairing resignation to the terrible fate
                  foreshadowed in her dream. She looked intently into the fire, perhaps searching
                  for Booth. While in this attitude, one of the pursuers, Corbett by name, drew upon
                  her the fatal bead. The ball struck her on the back of the neck, directly under
                  the ear, passing quite through, and entering the planks on the opposite side.
                  Flora with a shout fell headlong to the floor.
               "He has shot himself!" cried Slang, unaware of the source of the report, and
                  rushing in he grasped the arms of the supposed Booth, to guard against any feint
                  or strategy. A moment convinced him that further struggle with the unresisting
                  form was useless. Flora did not move, nor breathe, nor gasp, that is apparently.
                  Billings and two men now entered, and taking up the body, they bore it in haste
                  from the advancing flame, and laid it without upon the grass, all fresh with
                  heavenly dew.
               "Water!" cried Slang, "bring water."
               When this was dashed into her face, she revived a moment and stirred her lips. But
                  the fire encroaching in hotness upon them, they moved her again, placing her at
                  some distance from the barn.
               While this tragedy was transpiring, Booth was struggling to force his body through
                  the opening he had discovered, which was smaller than he at first supposed. It
                  required some length of time to extricate himself from this difficulty.
                  Fortunately for him the rear of the barn had been early abandoned in the action,
                  and no one perceived him. Had the detectives discovered him making his way out,
                  they would undoubtedly have killed him, while in a defenceless condition. He had
                  heard the report of the gun and Flora's shout, and his heart throbbed with fearful
                  anxiety. But he made no pause. Turning the corner of the blazing barn, he saw
                  Flora upon the ground, and the detectives standing around her. The sight aroused
                  Booth till he was hardly human. His eyes were lustrous like fever, and swelled and
                  rolled in terrible beauty, while his teeth grated like those of a wild animal. He
                  wore the expression of one in a perfect frenzy. His gun having been left in the
                  barn, he placed his hands upon the butts of his pistols; but he appeared to think
                  these were insufficient for his purpose; he wanted a more wide-sweeping implement
                  of destruction—one that could slay all his enemies at a single blow. And here we
                  have another instance of the terrible strength and agility of the human body, when
                  reason is temporarily prostrated, and its motions are controlled by a species of
                  frenzied instinct, or by one intense, maddening thought. For the actor gathered up
                  a long pole, whose weight under ordinary circumstances would have been an
                  encumbrance to a very stout man, and wielded it with the ease of a Samson. With a
                  bound, and with a wild, savage, deafening yell, that sounded more like the voice
                  of a demon, or an enraged beast, he started towards his enemies. All this was done
                  almost in a twinkling. The detectives merely caught one glance of the awful
                  figure, advancing upon them with frightful rapidity, and then dropping their guns,
                  betook themselves to inglorious flight. Not even Slang and Billings stood their
                  ground; but every one of them traveled as rapidly as his feet could move, leaving
                  the actor in undisputed possession of the field. It was well for them that Booth's
                  attention was diverted to his fallen wife. Dropping the pole, he knelt down by
                  Flora, who could now speak, but only in a whisper.
               "Are you hurt badly, Flora?" he asked in a trembling tone.
               "I am dying," she replied.
               "God forbid!" he cried in perfect agony.
               "Make your escape," she said feebly, "you can do me no good."
               "Never! never! I shall die right here," he exclaimed, springing to his feet and
                  seizing one of the carbines lying near by. But no enemy was visible. Flora
                  motioned to Booth, and he again knelt at her side.
               "Make your escape," she said. "You will be captured if you remain here. It is
                  folly to fight against so many. Live and avenge my death. This is my dying
                  request."
               "Oh! that I should have brought you to this! You cannot forgive me."
               "I do—there is nothing to forgive."
               Booth now took Flora's hand in his, and as he looked into her pallid countenance,
                  he wept with a bitterness proportioned to the remorse he felt for having brought
                  this beautiful girl to such a bloody destiny. He could not now but be aware that
                  her life was rapidly ebbing away. Suddenly Flora appeared to cease breathing.
                  Booth spoke to her, but she made no reply. He thought she had breathed her
                  last.
               "Oh, God! dead! dead!" he cried rising to his feet. "I have brought thee to this!
                  May Heaven forgive me! Flora," he continued, stooping and imprinting a last kiss
                  upon her bloodless lips, "I will spend the remainder of my life in avenging thy
                  death!
               Then he went to his horse, which was standing saddled in the stable. Hastily
                  mounting, he rode off by the light of the burning barn, in a state of feeling
                  beyond the conception of those who have not experienced similar trials; and we
                  hope the number is few. No pen could justly describe the painful agony of John
                  Wilkes Booth.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               
                  
                     
                        "There was a splash—down, down, he sank—
                        The waters clos'd—and all was blank."
                     
                  
               
               After Booth's departure, the detectives, who had witnessed his proceedings afar
                  off, mustered up sufficient courage to return. They found that Flora was not yet
                  dead. Indeed, she struggled hard with death, and her vitality evidenced itself
                  almost miraculously. Now and then her heart would cease to throb, and her pulse
                  would be as cold as those of the dead. Directly life would begin anew, the face
                  would flush up effulgently, the eyes open and brighten, and soon relapsing,
                  stillness reasserted, would again be dispossessed by the same magnificent triumph
                  of life over mortality. Brandy was given to her, which revived her so greatly,
                  that for a moment she was enabled to speak quite distinctly. Presently, during one
                  of the transient flashes from darkness to life, Slang addressed her.
               "What is your name?" asked he.
               Her wild love for the actor caused her to utter a falsehood, even with horrid
                  death before her.
               "John Wilkes Booth," she replied.
               "Who was the man with you?"
               But Flora did not answer this question. Death deprived her of the power of
                  articulation. Her jaw drew spasmodically and obliquely downward; her eye balls
                  rolled toward her feet, and began to swell; lividness like a horrible shadow
                  fastened upon her, and with a sort of gurgle and sudden check, she stretched her
                  feet, threw back her head, and gave up the ghost. The detectives stood looking on
                  in silence, till convinced that the work of death was done, then sewed her up in a
                  saddle blanket, firmly believing it was the corpse of John Wilkes Booth. Although
                  this may appear somewhat strange, it may be accounted for upon the supposition
                  that the detectives were so much excited by the stirring events of the night, it
                  did not occur to them to investigate the evidences of Booth's identity. None of
                  them had ever seen the actor, and they would therefore be liable to make a
                  mistake—especially considering the bewildering circumstances of the capture.
                  Furthermore, it is highly probable that not a single one of the detectives was
                  imbued with a particle of that refinement—that intensity of exalted friendship,
                  which would induce one friend to prove true to another, even to the "bitter end."
                  Flora gave her name as Booth, and they, in the plenitude of selfishness, could not
                  conceive how or why she should favor any person to the extent of propagating a
                  falsehood amid the convulsions of death. However this may be, it is not our
                  province to show why the deception was not detected. We will narrate events, and
                  let those who believe that Booth was really killed in Garrett's barn, sneer at
                  what they may deem inconsistencies, or absurdities, if they feel so disposed.
               Before it was fairly light, the detectives commenced to make preparations for the
                  return. One of the party was immediately dispatched to Washington to bear the glad
                  tidings. A venerable old negro living in the vicinity had the misfortune to
                  possess a horse. This horse was a relic of former generations, and showed by his
                  protruding ribs that his provender had been issued in very scanty rations. He
                  moved in an eccentric amble, and when put upon his speed was generally run
                  backward. At every step his feet came to the ground like he was expecting the
                  command to halt. To this old negro's excuse for a horse was harnessed a very
                  shabby and absurd wagon, which rattled painfully at every obstacle that resisted
                  its progress, and each part of it ran without any connection or correspondence
                  with any other part. It had no tail-board, and its shafts were sharp as famine;
                  and in this mimicry of a vehicle the supposed murderer was to be sent to the
                  Potomac river, while the embalmed body of Abraham Lincoln was moving in state
                  across the mourning north. The old negro geared up his wagon by means of a set of
                  fossil harness, and when it was driven to Garrett's barn yard, they laid within it
                  the senseless Flora. The corpse was tied with ropes, and made fast to the wagon
                  sides. The two sons of Garrett were also taken along, despite the sobs and
                  petitions of the old folks and women. So moved the cavalcade of retribution, with
                  death in its midst, along the road to Port Royal. When the wagon started poor
                  Flora's wound, till now scarcely dribbling, began to run anew. The blood fell
                  through the cracks of the wagon, dripping upon the axle, and spotting the road
                  with terrible wafers. It stained the planks, and soaked the blankets; and the old
                  negro at a stoppage dabbled his hands in it by mistake; he drew bach with a
                  shudder and stifled expletive.
               "Gor Amighty, dat'll neber come off in de world. It's murder's blood."
               He wrung his hands in superstitious distress, looked imploringly at the commander
                  of the party, and shuddered again.
               "I wouldn't hab dat on me for tousand, tousand dollars."
               However, the old negro was forced to push along. The progress of the team was
                  slow, with frequent danger of shipwreck altogether; but toward noon the cortege
                  filed through Port Royal, where the citizens came out to ask what was the matter,
                  and why a man's body, covered with
                  sombre blankets, was going by with so great escort. They were told that it was a
                  wounded confederate, and so held their tongues. The little ferry, again in
                  requisition, took them over by squads, and they pushed from Port Conway to Bell
                  Plain, which they reached in the middle of the afternoon. All the way the blood
                  dribbled from the corpse in a slow, incessant, sanguine exudation. The old negro
                  was here niggardly dismissed with two paper dollars, both counterfeit. The dead
                  woman untied and cast upon the vessel's deck, steam gotten up in a little while,
                  and the broad Potomac's shores saw this skeleton, ship flit by, as the bloody sun
                  threw gashes and blots of unhealthy light along the silver surface.
               When the detectives reached Washington, it was already reported, indeed it had
                  been telegraphed all over the country, that the assassin of Mr. Lincoln had been
                  killed. Consequently many persons, through motives of idle curiosity, desired to
                  see the corpse, but fortunately for Col. Baker, they were refused. The body was
                  taken to Baker's office, and no person but himself and Slang was present when the
                  bloody blanket was removed. Col. Baker looked into the face of the corpse with
                  surprise. Then he hastily jerk-ek off the cap, which had not hitherto been
                  disturbed. A tuck comb dropped upon the floor, and the long hair of a woman fell
                  out at one side of the neck.
               "Great God!" said Baker in horror, "you've killed a woman!"
               There was an expression of blank astonishment in Slang's face.
               "How did this happen?" asked Baker with a dark frown.
               "I'm sure I thought it was Booth," replied Slang. "That was the name this person
                  gave when dying. There were two of them; we shot this one, and the other made his
                  escape. We didn't know who it was."
               "That was Booth. Lord! Lord!" continued Col. Baker vexatiously, "you've fixed it.
                  Why didn't you capture both of them?"
               "We didn't try, we thought it was enough to get Booth."
               And with this report of his underling the vexed Col. Baker had to content himself.
                  Indeed, he cared not to hear more; the deed was accomplished, and it could not now
                  be undone. What to do next, under the perplexing circumstances, was the question
                  to settle.
               Leaving Slang to remain with the corpse until he should return, Baker started to
                  the office of Secretary Stanton, in order to hold a consultation. On the way,
                  however, he met with Coldheart, who may be supposed to have been secretly anxious
                  in regard to the startling results legitimately emanating from the action of the
                  Bloody Junto. He asked if the corpse of Booth had arrived, and was answered in the
                  affirmative. He then further asked to see the body; and Baker requested him to
                  walk back to the office. Slang was sent out on some other business, and Coldheart
                  and Baker were alone. The former was as much surprised as Baker was, when, he
                  looked into the face of the corpse.
               "Why this is not Booth," he exclaimed. "It is"——
               "Who is it?" inquired Baker.
               "It is Flora Louvan. I know her well."
               "What! The daughter of Dr. Louvan?"
               "The same, without any doubt."
               "She was caught with Booth, in this attire."
               "Doubtless she ran away with him."
               "Well, well, well!" said Baker scratching his fiery head in perplexity, "what is
                  to be done?"
               "Col. Baker," said Coldheart after a short pause, in which he had settled the
                  question, "this must be kept secret."
               "I agree with you there," replied Baker.
               "Of course. It does not speak well for the intelligence of the captors. So you may
                  as well not contradict the report that has been spread all over the country. It
                  has been given out that Booth has been killed; act upon that supposed fact, and
                  bury this body secretly. It will never be known. Besides, if Booth has escaped,
                  you know the consequences—pecuniarily, I mean."
               "Yes sir," answered Baker with a grim smile.
               "Very well; this is Booth, and the large rewards offered for his apprehension can
                  be distributed without suspicion. Some of them were offered by private
                  individuals, and they may be secured if this is Booth."
               "I understand all that. But sir, the legal evidence of his apprehension?"
               "Never mind about that. The question of his death will, in all probability, never
                  be dsscussed. If it should, you can have me for a witness, also this fellow Slang.
                  You may be certain that Booth will never make himself known. He will not stop in
                  the United States. Only put this corpse in some place where it can never be
                  discovered, and all will be right. Be sure you let nobody else see the corpse. You
                  understand?"
               "I do sir. It shall be done as you have said."
               "You see, Col. Baker, I am very solicitous for the honor of our government. If
                  this circumstance should be known, all Europe would laugh at the idea of fifteen
                  or twenty thousand men engaged in pursuing one person, and the result of their
                  efforts should be the murder of a girl. It would look badly on the pages of
                  history, sir."
               "You are a prudent statesman," replied Baker flatteringly.
               Coldheart having suggested this piece of prudent rascality, went about his
                  business.
               That night, which was the 27th of April, about twelve o'clock, Slang rapped at the
                  door of Baker's office, according to previous agreement. The latter individual had
                  so managed that all his assistants and attaches were absent, and he was alone with
                  the corpse. As soon as Slang was fairly within doors, Baker addressed him:
               "You know what you are to do to-night?"
               "No sir, I don't,"
               "Well then," said Baker slowly, "its a very secret service, indeed, and before we
                  go about it, I have a few words to say to you."
               Slang bowed his head.
               "Do you know what would be the consequence," continued Baker, "if it should be
                  found out that you have killed a woman?"
               "I hadn't thought about it."
               "Possibly you might be arraigned upon a charge of murder," said Colonel Baker to
                  see if Slang could be terrified.
               "I don't see how that could be," replied Slang. "It was done by mistake, and the
                  woman's an accomplice anyhow."
               "I do not care for that. It would be difficult to prove it. At any rate, it would
                  place you in an embarrassing and awkward position. You would be liable to ridicule
                  for having slain a woman."
               "Yes, I s'pose so."
               "But that's not all yet." continued Baker. "There is another circumstance which
                  you will care for more than that."
               "What is that?"
               "If this is Booth's corpse, there is about seventy-five thousand dollars due you
                  and your party."
               "Yes, I know," said Slang eagerly.
               "But if it's not Booth, you get nothing."
               To this last remark Slang made no reply.
               "But," continued Baker, "there is a way to secure the rewards, whether this is
                  Booth's body or not."
               "How, sir?" asked Slang with a brightening face.
               "By simply swearing hereafter, if you should be called upon to do so, that you and
                  your party killed Booth. Are you willing to do that?"
               "Certainly I am."
               "Very well," replied Baker, "place your hand on the head of the corpse."
               Slang shudderingly did as he was directed.
               "Now then," continued Baker, "do you solemnly swear that you will never tell where
                  we are going to bury this body?"
               "I do," answered Slang emphatically.
               "And that you will never make an effort to get me into a difficulty about this
                  affair?"
               "I do."
               "And that you will never throw out the least hint, or speak of this business
                  without my permission?"
               "I do."
               "Very well," replied Baker, "that will do. You have now solemnly sworn to bury the
                  secret forever in your breast. Keep a watch over your tongue. If you should
                  violate your oath, it will be attended with danger to you; remember that."
               "Don't fear me," replied Slang. "I'll be mum.
               "Now let us to work," said Baker.
               The they took the bloody blanket, and carefully sewed up the corpse, which was
                  placed in a little wagon, that had been provided by Baker for the purpose. Driving
                  to the Potomac, they put the body into a small row boat, and carried it to the
                  middle of the stream. Weights were fastened to the feet, and then it was heaved
                  into the water, seen only by the sleepless eye of Deity.
               The next day a newspaper reporter, who had hitherto kept up with the progress of
                  events, asked Baker what he had done with the body.
               "That is known," he answered, "to only one man living besides myself. It is gone.
                  I will not tell you where. The only man who knows is sworn to silence. Never, till
                  the great trumpeter comes shall the grave of Booth be discovered."
               The waves of the Potomac rolled on, as ever, over the murdered Flora Louvan, and
                  the public was satisfied with this bloody mockery of justice. Great rewards were
                  distrituted among the detectives, and the blood-thirsty yankees rejoiced that the
                  crime of assassination had been nearly atoned for by the sacrifice of "life for
                  life." This gory episode had its effect upon their minds, they were at first
                  startled; then pleasantly excited; and soon they became indifferent. Lincoln was
                  forgotten; justice was content; and they went on "buying and selling," as if
                  nothing had occurred to divert their minds for a moment from the demands of
                  traffic.
               And where was John Wilkes Booth during all this time?
               While the whole country was startled by the sudden "taking off" of Abraham
                  Lincoln, and the interest connected with it was prolonged by the report of the
                  bloody death of Booth, the actor was quietly wending his way southward. The
                  pursuit was at once stopped. In a day or two after the murder of Flora, Booth
                  heard of his own death, and taking advantage of the false rumor, he traveled
                  without exciting the least suspicion. We will not attempt to trace his foot-steps
                  to the point where he now is. He crossed the Mississippi at Helena, Arkansas, and
                  here we lose sight of him. However, during the fall of 1866, a strange vessel was
                  seen sailing in the neighborhood of the Dry Tortugas. It hoisted the Confederate
                  flag, and threw a few shells at those in charge of the prison at that inhospitable
                  place. I suppose it would be a difficult matter to make the yankee believe that
                  this vessel was commanded by John Wilkes Booth, and that he was making a
                  reconnoisance to see what might be the chances of rescuing the unfortunate Dr.
                  Mudd. We will not try to make them believe it. They are fully persuaded that the
                  actor is dead. Poor credulous souls! let them think so. The day may come when
                  their thoughts may be changed. I know they would "turn up their noses" at this
                  account; but that will not alter stubborn facts. They will endeavor to laugh
                  people out of countenance, but that does not refute the fact that John Wilkes
                  Booth still lives. They practiced the game of "bluff" upon Senator
                  Davis, of Kentucky, who asked that some reliable evidence of Booth's death might
                  be furnished. He stated that no official communication of the fact had ever been
                  presented to the senate, and that he had heard it only as a street-rumor. He was
                  laughed down, and there the matter dropped. The evidence never was produced, and
                     never will be. And such will be the
                  success of every man who dares to raise the question of Booth's death. The
                  yankees, unless some event occurs that will make it safe for Booth to reveal
                  himself, will mystify this matter until the present corrupt generation shall have
                  passed away. Hereafter, though, when the circumstances that now render
                  investigation impossible, shall cease to control the motions of men, the iron pen
                  of history will write the TRUTH upon its impartial pages.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               
                  
                     
                        "May the swords
                        And wings of fiery cherubim pursue him,
                        By day and night—snakes spring up in his path—
                        Earth's fruits be ashes in his mouth—the leaves,
                        On which he lays his head to sleep, be strewed
                        With scorpions! may his dreams be of his victims,
                        His wakening a continual dread of death!"
                     
                  
               
               The great tragedy, in all its gory details, was now accomplished. Lincoln lay
                  embalmed in a tomb, bedewed with the tears of many sorrowful yankees. We can truly
                  say he was mourned with some degree of sincerity by the liberty-loving north. The
                  corpse of Flora Louvan, supposed to be Booth, quietly rested upon the bottom of
                  the Potomac. The bodies of Mrs. Surratt and the three men accused of complicity
                  rested peacefully, a few yards from the old penitentiary. No one was permitted to
                  disturb them for reinterment. Why, we cannot say. The great crime had been
                  committed, the dignity of military law had been fully vindicated and the demands
                  of justice satisfied. But a portion, at least, of the public was not satisfied. It
                  could not be denied that Booth had assassinated Lincoln, and that he had
                  accomplices, but somehow, when the turbulent passion of the hour had been cooled
                  down by the outpouring of human blood, a conviction seized upon the minds of many
                  that the poor widow had been wronged out of her life. This conviction
                  was strengthened, when Father Walter published a letter, detailing Stanton's
                  barbarity in refusing to grant him permission to discharge his ministerial duties
                  towards the doomed woman. Then men began to suspect "foul play," and to regret
                  that the temple of justice had been desecrated by savage judges, who, sustained by
                  popular clamor, sacrificed the innocent to appease the manes of Abraham Lincoln.
                  Even professed radicals expressed themselves repentant that the hurried trial had
                  terminated in such a disgraceful manner. A considerable feeling of sympathy was
                  aroused in favor of the injured woman, and people talked of the innocence of Mrs.
                  Surratt, with the evidences of sincere sorrow in their eyes. But what could it all
                  avail? Tears of blood could not restore the dead to life, nor return the
                  mouldering mother to the heartbroken orphan. The horrible deed was recorded in the
                  great book of Heaven, and poor Mrs. Surratt was beyond the reach of hangman or
                  traducer. Oh! in that last great day, when the spotless tribunal of Eternal
                  Justice shall stand in solemn triumph over all human institutions, and the great I
                  AM shall appear in the terrible majesty of an unerring judge, how many will quail
                  to meet the glance of that murdered woman! The sins of the leaders, when not
                  rebuked by the stern voice of the people, become the transgressions of the nation,
                  and will be so regarded by Him, who metes out rewards and punishments with an
                  unsparing hand. Look to it, therefore, ye howling fanatics, whose hands are
                  stained with blood that appeals to high Heaven for vengeance.
               One more allusion to this unfortunate woman, and then her name must go down to
                  posterity linked with a dark crime that will ever attach to her memory a lively
                  but melancholy interest.
               In a certain chapter of this volume a reference was made to the story of
                  Sostratus, and an intimation thrown out that the disguise would fall from
                  Coldheart, and his true name be exposed to the gaze of the reader. We are aware
                  that the reader expects the promise to be redeemed. We must be cautious, gentle
                  reader! We are now treading, not upon "holy ground," but upon ground that cannot
                  be described by any appropriate prefix. We ask you to keep your conclusions,
                  deductions, and inferences to yourself, as you follow Fathers Walter and Wigett
                  into the dark cellar under the residence of the deceased Mrs. Surratt. We must
                  enter with feelings of solemnity, for orphans are in the building—poor,
                  disconsolate orphans, down whose youthful cheeks tears of deep sorrow yet flow for
                  a much injured mother. Let us not disturb their holy grief. Tread lightly in the
                  footsteps of the two priests, who approach the cellar door in silence. Father
                  Walter is now going to fulfill his pledge to Mrs. Surratt. The door swings open,
                  and reveals to the view nothing but intense darkness. Then Father Walter goes
                  above stairs, and in a few minutes returns with a light in his hand. The two
                  ministers enter. The candle is placed upon the table, and struggles hard to
                  disperse the darkness. The priests look around the apartment, and then at the
                  walls.
               "Did she mention any particular part of the wall whereon the name is written?"
                  asked Father Wigett.
               "She did not," was the reply. "I did not even ask her upon which one of the walls
                  she wrote. I however conclude it must be the end wall. The deed was done secretly.
                  She would therefore be likely to get as far from the door as possible."
               "Your reasoning is plausible," said Father Wigett taking up the light. "Let us
                  examine and see."
               Then they approached the wall, and began to scrutinize it closely. Presently
                  Father Walter, pointing with his finger, said:
               "The white-washing seems to look fresher here than anywhere else. I presume this
                  is the place.
               "Let us see," quoth Father Wigett.
               Then they began carefully to scratch off the white-washing. This work continued
                  for several minutes before any compensating result was obtained. Presently a
                  little black speck appeared, proving that Father Walter was correct in his
                  conjecture. In a short time a whole letter was uncovered. This letter showed
                  clearly in what direction the name lay, and the two priests worked away
                  diligently, well assured that the mystery would soon be transformed into a plain
                  fact. They were not long in suspense; for the covering was now all removed, and
                  there stood the name in large, black letters, one following after the other in
                  very legible order. Reader, our promise is redeemed; the plastering is all
                     knocked off. But let us proceed. The two priests paused, and looked at
                  each other, not in astonishment, for they were prepared for the unfolding of the
                  mystery; but they looked at each other in sorrow, both pitying the unfortunate
                  woman, whose now cold hand had traced those same dark letters on the wall, and who
                  had kept her word, pledged to an unmitigated villain, even unto death.
               "If she had stabbed him," said Father Wigett pointing at the name, "she would have
                  been the Charlotte Corday of America."
               "There would have been no necessity of absolution, if she had," replied Father
                  Walter. "It would have been a righteous deed.
               "He is the greatest villain unhanged. Our daughter has been wronged grievously,
                  and grievously may he repent it."
               "She died an innocent woman; I never had the least doubt of that."
               "Well, what is to be done?" asked Father Wigett after a pause. "Our daughter
                  requested you to make this known."
               "So she did; but I am thinking of the propriety of complying with the
                  request."
               "What! Shall we shrink from a sacred duty?"
               "There is a question between duty and expediency," responded Father Walter.
               "How so?"
               "What would be gained by giving publicity to this circumstance?"
               "Why," said Father Wigett, "the villain would be branded, and probably would be
                  made to stand trial for murder."
               "I am afraid not. If I thought so, I would not hesitate an instant to carry out
                  the wish of our daughter in reference to this matter."
               "What makes you doubt it?"
               "The want of evidence."
               "Are we not sufficient?"
               "Verily not. This officer would prove that the whole thing was a plot against him,
                  and that we put the name on the wall ourselves.
               "I do not see how he could do that."
               "He can do that in the same manner that he proved the guilt of our innocent
                  daughter; that is, by false witnesses. The name on the wall would amount to
                  nothing as legal testimony; and our mere oaths would not have a particle of weight
                  before a court composed of this man's creatures: which would certainly be the
                  case. Besides, by manifesting such zeal in vindication of Mrs. Surratt's memory,
                  we might place our own lives in jeopardy. The tables might be turned upon us, and
                  we might be implicated in Lincoln's murder, and treated as she was."
               "Well, what shall we do, then?"
               "We can never secure a legal conviction in the world," replied Father Walter with
                  a sigh. "This wicked man must find his condemnation in the moral judgment of the
                  next generation, and those succeeding. His memory will, at sometime, be execrated
                  by all good men throughout the world, without regard to politics, religion or
                  color. Let us then record this circumstance, and keep it a secret, until in the
                  United States men's minds are prepared for its reception. If that happen not in
                  our day, we will hand it down through the Church, and let it go upon the pages of
                  history, when the passions and prejudices of these wicked times shall have been
                  crushed by the progress of stubborn truth. This is my suggestion."
               "You are right," replied Father Wigett. "So let it be done. Cursed be this man's
                  memory among all races and peoples till time shall be no more."
               "May he enjoy no peace in this world," added Father Walter.
               "May the afflictions of Job be his."
               "But may he not have the hope of that man of patience."
               "May his fortunes all become calamities."
               "May his joys be converted into sorrows."
               "May his conscience lash him till he becomes a maniac."
               "May he be poorer than Lazarus, and may there be none to pity him."
               "May hunger and thirst, and all the ills of life attend him to his grave."
               "And when he dies, may none weep for him."
               "And when he goes down to purgatory, may none say mass for him."
               "And when the last day comes, may he be cast body and soul into the lake that
                  burneth with fire, forever and forever."
               "Amen! amen!" concluded Father Wigett.
               "Now let us destroy the name," said Father Walter.
               This was accordingly done; then the two priests retired from the cellar, closed
                  the door, and the apartment in which the Bloody Junto had met and planned the
                  death of Abraham Lincoln, was left in the gloom of thick darkness. And there let
                  it remain, closed and locked, till prostrate truth can rise up in its might and
                  majesty, and reassert its claims with a prospect of success.
               And now, kind reader, are you satisfied? Is the mystery sufficiently clear? Is our
                  promise redeemed? We hope so. Those who have perused our story with critical
                  attention and thought will lay aside this volume with a laudable curiosity fully
                  gratified. Those, on the other hand, who have honored these pages with only a
                  cursory glance, have no just grounds of complaint. If such are disappointed, it is the inevitable
                  result of hasty, careless reading. Therefore no apology is due. At any rate,
                  gentle reader, whether our task is well or badly done, we must now part. Whether
                  we have given the true solution of the great conspiracy or not, may never be known
                  in this world. But rest assured that many circumstances recorded in this volume,
                  will be investigated by a court that detects false testimony, and frowns it down.
                  Ah! the Righteous Judge will come, clothed not in the blemished ermine of human
                  law, but in the unspotted robes of Eternal Truth and Justice, and the muttering
                  thunders of a greater than Sinai shall attest the awful dignity and majesty of His
                  terrible tribunal. And the great White Throne will be seen, and He that sitteth on
                  the throne, with the sun and the moon under His feet. All that we read in the Holy
                  Bible, of God's appearing in the fire, and in the whirlwind, with the lightnings
                  of Heaven playing around His overpowering countenance, will become fearful
                  realities. Then in that day of wrath must the accusers of Mrs. Surratt stand
                  before that awful face, and behold the overwhelming glory that passed before the
                  mantled vision of the holy prophet in the cave of Mount Horeb. Then must hear
                  their sentence those who groaned and mocked when poor Wirz fell from the scaffold,
                  writhing in the agonies of an undeserved death. Then may those call upon the rocks
                  and mountains to fall upon them and hide them from the withering frown of
                  God—those persons may do this, who shackled the tottering form of
                  Jefferson Davis, and cast that noble, gray headed patriot, trembling with age,
                  bowed down with the sorrows of a conquered country into a rock-ribbed prison. Ah!
                  punishment, severe punishment in the form of retributive justice, may begin even
                  in this lower world. Sin sometimes brings its own reward in this life. There is
                  not a nation under the broad canopy of Heaven that deserves the tormenting
                  consequences of iniquity more than that one now treading down the bleeding south.
                  If the teachings of history are not in vain, and the laws of moral economy are not
                  changed, the heavy hand of chastisement will soon be laid upon the north. Mark it,
                  reader! punishment is near! The foreshadowings of calamities, that will fill every
                  house with the wails of anguish, can almost be seen by the prefigurative light of
                  coming events. Fire fell from Heaven and consumed ancient Sodom to ashes, for the
                  wickedness of its people. The people of the north will escape a similar disaster,
                  but they will suffer evils in another shape. Their punishment will come. And when
                  it does, our only prayer is that God may remove righteous Lot from their
                  midst!
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            PRICE, 75 Cts.
            
               THE BLOODY JUNTO;
               OR, THE ESCAPE OF JOHN WILKES BOOTH.
               A Novel.
            
            BY CAPT. R. H. CROZIER, A. M., Author of "THE CONFEDERATE
               SPY."
            
               LITTLE ROCK, ARK.,
               WOODRUFF & BLOCHER, PRINTERS. (Gazette Office.)
            
            1869.
         
         
            
            WOODRUFF & BLOCHER,
            Dealers in Printers' Papers, Cards, Inks and Materials Generally.
            Little Rock, Arkansas.
            CONSTANTLY ON HAND, all qualities of news, book, flat, note, French, cover, manilla
               and poster papers; bill and letter heads, monthly statements; envelopes of all sizes
               and descriptions; flour bags, manilla tags, etc., etc.
            All kinds of book and job printing and binding executed with neatness and dispatch;
               blanks for lawyers, clerks, sheriffs and justices, printed on the finest paper, at $1
               per quire.
            A liberal discount to the trade.
            SATISFACTION GUARANTEED FOR ALL OUR WORK.
            WANTED.—Rags, old paper, rope, gunnies, etc.
         
         
            
            THE ARKANSAS GAZETTE,
            Published DAILY AND WEEKLY, AT LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS,
            IS THE OLDEST AND MOST INFLUENTIAL paper in the State, having been established in
               1819, and published without intermission to the present time. Its circulation is
               greater than any paper in Arkansas.
            
               TERMS:
               Daily, $10 per annum, $1 per month.
               Weekly, $2 per annum.
            
            WOODRUFF & BLOCHER, Publishers.
         
      
   
