
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). The Rattlesnake, or, The Rebel Privateer .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6977
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The rattlesnake, or, The rebel privateer 
            
               MRUT ST0~
%    ==:_THE--' R- "_- :'.aT°  - -'-;..TLE  ..:i."3.csy ..r-_--S  .+AEs,- r-wr.va:r _".w"_

RBELP

/
_A

~c1

L

7

IfLJUSTRATJONS BY DARLEY.
NEW YORK:
FR EDERUV.A] BRADY, PUBISEfR,
AU TzT

I

--- -                  -       --- -  --- - -   -
__     __     .. L_1-=-=_""=r "-     _--=,-ram--=     ---          -. _      --- -

ti
-
\ _
t
---_

- .,--


THE RATTLESNAKE:
OR,
he 5ehde1induvxeer.

A TALE

OF THE PRESENT

BY NED BUNTLINE.

4

t, \

tt Trh:
FREDERIC A. BRADY, PUBLISHER,
$4 ANN STREET.

/0'

1*" .

f

I

ThiE

1qfA J


THE

RATTLESNAKE;

OR,
ee¢bd

I

ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1862,
B CAULDWELL, SOUTHWORTH &amp; WEITNEY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the southern District of New York.
FILMER &amp; CO.,
EL E e TR TYOPE a,
17 Dutch at., N. Y.

CHAPTER 1.
Two persons were seated in the bow-window of
a beautiful little boudoir, which was situated in
the second story of a tower corner in a quaint,
odd-fashioned, but massive and costly building
in Boston, which, standing upon one of the
highest spots in the city, enabled the occu-
pants of the room to look over the house-tops'
into the harbor beyond.
One-of course, the sex has the preference-
was a lady of not more than nineteen or twenty
years of age, tall, finely formed, with a full de-
velopment of figure. Her features, as well as
her black, flashing eye, denoted great strength of
character. But now her face was pale, andfrom
her great dark eyes tears came slowly welling
out, and, dropping from beneath the jeweled
hand which pressed her forehead, betrayed that
grief was making furrows in her heart.
By her side, dressed in the uniform of a gal-'
lant volunteer regiment, stood one whose simi-
larity of feature at once betrayed his relation-
ship. His heutenant's uniform well became his
figure, slight and boyish as it was-for he was
but eighteen.
Reader, become acquainted with Miss Fluta
Winchester and her brother, Elmer. They are
the only children of one of the most wealthy
men-if not the wealthiest man-in all New
England. His idols, too ; for their mother has
passed away, and he has naught else to love-
for, wealthy though he is, lie is not a gold-wor-
shiper. Educated, not. in a college or a fash-
ionable seminary, where vice is as readily learn-
ed as virtue - more readily, in truth - but at
home, by private tutors, who have devoted time
and talents in preparing their minds for the
world struggle of life, they are both possessed
of far more than the ordinary accomplishments
of persons of their age.
When Fort Sumter fell, and the President
called for aid from the loyal States to punish
treason, Eluier Winchester Went to his father-

who had long before retired from business-and
asked his permission to volunteer his services as
a soldier of the State.
The face of the old gentleman paled when his
boy made the request. There was good blood
in his veins. His father and grandfather had
both fought under the banned of Washington.
The grandsire's bones lay mouldering under the
ungrateful soil of South Carolina-for lie fell at
Camden.
"There are thousands, yes, tens of thousands,
who will spring to arms Mader the governor's
call, who are not situated as you are, iy son,"
said Mr. Winchester. "Why do you feel so
anxious to leave me in n~y old age ? 1 have
none but you and your sister left ; and were you
to fall on the battle-field, we would be desolate
indeed."
"I have thought of that, father, and also of
your oft-repeated words: 'Providence is with
us always.' I may go, win a proud name, serve
the country you first taught me how to love, and
yet come hack to gladden your eye and cheer
your latter years!" replied the ardent boy.
"Remembei, father, the stock we spring from.
Revolutionary sires must not find recreant sons
in this day. We must not leave the battles for
our nation's flag to be fought by the Celt, the
Teuton, or the sons of the Emerald Isle alone."
True, my son-true. I admire your spirit
while I shall have to mourn your absence. But
you have no military education. Nor anticipating
this fearful crisis, I have neglected that point."
" Why, father, there is not a better swords-
man in this city than I. As a shot, both with
the pistol and rifle, I excel."
"And yet of the soldier's drill, the movements
of a company, or field evolutions, you know
nothing. You must at once procure books and
a competent instructor, put yourself in train-
ing, and when you are fitted for an officer's
position, I will not check your patriotic desire to
serve your country."

f

.r.r.rnri-rr~ ~ .rrf.r. ~vw~.n .r~w.rnn ,rrn.rt

r -
\    ,

M  },


4

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER

" Thank you, dear father - a thousand I cheeks, and even up to the brow, of the fair girl,
thanks !"                                  when her brother mentioned the name of Will
This conversation took place only six weeks Ashton, told that she was interested in him who
before the day upon which this chapter opens. bore it. She was betrothed to him.
And Elmer Winchester was not only a lieuten-  " I must go over and see Will, right away,"
ant in the color-company of his regiment, but continued Elmer.
acknowledged to be the best drill-officer in his " Not for worlds, brother-not for worlds !"
regiment. Pride, ambition, and " blood" had cried Fluta, quite agitated.
told ; and now he was beloved by all who woi-e  " Why, my sister'-"
the uniform that had the pleasure of knowing  "It would be improper, I think, under pres-
hi.                                       ent circumstances. Besides, although I am en-
but back again, from this necessary digres- , gaged to be married to him, and that marriage
amen, to the boudoir which we left so unceremo- was to take place upon his return, I must know
niously.                                   how he will act at this crisis, befoi- 1 shall con-
"To-morrow -to-morrow, dear Elmer, did sent to the union."
vou say ?" said his sister, striving to repress a  "Why, how do you think he will act? He
sob that half-choked her utterance.        has ever seemed the soul of honor; he loves
"Yes, my sister ; our orders are issued, the you, and by many a sign and token I know how
men have their knapsacks packed, and this well you love him."
night is probably the last that many of them  " He is from South Carolina, Elmer," said the
will ever pass at home. For the young and   sister, seriously. "Belonging to one of her
single ike myself, I care but little ; but those most haughty and aristocratic families, hemay
who leave wives and children who have hither- feel inclined to coin the rebel cause. If so,
to enjoyed comfort, if not luxury, from their farewell to love and him forever !"
earnings, excite my warmest sympathy, When    "What? Why, Fluta, he is bound by his
the strife of battle comes, may God be merciful solemn oath, taken when he received his eods-
to them !"                                  mission, to sustain that government which edii-
"And to all of you !" sobbed the sister. cated and fostered him, whose uniform he wears,
"For were you to fall, Elmer, two hearts would and whose flag now waves over him !"
break."                                       "Was not that Senator who now occupies the
"No, no, Fluta! Better far were it for me to position of chief rebel, South ?-were not their
die, even in the flush of youth, beneath my generals, Bragg, Magruder, Beauregard, and
country's flag, than to live to a centenarian hundreds of others, bound by oaths all as ol-
age and see that flag disgraced-this Republic emn? Were nottthose oaths broken as quickly
dismembered. I hopeto live to see the flag of as I snap the stem of tis rose? Ashton, I
my country floating in honor over every foot of hope, may-yes,I pray to God that he will - prove
its soil ; but, if I fall, my last moments will not true to the flag he has served under for eleven
be sad ones if they are gladdened by the shout years. But if he does not, lie will never darken
of victory - victory over treason and rebel- our doors but once mrsoe ;amid that will be to
lion !"                                    receive his dismissal ! I would do it if I knew
"I wish I were a man,Elmer !"           my heart would break as the door closed upon
"I am glad you are not, Fluta; for I never him. I am serious. Ehmer, for I have thought
could love a brother as I love you !"      of the matter more than once since the outbreak
"But, were I a man, I could be by your side of this rebellion I"
in the heat of battle-perhaps ward away many  "You are a brave, good girl my sister !"said
a blow aimed at your life. lam no coward, El- Elmer. "1 like Will-always did like him '
mer, and know that you are brave. I only fear but if he should prove a traitor, I think I could
that you will be rash"                     nerve myself into a position at ten paces from
The booming of cannon, at regular intervals, him, with a brace of pistols in oui'hamds. But
in the direction of the harbor, at this moment, I must go down to the armory for a short time,
interrupted their conversation, and attracted to see to company-matters there. It is most
their attention                           likely that AshItoi wt be hiee ihs evening, and
Elmer hastened from the room, but in a im- then we shall know how lhe stands. Meanwhile,
meant returned, with a spy-glass, which he di- brighten up, sis, and try to look your prettiest.
reacted toward a large vessel-of-war, which could A man who would desert you and is country'
be seen standing up the harbor toward the flag ought to be hung. Shooting would be a
Charlestown Navy Yard, firing a commodore's death entirely too respectable
salute as she moved along.                   And, with a laugh, the young officer kissed
"Dry your tears, Fluta," he cried-" dry his beautiful sister, and then left time room.
your tears. That is the' Wabash' coming home;  She looked sadly aft er him a moment, then
and Will Ashton is on board, you know, rose, and drawing a harp from a recess in the
chick."                                    room, sung the following song, in a low, sad
The color which rushed eloquently to the voice, accompanying herself as she sang.

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

5

"FOREBODINGS-.
"Shadows-shadows dark sometimes roll
Along the pathway of the soul,
Ere the cloud's
Sombre shroud
Meets the eye, or dims the sky;
And oft we sigh-we know not why.
" An inner chill-an icy spell-
A sound as of the hope's death-knell,
Wake a fear
- ~of peril near;
We know not what--we know not where,
Yet feel the storm while all is fair !"
"I shall lose Ashton " she sighed, as shy
turned away from the harp, and, taking up th
.py-glass, looked toward the vessel, which, hav
ing dropped ler anchor, now lay quietly in th
harbor, while her busy crew were aloft furling
sails. " Yes-I shall lose him. I feel it I" sh
sighed.{TAAP   R rER
CHAPTER II.
In the double parlors of Mr. Winchester',
grand, old mansion, there was a large and bril
lientparty assem bled on the evening of the day
which opens our story. They were friends of
the fmil   whom Mr.inehester hadrinvited
to spend a cheerful hour with Elmer before lie
departed for the soat of war. There were old
plan      young, all of tie first-class; for neo
more aristocratic family than that of Mr. Win
chester bore a coat-of arms uponits carriage.
oiael in the modern Atsens. Several volunteer
olhee.s were present, in their new and untar-
rslied uniforms.  And others were there, whose
,    rozedfaces, and uniforms not quite so new told
of service - service on our tempestuous sea-
board, or far awa tipon the frontiers, or bacl;
.among the prairies, or in tihe depths of the
Western forests. Even by their carriage and
stalwart, upright forms Couldvon tell the regu-
1 ir, hardened'in service, from him who had but
just enlterd it, to become a soldier, if the mettle
was in him.
In one parlor there was music, and, of course,
as the yong folk- gathrel there, dancing en-
sued. [a tie other, carl-tables were plenty,
- and ancient dames and venerable gentlemen en-
jyed that most indispensable and innocent
source of Bostonian amusement, Whist!" And,
noiselessly, liveried servants  passed around
from time to time, bearmg upon silver waiters
tea, coffee, lemonade, cake, and fruit, to stay the
appetite of the guests until thu more solid sup-
per, which at a late hour' would preface their
departure, could be pre ared.
It was after tea of he clock---in truth, near
eleven, when it would scm that all guests in-
tending to coie woud inave arrived-when a
.  tall, splendidly-formed, and  most decidedly
handsome man, of not more than thirty years of
age, entered the front rier. His dark, glossy
hair and beard, his brunette complexion, and his
jet-black eye, all proclaimed his Southern ori-
gin ; while a bold and nsy carriage, and a free,
confident manner made hin look the officer, al-

though he was dressed entirely in citizen's garb
-~-not even a button giving a sign that heheld
an official position.
He bowed low to Mr. Winchester as he ad-
vanced ; and the latter seeing him, sprang up
from the whist-table at which he was engaged,
and, reaching out his hand, shook that of the
young man heartily, as hie cried :
"Will, my boy, I am glad to see you! Wel-
come home from the sea again! .I heard your
vessel was in, and sent a note of invitation right
e away.
e "Which I received early, sir," said Lieuten-
- ant Aihton ; "but I had seine important duties to
e perform which much belated ile."
" Well, well, better late than never, my boy !
e Have you seen Fluta dr Elmer yet ?"
"No, sir; I have but this moment arrived."
"Well, we must hunt theu up. Mr. Flagg,
s will you be so good as to take my hand in the
- game of whist ? Thank you. Now, Will, we
will go and take a glass of wine, and then we'll
f hunt up Fluta and Elmer. They're inthe dane-
ing-room. Will is in uniform, and to-morrow
he is off with his regiment for the seat of war!"
"Surely, you do not mean to let him engage
in this fratricidal contest!" exclaimed Ashton
- "He is but aboy yet !"
-   " Don't tell him that !"~said Mr. Winchester.
Why, he has a moustache three-tenths of an
- inch long, and in uniform he looks quite sol-
dierly! But here we are at the wine-closet.
I What will you have--port, sherry, Madeira, Ca-
tawba, or Green-seal !"
"A glass of Madeira, if su please," said
Ashtoin, knowing it to be the old gentleman 's
favorite wine, and consequently the best in his
cellar. " By theway,sir," lie added, " I brought
you home a few dozen fkon the Island of Ma-
deira, that has been kept there for nearly a
hundred years. It was owned by an old miser,
who died while-our ship was in port; and I bid
it off at an auction of his effects. I will have
it sent over in the morning.'
"Thank you, my boy. You are very kind,
and far more thoughtful of an old man like
myself than most young men would be when so
far away in pleasant lands. But you'll lose
nothing by it! Now, let us go and look up thle
children !"
And having emptied a couple of glasses of
wine, the old gentleman drew Ashton's arm
within his, and started for the room where the
youngest and gayest of the party were dancing.
In a few moments they found Fluta, who was
not dancing, but was seated in a corner of the
room, looking rather sad than gay.
Here's Will, just home t'roi sea, FlutLa !"
said her father, as he hurried up to her side.
I am glad to see Mr. Ashton," she said, as
she rose, and extended her hand. But her man-
ner was evidently constrained: it was n t her
old wa.y of welcoming him.

I

i;J


THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, TIE R3EL PRIVATEER.    '

6

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

" Where is Elmer ?" continued Mr. Winches- I ly trample upon the flag under which you have
ter, who had not noticed Fluta's manner.   served so long."                 .
"Dancing with Miss Pierpont; but the set   "You do not think as I do, Miss Winchester,"
will be over soon, and you can call him here. said Ashton, coldly. " The rights of the South
Will you not sit down, Mr. Ashton ?"       have been trampled upon for years ;.and now
And she made room for him on the sofa where that she has risen to assert her determination to
she was seated.                            be independent of Northern interference, I will
The South Carolinian bowed, and took the stand or fall with her -"
seat, while Mr. Winchester moved into the vi-  The lady rose, looked at him steadily for a
einity of Elmer, so as to notify him of the ar- moment, then, in a sad but quiet tone, said :
rival of his intended son-in-law. For, as yet,  " Farewell, Mr. Ashton-we meet no more -"
Mr. Winchester had no thought that seces-    He sprang to his feet in astonishment, but she
sion could occur at home as well as f urther turned as she spoke, and gliding away among
South.                                     the crowd, in a moment left the room.
" Why do you call me Mr. Ashton, instead of  " Merciful Heaven !l have I lost her i?" moan-
' Will,' as of old, dear Fluta?" asked the young ed the young man, to hinself. "Fluta Win-
man, in a low tone.                        chester is worth more to me than my own
Fluta tremlle l with agitation, and hesitated soul !"
to reply ; but he repeated his question, and then He sunk back upon the sofa, while his brain
she said :                                 whirled with fearful excitement.
"You used, jokingly, to call me a Yankee.  "How are you, Will-how are you ?" cried a
Now, a Yankee's peculiarity is, to answer one cheerful voice at his side. "Father said that
question by asking three or four more ques- you were here with Fluta, and I broke an en-
tions. I avail myself of the privilege. Why gagenient in the next dance to come and see
are you not in uniform? This is the first time you. Where is Fluta? Have you been to the
that I have ever seen you in citizen's dress."  wine-locker, yet? If not, come along ; for you
"I have no longer a right to wear the uni- look as dumpish as a masculine chicken with
form of an officer," lie replied. "This evening, the pip."
I resigned my commission, and it is now on the  "I'm not well to-night, Mr. Winchester," said
way to Washington."                         Ashi on, who feebly returned the hearty grasp
"Resigned in time of war ?" she asked ; and of the young volunteer.
her eyes seemed to look into his -very soul.  "Mr. Winchester!   Why, Will, what on
"Are you aware that no such resignations are earth is the matter with you? You never knew
now accepted, but, instead, that the officer who any name for me but Elmer, before, Is it be-
thus offers to desert iiis country's flag is strick- cause I wear this uniform  and am trying to
en from the rolls of the navy, or army, as the coax out a moustache that you dub- di a mis-
ease may be, with disgrace attached to his ter? I believe you are sick, in tiuth and in-
name ?"                                     deed 1" said Elmer. "Come and get a glass of
"They must accept my resignation- Do you wine."
think I would fight against the people of that  Ashton did not refuse. He felt sick at  heart,
South where I was born, fair lady ?" A nd his and hegan seriously to think that, for his own
tone was bitter, and his eye flashed as lie spoke. interest, he had acted too hastily in his resigna-
"No-I hoped you would fight for them!" tion,
she said.                                    They visited the same wine-closet to which
"And so I will, as soon as I can get there," the elder Winchester had first conducted Ash-
he replied, quickly.                        ton.
"I fear you do not understand me," she said.  "What kind of wine will you have ?" asked
"I, who have been here watching, by the aid of Elmer.
the public press, the rise of this rebellion, and "Give me some brandy. Wine is too weak
all that has, since its start, attended it, can bet- for my nerves, to-night ." sail Ashton, despe-
ter understand the present position of the South rately, for he felt as if he wonld sink. That
than you, who have just come in from a foreign chilling word, "farewell," from Flutas lips, lay
cruise."                                   like lead upon his heart.
The gentleman bowed his acquiescence.       Surprised, but too courteous to express it,
"The South is full of devoted Union men Elmer placed a decanter of brandy before his
and women, who are overawed, and, for the friend, while for himself he poured out a glass
present, overpowered by a set of ambitions dem- of light wine. His surprise was not lessened
agogues and traitors-politicians maddened by when he saw Ashton pour out nearly a tumbler-
disappointment, who have long plotted a trea- ful of:raw spirit and drimk it ofi without even
son in which, for a brief time, they had some diluting it with water. For, in former times,
show of success. I was hopeful that you would  Ashton had been so temperate that lie could
fight for the Union, aid for the Union people seldom be persuaded into taking a second glass
South-not for the traitors and rebels who dai- of wine, and brandy never passed his lips.

"Will you dance ?" askedgjoung Winchester
of his companion, when they returned to the
parlor.
" No-I am really unwell," said Ashton.
"Then let us sit down and wait for Fluta-
or perhaps you would like to retire. You will
of course, remain here to-night, so as to see me
off in the morning. I start for Washington at
seven o'clock."
"I am sorry, Elmer--very sorry !"
"Why? I am sure that the position of first-
lieutenant in a splendid regiment is a proud post
for a boy of my age."
" The position is good," said Ashton, " but
the thought of fighting against one's own coun-
tryn isterrible 1"
"When they ignore our flag, defy the best
government in the woi-ld, and trample upon the
Constitution which their fathers, as well as ours,
gave to us, they cease to deserve the name of
country men. Rebels and traitors-worse than
Arnolds---they must be subdued, and I am but
too glad that I am to have a hand in their sub-
jection. But why are you not in uniform, Will?
You look like a parson in that black suit."
"I am not entitled to wear a uniform," said
Ashton, nervously. "I have resigned my com-
mission in the service of the United States !"
"Resigned ?" exclaimed Elmer, in astonish-
ment.
" Resigned ?" echoed his father, who had
come up just in time to hear the words which
Ashton had spoken.
"Yes, resigned !" said Ashton, with almost
desperate bitterness. "Do you think I'd re-
main in the service to fight against the people
of my own Southern land for all the cursed
Yankees that ever lived ?"
And almost wild in his excitement, the cx-
lieutenant rose to his feet and rushed from the
house, without uttering another word or waiting
to hear one.
"He must be drunk, or crazy !" muttered
Mr. Winchester.
".He has exhibited his colors in time," said
Elmer. "tow I know why Fluta is absent.
I'll warrant that he has expressed his secession
principles to her; and much as she has loved
him, the brave, true girl has left his side in
scorn! But excuse me, father ; I must attend
to our fair guests, for thismay be the last chance
that I shall have to exhibit the kind of gallantry
which they stand in need of to-night."
And the young lieutenant hastened to take a
partner for the "Lancers."

, burnished muskets, and gleaming bayonets flash
e in the yellow sunlight, stand in line, while the
Governor of the Commonwealth, attended by
his plumed suite, rides before them and around
- them in 1 view. The starry flag of the free
, waves pro  ly in the centre, and the music of a
e full-band rolls along upon the full wave of the
t fresh, morning air.
Still as so many statues carved from lifeless
stone they stand, their arms at "present" until,
the review over, the governor rides to the front
t centre.
Then, in clear, ringing tones from their col-
tnel, come the orders:-reo0
-   "Shoulder arms!     Order arms!    Parade
rest!"
As if they were but one iron-linked machine,
each hand and weapon move at the same sec-
ond, and at "rest" they stand as motionlessas
before.
The governor addresses them.' His words are
but few, but they are to the point.
"Go, fellow-citizens," he says "remembering
that you depart from the vicinity of Bunker
Hill, of Concord, and of Lexington. Go, re-
membering the deeds of your patriot sires, and
emulate them. Go, bearing the flag of your
native land, and the banner of your State.
Come not back without them. Go, and God's
blessing go with you, for yours is a holy cause.
You are sent to crush rebellion, and to conquer
that best of all things-an honorable peace!"
The governor ceased. But for a moment was
there silence. It seemed as if that moment
was spent in drinking in the weight of words
which had come from the gubernatorial lips.
Then arose a shout from those thousand throats
that sounded far and near, and went up in roll-
ing echoes toward the cloudless sky. Cheer af-
ter cheer, the crash of martial music, and the
boom of cannon firing the, parting salute, and
the review was over.
Companies were formed in platoons, from pla-
toons they wheeled into column of march; and
amid the cheers of some, and the tears of sis-
ters, wives, mothers, and sweethearts, they
.marched to the waiting train of cars, which was
to hurry them away to the field of glory or of
death.
Now, for Scene the Second. Pacing to and
fro in a large and spacious room in the Revere
House, his eyes red with watching and the effect
of liquor, was Will Ashton. He could hear the
sound of martial music in the distance-tie

drum and fife of a recruiting-station, even near-
CHAPTER IIIL                  er, rattled upon his ear. But he seemed obliv-
Another day dawns. It comes up from the ions of these. No longer was there music in the
sombre dungeon of the Night in golden glory. rolling drum for his ear. His soliloquy told his
And I have two pictures to dra. The first is thoughts.
the best.                                      "Fool that I was to lose such a prize I" he
One thousand and forty brave patriots, clad muttered. "Two weeks of dissimulation would
in suits of serviceable gray, whose bright swords, have won her and a dowry larger than all the


8               THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.j:
wealth owned by my relatives, which will be I bullet-shaped head ; a pair of small gray eyes, so
wasted in this war as wood-wastes by fire. Now, keen and sharp in their expression that they
my commission has gone ; and if, as she said, my seemed to look right into and'through the ob-
resignation is not received, but my name strick- ject of their gaze. His form was tall and lean,
en from the rolls in disgrace, what have I to live and his clothing, though fashionable, fitted it
for ? Nothing but revenge. But it may not be about as well as a butler's full-sized shirt would
too late to make up with her. I can plead ill- fit the natty, little, red-headed drummer boy of
ness-a temporary insanity, produced by over- the gallant Seventy-first. Yet he was muscular
excitement. I will write to her ; to try, cannot -all bone and muscle-no flesh-no fat.
make matters worse, and may mend them."        His featut-es were prominent ; his nose, long
So be sat down and invited a very carefully- and of the hawk-bill order. Heavy, bushy eye-
worded and studied note, which, having directed brows, and along chin, as well as high cheek-
to Miss Fluta Winchester, he delivered to a bones, made his face " a picture in its way."
waiter, bidding him carry it to its direction,  This individual advanced a step, and, in a
and wait for an answer.                      slow, drawling tone, asked :
Then sending for a morning paper, he sat     " Be you Leftenant Ashton ?"
down to read away the time until the waiter    " I am Mr. Ashton ; I was Lieutenant Ashton,"
should return.                               was the reply.
But almost at the first glance, his eye met his  " Then, it there's nobody listening, I'll tell
own name in the paper. and bitter curses rolled you what I come to see you for."
from his lips, as he read the paragraph which  And the strange visitor went to the door ;
followed his name. It was:     'and opening it, looked out in the hall to see if
" LIEUTENANT ASHToN, LATE OF THE NAVY.-This officer, any one was near. Finding the coast clear, he
who has just arrived in the ' Wabash,' upon hearing of returned ; and, drawing a chair up close to the
the rebellion, and that the ' Wabash' would immediately sofa where Ashton had seated himself, opened
refit for sea and active service, resigned his commission.
Of course, it will not be accepted., The coward who re- hi business:
signs in the face of the enemy should never be permitted  " My name is Ichabod Snaggs 1" said he.
to leave the service in an honorable way. Let his name " My business is making' money. You needn't
be stricken from the rolls of our Marine as was Arnold'sin
from the Army, and write traitor where it was ! How  stare, Mister Ashton. I'm not a coiner nor a
speakingly mean must this scion of the Palmetto State counterfeiter. But I make money wherever I
feel, when he contrasts his conduct with that of the no- see the best chances. I run away from hum
ble Floridian, who, leaving wealth, a lovely family, has- when I waso year old.-
tened to his duty as executive officer of the Macedonian  only ten yeald. I had two six-
frigate, to do his part in crushing rebellion on the very penny bits, and a pocket full of marbles. On  i
shores where his infant eyes first saw light. Mr. Ashton them I traveled from away over in Sharon to
is said to have been a good officer, but his conduct now Boston, and shipped -as a cabin-boy on a vessel
proves that he was rotten at the core. He had better buyb t'f
a fishing-smack, hoist the Rattlesnake flag, and enter the  'rgyhy5                                   r
great navy of the Confederacy, which consists of four said.                                             -
stolen revenue cutters and a half-dozen rotten steam.  "We got ivory-lots of it; but it was on the
boats "                                      gums of about six hundred as. likely niggers as
Ashton raved and cursed over this article, ever were put ashore on the Isle of Cuba. Wall,
until the waiter retui-ned with a letter in his I follered that interestin' line o' trade about ten
hand. It was directed in the handwriting of year off and on, until I've laid up enough to buy
Fluta-                                       into a Baltimore brig, and on the very first trip
He waited until the servant left the room, and we got caught by one of your cussed cruisers
Then hastened to open the letter.           off Congo Iliver, and lost all. More'n that, they
It was only an envelope containing his own brought us home, and I had to lay in Eldridge-
note, which had not been opened. Upon its street jail for nigh on to six months afore I could
tack was written these words. -raise funds enough to buy off the Marshal and
"Neither Miss Winchester, nor her friends, desire any State's Attorney. But I got out jist as poor as
further communication with Mr. Ashton."      a church mouse, only I had good clothes. I
"By all that's lovely, this is flattering F" said shoved sofne of them up the spout, and got
the young man, sneeringly. "When I trouble money enough to buy some notions, and I went
Miss Winchester or her friends again, they'll to peddlin'. I did fust-rate at that. In a year
know it. But the day may come when I'll hum- I doused the pack I had carried, bought a horse
ble the proud Yankee beauty, and make her rue and wagon. enlarged my stock, and went in on
the day when she insulted William Ashton."   the big licks !"
The soliloquy was interrupted by the entrance  "What is all this to me ?" said Ashton, im-
'of a servant, who stated that a gentleman below patiently. "I am not desirous to know your
'wished to see Mr. Ashton on important business. personal history, Mr. Snaggs."
" Show him up !" said the ex-officer, gruffly.  "Maybe not-but I'd rayther you would, for
About a couple of minutes later, a person then, you see, known' what kind'of a crectur i
'entered who mci-its a description,          be, you could all the easier make up your ni' dI
He came in, hat in hand, revealing a bald, as to an offer I'm agoin' to make you. I'm

///


r.
+ t
, 4T
SS-
(,F
5   s
U
F
L g
jI II
s h
iL
8
13
r
y
t

some pumpkins, you can guess, worth a cool
hundred thousand,-and don't mean to stop short
of a couple o' millions. Then I'll go home to
Sharon and ask the old folks if they 'ave missed
Ichabod much."
"What proposition have you to make ?" asked
Ashtcn, beginning to be amused at the oddity of
his visitor.
" That's it! Now you're coming' to buisiness !"
said Mr. Snaggs. "The long and the short of
it is this :;1 was agoin' on the coast for a cargo
of niggers, when this cussed war broke out. I'd
just got a clipper brig built of four hundred ton,
that can out-sail all creation. She's-all provis-
ioned-got water aboard, and one long forty.-two
and six thirty-two pound carronades in her hold
ready for mounting. When I heard that the
Southern chaps were agoin' to fit out privateers,
I got to thinkin' there was more money to be
made at that than there was a martin' niggers to
Cuba, runnin' the risk o' gett in' catched, and all
that. So I sent to old Jeff Davis for a letter o'
-arque and a flag; and here they be."
And Iehabod Snaggs drew a good-sized seces-
sion flag out from under his vest with one hand,
and the commission of a privateer from his
pocket, with the other.
"There !" said he, as he displayed these arti-
eles-" you see how I'm fixed. All I want now is,
a capting that understands using big guns, hand-
hn' a vessel in a fight, and has got spunk
enough to fight for a fortune for him and me.
If you're the man, jast say so, and come aboard
the 'Rattlesnake' as soon as you like."
"Is that the name of your brig ?" asked Ash-
ton, thinking of the slur in the paper.
"Yes."
" Very well. If a good crew can be shipped,
I'll go. My command must be supreme, though,
for I'll make her the terror of the seas !"
"That's the sort ! I'll go as supercargo, and
you shall have all to say aboard. When can
you move, capting?"
"Right away. The sooner the better. But
I must first overhaul her thoroughly to see that
she has arms enough of the best quality, plenty
of ammunition, and is well found in every re-
spect."
"That's all right and proper, and anything
that's wantin' shall be supplied, for I've got
plenty of rocks," said Mr. Snaggs. " We'll ar-
range about shares, and all that, as soon as you
come aboard. And as you may need more
instruments than I've got, and an outfit, you'd
better take a couple of these five-hundred-dol-
lar bills and use 'em. You needn't be backward
-you see I've more of the same sort left."
And Mr. Snaggs took two five-hundred-dollar
bank-notes from a well-filled, greasy-.looking
pocket-book, and handed them to Ashton.
" Where does your brig lie ?" asked Ashton.
"In the slip next above the India wharf. I've
got her put up for St. Thomas, to blind the Cus-

toms. I'm an old hand at dodgin' them, and do
my work right under their noses. They don't
suspect a feller there ; but if I was to fit out
away up stream, or at some unknown old wharf,
they'd pounce upon me like an Irishman on a
boiled potato."
"I'll be on board the brig a little after dusk
this evening," said Ashton. "Meantime, you
need not mention to any one, not even to your
most intimate associates, who I am or where I
come from. I can make a successful cruise. I
know all the navy signals. I can easily fool
their men-of-war for a while, and if we can take
one or two California steamers, our fortunes are
made."
"That's so, by hokyI You're a trump, cap-
ting-I can see that. - Excuse my manners, but
I'm awful dry !"
The latter part of, Mr. Snaggs' remarks were
connected with his pouring out a glass of brandy
from a decanter on the table, tad drinking it
off.
"Rather excuse me for not offering the liquor
before," said Ashton. "I was careless."
"Oh, never mind, capting ! I'm a great hand
to help myself-never need much waitin' on
where drink or provender is-in reach. But, bye-
bye-I shall look for you at dusk
And Mr. Snaggs, after securing his flag as
before, and restoring his Jeff Davis document to
its place, made a bow which would have shamed
one of Barnum's trained bears, and retired.
"The die is cast," said Ashton, when he was
once more alone. "Privateer or pirate-about
one and the same, but I am in for it. The day
may not be very far away when I will persuade
the haughty Miss Fluta to take a cruise with
me. I can hate as well as love, if I know
myself. I hope Elmer will be shot in the first
engagement. Then she may alter her opinion
about this war and its rights."
CHAPTER IV.
The "Rattlesnake" was indeed a model of
maritime beauty. So thought William Ashton,
as, in the twilight of a summer evening, he look-
ed at her as she lay moored in the slip. Her
greatest breadth of beam was abreast the fore-
mast, and there she spread out full thirty feet;
perhaps more. Forward, she lessened until her
cut-water was as sharp as a woodman's wedge
at the water's edge, though her bow flared out
above until it spread spoon-like at the wale, in-
string her the quality of a dry boat in a heavy
sea. Aft, her lines narrowed, until at her stern
she was as sharp as she was forward. She lay
low in the water, showing depth and, of course,
stability. Her bulwarks were low for a war-ves-
sel ; but so much the less was there a mark for
shot-so much the less resistance to the wind
when she was close-hauled. She hail no cabin
or house on deck-all was flush. Another ad,
vantage in her intended mission.

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

11

r
+n
s
S
Fr
,2

_


E

Ashton    need aloft. Her taut lower-ma sr "Yes'r e" And theEthiop vanished.
were heavy and of the best Norway pine-her   "The store-room  and cabin-galley are below
lighter upper-spars of spruce-her yards square decks, and this side of the slave deck!" contin-
and very heavy---hter canvas of the best Rus- ued Mr. Snaggs. "Got everything handy, yon
sia duck, her rigging stout and we-fitted. Ser- see. Thati gger is my own property. What
viceable life-hats hung at her davits--good do you think 1 gave for him?"
anchors were stowed at her bows, and two     "I have no idea. lie looks like a smart
"sheets" were in their places just Lorward of hane is that-and I only gave a doubloon for
the "  iimain channels."                     "      t      I   n avea o   ubna
"A beauty-a perfect beauty !" said Ashton, him. Yeu see, I was in Havana, on the Cubaa
whose skilled eye had take in all and more side, oneday, and the 'Venus was hoisting in
than I have described, in half the time which I water. She was getting r  rea  for tae wast.
have used in putting it on paper.          Snowball was at work when a 'fall' gave way,
"Glad to hear you say so, capting-come and an eighty-gallon cask of waztercame down
aboard and sc htow you like her below decks !" smash on him, and crushed him most to a jelly.
said lhabod Snaggs who had come up out of The doctors said there was no use in trying' to
the cabin just as Ashton expressed his opinion do anythi' for him, and told his owner it o le
aloud,                                     not pay to, try to save him. He  g
Aslton at once stepped on board, and went one leg any way t And they were a going' to let
Ashtn a one seppd onboa  , n wn  g t - ie   coldnt sandthat  ; so
down into the cabin, preceded by Mr. Snagga. the poor creature d.  I     adoubloon for
An exelanatiop of wonder passed his lips as Itold the owner I  give h a docon for
he entered an apartment not only unusually the aigger.utook te  gat a doctor   al-
large and roomy, but furnished with exquisite or ounce to cut off' the leg that was smashed all
taste and rare eauty fThere were four state- to bits and then I cured the nigger up; and he's
roo s, each containing a neat bed, washstand, worth a dozen lazy white men in his line, and is
shelves, and lockers, for books and clothing, as faithful as the seven-year itch.pie's a
They were hung with curtains of velvet, and treasure, for all his wooden leg. A capital cook,
carpeted with fabric from Brussels. The main- too,-can do up al sorts of aney truck as well
cabin was paneled off, and framed in with as ahFrenchman."
gilded carvings were-many rich paintings.    The entrance of the subject of all these en-
"Nice-isn't it? A double bulk-head, too, comiuns put a stopper upon the jaw' of  dr.
between this and the forward hold and deck, to Snaggs for the moment, and le proceeded to
keep the nigger-stink out !" said Mr. Snaggs, as concoct a very agreeable bowl of punch, while
lie enjoyed Ashton's surprise. "I made up my Snowball was p-eparing supper, according to
mind to have some comfort when I built this orders.
brig. Said I to myself,'JIehabod Snagg, you've  "Where are your men  " asked Ashton.
got nigh on to two hundred thousand dollars,  " Up at a boarding-house keptboyad r wil  oI
and there's no known' how soon you may kick mine, who takes no other boardersog's don
the bucket, and then the money won't be of no poi't. 'Twouldutbe safe-for when grog down,
use to you. Better lay out a part of it in takin fwirs out. 'hat's a true silyi', Whether it
comfort ; and when von build a craft to live in  come from Shakspeare or the Bible,
build her so that you can liv e.' So I didl ; and You'r-e hook-larnit, andf may #"
here's te sorth o' my money, all insured at  "How large a crew have you{?"
that !"                                       "Only five-and-twenty now. But by to-mor-
- I"admire your judgment and good taste, row night I can have ten times as many, if
"Ttirn%'kee !Vell have a little old Jamaky, "We shall not need so many. I can worCk
ontisi ength of that! Steward !-steward and fight the brig with seventy-five-'r even
ahoy !"                                    with fifty, on a pinch. But we shall want men
hn a moment a door was heard opening in to put in prizes-smart, intelligent men,  who
what apareto be a solid hulk-heard forward, understand navigation. We must start with at
thea aoter, and from it a black head protrud- least one hundred and fifty men."
e afist, and trem came the body of a short  "I can get 'em easy ! There's three slavers
stumpy-looking negm, whose fee was a perfect a fittin'-out here, and plenty of men waitin' for
comicality. One, of his legs was flesh ad bone- them, that 1 can get, for they know what kind
the other was sound, lit it was made of wood, of a reetur r attended to, the provisions and
as far tap as the middle of Iris upper-leg.   "That partatnddohepviosad
Whats wanti, Massa lh'bod ?" he asked, ammunition is the next thing. Have you a list
grinning out a display of at least six inches of of what is on board?
double ivories.                               "To be sure 1 have, capting. Everything is
"A bottle of old .aaky, some loaf-sugar, a entered here in this mem'randui-book. Look
couple of lemons, :anda pitcher of ice-water-  it over. Arms and all are put down."
nd be ioa enhrry, Snow-ball i"               Ashton carefully examined the list.

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

13

'"Anything   lacking , capting ?" asked  Mr.' marshal received the information, the brig was under
Snaggs.                                         way, standing down the harbor ; and before he could
Yese; port-fires, blue-lights, and rockets sendword to the forts, she was beyond the reach of their
for signals.  We want one, hundred pair of       "'But the zeal of the worthy marshal was not damp-
Colt s navy revolvers, one hundred Sharpe's ened yet. He instantly chartered the large steam-tug,
rifles; the flags of England, France, Spain, " Leviathan," which, luckily, had steam up, hastened
PotualrSeeanadcusi       ,     to ustco h2se NavyYard whers a company of marines and sail -
Portugal,Swdaad Russia, to use in dceo s ors were put on board, with artillery and smnall-arms,
and for safety. Tiere are other small items and in less than two hours, he was in the wake of the
which I will think of, and put down on paper, pirate brig. As the wind was light, he had every hope
so that you can get them!"                    'of catching her ; and when ofr tie cape, he was so near
y  g                          that he couid distinctly read this motto on the large flag
"lDo IDon't let us want for anything when    which she wore at er maintopiastthead. Beneath a
once we're outside. As I told you afore--I'm   coiled rattlesnake were these words; "Don't tread on
anything but shorts of the spondulicksand donI't "1.
anythig'  bt, orf therespondcn  ahd oft  - But as the steamer and brig drew off the land, the
grudge 'ei, a bit,if there's a chance ahead of wind freshened to a gale ; and the brig, setting all sail,
main' money!    You'll stay aboard to-night-   gained so fast upon the steamer that she was soon hull
won't you.;a                                    down, and before dark, was nearly out of sight.
" I think I will; and will remain here  uietl  "O course, the marshal haid to return empty-hand-
alletl dad ; but he deserves great credit for his efforts to cap-
all day to-montow. I want to look at your guns ture the daring and audacious pirate, which may find
to see if they are serviceable, and what kind of some of our cruisers on the alert before he can do much
mountings you havtx e fur them."                damage. That the fellow Ashton and his deluded fol-
Tat  Ll'tiili.                lovers may soon swing at the yarid-arin, is our earnest
hat      t   -thing. I'i in luck in gettin' pray er. The owner of tie brig, Snaggs, is said to be
you, capting, for I see you understand all about an old slaver, A fit tool for the use of Southern rebels."'
war-fixm's !" said Mr. Snaggs, rubbing his great  "I did not think Ashton would fall so low as
freckled hands together, as he always did when that !" said Fluta, when her father had ceased
he was pleased.+                                reading.       '
"When a man begins to go down, there is no
knowing where he'll stop," said her father.
CIIAPTER V.                     "You have made an escape m        child, in not
A week had elapsed since Fluta Winchester wedding him, and I am thankful0r itl!"
kissed her brother a tearful farewell, and she had "So am I, father, I thought that I loved
already heard from him, haying received a let- Will Ashton, but I find it so easy to banish him
ter dated from Fortress Monroe. In it he had    from my heart, that I now think that I admired
written so cheerfully of the joys of a soldier's him  only, and did not love him! You must
life--saying nothing of its hardships--that her send a copy of that paperto Ermer."
heart began to lose some of the leaden sadness    " Of course I will. But dean- me, my eggs
which had weighed it down at the time of his are getting cold, and the toast, too.
departure.                                        "Your letters, sir," said a servant, who had
Fluta sat at the head of her father's break- just come from the post-office.
fast-table, pouring out his coffee, as usual. The  Mr. Winchester glanced at the superserip.
'ld gentleman, according to his general custom, tions.
had the morning newspaper before him.' And        " One for you, Fluta," said he, tossing the
he ate, and drank, and read, alternately,       letter to her.
"Jerusalem !" lie cried, all at once.           She opened it quickly; for not glancing at
This was Iis common expression when very tie post-mark, she thought it might be from'
much surprised.                                 Elmer,
"I'd never have thought that of Will Ash-       But as she read it, her face flushed with an-
ton !" e continued.                             ger and   dignation.
iThought what, dear father?  hat news is    "The villain i" she murmured. "lie could
it that seems to astonish you so ?" asked Fluta. not depart on his fiendish mission without in-
"Listen, daughter, and i'll read it to vou. sulting me!"
The paper says i~                                 " What is it, child ?" asked her father.
"'A JEFF DAVIs PRIVATEER FITTED OUT IN OUR OwN  "A   better from  William  Ashton, father, in
HneRBOa--A  ctsr, OUT No CArrs.--Yesterday, about which ' ne says, that though I scorn hir,
non, the United igtes Marshna received information loves me, and will possess m  vet, tnoughi am
lonat thne clippler brig, "Rtattlesnake," lelsabod Snangs srou and l  oss revt lot;i
owner an nominal captain, which had been regularly surrounded by a guard of a thousiamnd Yarnkees !"
cleared in ballast for St. rhomas, was, in truth, a priva- "Let him try it-only let him try it, and he
teen, and was in reality under te command of William  may find one Yankee, sixty years old at that,
Asbton, late a lieutenant in the navy, whose n-esignation too muhfrhm~ a~  r            sh
was refused at Washington, and his name stricken in  omuch for him  " said Mr. Winchester, as he
disgrace from the rolls of the service, lie learned, more- clenched his hands. "I hope that a halter will
over, that she was tnonoughly armed and manned wih  take the place of his cravat, soon. What an
one hundred and fiftyamen, who hiad been secreted on uniiatdsoude t      iito        atrayo
board in the night-time, probably; ofor until that late unmitigatedfscoundrehmtonwritesto you after you
hour, none of the watchmen on Custom Rouse men had had dismissed him as you did l"
seen anything to awaken suspicion of wrong. When the  "No matter, father.  His threats do not

I
;ix.

C13E RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATER.

12


THE RATTLESNAKE OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE 'REBEL PRIVATEER.

alarm  me. I am safe here ; and this will be and he went on deek, at once, to call the crew
the last harbor he will be likely to attempt to to their stations, whither he was quickly follow-
enter. Eat your breakfast before it gets cold." ed by Ashton.
In less than ten minutes, the vessel was mov-
CHAPTER VI.                  ing down the harbor, with a light but fair breeze,
The departure of the " Rattlesnake " from her As fast as possible, sail was made upon her,
erth at the India Wharf was hastened by the but not so quickly as it would have been done
sudden desertion of the first officer, who had had Ashton dared to show all his crew at once.
long enjoyed the confidence of Mr. Snaggs, and Prudence forbade that ; and the brig had got
had been on many a voyage to the" Coast" down below the forts in the arbor some way
with him. But when he-Mr. Murdock, a jolly before she had got her royals set and her stud-
sou of Erin, was the mate-heard what was to ding-sails spread to the breeze.
be the future character of the brig, he flushed,  Meantime, Ashton had east many an anxious
and said to Mr. Snaggs :                   glance back toward the town, and especially
"Ye'll be afther huntin' up another mate, toward the Navy Yard, through a powerful tel-
Mr. Snaggs, for divil the hour lQnger will I escope ; for he felt assured of pursuit, if the mate
stay aboord. Catchin' nagurs was bad enough, carried out his threat.
but, be jabers ! fightin' ag'in the flag of my  The movement of the steam-tug toward the
adopted country is worse yet ; and when Pat Navy Yard did not escape his notice ; and when,
Murdock turns pirate, it'll be when weather is aft er some delay, her smoke could be seen rising
stronger than whisky !"                    thicker and blacker than before, he knew that
" But privateering is lawful. I've got a reg- she was in pursuit.
ular privateer's connission from old Jeff Da-  As none of the men had yet been informed of
vis," said Mr. Snaggs, in a soothing tone.  their destination-the most of them supposing,
"May the divil take ould Jeff Davis! He'll of course, that they were bound upon a slaving
only get his own. And now, Mr. Snaggs, just voyage, it now became necessary to inform them
make-it convenient to pay me what you owe me of the character of the vessel in such a way as
in about the time 'twould take me to smoke a to secure their hearty co-operation in her future
half-pipe o' tobacey."                     movements.
"I'll not pay a deserter !" said Mr. Snaggs,  Ashton was as eloquent as he was handsome;
angrily,                                   and when the men were mustered aft, he ad-
"Ye won't pay me, ye spalpeen ? Be jabers, dressed them in a manner calculated to enlist
I'll pay you, then, ould ape that ye are ! I their prejudices in his favor, and to reach that
know where the United States Marshal kapes most powerful of all motives in the hunan heart
his office. D'ye understand, ye ould sowl-mur- -their love of money. ie told them that this
deer !"                                   war hid been gotten up by abolitionists, who de-
And before Mr. Snaggs could say another sired to destroy slavery and the slave trade-
ward, Mr. Pat Murdock was out of the cabin, that the South would undoubtedly succeed, for
Mr. Snags followed hastily, but when lie reach- Spain and France would assuredly help her.
ed the deck, Mr. Murdock was on the wharf, He then painted the free and adventurous life
making long strides up-town.               of a bold privateersmen in the strongest and
William Ashton was coming down the wharf brightest colors; assured them of each and sev-
at the same tine in a close carriage, which also oral making an immense fortune ; exhibited the
conveyed his personal baggage.              legal letter of marque which commissioned
"The sooner we're out of this berth and out them, and then ordered Mr. Snaggs to hoist the
in blue water the better for us, eapting," said Confederate flag at the gaff, while ie hoisted the
Mr. Snaggs.                                rattlesnake flag at the main truck.
And he related the trouble he had experiene-  The crew, completely won over by the eo-
ed with the mate.                           quence and sophistry of their young captain,
"It is bad. You should have detained him, greeted the colors with rousing cheers ; and when
at least, until we had got to sea," said Ashton, e ended by ordering the steward t'serve each
anxiously.  ' Is the entire crew on board?"  man with a half-pint of good brai ly, lie was
"Yes-all 'cepting him."                   cheered until his ears were halfdeadened.
"Then the sooner we are under way the bet-  As soon as the men were "refreshed," the
ter. Hive you a pilot engaged ?"           young officer divided them off into gangs, to get
"I don't want ay. There isn't a foot be- up and mount the guns as soon as possible, and
twixt here and open water that I don't know also directed Snaggs to get up his small-arms
better than 1(10 the spellin'-book. As for that, and ammunition at once.
I don't want a pilot on the whole coast of Amer- "For," said he, pointing to the steamer which,
ica, nor in the West Indies."              in smooth water and with the scant wind, was
"Then have all hands up to make sail, at rapidly gaining on them; "we may very soon
once. You can act as first mate well enough." have to smell powder! That steamer is un-
"'To be sure I can, capting," said Snaggs ; doubtedly in chase, and, as she has been to the

r
I
I Y

Navy Yard, is probably well-armed and full- I "That's so !" said Snaggs.  "But'we can
manned !"                                  dodge 'em - we can dodge 'em! They'll be
" Yeou -don't think she can overhaul us ?" looking after us down South. Now suppose we
eaid Mr. Snaggs, rather nervously.          run over toward the English coast, and pick u
3 Yes--if the wind doesn't breeze up !" said a York packet or two for a beginnin' -then
Ashton.                                    take the course of the Hlavre and Mediterranean
beIf I was a prayin' man, I'd pray for it to homeward-bounds. They all carry stuff that's
breeze up, then !" said Mr. Snaggs. " For it'll needed down South, and will sell well any-
he no fun to fight them fellers. Hard knocks, where !" '
and nothing to be made by it. I sha'n't be   " Your-ideas and mine take the same course,"
backward in a fight where there's anything o' said Ashton. " After we have got the crew
profit to come by it ; but I don't want iron and used to work in that, way, we can venture into
ead currency !"                           the gulf, and try our hand on one of the Cali-
And Mr. Snaggs went to whistling for a fornia treasure-ships. They are mostly side-
breeze.                                    wheel steamers, and one shot or shell hove into
Ashton meantime superintended the getting the right spot will disable and place them at the
up and mounting of the guns ; and as each gun mercy of a foe that can work around them !"
was mounted, selected a crew for it, and at once  " You're right, capting.  And cute, too!
put them to exercising it, so as to fit them for What a'marcy on airth it was that I met you !
its use when the time came. Meantime, the af- But what are you thinkin' on now, casting? I
ternoon wore swiftly away, and the steamer in see you're pacing off the length o' the deck be-
chase gained fast. But, as the brig drew off the tween the mainmast and taffrail !"
hand, the wind freshened, much to the joy of  "Yes ; I was considering how easy it would
Mr. Snaggs, who whistled louder than ever, and be, for purposes of disguise, to rig the brig into
talked to the brig every little while, as if she a bark !"
could understand his words.                   "Of course ; that's what I had her made so
Go it, ye hussy ! he cried. "Never mind long aft for. Right.down below the cabin sky-
enappin' a stun sail boom or a royal mast. light, and under a trap in the cabin-floor, is a
Timber is cheap, and ye shan't be a cripple, my step for a mizzenmast. And that 'ere spar that
beauty!. Throw up the soap-suds, and make the lays under all the rest on the booms, is too bi -
mare-maids think it's washin'-day !"       for a topmast, and ione t o big for a mizzen
Before the sun went down, Ashton, thoroughly mast. We do them things in the slavi'trad
conversant with his duties, had his guns all in often. Brig one day, bark another, and ship
plae--his arms distributed---his petty officers the next ! For a spare topsail3ard makes a de-
and mates appointed--the crew all stationed, cent cross-jack on the mizzen ; a main to'gal-
and the watch-bills made out in regular man-of- lant does for a topsail, and so on to the eend of
war style. And though the steamer was fairly the chapter !"
in range of his heavy gunk, and, if provided  'You're quite well posted, Mr. Snaggs," said
with proper artillery, could have reached him Ashton.
with her shot, she now began, evidently, to drop  " Rayther !" said Mr. Snaggs. "Let's go be-
astern. The wind had so increased that the low, and try a little old Janaky. The night air
brig fairly flew through the water, while her is raw, and wants cookin' a little when it gets
tough spars bent and creaked under the weight into our Win'ards ! Besides, I reckon Snowball
of canvas which they bore.                has most ot supper ready."
"Why do you keep up such an incessant      "He joss has dat, Mrs'r Ich'bod !" said the
whistling, Mr. Snaggs ?" asked Ashton, at his steward, who had popped his head up the cabin
first moment of leisure.  -iacway in time to hear the last observation of
"Cain' up a breeze, capting ---callin' up a Mr. Snaggs.
breeze .P' said the imperturbable Snaggs. "If  "Keep her east nor'-east," said Ashton to the
it hadn t been for me, we'd have been in a dead second officer, whom he left in charge of the
calm before now, with that cussed steamer to deck, " And if the wind freshens, take in sail -
fight. I knew whistlin' would help us a heap ; we must be careful of our spars."
and I did think I'd have to out jack-knife and  "Ay, ay, sir !"    -
go to scrapin' the foremast,-but the whistlin' "Have a look-out kept at the fore-eross-
did it. See yonder! the tarnal steamer has gin trees, two forward on deck, and show no lights
it up, and goin' back !"                   above the bulwarks !"
"So I see!" replied Ashton, who was amused  With these directions given, Ashton went be-
at the old, but not uncommon idea of "whist- low; for some six or seven hours of constant
ing up a gale."  "But, when she gets back, the exertion had given him an appetite.
news of our escape and mission will flash along
the telegraph wires to Washington, and to every          CHAPTER VII.
naval station on the coast, and fifty cruisers will The United States Marshal not only handed Mr.
be out after us ."                         Pat Murdock a hundred-dollar bill for his patri-

e

V

14

15

;r
;'

Li


THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

otie information and services in the unsuccessful
chase after the rebel privateer, but also offered
him the situation of a deputy in consequence of
his evident good sense, and his knowledge of
the character of various suspicious vessels in
port.
"I'm a million times obliged to ye, sir !" said
Pat. "But there's an iday crapin' into the
thick head o' me to 'list for a souldier, and to go
and fight the bloody rapscallions that are af-
ther tryin' to destroy the only fray country in
the world. But there's a hill o' trouble afore
me ; for, ye see, sir, I'm a tip-top sailor, but
divil the bit do I know about sojerin'. I'm at
home with a marlin-spike, a hand-spike, or al-
most any other kind of spike ; but when it comes
to the musket, and wheeling , and marching , and
all that, I'm after belavin' I'll be as awkward
as a pig in a parlor!"
"You had better take my offer for a while,
at least. Mr. Murdock," said the marshal.
"Your pay will be good, your duties light, and
a    you will have plenty of time to visit the city
armories and drill-rooms, where you can look
on and see the recruits drill, until you have
learned enough to be a soldier, if you should
still wish to go as such 1"
"Your offer is mighty tempting , sir, as the
bear said to the bee-hive that stood aforeninst
him. But, sir, I might have to play traitor to
some ould comrade that wants to go on a trip
to the coast after nagurs."
"I'll not ask you to look after slavers--but
to look out for privateers," said the marshal
"The success of the 'Rattlesnake,' in fitting
out and getting to sea, will induce others to try
the same thing ; for where there is money to be
made, I am sorry to say my countrymen are
not scrupulous as to the means they use to make
it."t
"Well, sir, I'll take your kind offer, on con-
dition that, if I want to l'ave the office you'll
let me do it, and not think me a deserter. For,
if I do l'ave, it'll be to fight under the flag of
the country that has befriended me antl more of
my countrymen than there's left on the sod of
ould Erin. To purgatory for a thousand years
wid every son of a gun that wishes ill to her, or
fights against her starry flag !"
"I'll make out your commission and assign
you to duty right away," said the marshal,
pleased with his new deputy.
"The sooner the better, sir, as the red-headed
gal said when her lover asked her when he'd
marry him. I've only one favor to ask, sir"
"What is that, Mr. Murdock?  If it is in my
power to grant you any favor, you will not be
likely to find a refusal."
"If the 'Rattlesnake' was to be caught, her
erew, owner, and officers would be treated as
pirates-wouldn't they, sir?"
"To be sure they would, Mr. Murdock!"
"And hung, sir ?"

"Of course ! That is the law, and our Govern-
ment is too much in earnest to bear much tri-
fling."
"And you'd be the officer to execute the law,
would'nt you,, sir ? And to execute the law
would be to execute the prisoners.
" Yes ; they would have to be hung by my-
self, or a deputy."
" Then, sir, the favor I'd ask is, if ould Snaggs
is taken, that I may have the pleasure of windin'
the rope about his long neck. When he's dane-
in' on nothin', and I've set the tune he dances by,
I'll consider that him and me are square."
"You shall surely have the chance, Mr. Mur-
dock, if he falls into my hands," said the mar-
shal, laughing ; and be proceeded to make out
the necessary papers to constitute the honest
Irishman a deputy.
CHAPTER VIII.
When Captain Ashton went below into the
cabin, after giving the course to his second offi-
cer, he was somewhat surprised by observing a
person emerging from the forward state-room
whom he had not seen on board before. He
was dressed in a seedy suit of black-his figure
was tall and thin, a little stooping -his head
was nearly bare of hair, his face thin, pale and
-cadaverous. His nose was long and sharp, and
turned up at the extreme end in a manner that
seemed to say: "I'm on the smell all the time."
"Who the deuce can he be ?" thought Ashton,
as he paused at the foot of the companion-lad-
der. "Not a-chaplain, for he wears no white-
choker on his crane-like neck."
Mr. Snaggs came to the rescue of his mental
perplexity.
" Capting Ashton," said he, "'low me to in-
terduce to you our surgeon, Doctor Utubilicus.
He's a reg'lar M. D., F. R. S., and has got diplo-
mas enough on parchment to shoe the family of
John Rogers, who got scorched at Springfield,
or somewhere else in old times."
Captain Ashton bowed, and Doctor Umbilieus
bent over until the upper half of his lengthy
body made a right angle with the lower part.
But the doctor straightened in a hurry, for at
that unfortunate moment Snowball, the steward,
was entering the cabin with a pitcher of hot
water to use in preparing Mr. Snaggs' " Jama-
ky"; and his wooden leg happening to trip
against the door-sill, he pitched forward, dis-
charging the boiling water directly upon the
most angular portion of the doctor's body.
"Diabolus !" yelled the doctor, as he jumped
up and down with his hands upon the seat of
agony. "0 you black image of a Madagascar
orang-outang ! you have ruined me. I shan't
be able to sit down in a month."
"Dc Lor' knows I didn't go for to do it, Mars'r
Doctor," said Snowball, turning almost blue
with fright. " Dis darn ole wooden leg stub him
toe :"

ttI
I'..
i's
r'

16

,


THE RATTLESNAKE; OR,]

c

?

" Oh-oh! Procure for me instanter a bottle
of olive oleum !" groaned the doctor,
" Oliveye hol'em ?" said the astonished darkey.
" Yes, and haste ; the cuticle of my coxygis
burneth with a heat like that of an oven !"
"We've got brandy, and whisky, and rum,
and wine, Mars'r Doctor; but I doesn't know
nothing' 'bout the oliveye hole'um !"
"Haven't you got any sweet-oil, you son of
Pluto ?"
-KOh yes Mars'r Doctor ! Lots of dat."
4 "Then get me a bottle, or I'll jump down
your throat !"
Snowball hastened to obey, and the doctor
retired to his state-room, from whence alternate
groans and curses were heard for some time.
Meanwhile, Mr. Snaggs prepared the " Jama-
ky," and soon both himself and Ashton had a
brimming glass of" hot stuff" to their mouths.
When the doctor came from his state-room in a
more quiet manner, Mr. Snaggs asked him to
"j'ine in."
"Counter-irritants are excellent in their way,"
said the doctor, as lie poured out a tumblerful
and drank it off. "Aqua fervens is excellentin
its proper place; but its application,upon the
human body is not at all agreeable. Experien-
tia docet !"
And the doctor looked at Snowball with a
malicious glance, which seemed to say, "only
let me catch you sick, and I'll have revenge !"
But he didn't say so. lie only said :
"Steward, bring.me a couple of pillows from
my room, and put them in this chair!"
"Have you had much experience in surgery,
doctor ?" asked Ashton.
".Multum ! Or, as I should say in the vernc-
ular, a great deal!" replied the doctor.  ' I
graduated in Near York, served in hospitals
there, then went to Ireland and attended Don-
nybrook Fair, Tipperary, and other such places,
for several years, to keep my hand in ; then
went a voyage to the South Seas, got wrecked,
and was for a long time chief-surgeon to Zou-a-
whoo-whang-bee, the Emperor of the Cannibal
Islands, where I should have been still, had it
not been for a delicate affair which made it nec-
essary for me to resign my position in haste,
and to make a voyage for my health in one of
his big war canoes, which I filled with cocoa-
nuts and bread-fruit. My voyage nearly out-
lasted my provisions ; but I was picked up,
when existing on my last cocoa-nut, by a whaler,
bound to New Bedford ; and as half her hands
were down with the scurvy, had plenty of prac-
tice on her, until I arrived once more on terra
firma. Seeing an advertisement in the paper
for a surgeon, I answered it, and found myself
vis-a-vis with Mr. Snaggs, the advertiser, with
whom I made an engagement. And here Iam
my own first patient . '
4"Yours has been quite a life of adventure.

THE REBEL PRIVATEER.                      19
You ought to give the world a history of it !"
said Ashton.
"The Lord forbid !" said the doctor, solemn-
ly. "My profession is bad enough. I would
sooner end my fitful days with a dose of prussie
acid or strychnia, than to become-an author I
would rather endure to be an alderman or the
member of a city council !"
Snowball having prepared supper, the officers
now dropped conversation for- a better use of
their jaws.
' CHAPTER IX.
War is of use to human kind--.
For ever arid anon, when yon have paws I
A few dull years in peace and propagation,
The world is overstocked with fools, and wants
A pestilence at least, if not a hero."
It may be the novelist's province, but most
assuredly it is not his inclination, in this instance,
to follow the gallant   th Regiment of Mas-
sachusetts Volunteers through all of their jour-
ney from Boston to Washington. He, therefore,
will omit their ride by rail to Fall River-their
tempestuous voyage over the raging Sound--
their reception at the Park Barracks by a commit-
tee of thp "Sons of Massachusetts," where the
privates were feasted on beef and "common
doin's," while the officers were taken over to the
Astor and regaled on turkey, champagne, and
"chicken fixin's"-he will impiously neglect to
put in print the spirited oration of the Rever
end Smathew Scale Stith-he will, almost tear-
fully, forget to put into imperishableprint, the
speeches of those brave embryo politicians who
love to see "sogers," but don't like to be sogers !
He will not even accompany then through the
city of rectangles and Quakers, nor see them
load their muskets for turbulent, =effervescent
Baltimore. But h will receive them-ay, and
greet them, as they file out of the cars at the
Washington depot; see them fall into column of
march and move in a firm phalanx down to
where Pennsylvania avenue butts its head against
the Capitol grounds-thence along that broad
avenue past the grand hotels, the grander faro-
banks, the lager-beer saloons, and the other
" attractions" of the seat of Government, until
they reach the White hIouse, where they pass a
review and tender al marching salute to the
President of the United States. Then he will
see them piled into the big, spare rooms of the
new extension of'the Treasury building, where
their stay will be brief, for there is work for
tirn across the Potomac, and thither soon must
they go.
A week later-perhaps even a few days "over
and above" a week. Near where the rebel Gen-
eral Lee once held almost princely state on his
heights of Arlington, you see a city of tents.
In one of these, reclining on a blanket which is
spread upon the ground, with a good-sized water-
melon for a pillow, we find our friend Elmer


THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

20               THE RATTLESNAKE; OR,
Winchester. The mail has just arrived in camp, I
and his letters and the Boston papers absorb his
attention. Several other officers are present-
one siting on a camp-chest, another on a saddle,
and others reclining on the bosom of Mother
Earth.
An exclamation of surprise, followed by a
word or two which a pious mother would not
have approved of, came from Elmer's lips.
"What is the matter, lieutenant ?" asked his
captain. "Anything going wrong at home '"
" Not precisely at home. But what do you
think. That Will Ashton, who was so near be-
coming a brother-in-law of mine, but who show-
ed his rebel colors in time to'save us from that
disgrace, has fitted out a rebel privateer right
under the nose of our " wide-awake" authorities,
and roue to sea from Boston
"The deuce! And was there no pursuit?"
"Of course there was-when it was too late.
I wish now that I was in a naval command, I'd
chase that double traitor until I caught him  and
when I did, I'd give him a dance beneath the
yard-arm !"
"No fear but that will be his doom at any
rate !" said the captain. "Are you entirely
awake, Mr. Winchester ?"
" Yes, sir. But why do you ask ?"
"I have been longing to share your    ow,
as the old-maid said to a bachelor friend one
leap-year."
"1Pitch in captain," said Elmer, with a laugh,
as he raised his head and rolled the huge water-
melon out among the party, who instantly drew
their knives upon the defenseless fruit. And
soon the red, juicy slices were disappearing al-
most as fast as pumpkin-pie would have gone
had they been at homt, instead of there on the
"sacred soil" of the Grand Mother of Presi-
dents.
But suddenly a sound fell upon their ears
which started every man to his feet. It was the
"long roll" of the drummers-the signal "to
arms."
A buckling on of swords, a belting of pistols,
and in a minute more the tent was vacant. In
three minutes more, the regiment was formed
ready for the iiarch, or for service anywhere.
So soon had raw recruits learned the duty of the
soldier. Let foreign foes beware! When a half-
miliion of armed volunteers spring into action
in a few days' time to quell a domestic war, let
them conceive how quickly two or three millions
would arise to hurl back an invading fe, even
as the sea-girt rock hurls back in frothy foam
the mighty waves which roll up against its ada-
manine battlements.
CHAPTER X.
The cruise of the " Rattlesnake" was barren
of interest, for full two weeks after she left the
American coast. For Ashton, not wishing to
get cruisers upon his track so soon, avoided

THE'REBEL PRIVATEER.
every sail which hove in sight, and occupied all
of his time, except that allotted to meals and to
sleep, in perfecting his crew in the use of their
artillery and small-arms. He also had a daily
school under one of his mates-a well-educated
man-wherein the likeliest of the crew and the
petty officers were instructed ii navigation, so
as to fit them for future prize-masters.
About fourteen days from the time when lie
had last sighted land, he had the crew mustered
aft ; and after complimening them upon their
zeal and rapidity of improvement, he told them
that lie now felt they knew their respective du-
ties well enough to justify him in risking action
whenever Fate threw a chalice in his way. He
would make a prize of the very first vessel that
hove in sight which wore the Stripes and Stars
of the United States.
The crew received this information with
cheers of delight ; and even while their shouts
rung out upon the " waste of waters," the look-
out from aloft sung out: "Sail, ho!"
"Where away?" asked Ashton.
"Nearly dead-ahead, sir."
"Can you make out her rig ?"
"No, sir. She's no bigger than a gull's wing
to the eye yet."
"Report, if she lifts so that you can see which
way she is standing."
"Ay, ay, sir !"
The brig was standing to the eastward under
easy canvas with about an eight-knot breeze on
the starboard beam. 'Her guns were all shot-
ted, and the small-arms were in the racks ready
for use.
"Do we raise the strange sail any ?" asked
Ashton, after waiting nearly a half-hour to hear
from aloft
"Yes, sir. We raise her fast. She seems to
be a square-rig, and to be standing right for
us."
"Very well, keep your eye on her, and re-
port when you can make out what she is," said
Ashton. He then ordered the decks sanded
down, the magazine opened, and every prepara-
tion made for action.
Doctor Umbilicus was sent to his station, and
told to have his lint, bandages, andinstruments
ready ; and Snowball was secretly ordered to
have a good pail of grog ready to pass around,
if a fight should happen to come off.
Mr. Snaggs-determined to know as soon as
any one what was coming-clambered up to the
maintop-gallant cross-treeS with his spy-glass in
hand.
Ashton had just got the vessel and crew in
perfect fighting trim, when Snaggs hailed him
from aloft:
"Cipting," said he, "if I'm any judge of
water-craft, the vessel that's coming' down on us,
bows on, is an American man-o'-war, and a two-
decker at that."
Ashton instantly had the Confederate flag

hauled down, and the United States flag hoisted
in its place. A man-of-war pendant was alto
hoisted at the main truck. Then he went aloft,
and taking the spy-glass from Snaggs, took a
long and anxious look at the stranger.
"You are right," he said, at last. "It must
be the ' Cumb'erland ' coming home."
"Then we'd better be sheering off," said Mr.
Snaggs, in alarm.
"Not at all, sir. I shall speak her," said
Ashton, calmly.
"Are you crazy, capting?" cried Mr. Snaggs.
"Why, her broadside would sink us before we
could repeat the Lord's Prayer!"
"Yes; but she will not fire any. Were we
to try to run away, she might outsail us - es-
pecially if the sea and wind rose. As it is---
knowing all their signals, and having a complete
set on bard-it will be an easy thing for me to
pass the brig off as a new United States brig-
of-war. I know, and am known to, the officers
of the frigate, who have had no chance to hear
of my resignation ; and I shall visit them in uni-
form ; and, giving them false news, perhaps gain
news that may be of value to us."
"Wall, eapting, you are cute! It was a rale
merey on airth that I fell in with you. I haven't
got anything more to lay. You're boss over
this craft for sartin."
Ashton made no reply, but went below and
changed his dress for that of his former lieuten-
ant's uniform.
In the course of an hour more, the-noble frig-
ate was close aboard. She had shown her sig-
nal number, and Ashton had answered her ; and
as she edged down, had thrown his vessel up in
the wind with the main-topsail aback, signifying
a wish to " speak" the other vessel.
Therefore, when the frigate was nearly abreast
of the brig, up went her courses, her helm was
put alee, and she rounded to, just on the weath-
er quarter.
" What brig is that ?" asked an officer from
the frigate's mizzen-riggings through a trum-
pet.-
"The United States brig 'Rattlesnake' (new)
Lieut. Ashton commanding,^bound on a cruise,"
replied the rebel coriander. " Iwill go aboard,
if you please. I have late papers with the war
news."
"We shall be glad to get them," replied the
officer.
With a carefully-selected file of papers, in
which there was no mention of his name, Ash-
ton had a boat lowers i, and fearlessly went on
board the frigate. 11 is visit was apparently
pleasant, for he nit ol friends and shipmates,
who as yet did  not km of his treason, and who
pledged him in more than one glass, reminding
him of gay and hi prv days which were past, to
be by him renewed o more. He appeared gay ;
but who can tell whit were the real feelings in
the depths of his me:t? That a traitor can rest

easy and enjoy life, is not probable. Arnold, it
is known, led a miserable life ; Judas Iscariot
was asuicide; and Aaron Burr, whose very am-
bition was treason, descended from the loftiest
height, to live out miserably the latter years of
a perverted life.
Ashton did not remain long on board the frig-
ate, from which lie learned that they had passed
two heavily-laden, homeward-bound packets
early that morning. He returned to his own
vessel;' and, as the frigate filled away on her
course, he resumed that which he had held be-
fore-confident.of falling in, before night, with
one or both of the packets of which he had
heard.
CHAPTER XI.
A palace -three stories high, and built of
Northern brick at that. Its halls spacious,
broad, and lengthy, and crowded with captive
sovereigns. But above it floats a strange han-
ner. Three bars of white and red, looking like
a piece of Dutch patch-work, with seven stars
scattered on a patch of blue in one corner. The
flag-staff is of palmetto, and a snake is entwined
around it-- emblematic of "the snake in the
grass" worshiped by the rebellious.
A palace now, but once velept a tobacco
warehouse, in the great city of'Richmond, which,
in 1781, was defended by the chivalrous La-
fayette, with an army almost entirely composed
of Northern men.
Observe how the "sovereigns" are engaged.
One has just come in from market, whit ier Ie
has been attended by a guard. le bears a
basket of fruit anrd vegetables in one hand, and
a chunk of meat in the other. Whether the
meat is beef, horse, or goat, 'twouTl be hard to
tell-but hunger is not particular.
"Here, Mr. Cook," said the market-man -
who was none other than our friend Elmer
Winchester-" here is the grub."
And an Honorable Member of Congress step-
ped forward in his shirt-sleeves to receive thie
daily rations which were to be made edible by
his skillful hands.
"Curse that Bull Run !" was the expression
of more than one of those captive sovereigns.
Forcible if irreverent.
"Does this war come up to that of Mexico,
in which you had a hand, Major Potter ?' asked
Elmer, of a young, fine-looking officer near
him.
"Never having had the bad luck to be a
prisoner there, I can't say," replied the major.
"But I wish our Government would try and
have us exchanged. There is no fun- in being
cooped up here to fatten like Christmas turkeys.
If one could only take a promenade, and breathe
fresh air-"
"And take a look at the faces of the far-
famed belles of Richmond-eli, major ?" chimed
in another.

Is

4

21


THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.     2

22               THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.
" Im  afraid that their kindness, as well as !" Heave to, sir ! I wish to send a boat on,
their beauty, would fall far short of that experi- board with a letter-bag !"
enced and seen by us in Mexico," said the      "Ay, ay, sir! Anything to accommodate-!"
major. "By the way, have any of you heard replied Martial. "But I hope you'll be in a
from  Bob Wheat, this morning ?  I've known hurry, for the 'Hattie TynUg' is doing her best
Bob from his boyhood, and, though he is on the to get out of my wake, and lead me-as my Polly+
wrong side now, I should grieve over his does when''m ashore-by the nose."
death."                                        And ordering some of his men to settle away
" The officer of the guard told me he was the top-gallant sails, and haul up the courses, the'
not expected to live the day out," said Elmer.  packet captain had his niain-yard and top-sail°
" Well, he takes a path we all must travel. thrown aback. He was not a little pleased, too,
Little did I think that the smooth-faced, almost to bear the other packet ordered to heave to by;
girl-like college-boy, the son of the Episcopalian the schooner, as she cane within hail ; for the
minister, of Nashville, Tennessee, whom 1 knew tWo vessels, almost equal in point of speed,'had
so well in 1844 and '5, would have such an been racing ever since they left port, having
eventful life, and at last die a soldier's death ! had a fair start, for both were towed out of liar-
Poor Boh ! Mire than one fair cheek will be bor by the same tug.
tear-moistened for hun ."
"Representative, how fares it in thy line?"  As soon as the packets were hove to, two,
asked a wounded member of the Sixty-ninth.   boats, fully armed and manned, were lowered l
" Gallant Celtic soldier, all goes well ; but the away from their" Rattlesnake," the crew of which .
Virginians are awful stingy in their salt line. If vessel had silently been ordered to their quarters,
they'd permit me to return to Syracuse, I'd ready to open fire in case of resistance. In thex
send then a few thousand bushels, out of sheer first, Ashton went in command ; in the other,
pity.'                                      lie sent his second officer-leaving Snaggs in
"They've got enough to keep us in pickle !" charge of the brig, with orders to hoist the Con-4
growled one of the New-Hampshire boys. " If federate flag in place of the "stars and Stripes," t
this is a tobacco warehouse, they've left precious whenever he made a signal by waving his hand-
little of the weed in it."                   kerchief.
"Don't speak of the Weed !" said Ely, dolor- Captain Martial received him politely at the
ously. " lt reminds me of Albany and the gangway, and asked him into the cabin to take
Regency. But turn to, some of you captains a glass of wine. Ashton declined the offered re-e
an colonels, and swab out the tin-plates and  freshment-he was not yet quite as lost as to
cups. I'll have breakfast ready by the time kiss when he intended to betray-so he askedE
you've set the table on that swept spot in the Captain Martial to show his ship's papers.
corner yonder."                                "You are aware of the war at home, I pre- I
-                        sume ?" h'e said.
"Yes, sir," replied Captain Martial; "and
CHAPTER XII.                   deuced sorry, too, to hear of it. Not only forr
Close in company, carrying as much sail as the poor fellows who'll go under in such a war,
they could well stagger under, were two of those but it will ruin business and trade. I expectW
immense New York packets, which, for carry- they'll lay the 'Daisy' up when I get in."  ,
ing freight, are not excelled in the world. Home-  And the captain sighed, as he went into the
ward bound-with all the freight which they cabin for his papers.
could stow, and but few passengers, and those  The eyes of Ashton glistened as they glancedE
mostly of a class which could better afford a long over the freight-list of the ship. He saw that
passage at a low price than a quick one in a her cargo was of immense value-as all assorted
steamer at a high one-they were careering cargoes are. On the passenger-list there were,
over the wind-lashed ocean, those on board but two names. They were plain " Mr. Osgood
without a thought of danger. For their cap- and Son, of London."4
tains had not yet heard of the pirate "Sumter," "Your papers are all right, Captain Martial,"J
nor of the far-famed and early-doomed brig "Jeff said Ashton, at the same time putting them in
Davis " They kept no look-outs aloft; and when his own pocket, while he carelessly waved his
they saw close ahead, a saucy-looking, but beau- handkerchief, as if unintentionally.
tiful brig, wearing the flag and pendant of an  " You will return them to me, of course, then, }
American man-of-war, they were neither aston- sir," said the captain, surprised at his action.
ished nor frightened. The leading ship, the    " Not just now, sir! l)o you see that flag ?"'
Daisy Howard," was commanded by Captain And he pointed to his brig, and at the same
Martial -a favorite as well with his crew and moment his armed boat's crew, obeying previous
passengers as with the owner of the ship.    orders, mustered aft by his side.
As the schooner, shortening sail, ran close  "That, sir, is the flag of the Confederate
upon his weather-bow, and, putting her helm  States of America ; and I have the honor of
down, rounded to, her commander shouted :    commanding the armed Confederate brig 'Rat-

tiesnake,' whose broadside is bearing upon you
now!I"
"Good heavens! my vessel is lost !" said Cap-
tain Martial.
"Oh nosir! She willbe perfectlysafe under
my convoy-.especially safe. But her port of
destination will be slightly altered. I shall have
to take her into a Southern port, where her cargo
is much needed at the present time. And, as
you a appear to be a very gentlemanly man, I
shall be happy to offer you a state-room on
board of my bri  until Lean land you."
"Thank you, sir! I'd rather stay on board
the 'Daisy '-I shall feel more at home here."
"Doubtess. But as I shall have to put one
of my officers on board as prize-master, and to
transfer crews, I shall be obliged to insist upon
your accepting accommodations on board the
'Rattlesnake.'"
Of course, sir. I am inyour power, and
must do as you will. But my passengers-"
They are well pleased with the idea of a
transfer !" said a gentleman a little over fifty
years of age, whose dark, brunette complexion
and flashing black eyes told of a Southern ori-
gin. By his side stood a beautiful boy, of ap-
parently fourteen or fifteen years of age.
"I understand you to be a captain in the
service of the Confederate States ?" said the
gentleman, addressing Ashton.
"I am, sir."
"Then, sir, I am most happy to meet you.
My name is Rutherford. I am from South Car-
olina, and am the bearer of important dis-
patches to President Davis. Under the assumed
name of Osgood, I came on board this packet,
with ray son-knowing that packets like this es-
cape notice, while every passenger on board the
steamers has to go under police surveillance
when he reaches a Northern city. I have mon-
etary assistance with me for the Southern
cause !"
I am happy to hear you say so, sir. The
hospitalities of my vessel are freely open to
you ; and as I shall at once sail, with my prizes,
for a point on the Southern coast not blockaded
when I last heard from it, I hope soon to be able
to place you where you can communicate with
President Davis !"
"Thank you, Captain. By what name may I
address you ?"
"Ashton, sir-William Ashton, formerly of
the United Statgs Navy !"
"Are you fiom the Ashtons on the Wax-'
haw ?"
"I am, sir. My father's name'is Lee Ash-
ton "
Why, my dear sir, Inm doubly glad to see
you. Your father and myself were college-
mates !" cried the gentleman. "Frank, the
captain is the son of the gentleman you've heard
me speak of so often, as the boldest rider that
ever drew rein in a fox-hunt! Captain, this is

Frank Rutherford-rather bashful yet, but good
stock-good stock ! Come in the cabin, and
take a glass of wine from my private stores !"
Ashton thought that Master Frank Ruther-
ford was indeed bashful; for when he turned
his handsome eyes upon him, the boy blushed
like a carnation, and his great black eyes sunk
under the vail of their long lids.
After refre hjng with Mr. Rutherford, Ashton
at once set aout transferring his prisoners to
his own vessel, and putting prize-crews on board
the packets. It was nearly night before this
was effected ; and then, with signal-lights hoist-
ed, and orders not to part company, the pri-
vateer headed off for the south-west, followed
closely by her prizes, crowding all the sail they
could carry.
CHAPTER XIII.
"A salute-what does that mean ?" asked-the
prisoners of each other, as gun after gun, in
regular succession, boomed on their ears some
weeks after the time when we first introduced
them in their tobacco-palace at Richmond.
"Sonic new victory !" growled a wounded
officer. "One of the old grannies has made a
Great Bethel mistake, or a Bull Run blunder !"
"I'll find out from the officer of the guard !"
said Elmer Winchester, who, ever in a good hu-
mor, was a favorite even with the rebels, who
often, but in vain, made him tempting offers of
a high position in their ranks, if he would join
them. .
He soon returned, with the desired information.
"It is not much of a victory !" said he.
"One of their privateers-"
"Say pirates !" said Mr. Ely, benignly.
"Well, one of their pirates has captured and
brought in two of our packet-ships, with valu-
able cargoes ; and a messenger has arrived with
a loan of two or three millions of dollars from
some romantic banker abroad ! We are to be
treated to the sight of a triumphal procession
in a little while. Hark ! there is the musi-.
Here goes for a first-class orchestra ticket by the
middle window !"
And Elmer hastened to get a front position
by the window ; for the room was so crowded
that not one-tenth of its occupants could look
into the street at the same time.
Soon the band hove in sight. It consisted of
four negro drummers ; four fifers, of the sama
color; two buglers, and a clarinet-player, ditto;
a lean Dutchman, with a huge bass-horn; a
leaner Frenchman, with a trombone, and a very
small Dutchman, with an immense ophicleide.
Following, was a troop of cavaliers--F. F. V.s
-in all styles bf dress and mount. Then came
Company B, "Albemarle Yankee-Catchers";
Company K, "Floyd's Fly-by-Nights"; Com-
pany C, "Pryor's Bowie-Knife Rangers." Then,
carriages, with illustrious guests, and civic and
military dignitaries.

I


THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REEEL PRIVATEER.

As the first of the latter approached, Elmer
Winchester uttered a naughty word. In truth,
he swore right out before folks.
"There is that infernal rascal, Will Ashton,
riding in the carriage with Pr sident Davis !"
he cried. " He is the pirate titit captured the
two packets. Oh! if I only hal him here five
minutes, I'd add to his beauty 1'
And shouting out the renegade's name, Elmer
attracted his attention. Then shaking his
clenched fist at him, he cried :
"You'll rile to the gallows in a cart yet, you
black-muzzled pirate !"
Ashton saw and recognized him, smiled bit-
terlv, but mae no reply.
"Our Bull Run prisoners are rather ob-
streperous !" said the President, apologetically ;
for he knew not that Ashton was acquainted
with any of them. " We are holding them here
for a while, to see what the Yankees intend to
do with those of our men whem they ha'e taken,
They have threatened hanging. If they com-
mence, we will follow suit ! Rope will go further
than provisions !"
And he smiled grimly, as, amid the plaudits
of the rabble, the procession moved slowly
:along toward the hotel where Will Ashton and
his friend Rutherford were to receive the honors
of a public dinner.
It was late in the day--in fact, I should say
it was already evening ; for the prisoners were
enioYing their supper of dry bread and sugarless
tea--when a messenger came tosummon Elmer
Winchester to the guard-room, where a gentle.
man-visitor waited to see him.
Elmer dropped his crust of bread and tin cup
of tea ; for a visitor was an event-one not to be
neglected.
To his surprise, when he reached the guard-
room, William  Ashton, in a glittering  uni-
form, stood conversing with the officer of the
Guard.
"You sent me word that a gentleman wished
-to see me !" said he to the officer.
" Yes, sir ; and here he is," said the officer,
pointing to Ashton.
"Do you call that cowardly deserter a gentle-
man ?" cried Elmer, scornfully.  " If I had
lived in his time, I might have pitied Benedict
Arnold; but I should never have despised him
as I do this man !"
" Poh-poh, Elmer! you needn't make a fool
of yourself because I didn't choose to marry
your Yankee sister ! I came here out of kind-
niess to-"
What he came for Ashton had no time to ex-
plain ; for before more words than we have re
corded had passed his, lips, the clenched hand
of Elmer Winchester was dashed furiously into
his taee, and he fell, stunned and bleeding, to
time floor.
"Take that, you cursed pirate ! and thank
your stars that I am unarmed, or I'd send voin

where you belong-to your master, the devil !"
shouted Elmer, almost black with anger.
"Mr. Wincheste r, I am astonished at you,
sir-you, who have even been a favorite for your
good conduct, and treated with such unusual
lenity !" cried the officer of the guard, seizing
him by the arm.
"Sir, if you were a prisoner, far away from
an only sister, you would not let a wretch like
that speak of her without resenting the insult !"
"Perhaps not, sir. But o back to your
quarters at once. If Captai Ashton does not
report this outrage, I surely will not !"
"I shall not report him-but, nyrk me, Elmer
Winchester, I will have I'or that blow a ven-
geance so deep and dire, that you will hail death
as you would a bride when you hear of it. I
command as fast a craft as skims the sea-I have
a gallant crew, with which I'll make your Yan-
kee merchants writhe, as I wrest their cherished
millions from them. I only want a mistress in
my fairy craft, to sing me lullabies on stormy
nights. I shall look for one in Boston ! Good-
night, sir-good-night !"
And, with a mocking laugh, the rebel captain
turned and left the room. Elmer vainly strove
to follow him. He was so wildly violent that
the officer of the guard had to summon assist-
ance, and eventually, much to his regret, was
forced to iron him.
CHAPTER XIV.
With the knowledge which he had gained
while on the United Si ates Coast Survey, assist-
ed by Mr. Snaggs, who was, as he had boasted,
a capital coast pilot, William Ashton had man-
aged, with the assistance of steamers of light
draught and lighters, to get his prizes into an
inlet of Pamjico Sound, beyond the reach of the
United States cruisers, whom lie boldly and suc-
cessfully eluded. We have already seen how his
services were appreciated by the President of
"tie so-called' Confederacy, and also how his
real merits were appreciated by poor Elmer
Winchester.
Ashton was not in a'presentable position when
he returned to his hotel after his interview with
Elmer. The latter had not taken lessons from
Price without avail. He struck from the shoul-
der, and threw all his weight into the blow.
The consequence was, that Mr. Ashiton's eyes
were unnaturally black, and his face swelled into
a resemblance of the full moon with a ragged
cloud over it. He was obliged to have surgical
assistance to remove some of the marks of Yan-
- kee hatred ; but there was no lack of sympathy.
- He was blamed only because he did not shoot
the "infernal Yankee" on the spot.
It was a week later. Now regularly commis-
sioned as a commander in the Navy of the Con-
federate States, William Ashton rejoined his
brig, ready for another cruise. To keep his

I
jI
cI
II

I

24

F
S
t
-i
d


I

TIlE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

crew faithful, he had, through the assistance of
Mr. Rutherford and the exertions of the Presi-
dent, managed to get the privateer's share of the
prizes in gold, and his first act was to pay them
off in their proper shares. He knew that this
would not only firmly bind them to his service,
but also give them new zeal in the prosecution
of furLher adventures.
On the second day after his arrival, he an-
nounced tp his crew that on the next morning
they must be ready for sea. He would then
start upon another cruise. The information was
received with cheers.
True to his word, as soon as the men had
breakfasted on the next day, the order was heard:
" All hands, ahoy! Up anchorand make sail l"
While the men were hastening to their sta-
tions, Ashton observed a shore-boat, rowed by
a negro, and containing one passenger, coming
alongside.
He went to the gangway to see who it was,
and was astonished to see Master Frank Ruther-
ford, who met him at the rail, followed by the
negro, with a large trunk.
"Why, what are you doing here, Mr. Ruther-
ford ?" asked Ashton, in some astonishment ;
for upon the voyage home the youth had avoid-
ed all his advances toward friendship, and seem-
ed, indeed, as bashful as a girl.
"I've fallen in love with ihe sea and your life
of adventure, sir; and am come to serve with
you in any capacity to which you may appoint
me-even as a cabin-boy, if nothing better will
do," replied the boy.
"Does your father know of your intention ?"
asked Ashton, remembering the intense affection
which Mr. Rutherford evinced for his child, and
the great care he took of him.
"He did not when I left him, sir. But I have
written to him since. lie would have objected
to my coming. To avoid a scene, I came away
secretly ; for when I have set my mind upon
anything, nothing can change it."
"I think you had better reconsider this mat-
ter," said Ashton, kindly, looking upon the
handsome boy with friendly interest.
"It is too late, sir," said young Rutherford,
firmly. "Sam, pass that trunk, sword, and gui-
tar-case aft. Now, Captain Ashton, the only
way you can get rid of me is, to pitch me over-
board !"
"Which I shall not do at present," said Ash-
ton, laughing. "If Acting-midshipman Ruth-
erford wishes to take this cruise with me, he can.
And if afterward his father consents to his re-
maining in the service, I will do all that I can to
fit him for advancement in it. So, trot aft,
young gentleman, out of the way, while I attend
to getting the brig under sail."
"Ay, ay, sir !" said the young Southron,
touching his cap in jaunty middy style. "May
I take Sam with me, sir?  Heis my own prop-
erty."

27

"Yes. Snowball needs more help in the
cabin."
"Then let the old boat go adrift, Sam, and
come down in the cabin and stow my things
away. But mind, you must be very polite to
Snowball, the steward. He's a Cuba darkey,
and knows how to use a knife."
"Mebbe he's nebber seen dis chile butt !"
said Sam, grinning. "Niggers won't say knife
to me, when dey knows I can out-butt a billy-
goat. He, he, he
And Sam, shouldering his master's baggage,
followed him into the cabin.
In a short time the brig's anchor was aweigh,
and soon her spars were bending under the
weight of canvas, filled by a spanking breeze
from the northwest.
"Which way are you going to put the brig's
face, capting ?" asked Mr. Suaggs, after the ves-
sel had reached the ocean.
"After I gain an offing which will carry me
clear of the United States cruisers, I shall alter
her rig into that of a bark, and go North on a
little private business," said Ashton. "That
through with, I shall try for the California
steamers. One or two of them would enrich
the whole of us."
"So 'twould," said Sni ggs. "Wasn't it a
marey on airth that I happened to run afoul of
you? Here we've shared well on to two hun-
dred thousand dollar already, and never lost a
man. I tell you, this beats the nigger trade all
hollow. I begin to feel as if I'd be worth suth-
in' handsome afore I die yet. The old folks-ll
stare when Ichabod goes home, I'll bet a cookie.
You needn't laugh, Mr. Rutherford. I was a
runaway jest like you, vhen I went to sea first.
And I hain't been hum yet. But I mean to,
when I get rich enough."
The youngster laughed merrily, as Snaggs
addressed him--rather to the astonishment of
Ashton, who had noticed the almost utter silence
which the lad had kept, especially in the pres-
ence of his father on the voyage home.
But Snowball announced dinner at this mo-
ment, and all but the officer of the deck attend-
ed the summons.
CHAPTER XV.
For a little time after he was ironed and re-
manded back to his quarters, poor Elmer Win-
chester raved with maniac-like madness. But
soothed, in a measure, by his symp athetic fel-
low-prisoners, and yet more by the thought that
something must be done to avert the awful ca-
tastrophe and vile outrage threatened by Wil-
liam Ashton, his manner changed after a time
into a calm almost icy. He said nothir.g-made
no one his confident, yet from that hour his
whole thought was escape ; his study, how to
make it. He could not communicate with his
sister, or any Northern friend by letter, unless
the letter was first read at the rebel head-quar-

z
f
F a
3
i-i
r
L:d
iy
r
i
r
i3
( 3t
F
ii
E
+tt
E
if
F  }
Er pr
d{yy[k
t '
t a
t  ##
dt
3
dI
II
k
f

9
f
r
j
....#

A
S
X
t
1'
t
ii


28               TIIE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.
ters. So that he could not in that manner in- him, for he knew that his first dash must be
form her of the peril which was before her. made with the speed of lightning.
For he well knew that Ashton was serious in his  this want he remedied by procuring a steel
dastardly threat of revenge. A v engeanice. too, fork. Breaking off the tines, lie inserted one in
which Elmer would feel far more than death. each of his boot-heels, and thus was araied at
For death is but amomentary prng, which all the heel. He saw the surgeon showing his hol-
must feel-the coward as well as the brave ; but ster pistols, one day, and boasting that he had
in disgrace in a foul wrong done to one who is captured them  from an officer at Bull Run.
knit into our very heart-strings, there is a thou- They were Colt's largest, army-sized, six-shoot-
sand lingering deaths-a torture too terrible to ers,~loaded and capped ; and in the holsters
descrile-knowa in its intensity to none but were cases for carrying more cartridges. Thus
those who have felt it.                      armed and possessed of a sabre, Elmer felt con-
Elmer was only kept in irons for a few hours fident that lie could cut his way through a con-
after he became subdued and quiet ; but he was siderable amount of opposition.
no longer sent to market, or invited, as he had  Several days passed after Elmer formed his
been, to little euchre and whist parties in the plan, before lie attempted to put it in execu-
rehel officers' pr-tarrs. A  black mark now  tion. Two of those days were of that hot, sti-
stol anrrst his name. Unarmed, lie had been fling, sultry character which enervates both man
so dairitnutandeumptunous asto strike an arm- and beast-depressing body as well as spirit.
ed Con;e l rit hfier (one o' the glorious chiv- The two next were drizzly and wet. But the
airy of the -uiti) to the dust I That could not sun rose on the filth without a cloud in its diur-
be tolerate1. Eler was a marked desperado nal path. A cool breeze came from the north-
with them now.                               east, which Elmer knew would refresh his horse
But Elmer did not despair. Hope buoyed and leave the dust behind him.    ife determined
his soul up, and, in spite of scanty fare, to make his dash on that day, and to be free, or
strengthened his body. lie quickly formed his die. Long before lie could have been free, if he
desperate plau of escape, and only waited for a would give his pledge of honor not to serve
fitting chance to execute it. lie had remarked against the rebels ; for he had been a great fa-r
that one of the rebel surgeon, who daily visited vorite. But he deemed it dishonorable in a
their quarters, rode a ruauificent black horse, prisoner of a war to give such a pledge, and
fully accoutred. The annual's proportions were refused it.
exquisite - exhibiting points which indicated
great speed and endurance. He felt that if he             CHAPTER XVI.
could gain the back of this animal, that he could  Commander Ashton ran his vessel off a little
make it a tough race for his pursuers to follow  south of east, until he had crossed the Gulf
him to the Potomac. Ile had got possession of Stream and got out of the usual range of ves-
a map of Virginia, and knew that there was a sels, and especially.beyond the longitude where
direct road from Richmond to the Rappahan- United States cruisers mightbe expected. Then
nock, only forty iles distant -and if this horse a dead calm coming on, he took advantage of it
could only cairy him ahead of pursuit to that to paint his vessel a bright yellow color, with a red
river, ie elt confident of escape.          streak around her ; also, to put upon her stern
When the surgeon crime, which was generally the name of " Katrine, of Rotterdam," in big
be' ween two and three o'clock, lie usually left letters.
his horse in charge of a soldier of the guard,  Then he at once proceeded to erect her mizzen,
with the bridle over his saddle-bow - the man mast-thius rigging her into a bark. lie had
holding the aniial by the bit. He had also no- taken off the phnpi and handsome figure-head
tied that the otmer of the guard usually took of the " Hattie Tyng" while in port ; and as it
off his tight-fitting uniform when in the guard- was the bust of a well-developed, golden-haired,
room, and hanging it near tire door, put on an and blue-eyed woman, ie now put it on the cut-
easy and cool linen blouse. Sabres, too, hung water of tIre brig, in place of the coiled rattle-
halndy on the wall. His plan was, as he made a snake which had been there.
rush by the guard, to seize the coat and a sabre,  With her sails carelessly trimmed, her ports
to cut down the man who held the horse if ie closed, and guns ost of sight, with a few red-
did not release the bridle, and then to dash for skirted men lounging about the decks with pipes
the open country-putting on the rebel officer's in their mouths, the " Rattlesnake" now looked
uniform as soon as ie could, and thenceforward decidedly Dutch. And when only three day s
to pass himself off as a rebel officer carrying after she captured one of the patriotic Udolpho
important orders.                            Wolfe's Scheidam-laden ships bound to New
It was, indeed, a desperate plan. Undoubt- York, sire had a )utch cargo to show, and pa-
edly,ih would have to stand the fire of the pers which, with but a little alteration, could be
ga-d -urt tire hope came upon him that theyrmade useful in disguise.
would fir' cutiously wen their own frien's   Taking out a part of the cargo of his new
were iii the street. The wnit of sprs troubled   prize, Ashton put a crew on board of her, or-

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR,
dered her into a Southern port, while ie steeredI
boldly for the North.
"You've got the brig so fixed up, that the
man who built her wouldn't know her, capting,"
said Mr. Snaggs to Ashton, as lie glanced at her
course by the compass in the binnacle. "May
I be sotbold as to ask which way her nose is
to point now?"
saidt Aspoting northwest by north now, sir,"
sadAhon.
"D'ye mean to make any port afore long, cap-
ting ?" asked Snaggs.
"Most likely I shall," said Ashton.
Seeing the captain was not more communica-
tive, Mr. Snaggs hazarded another question.
"It isn't York oure gon' to-is it ?" said he
" No. I have no business in Newv York."
"Nor Providence? nor New Bedford ?"
" Ihave no occasion to visit either of those
places," said Ashton.
"Then, by hokey, it must be BostonI"
"Youu are a wizard for guessing, Mr. Snaggs,"
said Ashton, with a laugh. " I have a little pri-
vate business to attend to in Boston, and am
going there. Disguised as wve are, it will be
perfectly sfe--especially is I shall run into te
lower harbor ony, at night, and then go to town
in a boat, and go to sea before the dawn of day
again."
"Exactly ." said Mr. Snaggs. And then he
said to himself:  I do wish I knew what his
private business is. I'll find out, for I'll volun-
teer to go with him!"
"It bill blow heavy to-night, Mr. Snaggs,"
said Ashton, looking at a heavy cloud to wind-
ward.
"Yes, capting. It'll blow great guns, and
small-armrs thrown i. It has been brewin' a
storm for a week. My rheumatics have been
hinting that way most darnedly for two or three
days ; and, like the barometer down in the cab-
ii, they're mighty apt to tell the truth."
You had better begin to shorten sail, and
get up preventer stays and braces. And tell the
gunner to double is gun-tackle, and see every-
thing lashed securely for the gale," said Ashton.
I am going below for awhile to rest, for I must
be on deck if heavy weather comes on."
"Goin' below to hear that young Southern
chap play his guitar and sing irs love-songs, I
reckon," said Snaggs to himself. " I don't see
what's the use mi having such a do-nothin' chiap
aboard. But it's no use for ie to say anything.
The boy is always a laughing' at me ; and some-
times the captain jines in. I s'pose ie can't
help it. I don't like it ; but as lie's the goosey
that lays eggs of gold for me, I must grin and
bear it, as sister Renny used to say when I stub-
bed my toe, or sat down a thistle." (   -
And with these remarks Mr. Snaggs moved a
little nearer to the hatchway to listen to the
song, which young Rutherford was giving below,
in full and most melodious soprano voice

THE REBEL PRIVATEER.                      29
" More love ! The darned fool is alley's sini '
about love! I s'pose he doesn't know a eol ol.d
psalm-tune ; nor wouldn't larn one to save Is
pesky life. I used to be some on a sing.
knew ' Old Grimes is Dead,' ' lull's Vielr'
and more'r fifty verses of 'Yankee DroI
But igs breezim' up ; I must go to taking' ii smiti,
as the captimg told me."
And Mr. Snaggs ordered the boatswain to cali
all hands, to shorten sail.
The words which Juthrerford sang, and which
elicited the contemptuous remarks from the
Yankee,-were these
LOVE ME, OR I DIE.
I.
-Lox e oe-love me, o I die:"
nas tithas sang a flewer,-
asface turned ui to ie sky,
'Neath a black cloud's lower.
- re me-love rme, sun of gold,
Smile o'er the dark shades chilling.
Tne doom I read wi have toll,
For my blood veins are stilling
an'
"Love me-love me," sighed a maid,
Whose heart was almost breaking-
Ls rea"-ever sire prayed,
Sleeping ar awaking.
Love me-this heart must be cherished ;
If thouscernest,Imust rile
lie eoved rer not, aud she perished,
With a blesriag nd a sigh.
CHAPTER XVII.
It was three o'clock when the rebel surgeon
rode his beautiful cr:rger up in front of the
prison-house of Elner Vinclester and his cons
rades. Never had the splendid steed looked in
better order than when the surgeon dismount-
ed, and calling to a small negro boy, told him to
hold it till re came out. Elher's eyes flashed
as ie saw who was left in charge of the coveted
animal. And his face grew pale - not with
fear ; but all his blood was gathering to his
heart as he nerved himself for Iris daring work.
The surgeon came up to make Iris usual in-
qiries regarding the health of the prisoners.
Elmer slipped down to tre guard-room.
Lieutenant Ferguson, the surgeon wishes to
see you for a moment, u-stairs," said he to the
officer of the guard.
The latter instantly started to obey the sum-
mons. Now Was Elmer's only chance. Before
the lieutenant had reached the upper story,
Elmer had seized the uifrn and a heavy
sabre.  Dashing by the -tinished sentinel,
knocking Iris musket from his hand as he did so,
he vaulted into the saddle, and, as tire frighten-
ed negro-boy let go the bridle, he gave the
horse the steel, and a'ay, at its topmost speed,
bounded the splendid animal. IIe had been in
his shirt-sleeves. Now -capital horseman as
he was-it was not a minute's work, even while
at full speed, to buielde the sabre to his side, and
to put on the rebel uniform.
So sudden had been Iris movement, and so

4

E
t


1

30              THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR,
astounded was the guard, that he turned a cor- l
ner before a shot could be fi ed at him.
Then away he sped toward the Rappahannock
road. He knew that he would be quickly pur-
sued ; but if he could pass the batteries and
guards at the outskirts of the city, all would be
safe, On-on he dashed, at furious speed ; but,
as no one was yet mounted and in pursuit, lie
attracted no extraordinary attention ; for in
war-time, orderlies and express-messengers, as
well as aids, are expected to "make time" when
they travel.
As he neared the outer barriers, lie slackened
his pace a little, and, as he approached the
guard, cried:
"I'm off with orders ! There is news at head-
quarters, by telegraph.  Look out for work
soon, boys !"
Recognizing the rebel uniform, the guard did
not attempt to stop him; and a clear road was
ahead of him.
Regulating the speed of his horse to a gait
which, though rapid, he hoped lie could carry
through until dark, or, at least, until lie could
reach the river, Elmer now rode on. The boom
of several cannons, as signal-guns, told him
that the city had been alarmed, and his escape
made known ; yet he felt that, with so macli
start and such a noble horse, he could keep the
lead of his p ursuers. He examined the hol-
sters, and found the pistols and ammunition all
right.
He had ridden about fifteen miles, and passed,
with his uniform, two mounted picket-guards,
without question--when looking back from the
top of quite a long hill lie had leisurely ascend-
ed, to breathe his horse-he saw a cloud of dust
a mile or two in his rear, and knew well that he
was pursued by a considerable force.
Once more lie put his horse to its speed, and,
when some ten miles further on, lie came to
a very steep hill, hearing no sound of pursuers,
lie let his horse walk up it, dismounting himself,
the more to rest it. But lie had barely gained
its crest, when he heard a shout behind him;
and looking back, saw a scattered line of forty
or fifty horsemen, urging their animals to the
utmost. The foremost was not half a mile in
his rear.
Again he sprang into the saddle-iot until,
however, lie had let his horse take a long
draught of water from a spring which gushed
out by the road-side. The noble animal, seem-
ing to appreciate his kindness, bounded away
with renewed vigor; and again he drew away
from his pursuers.
"If they lo not get fresh horses, I am safe
said he. " Night is coming on-it's not more
than five or six miles to the river ; and once
there, I'll see if my Yankee cunning does not
outwit them.!"
On -"on - now at his best speed - Elmer
dashed ; and while the gloom of twilight was

THE RATTLESNAKE ;1OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

31

TItE R15E     1'lI V AeE   .
drawing on apace, he saw before him the glit-
tering waters of a broad river.
On ahead of him was a small settlement-to
his right. a cleared plantation-on his left, a for-
est of large pines, sparsely intermingled with
trees of smaller growth, mostly hard wood.
Hearing his pursuers yet thunderimg in his rear,
he looked back and saw that about a dozen, ev-
idently on fresh horses, were not more than a
quarter of a mile behind him, and were gaining.
The matter began to look desperate. He took
but an instant for thought. Then he dashed
from the road into the forest, still bearing toward
the river. In a few moments, he was on its
brink. It was now almost dark. In a second,
he detached the holsters from the saddle. With
his sabre he cut a thorn-bush from a tree, slip-
ped it under the tail of his horse, and, with a
yell, drove the terrified animal down the steep
bank into the river.
Then, as the maddened animal swam for the
other shore, he quickly hid himself beneath a
shelving rock, while his pursuers, who came
thundering up, fired volley after volley at what
they supposed to be the steed and rider in the
half-gloom-hidden stream beyond.
"We've done for the Yankee, I'll swear !"
cried the leader, as the horse was seen to go up
the opposite bank apparently riderless. "It'll
learn some more of 'em not to try to get out of
our clutches-I reckon ! Let's go down to old
Southark's and get some peach and honey. Such
riding as this makes ife as dry as a preacher."
Elmer was so near the speaker that he could
have touched him with his sabre ; and he felt
relieved when the party acceded to the propos-
al to visit Mr. Southark's and liquor.
Having heard his horse neigh, repeatedly, on
the opposite shore of the river, he now looked
for some means of crossing, feeling confident
that lie would be pursued no further, in conse-
quence of is supposed (lentil ; and that, if be
could mount again, lie could reach the Poto-
mac, not many miles distant, without trouble.
With this idea, lie commenced looking for a
boat ; and soon, to his joy, found a small skiff,
which lie unmoored, and having paddled some
way up the river in the demise shadow of the
woods, he turned across. In less thiin an hour,
le found his horse, which had swam away from
the tormenting thorn-bush in the river, proba-
bly. The animal was quietly feeding in some
rank grass, and seemed quite rested when he
again mounted.
lie rode on for some time through a forest
which skirted that side of t.e river, and at last,
struck a road which led in the direction of the
Potomac. And lie had the pleasure to see the
first rays of the morning sun glitter upon the
last-named river. Observing the solitary house
of a planter near its 2ank. with a lot of negro-
cabins near, he rode boldly up to the former,
and asked for its proprietor.

The 'latter soon appeared, and his cordial ladies with a spirited account of the manner in
t welcome, whenhe saw the rebel buttons on El- which the rascally Yankees were used-up at
mer's uniform, at once told what his sentiments Manassas; .of course modestly hinting - only
were.   He insisted upon Elmer's instantly hinting--that he had used up a dozen or more
alighting, and partaking of his hospitality.  himself.
"I have pressing business on the Maryland   " Did you take any scalps ?"-asked thelv
side," said Elmer. "But I will leave my horse Seraphina.      y    - .lovely
here until I return, knowing, by report, how  "A few-two or three thousand in all,' said
true to the Confederacy you are."           our hero.
" You may bet your pile on that," said the  " Dear me! how I would like to have enough
planter. "i'll take care of your horse, and af- to fringe a ball-dress !" said the sweet young
ter breakfast set you on the'other side. But lady.
there are some Union men there, and you inust  "As soon'as I return to Richmond, I will
look out.  You'd better leave your uniform  surely send you some " said Elmer, gallantl
here, and take a dress-coat of mine. Have you Then stating to his host the necessity of haste,
far to go ?"                                he excused himself and procuring materials,
";My orders from  President Davis are to wrote two letters-one was directed to Surgeon
reach Baltimore, if possible !" replied Elmer. MacNevin of the C. S. A., thanking hem for the
" We have arns and goods purchased there, loan of his horse, and stating where it was left.
which were to go by the way of Harper's Fer- The other to President Davis, narrating the
ry. Now, we must try and get them across the manner of his escape, and exonerating the officer
country by this route."                     of the guard from  blame; and assuring the
" Yes, 1 see. Well, if you can only keep the President that not vea one of his own con-
thing secret from  the Union men on the other rades knew of his intentions. These letters le
side, it can be done, easily enough. I'll give confided to Mr. Culbeitsiu, who, supposing he
you a list of men who can be depended on, and would surely  et atosurpoiseticontract  roe
where they live, and a letter to one of our best ised to forward them rimmeditey. And tie hatter
men, Colonel Belt, who only livesa mile from having written him a warn letter of introduc-
the river. He'll let you have as good a horse tion to Colonel Belt, anid given him a his and
as you ever straddled, and, like as not, send one the location of all the prominent secessioni s on
= of his boys as a guide."               -    the route and some in Baltimore. who were
"A thousand thanks !" said Elmer. "I will "sound on the goose," but not the eagle, set him
write to President Da' is of your patriotic kind- across the river in a boat nanna  by halfa-
j ness.   wouldn't youlike a contract for hauling dozen of his negroes.
goods o Richmond from this river ? We pay     Elmer knew well that he hid many a mile yet
in gold now -- having had a large load from  to traverse before lie could consider himself out of
I Europe."                                    danger, eveumthoughle was now dressed in iti
"You may bet your pile I would, captain! zen's clothes nd om te north side of tie Poto-
But come in-conic in and take some peach- mac. For he was iia -)art of Maryland which
and-hoiey! Breakfast will soon be ready. Jim, was notoriously rebellious i  ate principles of
take the captain's horse to the stable, and give most of its citizens. Therefore, he made haste
him all the corn he can eat ; and rub him till you to the residence of Colonel Belt, where Culbert-
can see your black face on his sides."      son's letter had time god effect of piocuring
" Yes, sah."  And the grinning darkey seized him a warm welcome, a goote horse, amid the
the bridle of tie jaded animal,             offer of a good escort by one of te colonel s
"I'll take care of the holsters," said Elmer, sons.
unbuckling them from the saddle.              The latter Elmer agreed to tale a fe - miles,
His host, who introduced himself as Mr. Cul- but argued that it would be unsafe to go in such
bertson, now ishe ed him into the house, where company after he reached tie gmonmd of Union
hie received aminimtroduction to Miss Seraphina men, where he must pretend himself tim be a
Culbertson and her corpulent mamma. The ha- Union man to get alomg. Belt coincided with
dies were all smiles ; but the most pleasant smile him in this, and soon our hero was again spur-
which Elmer experienced that morning was a ring his way in a northerly course, tending
smile of old peach-brandy, mixed with honey and now somewhat to the west.
very slightly diluted; for nothing but a draught He n'ow felt as good as free, for he knew that
ef river-water had passed his lips sine  elve he was on ground not yet wholly given up to
O'clock of the previous day.                secession, and soon expected to see the starry
A nd  time  w ay  co rn-bread,  hiom iny,  and  boiled  flag  of  his  country  once  m ore  w aving  before  hisi k n  a d d w t  a o , w n  o n  u t e e . L a i g h m w t  h s h p  e o e h m
chicken, lardedi with bacon, went down, must eyes. Leaving imyt thiseoevn before his,
have satisfied his entertainers with his appetite-- and a good blooded nag under hin, we will take
strengthened, as he averred, by his ride and the the back track for a few miles.
unusual rarity of such fare.
But he managed to get time to entertain the

.

i

mr r r


32              THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER
CHAPTER XVIII.                1 rowed a citizen's coat from father, to go across
Major Slaughter was the name of the cavalry the river in."
officer who led the pursuit after Elmer Winches-  "What ! has he crossed the river ?"
ter. It was he who supposed that Elmer was   " Yes, sir ; he left his horse at our house, and
shot from  his horse in the river ; and who, was to get another from Colonel Belt; and was
thinking further pursuit unnecessary, had pro- going on to Baltimore. I heard him tell father  i
posed to visit the house of a planter-friend--old so !"                                     ,/
Southark, he called him - to get some peach  " Why, boy, he was an infernal Yankee !-he
and honey-a beverage, by the way, considered was a prisoner; and we chased him into the
I                   most orthodox by all of the F. F. V.s.     river here, and thought we'd shot him!"                                                 /
The party gladly acceded to his proposition;  " Gewhillikins! You'd better till father that,JJ
for their horses were pretty much used up, and if you want to see a man mad. Why, he treat-              l'iE
the riders were not much better off.' Riding at ed him like a prince. The chap promised to
i.!            top speed for forty miles may look easy on pa- bring Sister Seraphina a big lot of scalps that
per ; but let the reader do as the writer has-- he took from the Yankees at Bull Run! And
try it on once--and maybe he'll alter his opinion-- father was to have an army contract. These
as the chap did of the gi l's beauty whom he had very documents were to get.it for him 1'
kissed in the dark. lie thought she must be an  And young Culbertson showed the letters
angel, she kissed so sweetly ; but when light which Winchester had written.
came, and he found her cross-eyed, pug-nosed,  " We may overhaul the fellow yet, if he feels
freckled, and red-haired, he said that taste careless when he gets to the other side," said
couldn't be accurate in the dark.          the major to his men. " We must take back
The Confederates fund a warm welcome at the doctor's horse at any rate. Young man, I'mJIjI/II
the hands of Mr. Southark. Not only was the one of Jeff, Davis's majors ; and I will take
peach-brandy forthcoming, but they were per- charge of those letters. You can turn your/ c
-                  suaded to stay all night, without much effort.; horse around, and pilot us to your father's in
?,            for Mr. Southark: was a bountiful liver, and as about as fast time as your nag can n' ake."             :
free-hearted as he was " fore-handed,"  A sump-  " The chap is halt-way to Baltimore by this
tuous supper was followed by more peach and time," said the lad. " I didn't start till after             IJ
honey ; and the revelry was kept up until the father came back from  the other side of the
" wee hours of morning," when the most of the river ; and Colonel Belt doesn't keep any slow 40
rebel cavaliers were in a state of inebriety that horses !"
was anything but soldierly. A couple of women  " Never inind ; well have a try for him yet,
could have captured the whole boodle of them. at any rate. He may be tired, and loiter on the
They were not early risers the next morning. way. If we'd crossed this river last night, we
It was after ten o'clock'when they had breakfast- should have ha-I him as sure as an Ely cap !"    C
ed, and were ready for the saddle-call; and they  And ordering his men to mount and follow,               j     f
were just taking a farewell " eleven o'clock " Slaughter rode rapidly on after his new guide. f,
of peach and honey with their hospitable host,  When lie got to Cullertson's house, the boy's tI
when the messenger of Mr. Culbertson rode up story was fully corroborated by the father.
at full speed, bearing the letters which Mr. Win- Slaughter did not pause a nioiment, but dis-
chester had directed to Jeff Davis and Doctor mounting a half-dozen picked men, lie got a boat,
MacNevin.                                   and crossed the river. lint it was night when                   '
" Where away so fast, young man ?" asked he got to Colonel Belt's ; and the son of the
Major Slaughter, as the boy-a son of Mr. Cul- latter having just returned, with his jaded horse,
bertson's-rode up to the door, and asked a ne- to tell how like the deuce the young officer rode,
gro to water his horse.                     he learned that Elmer was too far ahead to make
" To Richmond, sir !" said the box', with an pursuit advisable, or his capture possible.
air of importance.  "I have dispatches for    To say that Colonel Belt was only angry
President Davis and Doctor MacNevin, which a would be to " draw it exceedingly mild." In
young officer left with father this morning, to truth, he was stark, raving imiad.
be forwarded in haste !"                      " A thousand-dollar Eclipse stallion gone to
"Dispatches for Davis and MacNevin ? Why, h-1!" he shouted.  ' And my best, silver-
it was MacNevin's horse the prisoner rode off mounted saddle ! I would rather have lost the(
on !" cried Slaughter. " What kind of a horse best nigger on my place ! And to be fooled by
did this young officer ride ?               a cursed Yankee ! Blast it! gentlemen, you                        i/
"A large, black gelding, with a white star on needn't laugh. He has been too smart for all of,
his forehead," replied the youth.           you. Fooled the whole hkit of yea. Jeff Davis
" By Jove ! our bird isn't dead yet !" cried and all! Go into the house, amid get some peach
Slaughter. " What kind of a uniform did this and honey. I'm too mad to drink new ! Let        ~             7
officer wear ?"                         -   me swear off the pressure, and I'll come in and
" One just like yours, sir," replied young join you. Drink perdition to thme rascally horse,
Culbertson. " He left it at our house, and bor- thief! I'd follow him to Baltimore. if old Dia

a~
//
J ///(/ /S4!
'I
-  -j

"                             l

.j


PIE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.,35

;
f"  :
i
. ; ;i
' s
i_   !
3 °
f  ih
'
a
;i
- t
}
t "t
t t
5 3
rt
.
i
t
;
Y
4
:
lj
i
i

i -

wasn't there, with Fort Mellenry so handy.
My best borse is gong !"
"Maybe not, father !" said his son. ' The
last words the young man said to me was: 'Tell
your father that if anything happens to prevent
my returning by his house, that I will send his
horse back!"
"That be blasted ! He's not such a fool as
that !" said the colonel. "If he does do it, I'll
eat raw potatoes for a month !"
CHAPTJIR XIX,
Never was a returned officer received with
more kindness than Elmer Winchester, when he
reported first to the colonel of his regiment, as
in duty bound, and then went with him to the
Army Head-quarters, to report to the command-
ing general.
After he had modestly related the particulars
of his daring escape, without giving his private
reasons for the attempt, he gave the veteran"
general the list of Maryland rebels which Cul-
bertson had given to him, and also related im-
portant points of information given by them to
him voluntarily-they having full faith in his
being i rebel officer.
"Those men must ie arrested !" said the
general. "We are in more danger from such
secret traitors than in all the advances of an
open enemy. A Cabinet meeting will be held
this evening; and I shall send for you, in order
that the President and his Constitutional advis-
ers may hear your statement, and join with you
in congratulating you upon your bold escape,
and in complimenting you upon your bravery.
If you will accept a commission in the regular
army, I feel warranted in saying that it shall be
tendered to you."
i  "I am very grateful, general," replied Elmer.
" I have, however, a favor to ask, which, with-
out a knowledge of the very pressing circum-
stances which cause the request, and which are
strictly private, may seem inopportune when
the enemy is in the field!"
"Any favor that is consistent with the de-
mands of the public service will not be refused,"
said the general. " Your sufferings, as well as
your gallantry, commend you to especial fa-
vor !"
"The favor I ask is, a brief furlough, sir.
Considerations of immense personal importance
to myself and my family, demand my immedi-
ate attendance at home. But rest assured, sir,
that I shall not remain a moment longer away
from the army than the private affairs to which
I refer imperatively require. I hope that only
a week's absence will be all that I require !"-t
",To-morrow you shall receive a month's fur.
lough!" said the general, kindly. "If you
choose to shorten it by an earlier return, we
will be glad to see you. Your colonel and
ourself will gratify me by taking a plain fami-
ly dinner with me to-day."

The officers cheerfully assented, ani as the
general said that he dined at three, they consid-
ered the interview ended, and withdrew.
"We will walk around to ' Willards' to meet
celebrities and read the papers, lieutenant," said
the colonel. "You will be one of the celebri-
ties, as soon as the 'particulars of your escape
are made known through the press."
"Without General Scott, or those who have
an officialright to possess those particulars,
make them known, I rather think the press will
not possess them," said Elmer, quietly. "I have
no desire to see myself in print, and like a
newspaper reporter about as well as I do a dose
of tartar-emetic. I had a surfeit of the class at
Richmond."
A red-faced, rather jauntily-dressed young
man, with a peaked nose, and-sharp, ferret-like
eyes, at this moment stepped out from Ham-
mack's far-famed saloon. No sooner had his
quick eyes rested on Colonel ---- and Elmer,
than he rushed up to the former with extended
hand, and said :
"Colonel     , how are you, sir?  Delighted
to see you, sir ! Fine weather this side of the
Potomac ! How is it on the other side, sir ?'
"Really, sir, you have the advantage of me
in acquaintance," said the colonel, drawing up
his portly figure.
"Is it possible that you have forgotten me.
sir '?" said the young man, with an air of mel-
ancholy surprise. "I had theionor to be in-
troduced to you at the foot of the stair-case in
the Marshal house, at Alexandria, where poor
Ellsworth fell, and there lent you my jack-knife
to cut off a relic with. I was introduced to you
by Colonel Parrott. My nane is Senacherib.
I am a special correspondent of the Quadrilat-
eral, of New York."
" Ah, yes--a reporter. I remember," said the
colonel, apologetically,
Then thinking it might be as well to stand
fair with even a reporter, the colonel bethought
him of their peculiarities as a class, and polite-
ly asked Mr. Senacherib to turn around, re-enter
Hammack's, and imbibe.
To which proposition the special made no ob-
jection.
The colonel then introduced Lieutenant Elmer
Winchester to the special.
"Is it possible? Do I really behold the hero
of the late brilliant escape from.Richmond ?"
cried the overjoyed special, looking at the shad-
ow of a ten-dollar " special" article descriptive
of "the hero and his deeds.' "Sir, I am de-
lighted to see you, and shall be most happy to
hear from your lips the particulars."
"If I am in the city day after to-morrow, you
shall have them, sir," said Elmer, coldly, as he
thought of his forthcoming furlough.   "At
present, until the Government consents, my lips
are sealed."
" Ah, yes ! I see-I see. The Government


36              THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.
s keeps me ousted in these matters; but I  " Perhaps it is difficult for him to get per-
have very often to keep back news until it is mission to write," said Fluta. "But I sent Johs
prudent to let the public get at it. In war-times, to the post-office, to see if there were any letters
secrets are secrets. I suppose you heard of my for me, an hur oturne awith only one,  iss
visit to Charleston ?"                         "Anid IhaeitrdwtholonMs
"iNot that I know of, sir."               Winchester,' said the servant, who had appear-
" Alt indeed knWhy, it is well known every- ed at the door just in time to hear the words
"here, now. But the Sonthrons little knew   which she had nuttred.          ,
who was among them when I was there. It Ad he handed it to her and retired.
would have been a wg rope and a short shrift  " It is post-inarked Washingt on, and is in El-
for me, if they halg. Hero'sperdition to them !" her's handwriting " she cred, trembling so that
And Mr. Senacherib tossed off a glass of she could scarcely open the envelope. "What
Hamniack's best brandy, with a gusto which in- can it mean? Can lie be fuee ?"r
diatmack's apesrandy, wof the quality of the The letter was opened. Her eyea ran over its
dictated hois appreciaionof    qucotntts in a nmoient ; for it only contained
.es," eoitiued - "there I was amongst three or four lines.
them-hailii   from  Texas-Ycoing my whole      "Joy, joy, my father !" she cried. "Brother
bthm-forn secsson Texa-..ning  winngwith is free-free ! ie writes that he has escaped,
breath for secession --diminga     g    1 and  thigwt  i r' at h e is to receive a furlough on the daoy
their nabobs~~worlting out their secrets, and and tin  i st cev      uluho       h   a
sendingabobs-worn     othe e  mai They  used  after lie  wrote  this  line, and  will come to  see  us.
to be astonished when stray copies of the Quad- ie will be here to-morrow, thank Heaven-to-
rilateral reached them  with all their private morrow  ' c
matters let out ; and they shoved three or four "He won't cure this rascally rhmi h et
'Yankee school-marms' into jail, on suspicion grand the old gentle                   g
of ein coreponent ;but they didn't' smell awy"
a mice'ranry vicinity until I was safe and sound  " Ile gives no particulars. he writes evi-
on this side of the Potomac ; and then I wrote dently in great haste, sayig that e can barely
them a letter that let the at out of the bag. save the mail by a minute or two. But it s
Cool-wasn't it ?"                          enough. He is free, and coming home!."
CoVery" said the colonel. "You had better  "If you please. ise, others a wooden-legged
re-indulge aon  the  coon   o" u        colored  person  down  below, who  says  he  is from
r-gAtiexpenstrcolonel    t m  e   n" the South, and has a letter from your brother
cried thme special,                         for you," sail a servant.
"I   no means," replied the colonel, whose  " Bring him here directly, John," she said.
pu  wy i n eady  oul             ,       "It seems as if  I was to  have  a  surfeit  of good
pulrse was alretadly out...tonht"
And Mr. Senacherib took another smile most n  te tonihore the color of the rose centered
benuignily.Anonesoetecooofterecnrd
Tb e colonel then excused himself and con- the lily whiteness of her cheeks, and joy-light
anion, and escaped from t e special      chased the g'oom from her eyes.
PaThe servant' returned in a few moments,
CHAPTER XX.                   bringing with him no less a personage than out
Palcareworn, very melancholy, was Fluta old acquaintance, Snowball, the steward of the
Palce ter.  o an d v e ls  eeancholya s   Rattlesnake.  The  negro  bowed  very  low, and
Winchester. So had she been ever bincee 1  1ake  akhswoe        ea    esi:
herdofth  cptreofhe boter;for the raked back heis wooden leg, a, lie said:
peard o the d capture ofheit botlim rfualit  "Diis Missy Winchester. I knows dat,
papers teemied with accounts of i  rutaiy  'asyh ok       ik   asrEmr"
exercised toward prisoners. But oie thing re- 'caue she looks like oterr tener.saidluta.
strained her from attempting to joium her brother,  " You knw m I ssarvint to de  ssiferelat
ts try and lessei the ills of lris captivity. That  h  riso. I  was  de to  I o im
was, the deciminig health of her father, who was took him prisoner Datewasad y  I; tmehow am
quite an invalid, and unusually nervous ad      erfet-f st.  fe spe e b t in  telm hIgot
ful. his complaint was that most unbearable niggers free here inBoston. o ii ashooner dIt
disorder, inflammatory rheumatism-an evil not hired by my imrisr to ghond andcrune dt
inflicted upon Job, or the patience of that amia- smuggles things to Richan'Xh  inf I uldn'e
ble individual might sooner have been exhausted. dlocha. I  fo io. hie a'skx me where I go and
It was a dark and drizzly afternoon. The       I u or back, and dn here I o     nd
north-east wind drove the rain sharply against when I come bac , and do line  to me o his
the window-panes, and whistled around the an- day ane e hae aletr for  well, raider.  is
glees(of time old rimaneroum.              sister'. He wantalbry wlsedr
"luta is it  ot tise that we lud a second said dat he tink he die if he no get away from
letter irons Elmer ?" asked hie father, as le lay sar !'
on the sofam hl head buried hra fhie, ad hhis  And the negro now presented a letter, appar-
f t he wra ,e in thi el. u lie   h s  written  but  entl  written  in  Elm er's  hand.
feet wrapped he w ne."Has      writtenbt eFIata opened it, aid glancing at the date, saw
once since he was sent to R Cihmonda.

I.

Ytr. l
ii
v
f
1
t
i'
e    "i
F =i
!s
7
it
t
tp _" r
f t
i
k
.i
r
yy4
1         i
=J
S
yy
f

'H   RATTLESNAKE; OI, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.
that it was dated ten days earlier than that from  been gone an hour," said Ashtontoo a
Washington. Its contents, had she not receiv- watch.ol                       ng at his
1d the letter from Washington, would have in-  "N
terested her deeply. Th  rie  poedoe          "N diggers are slow creeturs," said Mr. Snaggs.
teretedherdeely.The writer spoke dolefully "Slow naterally; and thick-headed. Now, if
of his hardships, and of illness endured without you'd sent me, I'd 'ave done theaob in a ify
a nurse; which he feared would soon end his But theenigger is a com n  her hb in a ji.mp
days. The letter closed by saying                 engge i.     cmi' I hear his old stump
dy.Telteclsdby 'sayig:'               leg a peggin'into the floor out there."
"If you wish to see me alive on this earth, ny sister,  The next moment the door opened, and Snow-
you had better come to me, You can get a passage on balhenexen                  d
the schooner in which the bearer of this letter is employ-b entered.
ed. The Confederates will eot ill-treat a woman; and  r dl, what news, steward ?" asked Ashton,
yf iot does n  here wilat least alleviate my sufferings, hurriedly.
Thes not save my life."                   -' Bad, Mars'r Cap'n-bery bad !'' said Snow-
The negro scanned the face of the lady close- hall, shaking his woolly head, and lolln u' i
ly while she read the letter. He was evidently red and white eyes in  a antc rolngphi
acting under instructions from his employer.  "Wha i      yes    Dan-Bryantie style.
" Had I not just received a letter from my  " What is it? Out with it," cried Ashton.
brother, who has arrived at Washington, inform- you told me  lady  brother -Mres'r Elmer, as
ing me of his escape from Richmond, I should Richmond, and sent her, ha letter  got free hifrog
feel doubly thankful for your faithfulness in ton that lie was a comm' homeea   to-morrow. D
brmingig me this letter," said Fluta to Snowball, young missy was almost crying -morrow. De
" As it is, accept my thanks and a small remu- show me de letter, an said she didn't roy, and
neraton.lwfin'.for my letter now, 'cause he wa'scare nfom
And Fhita took a twenty-dollar gold-piece de rebels. But she tanker me besy cae from
from her purse, and handed it to the negro.  same, and make me lily present.' ucallde
"Mars'r Elmer scared , did you say, missy ?"  "Pedition  a   e  pset
exclaimed the man, as he clutched te yellow  escaped "i  Can it be possib e that he has
gold.,eo                                     scpd? said Ashton, in great agitation.
"l Yes ; and he will be here to-morrow."   o"Yes, Mars'r Cap'n--I sure ;for de sarvant
"IDe Lor'! Well, now, if dat doesn't beat her  afletIerfr saw de lady, dat he he'd brought
possum hunting' in a gum swamp. How'd be And den when I wendpstinee rais' da minute,
git away from dem mean white folks, missy 2"  she was wid her sick father, srlnd wamwhere
"I don't know vet. I have just received a  erain' for joy wid de letter in her lly white
letter from him in Washington."             hand. She read de letter I carried lher,
"Ki--yi ! Isn't dis ole nigger glad?  Mars'r thought it was writ by Mrs'r Elmer, band
Elmer was berry good to dis oe nigger, and n dw didn't ea  rnin' for t-fordmoe  but se
de Lor' has 'membered hzim in is trouble    fine  caen.' o        t-frd     ne dat come
Gde ebening, 'mismb-d h     nin' his t  le. fust nas de one at took her eye. I spec' 'cause
Good evening, missygood ebenin', ole mars'r." it was writ last, and said lie #s a comin'home."
And  nowbll vnishd.               I must alter my plan," said Ashiton, thought-
CHAPTER     XI                 fully. "It will not do to await his return. She
InAPTER a e eIlrmust be got on board the 'Rattlesnake' to-
In a little groggery of very evil repute, in night, by some means."               t
Ann street, there were several persons whom we  "Yo take a heap o' trouble for o
have met before. They were there at the very casting "aeid Mr. Anagpe.    woulne woman,
moment when Snowhell was delivering a forged macli for a sleigh-load of the crtulrs. Thke're
lett r to Fluta Winchest er'. With six of them  nothing' but a bother, anyway.  I'drt hercyry
--tall, muscular men in 'sailor's rig, who were two ie-nggers than one she-one, when carry
smoking in the front bar-room, and taking a sip the-regular trade. Hadn't you better let this
of hot grog from tumblers before them-we thing slide for awhile, till We've made or  t-
have nothing to do at present.              nal fortunes, ad the, tale'emd     urtar-
But there are two persons in the private up easy."           en maybe you can buy her
room, back of the bar-room, whom we may as    "Mr. Snagg," said Aton, severely.
well visit. A pitcher of hot whiskvp -nchy is on you know nothing of my reasons for wishAs
the greasy-looking table between them, one this lady in my   o, I will ese       iing
smokes a cigar, the other whiffs a pipe. One is tineue ofyom power, B excuse the imper -
Willam  shtn, n arouh plo  h Oe i tienc ofyour advice. But repeat it, and you
William Aton, in a rough pilot-cloth over- will sail on a different course from me. I'm in
coat, and coarse hoots and pants-his dark hair no humor to be trifled with to-night."
hidden by a red wig, and his face shaded by a "I reckon not ; didn't mean no harm," said
slouched hat.                               Snaggs, rather sulkily.
Theother is IchaMd Snaggs, Esq., who has vol- And he filled up a class of punch, and drank
nteered to help Mi-. Ashto in his night's "ork, it off at a draught. Then he refilled his pipe
so that lie can get into the secret of the "pri- and began smoking again.
vate business" which brought him to Boston.   "You said the lady's father was sick," said
"Itis imetha Snwbal ws  ack ,lhe has Ashaton to Snowball.

F .
! s f
f
~
#

i


THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

.x
s .
}}[[ '4
}' 
',,'
F_,

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

39

" Yes, sali! He was down wid de rheumatiz,  " I hope so," said Mr. Snaggs. " I don't like
de servants say, so he couldn't walk nor help Boston quite as much now as I once did. If we
himself."                                  should get caught here, I'm afeared we might
"All the better for my plan," muttered Ash- stretch hemp in an onnateral way."
ton.   I think I can, with a couple of men,  "No danger of our being caught," said Ash-
manage the affair easy enough. Steward, call ton, with a dry laugh. " But here comes Grum-
od Grummett in here."   g                mett with some more punch and the edibles.
"Who is dat, sireIs it de keener of dis mag- Fall to, Snaggs ; don't let the grub suffer for a
nificus hotel?"                            customer. By-the-way, Mr. Grummett, see that
"nYes, you black imp! You'll probably find my men have supper, and as much grog as they
him behind the bar. Take that, and gt some- need ; but they mustn't take enough to get over
thing to warm your gizzard with." '-      the bay."
And Ashton tossed the negro a piece of gold.  "I'll see to that, sir," said the landlord, de-
The latter grinned his thanks, and hastened to positing his well-filled tray on the table.
summon the landlord.                                      IATIXI.
The latter soon came ; and a villainous-looking       CHAPTER XXII.
specimen he was.                             Mr. Snaggs had got quite comfortable and
"Wanthme, sir '" he asked, while his little chatty by eleven o'clock at night. Not in the
gray eyes twinkled out from under his overhang- least inebriated-for liquor never flew to his
ing brows, Jike a snake's eyes peeping from head ; it only "soaked in," he said, no matter
under a weather-beaten rock,               how much he drank. Ashton was, on the con,
"uYes, Mr. Grummett," said Ashton. " Do trary, rather nervous. And well he might be.
you know of any carriage-driver with no num- The project of abducting , young lady forcibly
er on his hack, who can ado a delicate piece of from her home, in the midst of a populous and
driving for me, anod ask no questions, answer police-guarded city, had enough of danger in it
none but such as I ask him, and obey orders to f'on the civil hand of legal power. But as a
the very letter, if I pay him well?"        rebel, if taken, the hangman's knot was tied for
"Yes, sir; I know such a man. I've a son him; for his piratical captures and vocations
in the livery business," said Mr. Grummett.  were too well known to admit of his hoping to
"If you will have him and his carriage here" escape the penalties therefor.
at eleven o'clock, which will be in two hours, you The clock had just struck eleven, when Mr.
will e twenty ollrs richer than you are now. Grummett introduced "a chip of the old block."
And if yor son doesa is duty faithfully and  Mr. Grummett, junior, was more fancifully
successfully, he shiallI have a cool hundred. And dressed than his father. h~e wore a gold guard
there is an extra twenty for our entertainment chain to his silver watch, large enough to have
here o-niht."securely held the crop-eared, no-tailed, red-eyed,
And Ashton.tossed the landlord the money.  sharp-fanged bull-dog, which followed closely at
Mr. Snaggs sighed. Hle thought that Mr. his heels, exhibiting his teeth, and a disposition
Ashton was altogether too liberal. But  e did to take a lunch out of the first leg in its vicinity;
not say so; for he had been frozen into silence a short shad-bellied coat ; very tight browsers,
by the rebuke which he had received.       tuchkcd into his boots ; a gay-colored plaid vest ;
"I'll have him here, sir, to the minute," said a facy neck-tie over a standing shirt-collar; a
the landlord. "Anything else, sir?"        hug breast-pin, and a wide-awake hat, made up
" Yes ; a fresh pitcher of punch, and some the costume of Grummett, Junior. his hair was
bread and cheese ; oysters, or lobster, if you cut as close to his round bullet-head as it could
have them."                                be. In otea huge hand lie held his hat ; in the
"We have them all, sir. I'll attend to that, other, his coach-whip. His face was rather more
and then I'll go for the carriage, sir."   pugnacious, and not- quite so well filled out as
"Very well. Come, Snaggs, old friend, don't that of his father, but the same keen little eyes
get the mumps. F    ,l up your glas. I spoke -the same sharp nose, the same bull neck, and
rather hastily a moment ago, but I was annoyed coarse, sensual mouth made up a "family
at the news I received."                   semblance."
"It's all right, capting," said Snaggs, bright-  "here's my hopeful, sir !" said Mr. Grum-
ening up. "I was a leetle too forward, and got mett, to Ash-on. "And hisdhack is at the door
what I desarved. You needn't think but what  Grummett, Junior, added his word :
I'llstick to you through thick and thin, till the  "The losses are prime, sir-good for three
burnin'lake o'brimstun down below freezes over." minutes on the road; and thcie's not a gal on the
"I know it, Snaggs-I know it. You're a west side that don't g~o into fits about my cur-
little curious in your ways, but sound at heart tains and cushions! Keep still, Yankee !"
as a block of granite. Fill up'I'll have the proud  "I wasn't sayin' nothia' !" said Mr. Snaggs,
beauty aboard by one o'clock, and we'll be at with an imdignant look.  -
sea before the sun shines on the white sands of  "I wasn't talking' to you, sir !" said young
Cse Cod."                                 Grummett. "I spoke to my dog here-Yankee

of ,

t
X
}Y
q fq
P!

Sullivan ; 'cause he looked as if he was goin' to
take a nip out of our legs! lHe does them sort
o' things sometimes, and I have to keep watch
of him !"
"What dye have such an ugly cuss about
you for ?" said Mr. Snaggs, drawing in his
lengthy legs, which, so far as flesh was concern-
ed, did not present a very inviting appearance.
Just to take care o' me and my tosses. That
dog can whip a dozen men. I'll muzzle him,
and then he'll claw you to death !"
You needn't tryit!" said Mr. Snaggs. "I'm
s not fond of dogs."
"Well, cap'n, what is it that you want me to
do? I want to handle that hundred the old
man has been telling me about!" said the hack-
man, turning to Ashton.
"I shall put two men inside of your carriage,"
said Ashton, "and ride with you on the box, my-
self; till we arrive at the house, where I shall
direct you to stop. When I get there, I shall
manage in some way to get a young lady into
tthe carriage : the moment she is in, I wish you
to drive with all speed to the foot of the fourth
wharf below the Long Wharf. When you get
there, where my boat is, your work will be done,
and all you will have to do is, to get back to
your stable without letting any one know what
business you have been on. Here are fifty dol-
mars now-the other fifty shall be handed to you
the moment your job is done !"

88

F
a
4
1
,F
3
1
t
i
1
'S
{
.t

ter get worse, the ring was speedily answered.
And in a moment after , the servant cane to her
and said that a gentleman who had an import-
ant message fryom Lieutenant Winchester in
Washington, wished to see her for a moment
only, at the door.
Flut   e er for an instant thinking of'impru-
dence or wfong, threw a shawl over her shoul-
ders, and hastened to the door, with a lamp in
her hand. The door was open, and a man ap-
peared on the threshold as she advanced. A
sudden gust of wind blew out the lamp, which
she carried, and at the same instant, as she saw
that a carriage was at the door, a pair of strong
armsaencircled her, and a well-known but now
hated voice, hissed in her ear :
" Fluta Winchester, you are mine !"
She gave one piercing shriek-no more ; for
her shawl was instantly thrust in her mouth, and
in another moment she was in the carriage,
which drove off at a fearfully-rapid pace.
The servant who had followed her, heard the
words he had spoken, and even recognized the
voice of Willia Ashton. Rie sprung forward
to rescue his lady; lhut he was struck down by
one of Ashton's ruffians ; and when he recovered
his feet, the carriage was gone.
He instantly alarmed the household, and ran
to alarm the police. But, alas ! it was too late
Fluta was gone.

"That's clever. Like such jobs. If anybody          CHAPTER XXIII.
goes for to bother us, Yankee Sullivan will go  When Mr. Snaggs with his party of five
in! He's great! lHe knows there's something' reached the rather obscure whaif where their
up! Sec his eyes snap ! He'd wag his tail, if boat had been left, he was exceedingly amazed
he had one !"                              to find a man standing near there it was moor-
"Am I to go with you, capting ?" asked Mr. ed. That this person was either a watchman o
Snnggs.a Custom-House officer lie had no doubt. For no
"No-I shall only take Vet Baldwin and Al other person would be standing around, in such
Dunning. They're two of my hardest cases, just a stormy night, merely for amusement. It was
fit for such work. You will go down to the so dark that hie could not distinguish the face or
boat with Snowball, and the other four men, and complexion of thedstranger; and well was it for
he ready to shove off as soon as I come !"  him that features could not be recognized in the
Mr.i naggs sighed, le wanted to have a gloom--for, in a moment after, he was addressed
finger in the whole pie. Bunt his sighs and dole- by a voice, and in a brogue which he instantly
fil looks remained unnoticed by Ashton, who, recognized to be that of his cidevant mate Mr
after losing to the caps of his pistols, told the Pat Murdock.
younger Grummett that lie was ready.         "It's a lousy night, we're havin' !" said Mr.
Going into the outer room, he beckoned two Murdock, by way of opening a conversation.
black-muzzled, ill-looking  desperadoes from  Mr. Snaggs was so taken aback by the un-
among his crew, and with them and the hack- expected rencontre that he made no reply, but
man went out.                              hurriedly formed a plan of action.
It ws telvethehourof  idniht  lut "Blows like an ould woman on washim'-day,
It was twelve-the hour of midnight. Fluta when the wather' could and the soap lost !" con-
Winchester, by the aid of soothing lotions and tinned Mr. Murdock.
powerful opiates, prescribed by his physicians,  "Yaw! It plows like der tuyvel !" said Mr.
bad just succeeded in getting her father calmed Snaggs, in a disguised voice, aiid with a pretty
into slumber ; and she was about to seek repose good Teutonic accent.y
herself on a sofa, in a room which adjoined his  "Dutch, eb?  Which way arc ye bound '
bed-chamber, when a hurried ring of the hall- continuel Mi'. Murdock. yar3ebod
door hell fell on her startled ear.          "What's dat to you, mynheer ?" ask'
As a servant had been kept on watch, ready Snaggs.
to summon the physician, should Mr. Winches-  "It mightn't be much - and then after air

r°
=
_
-

h
i
i
1
I
t


JI}
.,
{
3-

THE RATTLESNAKE; OIL, TIL RTBEL PIUATEL.

again it might !" said Mr. Murdock." "I'm a himself, and it was very cold, though the rainr
United States Deputy Marshall, Mister Dutch- had ceased. And all the better for him that it
men, and make it my business to see what's going' was so; for the blood in a nasty scalp-wound
on around me in these thunderin' times o' war !" had congealed, so as to stop flowing. ihe ball
" Yaw-yaw-I see !" said Snaggs.          from Ashton's pistol had struck his forehead at
"Then you've got better ey es that 1 have ; for the root of his front hair, and glancing on the
it's divilish little I can see wiikit' I light a bit thick skull, had torn up the skin to the crown
of a lantern I have wid me !' said L:. Murdock. of his head, completely stunning him, and cut-
" What vessel do you belong to ?"           ting enough small veins to let out a large quan-
".Der Katrine, from Rotterdam !" said Snaggs. tity of blood.
" We waits here mit a poat for der captain, he  His lantern still burned brightly near him ;
comes mit his fraud 'fore long ! Dere he comes but no carriage, boat, or person was in sight.
now, I dinks ! Yaw, dere is a carriage coming'  " Is it kilt, I am ?" asked Pat of himself, as he
down der wharf. Yump in der point, poys, und looked at the blood which covered the front
pe ready for der captain !"                 part of his person. " Murthered, and by a
The men obeyed ; and Snaggs went a few steps bloody rebel !" lie added, as he felt of the bullet-
up the wharf in order, if possible, to warn Ash- wound on the top of his head. "I wonder if a
ton of the position of Mur lck.             wee drap o' whisky wouldn't bring me to life
The carriage was driven furiously to the end again ?"
of the wharf. When it stopped, Ashton sprang  And feeling in his coat-pocket, he produced
from the carriage, and, with the assistance of his a flask, from which he took a hearty draught.
two men, lifted Fluta out of the carriage. She "Be the howly rock o' Moses, I feel better.
had fainted away ; and he had removed the That medicine is a hape better than Brandreth s
shawl from her mouth, for fear of suffocating her. pills, or Ayers' Sparsarilla ! I wonder where
But the cold wind and a dash of sleety rain in ould Snaggs has gone, and the rebel leftenant,
her face, in an instant revived her, and realizing and the angel he was a carryin' off-bad luck to
her situation, she shrieked:                him! Their privateeriu' pirate must be close
"Help- help ! Oh, save me !"             by. If my legs aren't worse kilt than the thick
"That's not Dutch, he jabers !" shouted a head of me, I must be off to the marshal's, to
manly voice; and the next mnatant the light of a report. Let me s'arch my mem'rv-box ! It was
powerful reflecting lantern, such as is often used the leftenant that shoved his pistol in the face o'
by pobce and revenue officers, threw its rays full me, and fired it off-the-brother to Cain, that he
on the party.                               was! And be jabers, there's the red wig he
"Where's lIfe boat, Snaggs-eurse it! where's wore, and the ould hat! Andi  re's a lady's
the boat ?" cried Ashton.                   handkerchief, wid lace all round. i. etiges-and
"The divil, it's ould Snaggs and the rebel a name on it. Blessed be old l.tiiwr Bowan for
captain !" cried Murdock, as Fluta in her strug- tacking me to trade. Miss Fluta Winchester, 1- !
gles tore the wig and hat from Ashton's hen I. Nineteen ! that means her age, I s'pose ! Well
"Surrender every divil of ye-it's surrounded she looked that, and as purty as a pink ; and I'd
ye are !"                                   h've saved her if I hadn't been kilt !"
And Pat rushed forward with a heavy shillelah  And having picked up the articles which he
in his hand,                                alluded to, and stowed them in his capacious
"Curse you, take that for your interfeence !" pockets, Mr. Murdock staggered to his feet. Feel-
cried Ashiton, as he drew a pistol, and fired it at ing still very weak, he took another dose of his
poor Pa s head. The honest Irishman fell like medicine.
a log on the wharf.                           "Aisy rest to the sowl of him that invented
'I reckon you've settled that Micky !"said whisky !" said Pat, taking a long hr ath after his
the hacknan, as he coolly picked up the lantern, draught. "It is warmin' the life into me again !
and noticed that a stream of dark purple was Now for the marshal's."
gushing from the forehead of the fallen man.
"I'll take that fifty, and be out of this afore some
policeman gets woke up !"                           .   CHAPTER XXIV.
Ashton, who had thrust the shawl gain into  The United States Marshal was awakened
the poor girl's mouth, handed the hackman fifty from pleasant dreams by his better half, who
dollars ; and then bearing his fair victim into the shaking him, roughly, said :
boat, ordered his crew to shove off, and take to  "Ebenezer! Ebenezer! Don't you hear the
their oars,                                 front-door bell ringing?  There must be fire,
At the same moment, the Junior Grummet set robbery, or murder going on ! Do get up and
the lantern down on the wharf, and turning his see what is the matter. Whoever is at the door
hack by the light, drove off at full speed.  will pull the bell down! There, lie is knocking
with a club too. It must be a policeman !"
How long Pat Murdock lay there, lie knew    The drowsy marshal heard the clatter. He
not. But it was still dark when he came to couldn't well help it, without being a&amp; deaf as a

(0

.f?

G
to
is
z
ro

6L

y{
11111111E
f k
w

i


THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER,    43

stone. Hurrying-on his pantaloons, he lighted  "And where
a lamp, seize a revolver, and hurried dowa to dock. "Sure 1
the street-door. ra opening it, a face cov- "Not now-n
ered with blood met his astonished gaze. Hold- marshal. "Yo
ing his pistol at a present, he cried:     surgeon, and af
"What do you want here ? Who are you?2" take a little rest
" Be afther psointini' that pistol another way, room is fixed fo
Mr. Marshal !" cried Murdock." I know I've a when I come t
thick head, ant I don't want to be kilt twice on must obey o'de
the same night "                            all right after b
" What, Deputy Murdock, is it you-?"     search aft  r this
"All that's left of me mother's only son, Bir !" " Well sir, b
Bald Pat.     ." There coin
'What is the matter with you? come in. Good washbowl of wa
heavens,,you are all a gore of blood !"     three or four t
" Faith I am that, sir ! And why shouldn't doctor, Murdoc
I be, with a pistol-ball plowing a finger's-depth  And the kin
in the top o' my head. If I'd been a gintleman telling the doc
and thin-skulled, Pat Murdock would have been he met him in
-                                                                        in purgatory no0w !"  ,do all he could
" rho hurt you ?" asked the marshal, as he
ushered Patrick into his parlor, and at once cx-        (
amined the wound, as well as he could.        When the m
'That rebel leftenant that went to sea in would Ar. Winchester
Snagg's brig, sir !"                       state of terrible
Have you seen him to-night ?"           was almost in a
" Faith I have-and he has seen me; and here's police of the d
his mark !" said Pat, touching the ghastly gash were in attend
on his head.                               Every servant h
'-Wait till I call up the servants-I must send one could tell
for a doctor, and your wound must be washed, was the one w
and then I'll hear your story !" said the marshal. nd called Miss
In the meantime, go to the side-board there, From him the
and take a little stimulant-you need it. You at just half-past
have bled a great deal! The brandy and whis- doer; the bell
ky arc both marked. A little Bourbon will do gentlemanly m
you good !"                                 wards learned,
And the marshal hurried away, to quiet the message which
alarm of his wife and to call his servants.  door. Then, w
When he returned, he found Murdock quite chester, you are
comfortable, and asked him to relate his story. of Ashton, who
This the honest Ir-ishiman did, telling neither often admitted
more nor less than had occurr-ed.          him. IHe spra
"Finta Winchester abd ucted !" said the marsh- hut was knock
al, as he looked at the handkerchief, and asked his feet and sen
Murdock to describe the lady he had seen as the lady undou
well as lie could. ,Thin servant'
" id you know the lady, sir ?" asked Mur- with its finale, b
dock, after lie had finished.                The marshal
' Yes-and her father well! He is one of the Winchester. H
sureties on my bona. This outrage will arouse with messages,t
the town ! '11e wind blows a gale from the aid in the capt
north-east-does it not?"                   Winchester that
It does, sir"                           ing his caught
"Then if this villain is in the harbor with his doctor.
privateer, it will be hard for him to get an offing  But the poo
-will it not ?"           -           .   comforted. " F
" Yes, sir."                             moaned continue
"Then he may be caught. It is almost day- would be here.
light. I will send expresses to the forts, the childless
revenue-cutters, and the navy-yards. And I   And helpless
will go instantly to Mr. Winchester's house, to The marshal
b        it is
iI

I

shall I go to, sir ?" asked Mur-
''m ready for duty !"
ot now, my good man !" said the
ur wound must be dressed by the
ter that you must lie down and
t. My wife will see that a bed-
r you, and I'll have you woke
o breakfast ! No words - you
rs, my brave fellow. You'll be
reakfast, and then we'll have a
rebel !"
e it as you plaze."
es the doctor. Jane, bring a
rm water, some Castile soap, and
owels. I'll leave you with the
k. Take good care of yourself."
d-hearted marshal hurried out,
tor the circumstances briefly as
the hall, and requesting him to
for the wounded man.
IIAPTER XXV.
arshal i-eached the residence of
, ie found 'the household in a
confusion. The old gentleman
state of raving madness. The
district had been aroused, and
nce when they could do no good
ad a'different tale to tell. But
a straightforward story. That
ho had answered the door-bell,
Winchester.
marshal gleaned the facts : that
eleven a carriage stopped at the
was rung, and he answered it; a
an in address, but, as lie after-
in a disguisedivoice, sent the
brought Miss Winchester to the
hen the moan said: "Fluta Win-
mine !" he recognized the voice
m lie well knew ; for he had
him before, and waited upon
ig forward to aid his mistress,
ed down. Before he recovered
sea, the carriage was gone, and
btedly in it.
s story was coherent, and tallied
y Murdock.
now endeavored to soothe Mr.
Ie sent policemen and others
o arouse all who could officially
ure of the rebels, and told Mr.
he felt perfectly sure of rescu-
er, and capturing her vile ab-
r old gentleman would not be
luta is lost-Fluta is lost !" lie
wally. "Elmer is dead, or he
Both gone-both gone! I am
as a child, he wept like one.
sent for the regular physician
nced nurse ; and when they ar-


0

X3'4
7t
ti
{k  3
t    k
g     ' °

°
.
'   -
t-
{,      -
g
r
g  '.tt  s
,

TIIE tATTLEQNAlE; OR, TliE REBEL PIVATERR,

rived, he hurried away to arouse all his depu- and tell Mr. Snaggs to call all hands, to up an
ties and himself, to aid in the chase of the vil- chor."
lainous captain of the " Rattlesnake.' He soon  " Ay, ay, sir !"
had time satisfaction to know that two revenue "And tell him that I'll be on deck in a few
cutters had got under way in five minutes after moments. The topsails must be double-reefed
his message reached their captains, and also re- before we try to set them."
ceived an invitation to go down the bay in a   " Yes, sir.'
United States steam-gunboat, which would have  And the youngster went on deck, whistling a
steam up and be ready for sea in the course of gay air as he moved from the cabin.
two hours.                                     " O my God ! where am    I ?' moaned noor
This gave him just time to get home and get Fluta, as, revived by a sip of wine, and the other
his breakfast, and to see how Murdock got along ; stimulants used by the doctor, she so far recov-
for he at once sent word that he would go out ered herself as to be able to speak.
in the gunboat.                                Ashton stepped back from View before she
could see him, and at the same time motioned
When William   Ashton reached his vessel, to the doctor to answer her.
after a pull of several hours, in the teeth of a  " You are in a place of safety, fair young
terrible gale. it was almost morning. He had woman !" said he. " Yon are ill,'but in no sort
anchored in a little cove inhe Lover Bay, be- of danger. Beli-ve me, caebus est! But you
jpnd the reach of the rans of the harbor de- must be quiet. hysteria, the fever, will inter-
fences, and hadI, in consequence, a long pull in vene !"
his boat. Fluta Winchester had relapsed into a  "Where--where am I?    Am I dreaming ?
State of insensibility, when he fired his pistol, Where is Ashton ?-where is the villain ' O
as he supposed, with fatal effect, at Murdock ; my poor father !"
and she exhibited no signs of re-animation when  " You must be quiet, lady, or you will be much
he reached the vessel. Getting her on board, worse !" urged the doctor.   Pray take this
with the aid of his men, he bore her into his glass of wine : it will steady your n'er' es
own state-room, and bade Snowball arouse       And he handed her a glass of wine, into which
Doctor Umbilicus at once.                    he had dropped a powerful opiate. Its effect
That worthy soon came, in a shabby dressing- was almost magical. In a few moments, she
gown ; and his eyes opened unusually wide slept.
when he saw the beautiful patient before him.  " Mr. Snaggs wants you on deck right away,
He felt her pulse, and shook his head.     sir !" said Frank Rutherford, coming down at
Bad ease, captain - bad case!    Expcrto this moment. "lIe says the gale is blowing
crede !  Hysteria now - fever will intervene! everything up by by the roots, and lie's afraid.
Snowball, a hand-lasin here. I oust open a we can't carry sail !"
vein!  Pity, too, to scarify such in arm. I    " We must-we roust, if we lose half our
will try aqua ammonia 1i the nostrils, and bathe spars !" cried Ashton, hurrying on deck.
the temples with spiritus camphore."
And the doctor hurried away, to get the spir-          CHAPTER XXVI.
its of hartshorn and camphor.                  When Ashton reached tihe dick, he found that
Hadn't you better get a little assafmdita, the gale had increased terribly.  The whole
also, learned doctor?" asked Master Frank Ruth- crew were on the topsail yards, struggling to
erford, in a snecring tone, as lie gazed at the in- double-reef the topsails ; amd time vessel tugged
sensible lady in a coil mind heartless way.  at her best bower anchor as if she would tear the
Yes, for on, most inmpjiudent youngster !" foremast out, around which the chain cable was
said the doctor. " What do von know about shackled.
hysteria, or time febrile system 5'           The canvas flapped with asound like thunder,
About as much is you do about algebra, the wind screamed through the rigging; the
doctor. But look! your patient is opening her spray drove blindingly into the eyes ofthose
eyes! By Jove ! she's mood-looking -only a who looked to windward, amd drenched every-
little white under the gills. If time captain will thing on deck.  1
only give me half a chance, I'll fall in love with  Mr. Snaggs got to windward-: and, approach-
her myself, and cut him out !"               ing his mouth to Ashton's ear, slionted-
"Time captain will box your ears for you if  " We're going to hive a tarim mard time in
you make many more such remarks I" said Ash- gettin' out of here, capting ! Tie wind is right
ton, who mad been to the wine-licker for some in our teeth !"
wine, by the request of the doctor.            " How is the tide ?" asked Ashton.
" Then I should call the captain out, and    " On time turn now ; it will be ebbing in a few
Doctor Umblicus might have another case on minutes," replied Snaggs.
band I" said time saucy middt-.                " That, at least, is in our favor !" said Ash-
You are  ettinig rather too fast, young man," ton, buttoning his pea-jacket close about him,
Said Ashton, trying to look stern. "Go omm dek. and taking his trumpet from the binnacle, "Mr.

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR,
Rutherford," he continued, seeing that young  l
gentleman iear him, "you will favor me by
staying below, and assisting the doctor in tht
care of that young lady. She is not to be per-
mitted to leave h2r state-room ; but furnish her
with refreshments, and cheer her up as well as
you can. I cannot go below until we have an
offi g, and are clear of This rock-bound coast."
Tnie middy disappeared down the coinpanion-
way ; aid the men having succeeded in reefing
the topsails, caimo below, and loosened the fore-
storm-staysail and-the spmnker.
All hands to the capstan now !" shouted
Ashbtn  through his trumpet. " Mr. Snaggs,
ta'te the helm, and heave it hard a-port when
she gets sternway. Round with the calistan,
my hearty ina.    See the fore-storm-sta'sail
ready for hoisting when she veers to the wind."
The crew worked with a-will ; for they knew it
would be grog-time when the anchor was on the
bows, and the thought exhilarated them. Soon
the cry :'" She's short, sir !" was uttered by the
b atswain. Then, in a moment: " She's broke
ground, sir !" caine shrilly aft on the breath of
the gale.
Snaggs shifted the helm, for the vessel was
making stern-hoard. Her bow veered away to
port ; and, a moment after, Ashtou shouted :
" Hoist away the fore-storm, staysail and haul
the sheet to wimdward."-
By the time that sail was set, the boatswain
piped to the men i)to pall time capstan, and shout-
ed : "Anchor's up, sir!
Very well   Man the topsail halhiards and
sheets ; haul out time spanker. Sheet home and
hoist the topsails. Slack the weather-braces-
in with the lee ones."
Rapidly the well drilled crew obeyed each or-
der ; and soon the vessel, gathering headway,
shot out from the smooth water of the little
cove into tme heavy sea i of the bay beyond.
The close-reefed topsails, spanker, and -storm-
staysail only were upon her, yet she heeled over
until her le-rail almost touched the water, and
she threw the white foam high above her bows.
The red sun was struggling its way up amidst
a mass of black, swift-drivming, ragged clouds,
and upon every side the white-caps crested the
surgimg waves.
The first tack of the vessel threw her bows
rather up the harbor, and made her course tend
toward one of mime island-forts which was erected
to defend time entrance of the port.
And from  this fort, when Ashton threw his
vessel into stays to go on the other tack, he
learned that his character was suspected, if not
known. For one of its heavy ten-inch guns sent'
a shot after him, which did not fall more than a
able's length short of him. Another came still
nmearr ; bmt by that time time vessel had got head-
way n time other tack, anil i a few moments
she was out of reach of any missile from the
fe t.

THE REBEL PRIVATEER.                       45
But Ashton now saw, on looking up the har-
bor with his glass, that two revenue-cutters were
under way, beating down the harbor with all the
canvas that they could carry. And a dense,
black smoke, rising from the Charleston Navy
Yard, told him that a steamer was firing up.
4 The hounds have got our scent," he mutter-
ed, scornfully.  " I'll show them  my colors, at
any rate, for they evidently know Imc."
And with his own hands, he hoisted the rebel
rag at the gaff. After he had done this, he or-
dered the crew to loose and sheet home the
mainsail, for one of the cutters was evidently
gaining upon him.
" I know the craft," he muttered. "It is
young Bennett's yacht-a volunteer cruiser. If
she comes under ani guns, she may lose some
of her fmncy-work."
The " Rattlesnake" now    had   moore, thian
enough wimd. Her hull creaked and groaned ;
her spars buckled like reeds in the gale. But
staunch and well rigged, she staggered on-
sometimes dipping her lee-rail, and often taking
in water over her brows.
The crew mow received their grog and break-
fast; and after that Ashton mmde them get all
the guns below    except the two pivot-guns,
'which could be used to lire on his pmisuelt.
For he saw that to escape he must trim his ves-
sel to time best advantage. lie dared not risk an
attack from  the cutters, though, better armed
and manned, lie could have silenced tiems-for
ho feared the loss of soicm of his spars, which
would disable him  amid enable the steamer to
come up with him.
ie stood on his second tack as long as he
could, until he was close in shore-for it was his
best "leg," leading more semwardly than the
other. But at last lie was obliged to go about ;
and then, as lie ran nearly broadside to the
course of the leading cutter, which yas making
the " long board,'' ie saw tiat her gain was ev-
ident and raid. In fect, when he hove about
on his next tack, she was so close that she tried
her bow-chaser on mhum.  lime shot fell a little
short.
"I thin  I can do better than that, Mr. J. G.
B. Juniomr, said Ashton, as lie sighted is after-
most pivot-a rifled Parrott gun that lie had got
from Richmond.
Ile fired, and a smile proclaimed his success.
IIe saw that his shot had pierced time ioresail of
the chase, and most likely done some other in-
jury, as she su idenly sho up into time wind, and
there seemed to. be some confusion on board.
'That was well phagged, captinug. 1c yom
going' to try her ag'in ' said Smaggs.
No ; firing only deaiens our headway. I
only wished to show him that we had better
metal aboard than he had," said Ashton.
'lme " Rattlesnake" now made a long reach ;
and as Ashton started time sheets a very little,
and told Snaggs to keep her a chean fill, she

I

k  f
t
q
t .
-.x
F  .

f
S,
f   y
d
s

44

s
t
t
3
_
f
f    t
{    i
.    i
p -(5 ,
;


46

TILE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, TIlE REBEL PRIVATEER.

gained on her pursuers considerably on this United States signals, the cutter soon told the
tack. Ashton did not stand quite so far in this commander of the frigate the character of the
time ; for, observing that the cutter was bend- vessel showing Dutch colors which he had pass-
ing a new foresail, and had gone on the other ed so carelessly. And, handled in magnificent
tack, he hove about, so as to gain a good posi- style, the frigate handed her top-gallant sails,
tion to windward for another stretch seawardly, rounded in her lee-braces, and came up on a
When he again went about, he looked to wind- wind with her larboard tacks aboard, in almost
ward of all the land on his Southern board ; as little time as it takes me to describe it.
and now giving his vessel a little more sheet,  The face of Ashton grew more and more anx-
he set the jib and foresail, and shook out the ious.
reefs in his main-topsail.                     " They mean to stand out at sea, so as to cut
" You beat all for carryin' sail, capting," said me off on my next tack," he muttered.
Snaggs, rather dubiously. "I'm a-mostafeared   "And they willtdo it if you tack,'' said Snaggs,
that mainmast can't carry such a load."      who looked almost as white as the canvas over-
" It must drag it, then," said Ashton. "Look head.
back at that smoke-cloud. One of the heavy     " We will not tack-we may as well go to
steam gunboats from the Navy Yard is after pieces on yonder reefs, as to be taken !" said
us !"                                        Ashton, desperately. " Take another man with
" Jumpin' Moses ! So she is. I haven't the you at the helm, Snaggs. Mr. Jones,' lie added,
least word to say agin your carryin'rsail, cap- addressing the second mate, 'have men at the
ting."                                       sheets and braces. I am going aloft to pick a
"Do you see that sail on-our lee-bow, sir ?" channel among the reefs ahead. Where it does
said the boatswain, coming aft to Ashton. "She's not brekl with this sea on, we can go clear."
just rounding the land, bound. in, and her rig  And, taking his trumpet with him, Ashton
looks square, and taunt enough for her to be a mounted to the fore-top sail yard.
man-o'-war."                                   The view from his lofty perch was startling,
Ashton hurried forward with his glass. He even to a man of nerve. Grand,.too, even to
glanced but once at the strange sail ; and then, sublimity.
hastening aft, he hauled down the Confederate  Ahead, and on the weather-bow, long ranges
flag, and hoisted the Dutch flag in its place.  of tremendous breakers. Here and there. their
"Is that a man-o'-war, capting?"    asked snowy whitenesss relieved by black patches of
Snaggs.                                      rock and narrow lanes of dark-blue water.
"Yes; and if she snuffs what we are while    On his lee-quarter, the gallant frigate, a cloud
she holds the weather-gage, she'll give us trou- of canvas and her black hull almost buried in
ble. Men, down below all but a dozen of you." the foam of her own creation. To leeward, but
The crew obeyed, and the vessel began to a little further, the rakish and beautiful cutters ;
wear more the appearance of a merchantman : while fast closing, belching forth a cloud of black
especially when she tacked with only a dozen smoke and jets of fog-like steam, came the gun-
men to work her.                      a      boat.
The stranger, a full, double-banked, American  Nearer and nearer to the terrible ledge, upon
frigate, came rapidly up the bay, not appearing  which many a good ship's bones have been shat.
to notice the rebels" and Ashton felt safe, if he tered, ran the rebel craft. The frigate-her corn-
could get beyond the reach of her guns before mander never dreaming of the hold attempt
the cutters could make her know what he really which Ashton was about to make -still held
was. Upon his starboard tack, lie now also her head to seaward, now foreresebsing so much
headed clear of the land ; but some dangerous that her commander felt sure of hei'ig ale to
reefs, and especially Minot's ledge, lay under head the bark off when she would be compelled
his bow, and he knew he must tack again before to heave about on the other tack.
he could get a clear lead to seaward.          "It's awful! Worse than time day of judg-
With anxious eye, he looked at the frigate, as ment!",said Snaggs, as lie looked ahead; for the
well in with the land she swept proudly up the mainsail was chewed up, and he lid :a fair view
bay before the wind--her sails all set, up to top- ahead.  "If we ain't drownded to-day, we'll
gallant sails, and the flag lie haid once loved live till we're hung ! The captimg is mnnin' us
proudly floating from her gaff. She had passed butt on to the light-house rock !"
his wake by a mile or more, and lie was full two  "Port-port hard !" shouted the captain from
miles more on his starboard tack, when the aloft.
nearest cutter, by firing guns and making sig-  "Port it is, sir !" was the reply. And the
nals, attracted the frigate's attention.    bark luffed up so as to clear time rock which had
"Too late-too late, my little bantam !" mut- so terrified Snaggs.
tered Ashton. "I shall'be far beyond the frig-  "There-steady, so !" now shouted time cap-
ate's range before she can shorten sail and come tain.
by the wind,"                                  " Steady, she goes, sir !"  And the vessel shot
Not very far, however; for, provided with in past the rock, just keeping cear of another

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR,

E
s
pEc
t
i
I
1
.9
2
gat
i
i-
.

- 3    ,
'
7
r)
,E
Y ~.

4

3I

on her right; and the next moment she wasI
threading her way through a narrow channel in-
side of a tremendous range of breakers which
hid everything else from the view of those on
deck.    ,
From his perch, Ashton could see a range of
breakers extending seaward as far as the eye
could reach. Put where his vessel was, the water
was, smoeth-though the channel was devious
and narrow, requiring a constant watch and
most rapid handling of both helm and braces.
)     But with smooth water and such a wind, she
made rapid headway, and her escape no longer
seemed an impossibility; for, long before the
frigate could weather the reef to windward, she
would be stretching away toward the islands off
the New Hampshire coast, and probably be out
of reach. For it was scarcely expectable that
either of the cutters or the steamer would at-
tempt the perilous path which she had taken.
For full an hour-perhaps nearer two of them
-the "Rattlesnake" dashed on, at times barely
clearing the jagged rocks on either hand, and
then she emerged into a clear sea. The reef
was still outside, but wide and clear water was
ahead, and Ashton came down from aloft.
The men, during all of the time of peril, had
remained silent - obeying the orders which
came from aloft with celerity, but hardly look-
ing at each other. the danger was so great. But
now, when the action of their skillful command-
er told them that the clanger was past, they burst
forth into three as hearty cheers as ever came
from the lips of men.
He acknowledged their feelings by a cheering
word or two, and sent a look-out aloft to keep
watch ; and, at the same time, had the fore and
mainsails set, and the mizzen gaff-topsail. For
he still felt the necessity of keeping the lead
which he had gained ; for he knew that his pur-
suers would not be likely to give up the chase
in a hurry.
"If hollering would do any good, I'd holler
myself hoarse to show how tarnation glad I am
to be out o' that scrape !" said Mr. Snaggs, now
resigning his station at the helm to the other
steersman. "If ever there was a marcy on
airth, 'twas when I met you, capting! I should
have gin up afore I'd- have dared to run the
craft where you did. There's not a pilot out o'
Boston would try it ! See ! them revenue cut-
ters has gone about on t'other tack, and the
steamer is heading right out for sea. They
think they can eut us off; but while they're
working out in the teeth of the hurricane, we're
running off full twelve or fourteen knots. on a
slack bow-line. We'll have 'em out of sight in
two or three hours !"
" Yes ; if the wind holds as it is. We've been
lucky," said Ashton.
CHAPTER XXVII.
When Frank Rutherford went below,in obedi-

THE REBEL PRIVATEER.                     47
L ence to the orders of Ashton, he found Doctor
Umbilicus watching over the sleeping form of
poor Fluta.
"Well, friend Sawbones, how does the demoi-
selle prosper ?" he cried.
"When you address me in my proper name,
Master Jackanapes, I may answer you!' said
the doctor, spitefully.
"You'd better take a turn with your jaw-
tackle," said the laughing youngster. "How
would you like me to tell the captain that I
caught you kissing this pet of his?"
"I should tell him that it was a base fabrica-
tion of yours."
"Pooh !--he'd believe my word against your
oath! But I won't tell of you, if you don't of
mc. Here goes for a kiss, any way !"
And-the audacious youngster actually bent his
face down and kissed the sleeping girl.
" Quae indecora!" said the doctor, raising his
hands in horror.
"Dont faint, doctor! The captain sent me
down here to help you take care of her, and I'm,
sure I'm doing it! She's asleep, and a kiss won't
hurt her. Now let's be friends. I'm going to
mix a sherry sangaree for myself. Shall I mix
a rum punch for you ?"
According to the "Pickwiek Papers," the Rev-
erend Mr. Stiggins had a "vanity."   It was
pine-apple runm, hot, with three lumps of sugar
in it-if my memory serves me ; for it is well on
to twenty years since I read the aforesaid "Pa-
pers."
And Doctor Umbilicus had a weakness. It was
Jamacia rum, cold, without much water, but with
plenty of sugar and lemon in it Therefore, in
reply to the youngster, he said, with an air of
forgiveness:
"You may mix me a punch, Mr. Rutherford,
if it is not too much trouble."
Frank mixed the punch; and as the doctor
smacked his lips over it, he inwardly forgave
the youth for his many annoyances.
" How long will she sleep, doctor ?" asked
Frank.
"Two or three hours, she will remain in a
somnolent state," said the doctor. "I gave her
an opiate to soothe her nerves."
"I believe I could sleep just now without an
opiate," said the youngster. "The vessel pitches
and rocks like a bird's-nest on a swinging limb.
I'll tumble down on the sofa here. doctor; and if
you need me, why call me-that's all."
And Frank threw himself on the sofa, and
soon was, apparently, sound asleep.
And as drowsiness is contagious, the doctor
leaned back with his head against the berth
where poor Fluta lay, and, opening his mouth,
closed his eyes. It was a peculiarity of his to
do this. Ile never could shut his eves without
opening hip mouth. And such a mouth! It ex-
tended from ear to ear, almost. Its teeth were
snaggy-in fact, the interior of his month looked

t
i


48

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, TIE REBEL PIVATI ER.

like a stumpy piece of badly-burned fallow- 'some . one' is, I'll give them  a dose th, y
ground                                       can't get rid of very easy on this side of tie
I related in a former chapter, how Snowball grave!h"
was so unfortunate as to get himself into " hot  And he gulped down a half-pitcher of water,
water" with the doctor, by scalding him. From  to cool the regions below.
that time forward the doctor ha1 hated the    During all thi time, Fluta remained asl'ep,
steward, and never lost an opportunity to annoy under the effect of the opiate ; and now Ashton
him.                                         closed the state-room door, and took a seat in
Now, it so happened that Snowball, coming the cabim outside.,
into the cabin after the doctor got asleep, saw  Tire doctor went into his own room to ad-
his position. And the deimon of misehief entered minister some soothing dose to hiiself, and
his woolly head. le looked at the opening for a Snaggs went on deck. Snowball aso vanished,
practical joke, grinned until his own read seemed with a satisfied grin -on his ebony face.
likely to split apart, and then departed. But, in  " What are you thinking of, Frank . asked
a moment he returned with a freshly-opened   Ashton, looking at the now quiet and really
bottle of pepper-sauce. Of this re poured bot serious face wich Ruterf    re.If I told the
away, he dashed the cup of fiery sauce into the truth 1 nught make you mad ; and I don't choose
doctor's open mouth. aind themi hurried forward to do that when I can help it. You are natu-
through his pantry and got on deck, where he rally cross enough without my adding to your
managed to mirake himsem seen by Captain Ash- ill-temper."
ton, just as a terrible yell---or, ratLher, a succes-  " Comrphmentary, as usual. But tell me your
sion of yells ani coughs-camie up from the thoughts, at any rate. I promise not to he
cabin. For the poor doctor was, at first, so angry. I am not im a bad humor at this time."
near stranrguiatiomn thrat lie could riot ell.  " Well, I was thinking, sir, what a foolish
The outcry was heard in the cabin, just at the thing it was for you to risk your life, your vessel,
moment when Snnggs left the helm, and when and all the lives of us on board, for such a
Ashton considered the vessel out of all danger,  worthless thing as a woman ! Have I not heard
Ashton at once rushed down into the cabin, you say a hundred times that you wouldn't give
followed from deck by Snaggs and Snowball.1 your little finger for all the women in the
He found the doctor, almost black in the face, world ?".
dancing up and down, holding his hands on his  "Yes; and so far as love istoncerned, I would
stomach and vielling at every jump, while Frank not!",   .d.t      .h       ,,?
Rutherford eas looking at him in astonishment.  "Then you don't hove this lady ."
"What is tC matter, doctor?" cried the cap-  "No--~far from  it! Once I thought I did.
tai.                                         But she scorned me for doing my duty ; and her
"Matter-matter?   I'm  poisoned - prussic brother grossly injured me."
acid-I feel it ,burning my throat up-and my   "Is it manly to be revenged upon a brother,
trails! O Lord   be merciful! - poisoned! through the helplessness of a sister ."
Oh!-a  ."                                    "Not exactly, Master Frank. But I have
A sudden fit of vomiting silenced the doctor sworn to humble this proud beauty, and at thick
for a momieit. Frank glanced at tme floor where same time to strike the brother a blow worse
tie doctor had east the contents of his stomach, than death i!"
and hurst ount laumghimg.                    " I'll bet a trigger you'll riot harm hier," said
And yin-ibut t  have done it!" yelled the Frank, coolly. " Let her get over what the
doctor, as lie git breath again, pointing to wise Doctor Umbilicus calls the hysteria, and
Frank, and shaking h s fist at him.       she'll rimng you such a tune that you'll be glad
Some one tins given you a dose of pepper- to go down on your knees, ask her pard  ud
sauce, doctor, bat it surely was not me !" said put her ashore.
Frank, shrowinig the doctor'the small West India  "Never !" said Ashton, yet laughiingl
peppers whiemne had eeted. " On my honor,    " Oh, you will !-I know you will! I rather'
I was asleepuntil you aroused me by your out- like the girl myself. Suppose, when she comes
cries !"                                     to herself, that you ask her if she wouldn't rather
"Then it was that black limb of Satan !" cried have a good-looking young chap like me, thati
the doctor, pointing to Snowball,            has never been crossed in love, than such a
"Me'? Fore de Lor', mars'r doctor, I was on cross-grained customer as you are ?'
deck when you holler. I prove it by Mars'r     " 0 you coxcomb ! Never crossed in love,
Ich'bod and de cap'n !" said Snowball, seriously. eli? Didn't you tell me, less than a week ag".
"Yes ; I saw Snowball forward before I heard that you loved somebody that didn't love you ?'
your outcry," said Ashton.                     "Did I?    Really I forgot. But, cap, just
"Well, some one has been pouring pepper- think of my proposal. I'll give you my Arbihinun
sauce down my throat while I slept !" growled horse Allah Bep, and a nigger to boot! I'll
the doctor. "And if ever I find out who that guarantee to cure the lady's hysterics, and have

TIIE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, TILE REBEL PRIVATEER.

49

,.
B
C.
3_.
a
,.
F_
_.
f   ".
6
i
t
t'  ,
t   '
\.
G --
F   
}
A

When the marshal reached the residence of
Mr. Winchester, and while he was in the act of
ringing the :bel, a carriage drove hastily up, and

carved andi iilde ceiling overleaud, swimmgin to
and fro witi the mriotion of the vess-t  a notion
which plainly told her that she was at sea. A
nausea, too, which she had before felt when tak-

I
ts

her singing to my guitar accompaniments in as its driver leaped from the box and opened
less than a week."                          the doorElmer Winchester stepped out.
"Your self-assurance is more than equal to  Seeing the marshal, whom he knew intimate-
your wit," said Ashton, with a laugh.  "But ly, as a frequent visitor to his father, he gayly
here comes Snowball, to set the dinner-table. cried ;
And Iu not sorry, for I've not broken my fast  " How are you, friend Eb? Anything new
since last eight "                          around ?"'
" Let me mix you a glass of punch," said    Lie evidently had not heard the news. The
Frank.                                       marshal knew not how to tell it. lie mechani-
"eDo so, if ou like."                      eally returned the warm shake of imer's hand,
The doctor, having taken to something and said
stronger, will ignore punch after this, I expect,"  "Your father is down very bad with th
said Frank,._                                rheumatism."
"Hell mix something stronger for the pepper-  " Ah, indeed . Well, sister Fluta is an excel
sauce physician, when lie finds out who he is !" lent nurse, and here I am with a month's fur-
growled the doctor, coming from his state-room. lough to help her !"
The servant, answering the bell, at this mo-
ment opeired the door. ils face was as pale as
CHAPTER XXVIII.                  snow ashe started back, exclaiming:s
It was night again in Boston. Though the rev-  "My God! It is the young master i"
cane cutters and the frigate had still kept on in  "Why, what is the matter, John ?  You don't
crase of the audacious privateer-although with take me for a ghost---do you ?" cried Elmer, as-
but little ehnce of success, for, when last seen tonished at the servant's manner.
from the steamer, she was almost out of sight to "Haven't you told him, sir ?" asked John of
windward-tlhe steam gunboat was obliged to re- the marshal, not heeding Elmer's words.
turn under canvas, in consequence of breaking  The marshal shook his head.
son of her machinery.                         Told what ? In the name of heaven speak
And this was much to the regret of the mar- out !" cried Emer. " Is any body dead :'
shial, who, at one tnime, when the frigate tacked  ' " Worse than that !" sobbed Jlohn.  That
and stood out, felt sure that the privateer had villain, Captain Ashton, has carried Miss Fluta
no chance of escape. For she was fully recog  off to sea, and your father is raving crazy"
nized, i spite of her paint and temporary brirk  Elmer Winchester stood and looked at John
rig, by Mr, Mardock, who was even more wroth and the marshal one instant-then, pressing his
than the marshal when the vessel ventured a hand upon his forehead, he uttered a low nmoan,
passage which the pilot of the steamer dared and, staggering forward, fell senseless upon the
not follow.                                  hall floor.
"He the howly rock o' Moses, I'd give a      "Great heavens! the news has killed him !"
year's hard earnings to have my four fingers cried the marshal.= "lun for a light, and send
howld of the bloody rebel's neck a minute !" servants for a doctor
said Mr. Murdock. " Divil the bit would I let "The doctor is up-stairs with the old gentle-
go till lie hollered 'enough'! and I'd eboke man," said John.
hill so tight that hqG couldn't spak~e -"     "bTe c'
hu  otih  in  i    .onl .sae.           " Then call him instantly. and he creflriot
Iut regrets were runavailirg. The steamer to let Mr. Winchester know yet that his un is
was obliged to return'; and as Mr. Murdock and here
the marshal were passengers, of course they    While the servant was gone, the marshal lifted
hard to conic as they venrt,                the insensible for'ii of poor Elrier up, arid carried
I wish you'd go to my house and stay to- it to a sofa in tre parlor.
night, Murrdock," said the marshal. "I may     In a few moments the doctor caine wit h a light.
want you before morning."                      Blood was oozing from Elner's mouth.
"Yes, o s i! And are you not going home     ' IHe has brokena blood-vessel," said the doe
yourself-                                    tor. "lIe needs great care, or it will go hard
"No; not just yet. Say to my wife that I with him."
have gone to see  Mr. Winchester, .and will be            .     --
home im an hor or two."                                 CIIAPTER XXIX
These words passed between the marshal and   It was night -lien Fluta Wirncheser awoke
his deputy after they had been landed from the from the deep slumber into wich time opiate
steamer, most accormnodatingly, at one of the had thrown her. She looked around the small
oston wiarves, instead of being taken, three or vet elegantly-furnished partment in wich she
four miles out of their way, to the Navy Yard.  found herself. A silver lam loe- frn  te
-au ro         h

i
,s
F
,
t
x

1


50TH                   RATTLESNAKE; OR, TIIE 113EL PRIVATEEt.
ing short trips in her brother's yacht, also eon-1  " He weeps-he has a heart," she murmured
winced her of the same actE. Ehe saw that the " I will.hope."
room coitainec a small library of books, a table,  " Lady, take some food-you are very weak'
two or  tree chairs, and a sofa. Also that there I will retire, and, when you have eaten, seek
were food, wine, and water on the table.    repose. You will be safe. I have placed the
While she looked, ne heard voices in the out. key on the inside of the door."
er cabin. One she recognized, but too plainly,  And Frank now went away.
as that of Ashton. The other was more soft     Poor Fluta could not eat. But she arose and
and gentle - either that of a woman or boy. locked her door, and then tasted a little wine-
How she prayed that it might be that of a wom- and-water, and lay down.
an. For, however great her trouble, a woman    "How does the girl get along ?" asked Ash-
never feels utterly desolate when one of her own ton, in a low tone, of Frank, when he came from
sex is near.   M                             her state-room.
She tried to catch the drift of their conversa-  Poorly, sir.  She is as white in the face as
tion, but their tones were too low. Feeling an the bosom ofmy best shirt-her eyes are red
intolerable thirst, she attempted to reach the with weeping,
water. In doing so she made a slight noise.    " She'll get over that. When a woman weeps
A moment afterward the state-room door was she's not very mad."
gently opened, and a face which to her looked  "I don't see how you know so much about
kind, if not almost beautiful, looked in through women and their ways, sir, when you've been
the aperture. She saw a pair of great, black half your life or more at sea,"
eyes, fringed by long lashes-a rich brunette   " haven't I read, you ninny? Must a man be
complexion, a head surrounded by short, silken brought up in petticoats to know a woman's
curls of jetty blackness, and looked to see a fe- ways ?"
male dress. With a sigh of disappointment, she  "Being a ninny, I can't say," said Frank, de-
saw a jacket and trousers, a black silk handker- murely. Then looking Ashton in the eye, he
chief twisted around a white neck under linen asked, abruptly: " What do you mean to do
shirt-collar, and she murmured : "It is a boy." with the poor creature, captain ?'
"Is there anything I can do for you, fair    "I don't know as it concerns you, Master
lady ?" said the youth, in a gentle tone, as lie Frank."
advanced to her side, with a look of pity on his " But it does, sir. And I want an answer to
handsome face.                               my question."
"Tell me where I am?" she said.              " Well, as she is an heiress, I may marry
"On board the Confederate brig 'Rattle- her. If I do not, it will be still worse for her,"
snake,' Captain Ashton," replied Frank. " We   " What, sir? To judge from the feelings of
are at sea. Would you like to see the captain ?" aversion she exhibits toward you, she would be
"No !-O Cod, no !" she replied, with a shud- as likely to consent to marry Snowball, as your-
der. " I have seen too much of him. What self."
does lie mean to do with me?  Why has he torn  " I shall not ask her consent! She is in my
me from my home?"                            power."
"I do not know, lady. Iis motives and ac-   Frank mused a moment, and then asked.
tions are not mine to know. I am only a mid-   "When will you approach the Carolina coast
.shipman on board his vessel."               again, sir ?"
"Boy, have you a sister, or a mother ?"      "I do not know--not for somd time yet."
." Neither, fair lady. The first I never had-  "When will you ,roach any land, sir?"
the last is dead."                             "That I do not k      Why do you ask?"
" Then you cannot pity me."                  "Because I wish to know when I can leave
"Oh ye's, I ca:n, lady !"                 this vessel, sir."
"Then do--and help me to get away from       "Why, Frank, what do you mean? I thought
this monster in human shape."                you were in love with my life of adventure, and
"You would make me a traitor, lady, to the was in for the cruise, at any rate."
kindest friend I have !"                       "So I was, sir. I cane on board the ' Rattle-
" William Ashton, your friend?  Then I have snake,' believing that her commander was the
no more to say. No hope-no hope !"           soul of chivalry ; brave and honorable-a man
And poor Fluta wept.                       bent on high and heroic deeds-a man whom I
"Yes, hope !" said Frank, almost in a whisper. could love with my whole heart-die for, if it
'Hope and be firm. I am and will be your became necessary ! I have found him to be-"
friend!"                                       Frank, whose heightened tone and flashing
Fluta loocld up through her tears. Could it eyes betokened his excitement, pausea, for he
be the reflection of her own grief-drops that she seemed to feel that he was going too far.
saw ?-or were there really tear-drops in his   "Found him to be what, Master Francei
great, black eyes?  She saw them roll down his. Rutherford? Speak all your mind !" cried Ash-
olive cheek.                                ton, angrily.

F-

Look at your wretched and helpless ca-           a       y vE
kive, and supply all orissions which I ma  Billy Asi  i     y have to ete
and left tle cabin." , guaty ;and he lose   "       o  and be blathered to him!
mae, By id !rthe biMu                             e  ou'l not think of leaving me,Mr
toook'5 idithe near"liaudamore
Byk Jv tbe boy -is more of a man than I   "Not of leaving you forever ,
"    Is tbe m" aid Ashton, thoughtfully. the ague--sreng to come bacvwe, yio Ilaste cik
-iie mustme trbecicumlspect, or his tongue pect me," said  o ck "But I hate    ex-
will give ale trouble when I get ashore. lHe d     ,"e,  ad shlMnvrdocaeka" y3nouhae wat
be lose.,,     ewle      etahre      debt, and I shallnevroc. "But I hate to be in
dramas, till Iv  p d ver Blape aisy no r have swate
Ai d lie ose, also, and went on deck, just in ing his' markveid M.th   Billy As oin for mak-
" Brakes aead 'ou f ward shut: had been dorme dactetickw skull o' me. If it
"Brealkers ahead  outf
Tipperary style, it wouldn't cram em  o  ue
CHAPTRXXX'but it was eowld-blodedld murtlher the raps
HAI  oPTER           '              lion o' the world meant .!"a
It was some hours before poor Elmer Win- Cravat oWell ; I hope you'll have a chance to tie a
so muen blood that ie senses, and lie had lost  a o hem1p for him yet Mr. hurdoek."
acchst rofetemed  would scarcelyy speak, on peSure, sir, I'd travel forty miles with dr
account of xtseme weakness,.when ihe did be-  " peinhoots for the chancee"
the     nknscinhearTed rPhlysicians, a nurse, and goodwell-hope for the luck. And now, if the
"have I had a dr      ,wer attend g him. t  ake a Janaicai get us a drop of hot water, we'll
he asked, faintly,   Werebe dr           we need rest."  nght-cap, and go to bed. For
"  Y o u  a r e  v e r y  i l l  1 , )  i s  u  et a   PT?
sothtyo    ya     eep as qmiet as possible,
p  physician o   y  eco ie  st og,"  said  the  " lhard  down  ouT E lm   .
"I  remember ,"  said  Elmer  ."I rTacks         and  braces !"  shou e d  AsR dy  about
John  said that Ashtonh arie--" I remehber- sprung to the "  shouted Asht as
."he sai three  waro hdcarried Fhuta off."  on reaching the ecikl himself, forhis trumpet,
"There arc three war-vessels iin closepur-  "Bein eisbodc    tek.tsc~~         n
suit!" said the marshal "  Iecannotsepur-   "Breake'b
Your sister will be rescued soon a  escape! close aboard !" should the lok-otager and
" have my yacht   amnne d  a '           A v  , nd just as t  the  look-oae tut -iga
get a commissionfromtheGandamed--       illAwhiled ersa s i vessel caie up head to wind,
too  !"  s mid  E hti   mims e d   ear m e d  go,  fully  her  ails  were  flapping  il the  gale  fear-
a m      io i fi'ht. h e  nselash   au p  gwith,  f , sh e n l cam e  crash  up on  a  reef.
to" san wi    .i dey         g      withi  CIash went her fore-top-mast over the bow
givenyouhealtenreainmetuntecna with its topsail yard. Themn            oa
"Ifyo  wllomhym'msai qie uti w cmsmast followed suit. Al Was for a i~~ ,jt~n
giverwo   eaise, you wilanstenh, you can do it. wildest confusion. The nigt was  itei tr
Oths.,,               e   ere, helps, for the )hosphoiscent break wseenie p t be
Elmer seemed to apre   -ii          -    around the dome      ers    e   to be all
go  eate is position, and its height, m   br-e gale was still at
signified that he would riemnam quiet. But ie  Neitr. Asl  n
asked the s'ainal to write t the colonel of his tent ozf their donnorhis rew uenitey tll he ex-
rsgimfmisr a irolln thed as of lis case, and to geat were the aeils-woic icouldnthey them.
to get him ora rlongedteave of absence, and  One thing gve pems hopewhenitr'edte.
yacht, with reveportryeordes c   "in  i' hIs The vessel gad them hope of pr fet
ycmmane, ithedvs for himself as that she lay as         17en so far up on the rocks
commnamide.                                  Aliomea sonasthccesr
This tie marshal .promised imstt  t        Ashotoheiratenroold begouerecoveriigfrom
and,-havinig visited the  ed 11sanl  who, their terrfn song sis amid ceni cveinngo
asnetio  ew nothingofli is son's arrival aid which thumbing sais and cle  away the span's
rest.                   y home to get some    Ile told them  that so ong as tie
He found his wife sitting         .        easy, it would be best to wait utePvssel la
turn. Pat lurdock was also thiwai.tg  ic- when, if she was not billed foiwai  daylight,
Having told of thm ti                                                   d, she might
attr lsat  r.Wichete'sbe hove off. For$theetwas cu
which had detained him soi     .chester's float her under er stern.     ugh water to
mentioned the iiteition  og etm  ide ntaityopWhenoct i I ster.
commission for is yacht, wic wasr ben n-cur a ed exti'a gro nesary tor he mene,  motden
ment ne  f~r lmg yahtwhic wa poutifualed easily xtaeed time deck, waiting gfor the edndano.
c lipperschiooner  of  a iout  one  hundr ed  ton  t cas e  a   ls teved im to  the  m en, and  m ost un,
burtheen egetshat, if he'll b  r          a verification of the ohmdage te stuatie devi l
hehelp ofgat Mr       h     after nceptinlooks out fo1 hs ciildaei."Fi. tit wthe adevl
thieel,' said our Irish ,rie ay have it for most entirely smrounh  h- bireaey were ly
af Ilbe an- the narrow lane of' de-) ate akers -onl
eepwaerth i rough which~

N

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR T-

a,
t
F
v
f
e

I

S
.
t
S
(t
}', , ,
S
X
r


52

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, TILE EBEL PRIVATEER,

they had come, being free from perils which    "Well, jump in! I'll not promise to bying
must have shattered them to pieces had the ves- you back !" cried Ashton.
sell missed the way but by half a length.      Young Rutherford made no reply, but sprung
Now, her bow came three feet out of water, into their b at, which in another moment was
she had driven up on a smooth rock, and was turned toward the island, w-ihich was nearly a
so wedged in between two higher parts of the mile distant.
cliff that she remained pertecay upright. Ahead          CHAPTER XXXII.
of her the rocks were so high that they broke  Upon approaching the nearest side of the
the sea completely.                         island, Ashiton found the chlify sides so bold and
A little ways to leeward there was a small precipitous that no landing could be effected.
island, covered with a stunted growth of cedars -Pulling around its southerly enhd, lie at last found
and spruce trees, while all around, for miles and upon its westerly side a narrow little cut in be-
miles, there were huge, black rocks and foaming tween. the lofty rocks, into which he rowed.
breakers.                                    Turning a short aen, he came suddenly into a
" Do you know where we are ?" asked Ashton  little basin, iot more than a hundred feel square,
of Mr. Sr-ggs.                               completely surrounded on all sides by inacces-
" I reckon I do !" said Snaggs. " That 'ere," sible cliffs, except in the narrow entrance through
pointing to the little islet, " is the Isle of which he came, and a arrow, path-like ravine,
Shoals! I've seen it afore. We're just as near which sloped up between the rocks in a gentle
to Kittery Navy Yard as I want to be. It aint ascent toward the interior of the island.
more'n twenty or twenty-five miles off; and if  A erazy-looking old shallop and a small cedar
the folks there knew where we were, I'm a think- ennoe were drawn up er the rocIs at the foot of
in' there'd be a volunteer wreekin' party outhere the ravine, but no living sour was in sight.
af ire l g !"                                 Takiig  two  armed  n en  with  tei,  Ashton
WeChave greatly over-run our reckoiniri  arind lutherford walked cautimsly up ihe ran-.e.
and a current has given us too much testing !" Upmon1  a little plot of sand, tlorghn a Ihcli they
said Ashton. ' The first thing now is to see  passed, Ashton paused to notice s mIn  toot-
ihat anr:i- e she has sustained forward-repair  una-ks. One was large aid corse. lii tat of
it, and the1r lighten the ves-el, and get her off. a fil-grown ninr-the atmir, smil and sender,
Is there any water on yonder island "        like itt of a half-grown child. Both were bare-
" I don't know -I never was there, though  footed.
I ve seen 1i afore, and once cate nigh beia' in a  They still went on with caution, until they
worse ix thani we are now, by it !'         had ascended to the top of the ravine, vIhere
If we could refill our tanks, we night start Rutherford, who was in advance, paused, and
our fresh water and u:ir it out. The n by get- standing behind a clump of cedars, raised his
tinu  all the guns aft and an anchor in deep hInd to his lips, by way of cautnio, and then
water astern, we might be able to heave the ves- beckoned Ashtun to advance.
set off!"                                      The latter did so. and soon, standing by the
" Somebody lives there, at any rate ! Don't side of the young main, iaw what had attracted
you see that smoake am-i--n' T' Iris rittenrtion.
" I do-and it will  ae necessary for one of us  Peering through the screen of green cedars,
to go the re with a boat to preveit any one leav- they saw a r-cky basii of p-hiaps a hundred
ing for tne- mainland, to give maiv information of feet, or a little more,  i cinerrcumference, ap--
our posu tion. I w:"l1 go mmiyself; and if I find parently very deep, and filed with elear, trarns-
water, till ire off a msket andd then you can lucent water. U poun a ledie. directly opposite
at once start the water, and put the men to the to them, which shaved down to the water's
pumps.    'dl the e-arpenter mind his mates out- edge, was seated is lively a irl as ever breathed
side and behW to look to damages. And get a the bl-ssed air of heaven. With that pomt fora
spare foretop-mast ready rigged for hoisting and mirror, her ensiml, white fe, t eating m its verge,
fidding--and  a main-to'-gallant-mast. The soon-  sie 5saii  m ilimig out he' long, ebo:  h ri-r smile
er we are' afloat and ad ataunto, the better for onher flece, and her cheeks the blennedu colors
our sa'fetv; for heaven only knows where our of the lily and the rose. The pool reflected face
chasers oi yesterday are !"                  and figure perfectly. She did not appear to be
" Yes, maptiing, anything else ?"         over fifteen or sixteen-a short dress, made-muchi
"No, kee p the men busy till I come bck, like that of a Spamish peasant-girl, fitted her
Then we will p pe to breakfast 1"            plump, but beautiful figure-a light shawl of
Ashton now ordered his gig, which was hoist- sik was thrown carelessly upon the rocks he-
ed at the stern-davits to be lowered ; and when hind her.
It was manned ie jumped in, and prepared to    ".By Jove, she is a Peri from paradise!" mur-
shove off.                                   mured Ashton.
"I should like to put foot on terra firma,   Rlutherord sid nothing, but almost held his
captain, just to see how it feels!" said Frank breath, as he gazed upon the picture, which
Ritherford.                                  hardly seemed real.

s

Fi

jF

I     RATTLESNAKE ; OR, TIE REBEL
Suddenly wisEeBEkL PRIVATEER'                                                             53r
Suddenly a wh istle, like that of a boatswain's This is
all,a s heard back toward the centre of the back tomy island, and I want no company G
Thes giransd atn                                 toourvessel--go, go !  I don't like to se
ihegln , lnaTaheeysound. Throwing aktem, an eyare accursed! Hell is heating for
he oirl she r   -  sonair     oin he ak them, and i've a contract for coal!"
erslng, black wvve-like hair uplon her white  "We hall have to get water from thepo
shoulders, she rose, took u"W                         ml   aet      e up the' shawl, and down there to refill our tanks,'ersaidnt hetoup
casting it over her head, hurried away in the  " You shall not! I   kinghersaid aAston
Ashton and his arthe whistle had sounded   is Robinson Crusoe. You must derMy n ame
theycould. Ui yoaty flowed as quietly as armed ! I've a barrel of mu     deart I an
beyond the pool     teac ding a small eminence der the island, andc bae   oo spiner sankun-
bem a smal, rude t   sawb directly in front of ever I've a mind. Go ablwaytopinter whe
of a huge rock. It had bv dnp against the side men ; men are devils!  T  go awy !You are
eof phigec rok. It had evidently been construct- for them. Pilei  t colh oven ise
ed of pieces of a Wrecked vessel. From the roof  "The man is in the coal   e
of this astovewpiie stuck u, and through tis  "Father-darfterazy,  said R herfo
baethe vesse                  Seen from on  and the Peri of  therl'saped to the vole -o
t                 d   bn                               th 1)o stepp     thesideo
Ia front was a garden of various kids of veg- on  is armaandlaid
eta.Is               1lld  f      theonIlsrnei  n dlaiersm1all, white hand
ahe      sall piece of ground in poatoes,    " Lost lost! Goback, Abeona    Th    a
stituted ise a nsquass, and melons,     men ;men are devils k" criedon Theseiang
stitute hriet   portion of the view. her rudely from ir. Too rudely nfor shoin
oefi   shg-ne spread out, and a large rack gered and fellsta
Somto oflsl osreat ln te sunato dry, to arghapr'ectand her temple struck against a
ofenslte spead ion ofthe stodrytol ar rogh Projetion near the door. The blood
ot   e oy  k of the                  ogushedfrm the wound in a stream.
Smi   n estwinins,mormng-glories    d    "Monster, you have killed her !" cried Frank
Solme nhoncs icl 5   ilihg ghorics, and IRutherfor~d rushing forward arid   ringdthein-
fhbut, exhiind   around the rude corners sensible girl in is rms.   and r raising the in
of theylit, exhibited he taste of the fair erea-  The mania reos  m
tire who they acd s ed. Trembling reo theman stantlysubsid-
ts heottepsaweeney hy-dvaced toward te door of this in the face, eliesunrm hei t ot, turmng white
hut, their footsteps were heard, aiind aluudur.kMoenlod.ns boo          ,Mutitmbe blood
rsed out, who, as fir as lookswere  nne hu r- "More blood.-v n  huri kneresa k oanbed
could have played "Bast' to the "Be tn  everyywhan ere  Ivern r hod  PMst it beblood
they had seen,                                inBeauty" na--speak! Iave I  rSt thee ? e thAbeo-
I~ismated hir  f  .-1        i a tne f' seave I hurt thee ?" eed the mnan
HisIititfeIhar o  I~zzlina tone of such utter agony that his veryear
of the samehue, spoke ofizzly gray, and beard seemed breaking.u    a        t      y heart
fthean. One of hieespe  oan age past its mci.i-  " Get some witerfi
dhich seamed his foeeas closed, and a scar fainted!" cried ILutlierfordrQuick! She has
told how it haed been do  an   half his cheek,  "Water and wine-water ard wine"
keen and fierce een itsne. The other eye wis man -and lierushieithe I  and "erithe
keeaancewase ioaitsersion. hiswhole out a small pitcher of one, and uand bohte
ppwas that of a common 'loor d 1  - His garb of t ie other; also, a silver a in anon which
man.o                  giorenau or fisher- Ashton's quick eye detectedanalt,uiorialen-
myou,aandawatd                 a    r     graving, with a coronet above the secrld.
he aid areltou, sandi wha doyo want here ?" Rlutherford ha le aerbrove th shil.er
lie said, ahreibtl   w   f staiidsg  Id and barring and moistened heer lip owithte wine Mte
"May vessel is asho                     time, the man whom she had called wine.
tye iyavessel  sas  t e reef outside of ed at her with a sad amd quiet famlierlook-
thei-laidb saidAsliti." I.  uam about to greatly at variaieqwith the al t mreahously,
to spe if I eorill g  wate "tandcame here tions of the arcedit m eabmost fgrciusac-
"oedidcouldkno tat'       .A t last she               iged ig ents.nedonenedhe
"qifdid   ou know t anybody lived here ?" eyes. The- rested i gently, ndto en h
qh"ied the orimke                         aFdispleasedlook uponithe lan stoinifshed, but not
saw your smoke       Whireire there is smoke bent almost tearfully over her. and e en he
thee  she~
fire, there must hae , and where there is shuddered as she saw that tewhi And tbosohe  sof
dIe it."     st have been seuebody to kin- his shirt was sottedaw tha the   and som of
"Not always.   yve known -iro hiiew        to raiserm herheadict   o     a     e  ied    '
eout  thum an  help,"  s id to n  e 3wae Iith-  arm .,  1e 1  pillow  e u o hi
never see the hasandtIe tan- "Did you     "Are you hurt ?" sie
red chains heavens rio te sea all afire, tIe sweet voice. " Fater di nurmure, in a lo t
r     imnisn fi-ofrm coud to elo an md le is'good, only n-len the stoiri  time iso
l}ikng  1tirte foam  from oI 'tIr                       nywe      h   o  ma    od    t e black w aves him." ~d  ny  intesoryLm  so
with serpent tongues-p  But I don't want you  "  ,myAeoao -li               otncait
here ! I am  alone! I a lobisoi yCruso. hurtN th " Abeona--no ; I didoo   t   one.
1he! si  h  man, in a sorrovwful toned

4

i
i
r
d
(
i
i


54

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

I

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

55

"Wilt forgive thy father?  He is not himself and drankmandi health in a plyossthe of wine. T
to-day." know it, father. For my sake le kind to nor taste the wine
these strangers. They are wrecked mariners, as  But, filling two large goblets with brandy, and
we were once."                              taking food with himim he laid
" w ush, child-hush! Not one word of our     " I will take these to your men."
history. Ilush t"  And the man looked wildly  " Thank you," said Ashton.
aboutry.H                                     When the father was gone, e again glanced
abPlease to 1101)mc 'n; I am very weak," toward the daughter.     Rutherford bad quite
said the gi, looking u  confdingly ia young skillfully applied lint to the woumd ; and having
Rutherford's f c.     Feariot for me, my secured it with four or five strips of adhesive
father; Abeona will be better soon."        plaster, warmed with his breath, lie now bound
autlierbid lifted up the sioht but peerless a linen bandage over it. lIe persuaded her
figure of the beautiful sirl, and bore it into the again to taste the wine, and she now felt suffi-
hut.                                         eiently strong to sit up ; and Frank eagerly em-
With a sad lek, but yet with the mien of one braced the opportunity to ask her a few ques-
who knew how to tender hospitality, the strange tions.
man invited Ashton to enter.              I    "Iow long have you iee   s here " he asked.
Let your men stay without," he said. " I   "Oh, ever so log! Since I was a little child,"
will provide refreshments for them."        she replied.
Whemn Ashton entered the hit, he could scarce-  "Do you play on those "
ly restrain an exclamation of surprise, lie had  Amd he pointed to a harp and guitar.
expected to find the imiterior as rude as the ex-  " Oh yes! I will play for you when 1 get
erior.                                      well."
It was not. The front apartment, in which    "And read?"
was the s! ove, was as well-furnished as any room  Amd le glanced at some shelves filled with
in his own elegant vessel. It was carpeted and books.
called, or rather, its sides were curtained with  " Oh yes . Father taught me all-elIe is not
heavy hangings of flowered velvet. On either always oughh, like today. lie weeps, soens-
side were two ample store-rooms, in which provi- times, amid is ery getlhe. A, there lie comes.
sons, handsome crockery, and silver-plate could Coee to mp, mty father !"
be seen conspicuously. lint beyond this apart-  Aid lie case, amd knelt upn  te carpet by
ment were two or three more--either cut out of her feet, and took hi'd ssted, white hands in his,
the solid rock, or else arranged in natural caves which were th  mid wased
therein--which were furnished and ornamented   She beit foiwaed amd kissed his pale brow,
in the most gorgeous manner.                 amd said, in a voice fiea of m  ossic
This Ashton saw at a glance ; for the heavy  "D      gait grieve, dn fat her.sAbeona Ishal-
curtains which could separate them from the most well again. Don't look sad, or I shall
outer apartment were drawn back, and their in- weep         o       r
terror was lighted by a chandelierof solid silver,  "  on were gond to her; I thank you. Go
holding four lamps.                          amd get somecwiie and food," said he now, to
Upon a sofa, in the front one of these rooms, Ruthierford.
young Rutherford had placed the wounded girl,  "1 willouly drimk a glass of wine, si', in co-r
and lie was again persuading her to taste of the pliment to you and your beautiful daughter,"
wine                              said FIrank.
wiu.
"Be seated, sir," said the father of Abeona, "Don'tktell her she is beautiful. Beauty is a
to Ashton.                                   curse ! It is a bait for devils. Men are devils -"
Then, going to Rutherford, who was staunch- said the man, harshly.
ing the wounded temple of his daughter with   But a look and a word from Abeona calmed
his handkerchief, he produced a small chest him.
from a niche in the wall.                      'I'm not myself all of the time," lie said,
"Here is a medicine-chest. You will find apologetically. "I have seentrouble. I cannot
limit and ointments. You seem kind -I will forget all,
trust you to minister to -lir. I am too rough !"  On    that longest rack and latest kill.'
And lie heaved a heavy sigh, and went back      apnsttlngsrckinlaetil.
into the outer room, where Ashton sat.       Never mind me ; but drink, eat, and feel that
Going to one of his well-filled store-rooms, lie you are welcome. You are not like men ; you
produced a bottle of excellent wine, also sine are kimd. Men are devils
brandy, some crackers, cheese, and dried fish.  To humor hi, Frank went and took a glass
"Drink anl eat," said he. " I am not used of wine, and asked his host if he might not fill
to guests. You must pardon my coarse fare ; one foir himi.b
for you are welcome."                          " No ; wine looks like blood ! It chokes me
Ashtoa replied with a well-turned complinit, I cannot drik it. Water is good ; it is pure.

jl t
r
o                                                       Ziif

It comes from the fountain of tears which angels " Not precisely ! She is on a reef; but, with
shed for the sins of men. You asked for water some repairs, can be got off!"
for your ship. You shall have it. What God     " I am sorry; when I heard her strike so
gives me, it would be wrong for me to withhold fearfully, I prayed that she might be wrecked,
from others. Get water and wood, if you want and go to pieces !"
it, and then go away. I am alone here--alone   " Poor lady ! Is life so vajueless to you ?"
with Abeona. You are ay guests now ; but      " It is, while I am in his power. How near to
come no more-come no more."                  land are we ?"
Please to let me come to see to her wound  " We are within a mile of a small island-the
I am a very good doctor !" said Frank, pleadingly. main land is not in sight."
" Yes, father, let him come ; for he is gentle  " Oh ! cannot i escape to that island ? Good
and good !" sail the daughter.               youth, you look kind. Have mere on me;- I
A shade of melancholy passed over the man's shall die here. Sooner than remain Is prisoner,
features; but he sail:                      I will commit the fearful crime of suicide
"Not as I will, but as thou wilt, my child!"  " No, lady-no. Do not speak of that. Did
I not say that I was your friend, and bid you
hope ?"
CIIAPTERL XXXIII.                  " Alas, yes ! But what have I to hope for?
When Ashton returned with Rutherford to I overheard what he said last night, aid your
his vessel, the carpenter reported to him that noble replies! But he will send you away, and
the damage sustained to the forward part of the thie  I shall be alone and helpless!'
Iull was quite serious.  The "fore-foot" was   " When I leave this vessel, Miss Winchester,
completely knocked away, several of the bow  you shall go, too !" said Frank, firmly. " I am
planks were cut entirely through, and some of in all sincerity, your friend, and will defend you
the timbers broken. To repair her, it would be with my heart's blood! Only be guided by me,
necessary to get out her guns, cargo, provisions, and I guarantee your safety from wrong, and
etc., and then to raise her bows bodily, by means even insult, while here, and, in good time, your
of wedges and levrs, ipoi temporary ways.  release from his 'power !"
As there was plenty of room on the dry rocks  "I cannot but trust you !" murmured Fluta.
to stow the articles which had to be got out,  " )o, and all shall yet be well with you. Now
Ashton ordered ths crew to get to work as soon do me a favor. here is the key of yonder
as they had finished their breakfasts; for he trunk. In a secret compartment, comprising
knew that every hour's delay but increased his the lower half, you will find dresses, linen, and
danger, althou hi lie was in a spot so dangerous everything necessary for making fur toilette.
that other vessels would not be apt to approach Do not ask me wiy they are there ; for I might
it near enough to endanger his discovery,  have to tell you a fib or two, and that would be
To render the latter more difficult, he had all naughty. Not a word ! I know that Ashton,
hiy spars, except the lower masts, sent down-  gross coward and brute that lie was, tore you
had the mizzen-mast taken out again, etc. He from home and brought you here, without a
also prohibited all shouting, firing of guns or pis- change of garments. Use those you find, but
tois, and interlicted sll persons from passing to keep the secret !"
the island, except wits his express permission. During this strange conversation, Fluta had
Every man, except the steward and officers, been regarding Master rank most intently.
was put to work ; and Ashton hoped that four   " I will keep that secret and yet another of
or five days would again see hin afloat. As he yours !" said Fluta.
had been last seen disguised as a bark, he now  "What do you mean ?" asked Frank, coloring
prepare(l to make his vessel a brig again, and to the very templles.
ordered her hull one more painted black. This  Fluta bent her head, and v"hispered something
more than ever pleased the crew ; for they did in Frank's ear.
not like their Dutch rig and looks over and    "You are right.   But, for Ieaven's sake,
above muebl.                                 keep that a secret!" said Frank. "All depends
Upon the return of Frank Rutherford to the upon it, and the boldness and wit with which I
vessel, he bethought him  of poor Fluta,-and carry out my plans!"
hastened down mto the cabin, where, meeting   " Your secrets are safe with me. And now I
Snowball, he inquired if the lady had left her have reason to hope. The clouds are dark;
state-room.                                  but I think I can see light breaking through
" No, Mars'r Frank ; but she's up and stirrin', them."
I reckon, for I heard her make a noise in dere  " You soon will. Now, to further my plans,
long tine ago.'"                             you must pretend to ie very i. I will bring
Rutherford knocked gently at the door.    you food ;- and when old Umlibens, our fool of
After a Imoment's hesitation, it was opened.  a doctor, prescribes medicine, as he surely will
"Is the vessel wrecked ?" asked the poor girl I will take it !"
before Frank could speak.                  '(" You take it ?"


THE RATTLESNAKE, OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.
" Yes, I will take it, and throw it overboard,  Motioning to the men to put dowii thair ooxes
where 1 am hard-hearted enough to wish he was. and retire, Frank said
But rest easy, fair lady. I will get some toast  " I heard you singing, and did not wish to
and crfee for you, and then go on deck, to tell disturb you. When you ceased, I ventured to
Ashton how sick you are!"                   knock ; for I have brought your father some
And Frank, with a smiling face, left the state- wine from my captain, and sonme fruit for you."
room.a                                       And Frank opened the box of oranCs
CHAPTERoXXXV.m" Dear me ! how pretty ! They look like
After breakfast, seeing that Ashton was much gold  said Abenru
occupied with his men in preparing for the re- "Hvyonersenucfuibfre"
pairs, Frank ventured to ask him for permission asked Frank.
to take the smallest boat, with a couple of men,  "No ! Is it fruit? Good to eat?  They loik
and to go on shore. Ashto  assented without very handsome, and smell sweety. Where do
~thyany lHesitation, and then asked. ti theyglow?"
Have y on seen Miss Winchester, this morn-  "Where the sun almost ever shines  Where
ing?"                                       there is no winter-no frost or snore, Or cliillF
-Yes, sir; she is very ill and weak  I took ing blasts-where the flowers blossom  all the
the doctor in to see her, and ie has prescribed time."
some medicine to quiet her nerves, and says she "Oh! that I lived in such a land ! It is very
must have rest." o                          cold here in winter. And the wild winds blow
Well, she can rest for the present. But she allthe time. And ni flowers die. And my
ind better cet rid of her tantrums by the time little lake' freezes up ;and here I stay all the
I get the brig all autaunto again. You had time  h said Abeou, in asad tone.
better take old One-eye ashore there a dozen of "Thou Wert content, chill, until these strang-
wine, anod a box of those oranges for his daugh- ers came to tell thee of a brigliteu wordd' said
ter., ut you neednt go to making love to the her father, as the melancholy shadow darkened
latter, my b y ; for Ill have no more women on his face.
aboardnthi rig-this one has brought me bad   "And nu still, my father. For you are very
luck enough. I heard some of the old tars grum- good to me-and I love you dearly."
bling this iorniig, and saying that there was t"at your oranges, hilh. Seine day Itmay
never good fortune with a vessel that carries take you whereyouaii pluck them foem oe trees
women on hoard ."                           whereon they grow. I would have done itsrc
A saucy and trite answer was on Frank's lips, this, were it not for men - men are devils!
and lie achiedto give it utterance  but ru- There is a furnace heating for them
dence, of which he hid a very little, impera-  "All men surely are not devils? You are a
timely forbadcit. He, therefore, sent Snowball man, my father!' said Abeona; but while she
after the wine and fruit, and himself attended  s   e, her eyes were fixed upon Frank ituther-
to the lowering and manning of the boat, taking fo"d.
the same two inca who had been up in the island  " Yes ; I'm a man,  and a deilI il-oa!ook at
before.                                     that mark upon your head!imaeih:l
Upon reaching the landing-place before de- men are devils !"     ti
seibed, one man followed, carrying the hox of " You surer' would not call our kind ft iend,
wine-the other carried the fruit.  Preceding here, a devil ?"  And she pointed to Frank.
them to thethut, he had advanced to within a  'lie is not a man vet-i is only a boy.
few yards of it without hearing any noise, when, When lhe becomes a ,an, then hell be a devil
suddenly, the full no'es of Aheona's voice broke like nll the rest !'"
forth from within in such a rich stain of music,  "Then I hope that day may never come,"
that he ivolntarily paused. The air was wild said Frank. "By the way, sir,my captain told
and melancholy-the words, he could not dis- me to say, that as lie has got to eit out his
tingish.water-tanks, lie would not empty tlieiii, merely
tiForsome minutes, Frank sto  like one en- to refill again ; therefore lie would be of less
tranced, listening to the seraphic sounds ; and trouble to ou than lie expected. lie only now
when at last she ceased, lie sighed as one does asks permission for his earpeiiter to ei a few
in a magnolia grove, where the air is laden with small sticks of timber; for which lie will pay
too much sweetness.d" you in money or provisoris.                         o
He then advanced gently to the door, and    "I want no money-I have provisions enough.
knocked.                                    But lie can have ttie timbe(r."
It was opened instantly by Abeona, who       "I will tell him so. But lie would rather
smiled, anid said                           pay you.'"
" I knew that it was you; you knocked so      I care not, so that lie goes away soon.'
I"       t   i      y    y     n           " Will you let your danghter sing me a song ?"
gently!fah                                    "eishlie-do-cae                Uuony
Frank noticed that, as he entered, her father  "Y.es, if she likes-Zo it care. But only
was wiping tears away.                      one song'

TIE REATTLESNAKE, OR, TUlE REBEiL PigL-.

57

":What shall that be, my father ?" said Abe-           CIIAPTER    XXXV
ona, drawing her harp to ieu' side.           The work noon tie
" I arenot,.heanserede wrk pon he               Ratle(snake," favored by
"I care  inot," -hee AbDred.             calm and lo ely weather, proceeded with great
"The Illsi g thee 'Araby's Daughter,'" expedition. Being "full-banded," it took Ash-
said the sweet gih.                         ten but a single day to get out )iis stores and
And i ta mnoet her full rich voice gushed guns, which were placed upon the rocks, close at
dutwith that *ost toiiig of Moore melo- hand ; and  i the second day lie had, the yes-
ue.                                        sIs has up high enoughl, on ways, to enable
Frank listened attentiv-w, almost breathless- the carpenters to uork upon the necessary re-
by, to the first stamiza. '1ic- soiig was a favorite pair's.-
of his oe-n. Whe  Mona   -egau the second    All of this, even to the re-painting and re-
staniza, the youth took up tihe Iiu ic iun a potiver- uigginug of the c ssel, le snleriteuided himself;
ful, yet swetly-umoduuttbae falsetto tone, and for the entiiued report if Ixluta's illen ess, as
their' voieas bicuihed ii iist delicious huharoiiy.,given by lothi I asani s nud Doctor U iieus;
Aboaws1eih-  ci.hnh lsd      ethm    rn    i  Iuliuscatentions sas bs
the song her eyes were glittering with tears of devilish disposition pomuiipted.
pleasure.u-Frank's visits to the shore were                                owvery fre-
H'erewas a sad smile on the countenance of quent, and Ashtumi often bantered hin upon his
pulsive as before.       not look half so re-- attachinment tthe "Pie-i of the ,Pool," as he still
"You may si eone   -  e" i                called Abeounia.  iut iFraik persistently denied
to Abeonabutlkin          iesaidspeakmg    ny feeling,; xcept that of interest, in the re-
to  Lei                  m                 cluse nud his child.
Let i nsinge h  oim of tis fivor-ites. I'd rath-  " Well, it sooinmust end," said Ashiton, "for
or listen to him thsan to siihe ," said Abeona. in two days more we shall be ready for sea
"Be it so," said lieu-  kLlrc'r.           again. how does thue invalid get along?"
Pressed by Abeona, Frunk took up her guitar  "No bette- rsi,' said Master F-an  "
and sang to his own er eei panhn nuent a song will not trotule you long. Close ofinement
whic  hin  ciem' ~e  her eu'acus before. it and a breaking  heant will scoon  'cave her
was the " Midshipmanu's  4erenatde."  Touching, shroud."
breathing a singled tone of love and sadness,  " Why does not the fool take the air ?"
t aaish brout  sta to hb en' eyes.  .     "Much chance, sir, when your decks are all
"I wish you could stay ItWi- always, and dsinge an  ndjth:
such sweet son s "               yansgpaint and pitch "
e gs, said A heona, artlessly. "I  "Then take icr shuce for a fia-, in Iavcn's
am  sure we wmauld ner   e lonesome then. name, and let lhr breathe fresh air there'" said
Would we, my fatheu-?'Ashiton, ipaticit lv.                    'Amid, manukyon, sir,
her fatheruinade n reply, but rose abruptly  keep an eye onuleu-all  he tine; fo if ch
and went out.                                should escape, or any harm befall her I w1
Your father seems unhappy," said Frank, hold you responsible I
"Sometimesh"iThank you, sir-I'll take good care of her.
"octmshue is -limit not _always. When But should shit, mm lie-(deepair-, east lieu-self from
lie reads to me, then lie sees contested. But the cliff and luow 'luself, ci break her neck,
when it storms, ther his 1iit scems to rise with why, I should ot like to be held accountable
hto  ue   u o    god to me, though.  pe for it was iuot I who made her wretched and
did not menu to iij mit-csin. lie wept half the desperate."
night aboithit."a"N daner of hIeu- making away with her
Te is good-herte. Amd he would be bet- life. Man a bout and take ler shore !" replied
ter- still if huli'eee out iii tle world, where lie Ashiton.l
could meet cheerful so01( x       w. Ali ! how I wish
at i    a       an               ble ath  !    "Is this your sister ?" asked A beoe, whet
said Frank. " And that you ande were in- Frank led pom- luta into her pleasant home.
mates of m  own suny Stutern home, where " f she is, I shall love luer dearly for your
the cu-amigo grows, amid flower-s are ever in sake."3                                3
blom"                                      "No; site is a passenger on our vessel. Per-
Ask him-nma be he will go there," said heaps I will tell yOu all about her, by-and-by.
the indoc  itgplr, who knwiothi g (f what But, now good Abhona, please to get liera
the w'trld Nalls its u-uprieties, and was self- glass of wingntid-wate, and let her rest upon
taught and Nature-giuided.                 your sc fi. For site is faint ao l fatigued with her
"I will, at a proper time,'' said Frank. " We walf."
shall be leu- for seinesdvet."                 Abeona hurried for the wine-and-water anti
wI am so glad w" sait Aeona. "I do not also brought ,omie cake fo' le ernew visitor.
want you ca--r to go away."                  Then she hasteei-d to lier garden and got somie
bright, fragrant flowers nub twined them  in his
hair. And she brought a large, delicious melon,

1

K'   "f3i131YVW(   +^a".m-+r   .    ] ;      y-  F -s' rt   -+'
"A
a
"                                                                                                                                                      r      ,
1
F
f i

1
1


58              THE RATTLESNAKE; OR,
whose red, juicy pulp she sliced up as a tempt- !
ing morsel for her guests.
"How do you like this, for a change ?" asked
Frank of Fluta, whie Abeona was absent a mo-
ment.
"it is like heaven to be away from him-to be
where I cannot hear /is hated voice !" said
Fluta. " Cannot you hide me here so that he
can never find rme, arid musot sail without me ?''
"I have been thinking of it," said Frank ;
" or, rather, of something bolder still ; for he
would search every spot here so closely, that
it would be in vain to try and hide you here !"
What did you think of   Tehi nse, and if
there is a hope of escape, I care n t how des-
perate the plan, I am  ready to undertake it,"
said Fluta.
"The main land and the harbor of Ports-
mouth, New Hamnpshire, is not more than twen-
ty-five or thirty miles west of us, and if I could
persuade Abeona's father to convey you there
in his shallop, you would be safe,"~said Frank.
"For, by railroad, you would be within a few
hours' ride of home."
"Oh yes ! And I have friends in Portsmouth,
too. Oh, do try and get the man to take me
there !"
"Does your father go to the main land, ever ?"
asked Frank of Abeona, whent she came ii, a few
moments after.
Not often," replied the girl. " Only two or
three times since 1 can reieiber, whenl ie had
to go to get some things-lie needed. Since then,
two ships were wrecked near by us ; aiid, l got
such a great quantity of things that lie says hie
will never have to go where mite are again.
And the old shallop is not -safe. It leaks, and
the sail is rotten."
Leaky or not, we iust try it," said Fluta.
" I will never go back to that vessel alive !"
What does she mean :" asked Abeona.
Frank replied, hv telling Abeona how Fluta
had been abductedfrom her home by Ashton-
her desire to get back, and then ieged the
sweet girl t-  persuade her father to take Fluta
to the main land.
" I will try," said Abeona. " I wil call him
here, and then you must tell hin all the story.
He has a good heart, if he is rough, and will do
all he can for my srke."
The recluse was called in, and listened atten-
tively to all that Frank related to him.
" Did I not say that men were devils ?" lie
said, when she paused, "Here is proof ?' And
he looked first at Abeona, and then at Fluta.
"Will you carry her to the shore. so that
this poor lady can escape from her 1eril ?" asked
Frank. "1 will go myself to help you."
"Yes; and leave Abeona to be carried off by
that devil !" said the man. "No-o !"
" Let Abeona go with us-when ie is gone,
you can conic back here "
"No ; the shallop leaks-is rotten, and will

I

THE REBEL PRIVATEER.
not carry us all. If a little gale should rise, she
would go to pieces."
"0   heavens!-is there no hope for me ?"
sighed Fluta, tearfully.
"Sell me your shalop! I will bear all dam-
ages !" said Frank, resolutely.
"Jf he goes, I Will go !" said Abeona, to her
father.
He only laughed-a-wild, strange laugh.
I am in earnest, father," site said.
" None of you shall go !" he said, and laughed
again.
"I will kill myself before I am aanin placed
in that bad man's power !" said Fluta.
"I will keep you from his power," said the
man. "lie will cone Ihere to look for you, and
will not find you. Whn i e is one. then we
will find ourselves. They, too, will sing, and
you and me will dance."
"Trust my father--he las soie plan formed
for saving you," said Abona.
"Send our boat back to the vessel, and tell
the crew they need not coe or you until sun-
set,".said the i cluse to Frank. "" When they
arc gone, I will show you all a big secret, which
no one knows but myself."
Frank hastened to obey his directions.
Wlhen the boat had left the lauding-place, ie
hurried back to the hut.
"We must chance our quarters, now," said
the recluse. " Write a let ter to sour ca ptain,"
added he to Frank, "and iii it tel hint that you
have gone to Portsnmouth, und that he ade ht-
ter leave these waters soon, or the cruisers may
be after him."
Frank did this, anmd then the recluse said to
Abeona, as he took her harp : "Bring your
guitar, and come with me. Come all," he
added. "We have a short voyage to maie,
and no time to lose !'
They obeyed, wondering what he meant to
do.
He hurriedly led the way down to the landing,
where he launched the frail, old slatllop, putting
in its sail.
" Get in, al of you 'lie said. " Get in !"
"Are you lealy going to risk a oytune to the
main ?" said Frank, as ie noticed the condittmn
of the boat.
"No questions-do as you are told'!" was the
curt reply.
They all got in, and ithe isan took the oars
and boldly rowed out of the entrance toward
the open sea. As the water bub bled in through
the open seams of the leaking boat, Frank ex-
claimed:
, " Thsis smadness!-the boat wil lneve keep
above water long enough to reach the main
land !"
"No ; I think not," said the man. Anid again
a strange smile passed over his face.
Fear not," said Abeona. " All is right
when father smiles." *

Y
I,

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBE

Arid even while she spoke, her father turne59
thebot' bw o he   dr   1e trnd     "I ieam happy no,
ithea batls bow to the rth, and rowed a short while her father  was  said Abeona to Frank,
by the sros wiehbrote braisthe cliff , close  " Why ?" asked the latter.
ba pot where the cliff seemeatoshe  hen, at  "Because you will stay ith me alwa
trnedt Ivr theboa ciff seein to sheAve ober, he not go away with that bal man  e lasand
turse on dtIr boat(Iutard of wAn  before together and be glad al  time.  y1 silgd
t   e th boad so an ude of what was before have died tf you had gone.ad ltime.o"
thenom, the o  sht in under a low ach  which  "I did at wish to lenv  eft me.'
m e lt  they  were  in  a  civerin  as  d rk  as  i g-t.dovewyo n as  a  sister lo" said  ng .  beatna, for  iI
Te recluse laughed, and his laugh was    i oIdon't knowut lovn so  u      ,
echoed on every side.au               wassaidAbeona;"buikyasister'is,"
"We need lght," a  e                    cannot live away from you '     "
A w eiII'luta was by, and ahe                    -
soAigd ralampheriise frm hidb pockets,.he confession from the lis o d at tils arch
Sonlihteal which eanddltoAbe  brought with Nature.
to hold it aloft.           a, and told her
By it they eoli see tha-t they were ir- a vast  T h C-acAPTER t Xhrea
cavern, wich hoau~rsel 'eco    r iavat    The boat's ce
cae , ieuhi hrey  red the munrmurs of orders, at sunset, after rnk according But
tt se furtii  The, reluse rowed them but soon the crew retured Frankandtd FutasBut
a little w  frleier w hlt ie landedj them on a that they could rnot idd replrrtedf to Ashton
hsl bec hc level roc'i, whic looked as if it island, nor could they seeany Rtherforsont
wharf.-ea                        n  for a    For famoment Aseeany otheromesun.
avg      nhisrboatro          o.       praise. ie knew that young alutliford wsimu-
rlus too  the ligiht, and   i thethis rock, the  petuous and willful, but ledid  rt r  tat im -
hrl.                         e party follow  would Willfully betray a trust, ori n nk that he
, hi. hydd    lngasot       n               Ordering the men back nto, li boaet heim.
o   ewTli tky + l i, a tho r a sn)otr and  easy  ascent  ed  into it and  started  instantly  to  the island, to
fo aeing wfy d h  itey could see the glim- look in personrs after tir ii hisland,to
merngof 1 ydtt itieht.
In a sorlirt ti ifithy ceiL'  a -Ie noticed, as soon ii5 lie lande
cavenanchol1,, f"my        part where the shallop was gone, and aso eaie  that the
eaesti rch. Te one whh et large pass- wind     vy fair owrir    i -lard tithe
ages a 1L'  rI, owhic w  they folwedI led also that a small boat 1i aie tre island, andnoticed
argi aevic1 rr in, thh efafs olightedby several, easily sailed unseen rom t  op cohd have
lo t revItci  eit r clfe outside, ai which, tion of the main, liar ri1ti rtin mi the direc-
ls  . tn ir eiot  Ofe it  O n but  the  re-  ed  by  the  hih  cliffs  e its being  conc al
to be lipter h     e wI-useen by them      But ie did not dr-ha   adh.ile liemaie these
uiidte.     gwithgood, provisions, hasty observrTions  l     -e  h   me te
fua rit'e  at eth. ebo              where reitheri sotud nor rursii iedipte the hu,
reeI.i tra tsme, said the Presence of life, 1ie I                miockad at tire door
rea1s.    fin  helit"of' two wrecks, an it  Reeivmiig 2'I re einoc ed it. door.
wasohi. L ,  t iyn  ce I   omt this snug still und dark within  lie took niatedies rAw
L             an temliwhat  you crevice in the rock, his picket anrd li d  le. l vces from
a  I ee e big, y d the   , to Frank look for any oc lant tiP.h Ivain arci he
trir" brig, rmur he tre miiat Work,',sa~
Frank- " We are on theea .   wrk"said close-esplecially rntouhlssearch was
W; anire w1te east side of the island." those which Ire ba secret apartments beyond
aYes ;  WaIrre we will stay until the devils  At laistr Iris eye restel urpon a into ahedressel
are gca  Wke hee ienty to eat and drink. to hiirseil, which ponaehadbeerli   a tdrlessed
wlca d  n-me thrnhthrilye  for' te smoke opened it. lie gnhasmend his tethle.ith ge
wil drt he theihve cave iand not show  when ie read these words-s  lwith rage
above.  Wheltn they haLve "grim,rl;  ewl
ainto  t e  w r l  al ve  agai. " w  go  back    h-
I.rita conteiej" 5 iid Fluta. "ForI  takeniit tuanetaon1 opeforkhaving
not  think wie  uwil h h "d              her anxe5   selfdthe  ious  rMies r s Wiichester back  to
No    W     n   ets m                 her on anairing tr.1 lae inse actions to take
!   ti~ tt he  z'c~t, I11 *ran       trip. I}lay.  ;;c lit itle uie
halo Wsn Ire   wits  m oteandfinds that and hope seen to ie atet to retort iie ratfitcft5
tePetothe  meainlsurelyathn  that we restoratn t o i riaith1, ut}ame. Anid rfein tt I
1tiC  scpeanm                     of bt itt tle rise to}CattanIAstitrint t s eeitit rr
nave  owal it tie haveit d  said Fiank. which is far different from ii tshIato rota' nitiecesionttv
ourseInlvs c oni'trtl."  0d 0is, to make bI ad ielieved it-  hIpr "" rmn tropts
(.c111c~r~tI~je,,,travels to ii t-f  ah tloi --Gc1", t rur"1(ie n iyhrnT  i
es " a  th reine, ow  n ad'itsai no       rove- the tre-tdet cg of i  ihr in
cc ire'  so LI the recluse     sweet Carolinau  Annl it reuts ;itT fn fIhri
nan I   plasat ma    now n ea more ra- behavior of Captai Asrt,, weterwliiith  the future
airI eard   man tierthan een'  ' I wl hi  ur  tim n  er m r Irevel or not to
sap      .y   ,ii g     our provisions itiis mel, ai tihe ione  rts the lves
also the  hototr  to  if a f (" afnfc 'a ilu.  I have
:                                      1ta  r~'" ,tic~   --'    1 ' tI     i.

..                   f'Sr_

r
_                                                                                                                                                       ,1
a
A
.

i


60

TIE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, TIIE REBEL PRIVATEER.

father to accompany me in my travels. But rest assur-
ed, dear captain, that ii, intentous toward the 'Peri'
are of the inoot hiouoralle kind. I hope that you will
be able to mix your own pinch-if not, Doctor Umbili-
cus is a pretty good ha d, also a prime judge of the
article.
"And now, dear captain, as the wind is fair fir Ports-
mouth, and they are ad waiting for me, I will close
poetically, quoting rom one of yo favorites, slightly
altered
- Then fare thee well, deceitful mean,
"Is vaina al foolish to regret thee;
Forget me, captain, if yonca,
For time will teach me to forget thee.'
"Yours in a hurry,       FLANK RUTHERroRD."
"This may be but a ruse! But I will see.
When daylight comes I will search every foot
of the island '' said Ashton, as lie angrily tore
up the note and scattered the fragments on the
floor.
He then returned to his vessel in anything
but a contented humor.
"Ias that youngster run away, capting ?"
asked Snaggs,'when Ashton canse on board.
" What is it to you whether he has or not?"
said Ashton, s0nail  iv.'
"Nothin'' muc "l in' plied  Snaggs, testily.
" Only if he has, it's but a small loss!  That is
my opinion!"-
Aid Mr. i-bnaggs, having deliveredhis opinion,
went to wi' iin his former occupation, that of
mixing himself a glass of "hot Jammalcy."
CHAPTER XXXVII.
The occupants of the cave saw the sun-set
boat push off from    the brig, according   to
Frank's directions for it to come for him. And
they also saw its return, and the angry gestures
of Asiton, as he sprang int 1 it to visit the is-
land in person.
"I can imagine just what he is saying now,"
said Frank, with a laugh.  " And how he will
swear whenhlie reads my letter. It was anything
but complimentary and conciliatory."
"The ladies and gentleman will please to come
to supper," said the father of Abeona, at this
juncture.
And he led the way to a little natural alcove
which he had carpeted with solie costly goods
'-bales of which hie hind arranged for seats.
Here, upon a table which had evidently served
in the cabin of a hianmdsomely-fitted vessel, he
had tea served, also crackers, preserved fruits,
meats, sardines, pickles, and various other lux-
ulies.
"No danger of starvation where I dwell," lie
said, as he marshaledl his guests to s ats.  "Two
winter storms provided more for 1me than we
could use in years. And much of it will keep.
I doubt much if there arc many who own a
better vine-cellar !"
" fal we no o'her homes to thinr of, I am
sur" ''e"    hec v  yv well co:'nted in this!r"
a  '           '-' :   : ''' -    i die i a plate
w. .   .                     , 0: eeC   aii 1

I

do honor to our host and preserver. Miss Win-
chester.,,
"I surely will not negTect his kindness, nor
will I ever forget it !" said Flute. "Do you
think that the vessel will remain long"'
"No, I am sure it will not. When Ashton
finds that we really are gone, hie will fear for
his own safety too much to remain an hour
longer than lie can help in his present location
lie knows that he works now with his neck in a
halter!"
"Might he not be bold enough to run into
Portsmouth to see if he can get a trace of us '"
"No, lie is fool-hardy, but not quite enough
to visit a United States naval station after ll
that has happened lately! Shall I help you to
some of these pickled oysters ?"
" Thanks!   Lou have helped me too lenti-
fully already !"
Will it be liafe for us to have music alter
supper ?" asked Frank of Abeona's father.
Yes ! The vessel is a mile away, and the
roll of breakers between us will drown all souns.
I brought the harp and guitar, so that we may
have music.  When I listen to music the do i
goes out of me and angels come and sit by me,
and whisper me to forget the past! We wil
have music ; and when we are weary, 'we w  t
sleep and have pleasant dreams. I have pre-
pared soft couches for all.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
Early on the next morning Ashton landed
with his boat's crew, tnd tboroughva starched
every portion of the island in vain, for he could
find no trace of the absentees. Feeling convil ced
that they had indeed made their way to the min-
land, he returned on board in eve amm worse re-
Sper than he had exhibited on the eveIilg he-
fore. To lose Fluta Winchester' after ie had
run so much risk to capture her, was very gal-
ling to him. And to be thlwarted in his devilish
enterprise by a boy like Frank Ruthierford,
made the matter worse and worse.
lIe exhibited his Ill-himnir to ill hands, not
excluding Snaggs, Snowball. or even poor Doc-
tor Umbilicus. But those who knew the cause
of it, did not mind it; for, with ithe super-titin m
of all old tars, they aid their late ill-lortune to
the fact of their having had a woman on board,
and they were secretly glad that she was gone.
Neither Snaggs nor the doctor hiked young
Rutherford. Ile had played toll many practically
jokes upon them, and was forever turning both
their words and actions into ri lie.
Sam only was disconsolate, lie blulbere-d and
wept to think his Mrs'r Frank should go ott and
leave him.
"Ki, you thick-headeduii-r- !" sai  now-
ball to him, in a tone of nudlisi  e itempt.
Wheat for you cry and n:me a f' -. It's j -s
de best  ting  hat conI l uiapten  11for  you'  our
mass lists run away, and io1w y\oU'r 1  ou owli n

N

t 1 '
\i

THE RATTLESNAKE.; OR, TIIE REBEL PRIVATEER                       .
"  bigger. Jess you go and yet your name 'rolled 'Ie fell back atf  egho  h  ai-i0.
alongwidde crew like dis chle has done, and whi       at pu     h on the e bio
S   you'll coo  in for a share of de pize-daforcsadclaretr e           ta protuberance.
ney pie-mone        gb                    " I guess (idcybiehber seen dis nigger butt
Si       ony may go to de debbil! I afore ." cried Sn, delighted wit       u
waltimyOWn   Mar'rF lrank," said poor Sam, " Thick head o  iith er bett     da
"Blaliu   't tli mole.                ole wooden leg any way!  ere,onwbal, take
in' forl!  ouababy. Dere you is, a cry- your weapon
indat runiawffi  but a sy, good-for-nottin' boy  And Sam kickedd up the leg which S
dt ll      a his tauder, and come here lr had droi aied       it th e leg whichi noball
no good  !  way.  "said Snowball, contempt-  Poor Slowbaloweved  asin it aftereshi ru.
J                                       For the do   ,tieve, was in fresh trouble
uJess you say dat agin, you one-legged black him over onurposeh r iusenk a  to hd  anced
cuss!' cried Sal and the eyes but a moment seizing a bottle hall'of i -e whih was 01t, an
befoas red and itr-ops dimmed," now flasied the table, had begun to belaborhim a noerthe
us W        as tle setting sun in dog-days. face and eves W it that; baodrs te liquor  te
if_   ho   yudoveon san plantationmgger, ed the cuts made by the broken glurs, and als
if "dess you crie  anow , defiantly       got into POOr Snow hal's eyes, he wassforced lo
Jess you say1 sclder word ag,,n m- Mars'r yell for mercv.
grinin histeethsee  t's all. cried Sas,   But the doctor's temper was u
g Yorin' hiteetFr  1rt wr iln rages,  pent up now broke out like a flood whRage long
your a    o, Frank isn't worth shucks, and dam gives w    o   efyodhenaymil..
Syowa low din' h                           " TIs is to  a  o  h   e~e'st0     o
tnesval didn't Ilv time to finish the sein- black devi,!" shi'ute  the doctory
ethe nd   ereie haf of hid boyir Sam suddenly  '" Oh -oh, lehhI i' -o so 110 domtore! Mass
p sitio t   p 'imf is oy in a horizontal doctor, please luff nIsoi   ore!Massa
pwIitn his owidhea a wilyell of rage, dashed sa doctor !,,       . sge  p! Please, nmas-
bis his lowred head at foil speed against Snow-  But the doctor saw his advantage,He thought
Thile att'r, unexpectino tlwith the poet:thought
'unpr epr, reeethe1ethe attack; and all
mg r:ulipind hisstomah chige of the batter-    Unto the had Ifs cthati1' meiciful
In~l in Cheuel toatheeofo5t
th l    .l , ssn     and in che lauguae of  So he plied iis blowsuSnowball
til    and dosbs autl   " floored, sent to finding1tirs vn            r''o
gras, aid ouled oul,' 'iiie ''wind'' was coml-ldoe-etye Mflte "lln 11 ,; I: "   soul when
tme before oucsl-die, and it was a        eyeldofde Mercy )leih, tuilred in t  courage
whet hudid     t r'icome to twne." Bt fae   thn, id gave the doctor on in the
time  efelelie  ould  cometo tnse~"But face that hIelsoeerl 51 '1  fhstet  ou  i
oil ive did--tiletredness of the fire in his eyes throat, and eaisse   his teth down hi
would have completely outshone the     -       oeent. almedhisbellicose disposition inla
Mhich burns in Etna'--                                              - no
reastof ne         e  eambled to his feet, just in time to meet
hie    hae  iae inss brat  a re." t  hissangry glance of Captain Asihlton.
Hio fac'.jet was  i- b  i ourie.  h e    T  isis li"Fhliit inan oiheer !" cried the cap-
of dyin'ige  'spie cr ,td. ''our p stinkise  h sl t ei  t t Poor  U  hii wili t   a  ne('gr'o   servx-amnt !"'
lo   c ss  d   wsat  fight dati . Itellnay o i h ten  t ian   hurried  into s -icis ha l  nt  a  word  to  sy.  IIe
oidin   I  I  s s nu ay-  i   d wea-  fiurtio  mo  I ate-oouo, in a  slate ofImorti-
alowbau1  hades dat  tayounind dat  wi-licatioinmole easily innisefld1 I than described.
st   oeis  lit                                ine m  ietly unbucling the mhto T' -  -l th a couple of kicks, and,
thighowhile himel qiey w nbkg te             o his joy, wit hout being Osiecli f i'nliii
traf) w hich, lienled hais nwoodecas lgito his h Ilul  tile ; for lie wuld  Isoonetr ininve tnkeii lhfour
thi  a ei lin  b ,a now it vas flourished dozen with the cat o' miln taior ve  enur
h  ae fcord i t cal', and then, as its owner the torture of a b  ('nshin, tlan to evenendured
i1epd fonSIms, it Chme downm with tremendous obliged to acknow hen s thanl wohipe beea
101cce upis SalIm's 110utd.                Cdomi lChullittimcmi Pull'iief  li~
But it onIyhknoched s k t common planlt t. enIsg muer                whppd ya
Butey won agioeerd rks out of that darkey's  ' Iad e i 10     r
eyes, hitook poor Snowballe is batt'rimg-rla, nd Sam, as the foriiie'lcause lfitor Ihes ptry ?"ke
basket, Sitlos baul w niore i the bread- adjust his wooden leg.  inohpntI
bard a     foat e dwhirsent ilisflying back-  "Nuoff for dis time, Sans!
wrmdh ain tis oo hihAich separated them  an' (le doctor, g , lltoeee Sam! u teniyu
froulrthe cailtr l fom' this Ar'ican wusr erred in whien weeff         n all ma es tmind,
thim ault bey. tlie door d as, lnfortunately for of a getitashire, 1 s mil have d  sar in shiond
homasbo mtingtopened byDoctorUmbilicus,  tols, (henll ,           'liou- I'lfight 3  u  id pis.
wdovre, d nsi o  getomsie sugar for his tod-  "Don'
aDnn't ec 41                                 ] cane) 1 fo daf
d(~,1'  .k the' 1 '' 1  ung "!;bodystruck it, the refleetiv ely. I h  I a d  o' "saidSan,
11 po1I its poit, andi. "'Canoe w Y  "

r                                                        .. ..      _      - a..,w
" YOii
1                                                                                                                                                                            YA'


632

TIIE RATTLESNAkE ; OR, TIIE REBEL PRIVATEER

'      -: un't star' on an equal footing! " sire yearned to be back once moe with her sick
said Sa    ' ve heard ole mars'r say dat gem- i father, and to see len lrotler, who sIre knew
plemen must always stand on an equal footing' would be almost crazed when he found that she
when dey fight durcls'!"                     had been torn fronmr Ier irorne.
" Why doesrrt I stand on as good a footin' as When she told Frank of her feelings, he prom-
you, i'd like to know l'                     ised to do all he could to restore her to her peo-
"'Cause you've only one foot to stand on- ple.
I've got two. S'pose i put a ball ini your wood-  " I think," said he, " that the shallop can be
en leg, you no feel it! S'pose you put one in so repaired, that two of us-Abeona's father and
mine, Iguess I do feel it. When I get a wood- myself-can go to the, main land, where, with
en leg, den I'll fight you like .a gentlemen. money, of which I have a good supply, 1 cani
Till den, if you won't say nuflin ag'm imy Mars'r buy a small sloop or schooner'; aud in it, as I
Frank, I'n williu' to be good friends wid you!l" am a pretty good navigator, for a young one, I
" Well, dat's agreeable to dis chile. Y ou butt can run down the coast to Boston, and land yiu
wuss dan a bull, Sam. Jess pour out a couple o' safely.  But I there may be arrested as a retell"
glasses of dat Jaumraky. I got so much in my  And Frank laughed at the last idea.
eyes, I niuistutake soie lower down, to draw de  " I will use your secret, and that will insure
inflamnoratioini dat way !"                  your release !" said Fluta.
Sam did this kindno-s ; and thus their " little  " But you promised to keep it. I hope your
difference" was speedily liquidated.         promises are not like short-cake-made to be
broken !"
CIJAPTEIP XXXIX.                   "Nothing but your own interest, with consent
The party ir the-cave anxiously watched the  given, would make me break a promise !" said
movements onurhaul tine " Ranttlesniake" on the Fluta.
next morning. Mr. Asrtou  was seen wren he     "Well, I will talk to our host about my plan.
pushed off to make his final search, and seen He has become very rational of late ; and I see
fuming and storming about the deck when he that ie has made a dc id iij rovement in
came back, u nees-ful, from the search.   dress. Were it not for that sear, he would be
Totei ,u' stin observed that hurried  quite a good-looking gentleman ! I suppose we
preparations'f r getting under way were being  must thank you for his improvement. I do not
made on board tie brig. IIrr light spars were forget that Abeona and I arc to play while you
sent up, light sails bent, and, as she was already  and he dance! "
launched off her ways, and her stores all on   "You can safely dteas of mg,"aiu tai "for
boad, ~rewir son rmid.      yu kow hattuedeb ofg       sdrtitude lwinch"Iowe
board, sheet it was allstnoon when she slipped leder you will prevent my retaliating !"
Yst moorirg,w ablgot under way. At last, how-  " Oh ! do not let that burden your mind. le-
ever, sail wrs siane upon her, and she stood taliate as you please ; but don't get mad ! For
away from tie spot where she had so nearly         ' To be wroth with one we love
been wrecked, much to the joy of every one onDoth work like madness on the brain.'"
board, exempt, p    ohps, Ashton, who was too  "Ahr! fear not, Master Frank. Even were I
much annoyed t1 feel joy at anything.       to get mad, I would informu you, with a quota-
As somn as the F rig got clear' of tire various tiea, that
reefs astern, an- uuo   e quarter, se headed   ' My rage is not malicious ; like a spark
out upon an entrly course, and, cr'owding all      Of fire, by steel enforced out o  a int-
the  canvas atrichn lyie' ar's c oulse  carry,  was  Iit is no  s ar  k u ea than  ex in t.'"
soon far awayn iher distant ofldrng  c        " Well, though I'm tender, I'm not tinder ;
Fearing thnt Aslit in might have left some one so that the spark will not burn ne up !"
to watch on the islan  Frank now advised the  After supper, getting therecluse into excel-
recluse to go first alone in his boat, to see if all lent humor with a few ducts, Fmiank ventured
was clear; and if ie to reported, then they to suggest the plan of which he had spoken to
would once more return to the more pleasant Fluta.
quarter's above.                               The man listened to hier attentively.
To this tIe ri-clus assented; and while Frank  "The angels haves hen tali'ng to me while
and tine two girls watcrh e he iite speck of you were singing," saildire. " 'They told flre I
canvas fa tfadng into tine blue ocean, ie ven- must net stay hee ; for thit bad devil captain
tured out.                                   has seen Abeona, and ie will come back, and
When ie returned, and announced that all ' try to steal her. I must find a new home for
was right, tine brig could scarcely he distin- her !"
gushed as a speck on te distant horizon.     "Go to my sunny, Southern home !" said
The little arty now returned to the island- Frank, warmly. '- You shall have everything
hut, where the recluse soon had prepared a de- there as you like-be as secluded as you please."
vicious supper, which all enjoyed ; for tow    "I have plenty of gold, and can buy a home !'
Fluta felt that she was comparatively safe. But 'said the man in a tone of pride.

63

' " At least, go with me, and see my home !" isle, they made a fair progress as could he ex-
said Frank, earnestly.   " Abeona can there pected, with their old and leaky boat, and rotten
twine the imragnoi iLin her jetty hair, and pluck sail. But it was slow ;arid night was drawing
the golden 'ranges from their native trees !"  on when tioy passed Kittery Point, with its
We wil sce -- we will see !" said the re- frowning battery, and swept up the smooth har-
cluse. " [ii the mirning I will fix the shallop, bor of Purtsimoutlh.
and, if the wimid is fair, we will go to Ports- Landing at a wharf, where there were a num-
mouth, and buy a new vessel    But you must her of small sloops, schooners, and fishing-
not betray my secrets, nor tell the devils that I smacks, they seemed to have hit a point where
rave Abeona here, and other riches, or they will to make the purchase of a boat such as they
come to   l roe '                          wanted would not be dificult.
You ned inot fear for my discretion !" said  Meeting a very decent-looking man, who had
Frank .     bate meii as macli as you doI" ,  just left a tidy little schooner of about ten or fif-
Yes, men ire devils ! The oven is getting teen tons, Frank made inquiry about vessels for
red-hot for them ! But sing again, and let the sale.
angels come and tell rie what to do !"         " You'll find enough of 'em, I reckon," said
Frank and A h         -na air made music for his the stranger. "Almost all of our young men
darkened sol, anrl a smihe wreathed his face, have gone to the war. My two boys have gone,
whil 0 hsaink irto a gentle slumber.         and I'm about giving up lobstering ; for it's
tough work alone. If I could get what she cost
C=I .PER LX.                   me, I'd sell the 'HIlattie"-that little schooner I
It was not without misgivings and fear that just-left."
Fluta and Abeona saw Frank and the recluse      " llow much is she worth?" asked Frank.
depart the neuxt day, in thre frail, old shallop, for " Every ceiit of a thousand dollars, and is
Portsmortl .T   y  nt orl 'feared for tIe safe- well-found every way. Forr berths belov two
tyo    t buld ridvenilurers, bit, also, that Ash- good corirpasses, good chains arid anchors, and
ton might return with his brig before they could her sails, like herself, almost new.  Got a
be taken from tie island. burger with her name on it-she's named after
But Frank cheered them all he could as he my likeliest gal--an I a 'Nited States flag, too
shoved off, arn lu  them to keep a bright look- for them's the colors I was born under, and
out for them on the morrow, if the wind was mean to go up i iler."
fair.                                           " If your vessel suits urs, yeu may find par-
Fluta was now so far recovered that she could  chasers in us," sail Frank. " Our shallop's
walk all o'er Ihe island ; and, with Abeona for getting too old to be safe. Is your schooner a
a guide, she wandered about its gray, old cliffs good sea-boat ?"
and miniature groves of stunted spruce and cc-  "Never better, sir. If it comes on to blow,
dar, until sher fitgue caused her to return to and you're well-off the land. just put a balance-
tire lt.                                      reefed foresail on her, Irsh her belh, also, andt
Here, to amuse Abeona, and to pass away the she'll take care of herself. Yo. cango below
weary time. sIe told the sweet girl all about the an d go to sleep till the blow is over."
outer world of faslhiorn---of tire theatre, opera, " Let urs go on board and iook at hrer," said
balls, parties, etc. To of which Abeona us- Frank, to he rec usr.
te.ed much as children do, when their nurses or  He assenield ; and, ace-ompanied by the own-
SLareits tell them sweet fairy-tales---such as are er, they visited the  Ilanttie," which they found
woven by that good " old-fashioned gentleman" to be as neat and trim a little craft as could be
in TuHN Ew YorK MeRcuy.                    'desired.
Once in a while, her questions would extract  To.make the story brief, after a few words,
a smile from Fluta, betrayirg, as they did, an they purchased the vessel for rrine hundred and
utter ignoranrce of the outer world ; for the fifty dollars cash, giving their old shallop in to
hooks which lier fatirer had given hrer~ to read hoot.
did not tell her much of the modern world     bYou can sleep on board, or go up to my
His library was more select than extensive. He house, where's a free welcome," said the late
hid nearly all the English classics, a copy of owner, as hIe pocketed the money, which Frank
Shakspeare, tire " Waverly Novels," " Robinson hrad paid him in gold.
Crusoe," "Cook's Voyages," and a few more       " I think we had better stay on board," said
similar works.                                Frank. " We have got to buy some things from
When Frta hnad fairly tired herself out with the stores to-night, ard want to be off for home,
talking, Abeona drcv rup her harp, and played  up the coast, iii thre morning"
and sung her to sleep.                          " Well, jist as yon like; but if von went home
with me 't vould nt cost you not hig.''
'We now will follow the voyagers. Threading   And the ex-owner of the " hlatie" went off,
their way i  a non tie reefs and shoals which jiugling the gold m his pu'cet , feel ng a, rich
existedfor miles to thre westward of the lonely at  proa iPi  unamoment as if he was an As;or,

I

.a          .a.. _.y sr sYV4ryy . ,y "Y G ... .3.....u...WArie} iY s1i. a-'.- ..A4.u,+r"Su...WM.Y:+S:_-, r..r-.   _           __
e.

TILE ILvrrLEs AKE ; OTt, 1UE 1t 1 EL PItIVAT EE1

i
,

(

e


64               TIE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, TIIE REBEL PRIVATEER.
and probably a great dal more contented. I   "I am so glad to see you back again Ir
haven't the cligitest idea that, the Poet meant  " And I am glad to ho back again, lady-bird,'
any of our present-day rich men, when he said : said Frank. "If w had not been in a better
" If happiness on wealth werehuilt,   boat than the old sliallop), 1 amt not sure that we
ii" ga  n  might contot Ii (in' guilt,  should ever have r. aehed the island again. But
A  r xows the miser's boarded store,  the 'Fluta'--for I intend to re-name the schoon-
1os tears, his wants, increase the more !"  er--has acted nobly, and we have tested her
merits as a sea-boat I horoughly. Heavens, how
CHAPTER XLI.                  the wind blows ! I hope it will not drive Ash- '
the sun was upon the succeeding day, no ton back on this coast again
sooner tsan were A eona and Fltita. For, pos-  " We had better get home," said the recluse ;
sessing the natural timidity of most young girls and he landed from the schooner with a heavy
when left alone, and that increased by recent bundle of purchases which they had made on
events, sleep had little to do with their eye-lids shore.
during the night.                             Frank now bethiought himself of sundry anti-
At a very early hour, they posted themselves cles of fashionable weat, which he had bought
upon the highest point of the island, supplied for Fluta and Abeona, and hurried to take them
with a sp-ghtss and began to strin their eye- from the schooner.
sight shorewardly, looking for olthe return of  "Youshould have seen with what grace I
their friends. And as the w , n rihe up toward fibbed when I bought these bonnets, and gait-
its meridian, and with it clouds lix uxan to gather ers, and other things !" said Frank, when he re-
to the eastward, and the wind to freshen, they  vealed his purchases, on their arrival at the
trembled for they feared that those for whose hut. " With the most bashful air in the world,
coming they yearned might  ho set.-      I told the milliner thatit I was going to get mar-
ciut when the sun bha  tb lxssixit ascending  ied, and wanted tine very nicest things for y
point, and  they s had   paalu e l ixxxx0   to  despair,  gal, and  for my  sister,  wtno  was to  be  her bride-
tquick e e of Abeona caught sitltt of a white maid. The lady thought I was dreadful young
sek, looking no bigger thia the wing of a;to marry-poor thing ' she was only about for-
gull, far anay to leewar t.                 ty-five, and single still:-but she picked out her
gulfIt is asail  l she cried. ' They are cor- best and highest- priced goods when she saw
ing!"                                      that I had the money to par for them, and felt
For a time Fltta doule ; mlet at last the quite consoled when I said that my ntetded
lagr,                      sewsspck rew" llirge andtt larger, until she wa cer- was ten years ohder titte I
spik rw larged, wit l  a sigh ffelef  " 'it is better than to marry a wild young
Than  a(o 1, the iy are  e mi h g e  thing, at  any  rate  .  s d  she.  i  Shell be  able
But as t       hee sit aereenxlx its eern slope, its to take a motherly care of you, and keep you
patwas ts lest by bltc il yng-clouds, and front getting wild.'
the gale f shenedt .ry tour. int still n aten  "Itold her there was no danger of my get-
and nearer, teaching oteu hoi t shoals, yet ting wild ; that I had sown all rmy wild-oats, and
bearing to idwarc   nobly camie the little as good as belonged to the eliurch. Then I
schooner-F i k  at  the hn ly cianm the  recluse  asked  her for a kiss to re ienler her by."
atte    rFning the shts. ThIism was isit hard ; for  "Did site give you onf . 'asked Fluta, laughing.
the  late  owner, hesn  g  hail  to   w rka  ter  sigle-  "  She  said  site  wo n in  t,  biut looked  she  o ld.
th elte one, ha vnl ri ag t te  sheet-  looks  to  work  So  I  waited  till she  n et  into  the  back  room  for
on " travelers,, so thar, it was but to let .go tie something, aid felinwed, clad told len I must
stoppers i the weatter-side when she we   take the kiss
about, and she was triutrned for the other tack  "   If you m st yxu  must, yohs deanlittle
in a moment.                                go"td-for-aothig yon I' sie said.
Nearer and  nearer the  bexautiful  little  selooti-  " W ell,aAnd- whatE  ertedrFnuta. s
er' catte, tier Ilts tlying ont in the frest bneeze " Whll and wisetd meti Fwithaeiegrlp,
anid hter taunet spars bendhing heneathm the weight "and  he mlxexi with eribny vear  nilpI,
of canvas.                                  and hugged iwin l rboiygt
Just its the sun went dowrt in a hank of clouds, thOught I would feinte s tight.
the l [tlt ie'' shot Into tihe little coexi, whtete shte "   Oh, you little swell' Psite said,   what a fool
was safe frx  ote it'riit, which, to the eastward you are tirgo and n nrry a young girl when so
of     e the  ia   l,  st-i rm, hi   , to rtmtesly.  many  sensible,  f l x-grown  women  are  waiting
Fluta ws. x) aw. rtatt lheFramsprung on for huisbands  Bits' x ss women,' sie added,
shore,  se  ri   a .  intoh w a rns Fand,  shue  the  rwho  have  got  a  go o  biank-account, and  are
tshri  ile  reO t leer  die   ulie  kissed hiane  going  to  be  a help, instead  of a burden, to  their
a r r n et    ah   c  e     esisi .e m i  u s h m id s .'  ,
aienand laita .a  -ie wetxto, h-ut she    " I wonder that you did not succumb, and
A }enna  ,ti   n x   htll  xit  her It te  i pad,aned  propose  on  the  spot;  sail Fluta.  '' T'ie tempta-
hcs  h d  a                             a   tind o w as,  surely,  very  great.',

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

65

I thought of those I'd left behind me, and those on board the packet doubtless took her to
refrained !" said Frank, with a mock sentimental be, for they raised and dipped their ensign three
s   -gh.                                    times by way of slute--a courtesy which Ash-
"I don't see what there is to laugh at. I ton most grudgingly answered.
think she was a bold thing to be a woman," said  "It is tarnal hard to see such a good chance
Abeona, pouting.                            go by !" growled Mr. Snaggs. "That ere chap
"You must excuse her," said Frank, still was worth a cool hundred thousand, or- more,
laughing. "Hers was a desperate situation, re- besides his ship ! I just wish it would stop blow-
member. Forty-five, and single yet !"      in' till we'd got ready for a run to south'ard. The
" I hope she'll always have to remain so !" deuee take the luck! But our luck comes by
said Abeona. "I don't see what business she, fits and starts, like a balky horse ! Had one
a stranger, had in kissing Mr. Rutherford."  good drive-and now we're on a balk. But
"Why, you wasn't angry when I kissed him," maybe we'll get a fresh start afore long--there's
said Fluta.                                 no use in giving' up !"
"No ; you are not a stranger to him. You    The worthy owner's revery was cut short by
are one of us !"                           the sudden order of the captain :
"We'll all feel the better for a little supper;  "All hands aloft to reef and set the topsails."
it is ready," said the recluse.               "Goin' to try that chap, casting'." asked
Snaggs, as he saw Ashton taking the compass
CHAPTER XLII.                  bearings of the fast-receding packet.
The gale which raged all the night so furious "Yes. I will follow her course: and if the
ly over the Isle of Shoals, and which did not wind goes down to-night, as I think it will, we
abate during all of the next day, struck the can overhaul and board her in the morning."
"Rattlesnake" when she had reached a point a  " Exactly ! I was just a saying' to myself,
little to the eastward of the Newfoundland What a tarnal shame it was for us to lose a big
Banks ; for she had a pretty fair run up and off liner like that ! There's no knowin what she's
the coast. Ashton had taken this route, not worth."
only to escape the cruisers which were proba-  " Except by capture and examination," said
bly hovering along the coast further south, but Ashton.
in hopes of falling in with some more homeward-  When the reefs were taken in the two topsails,
bound packets ; for they were likely to be as Ashton had them hoisted and the yards pointed,
valuable as any prizes which he could make.  while the vessel was still lying to. After thin,
The storm had not come on so speedily and was done, he ordered the helmsman to keep the
unheralded by signs as to take Ashton unaware brig away in a southwesterly course-the same
of its coming, or find him unprepared. When which the ship had taken; and soon the sharp
his barometer fell, and the wind began to in- bows of the clipper were heaving the foam-
crease, he took in his light canvas, sent down flakes high in air.
lis upper spars, and trimmed ship for the worst.  "Oh, but she is a beauty !" said Mr. Snaggs,
Fora time lie carried sail to get an offing, as the in his delight. "She cuts water just as slick as
wind blew nearly on shore ; but when his dip- shearin' sheep ! It's worth the price of a man's
ping rail and creaking spars spoke of too heavy board and lodgin' jest to see her go !"
a strain he hove the vesselto un der  nl

wa,n uvvrcui  .p;     uer a couple
of storm-staysails, and let her take it easy.
And right nobly did the gallant sea-boat be-
have, riding the tremendous swells with an ease
and grace which filled the hearts of her crew
with pleasure and a sense of delight. During
the first day and nigh of the storm, nothing
occurred worth noting; but on the second day,
while the hurricane was at its height, a noble
vessel came in sight to windward, which Ashton
ached to take. She was one of those magnifi-
cent packets which-are the pride of the Empire
City; and being able to lay her course with the
wind on her beam, or a trifle abaft it, came sail-
ing down under three close-reefed topsails in
most magnificent style.-.
Knowing that no boat could live to board
her, Ashtona was obliged to let her pass, as she
did almost within hail. And fearing that she
might report his suspicious looks, without he
hoisted American colors, he set the ensign and
pendant of an American man-of-war, which

CHAPTER XLIII.
On the third day after the " Iattie" had been
moored in the little harbor of the Isle of Shoals,
the gale having abated, she was male ready for
another voyage. For the recluse hai determin-
ed, for the present at least, toBhandon his island-
home, and Frank had promised to take Fluta to
Boston.
So the schooner was laden with such articles
as the recluse wished to take with him, and be-
ing well supplied with wood, water, and provi-
sions, only waited her crew and passengers.
These were not long in getting on board, and
soon, with her jib, mam, and foresails drawing
to a fine northeasterly breeze, the little craft
shot away from her moorings.
Frank had not forgotten to purchase a coast-
ehaft while he was in Portsmouth ; and he now,
by its aid, so shaped his course as to avoid the
shoals through which the "Rattlesnake" had

I

t
1
J
S
I
8


66               THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.
been forced to run, and to reach the latitude of evidently endeavoring to close with the ship so
Boston as soon as possible.                 as to hoard her.
"Do you not regret leaving your island-     Fluta, Abeona and her father, aroused by
home?" asked Frank, of Abeona, whom     he Franks shriek, had now come from the cabin,
noticed gazing hack upon it.                and they also, inth  gray o   an    a   n
"No; for you are here 1" was the artless re- recognized the brig. But the latter swept on-
Nly.                                       her commanderlittle dreaming how near he pass-
pAnd the color rushed up into the cheeks and ed those whom he would as soon have captured
temples of the sweet girl, even as if she felt as the packet which he was chasing.
conscious that her lips were telling the yet  Frank trembled until the  rig nas a   ng
secret of her heart,                        way beyond them, and then he rejoiced as he
Frank made no reply. Therews ea troubled saw that they were nearer to tie land than he
look in his face, hut no words left his lips, thought, and recognized the tall column known
Fluta conversed quite cheerfully now ; and the as Athenotunt illhMobnu  m e yn, i
recluse,  whose  mind  seemed  to  have  grown  An   o  ni   h   rg  was mie byo  d  dd
stronger as his energies and thoughts were call- he dare to get up the anchor and mahe sail on
ed into action, joined in the conversation, and the schooner. Meantime, as the light increased,
showed, by many of hsis remarks, that when lie those on board the latter watched the chase.
hid mingled with the world his position was that  The brig could easily have fied into the
of a gentleman, and that his associations had packet, hut her commander seemed to hope to
benof getlmeman and uat hiss             be able to capture her without alarming the
But te least approach to an inquiry about port, and thus bringing pursuit on himself.
his past was so quickly evaded, that both Frank And as his speed evidently was superior, for a
and Fluta, seeing that it was not agreeable, did time it seemed that he would be successful in
not presume upon it.                        overhauling the packet before she could reach
During all that day they ran along down tie the harbor for which she steered. But a "stern-
coast, tie most of the time in dim sight of tie chase" is proverbially ever a long one. Though
distant shore; and when night came, fearful of ie gained on time ship, she was each moment
shoals, and also that he might over-run his dis- driving nearer and nearer to the spot where she
stance, Frank, who acted as navigator, ordered  might surely expect aid.
the foresail in; and when bed-time approached, And to add to his miselmances, Aslhton now
nine or ten o'clock, he had the jib taken in, heard her open fire with a paltry iron six-pound-
lowered tme main-sail, and finding that they er, such as is frequently.kept on board such
were in only fifteen fathoms of water. hind the ships to use in firing for a pilot. Its report
anchor dropped. Veering away about thirty would, he knew, reach the forts below the har-
fathoms of chain, the little bark rode easily up- bor ; and, mortified and filled with anger, he had
on the gentle swell; and though Frank had in- to haul his wind and head off 1m coa-t
listed manfully upon k   1eepig watch, he went as  Yet, to vent his spleen, he fired several guns
fast asleep in the little cock-pit of the schooner at the merchantman, reckless what damage he
as did those who had regularly taken to the did.Vhen he hauled off, Frank hoisted sail, and
berths below.                                  We    ehue      fFakhitdsiam
And, sleeping, h dreamed. Dreamed that steered the little schooner in quietly toward the
once again e was in the sunny home-land of land, thanking Fortune that they were free from
his youth, wandering amidst fragrant groves the peril of recapture which had so terrified
and fruitful fields. Then his dream  changes. him before.t         all her canvas, rested
He thought that he was upon a single plank,   The packet, still under     her cap messed
drifting on a storm-lashed sea--hopeless and on for the harbor, glad to escape, amid her cap-
helpless-he knew not whither. Suddenly, up- ta   burning torreport to the cruises his nar-
on the crest of a monstrous wave he saw a hige row escape from a "Jeffcravpft which had come
vessel bearing right down upon him. Time wldaput them ontierakoacafwhhbdcnc
g r  ' h  1   tereda sonearto capturing him.
roar of waters was in his ears; 1e uttered
shriek of terror and awoke.
Woke to see that his dream had some reality            CHAPTER XLIV.
in it; for bearing down almost bodily upon the  Elmer Winchester w as recovefa  vncslpwdliyn
schooner, was a huge, square-rigged ship. He yet recovering, and heid got s  ad aned  in
had barely time to see the danger before it was convalescence that lie was admitted to sit with
past, and time ship, which did not clear time his father, who was also mending slowly-very
schooner by the fourth of a cable's hength,a ent slowly, For the absence of poor Futa. and the
careering on her way under all te canvas dreadful uncertainty of      f    he
which she could carry.                      ily upon te minds of both of them.
And close upon her weather-quarter followed  The son did all thatlie could erin hisown
a vessel, which he knew the instant he saw her. father with hope, nain strove to retain hisn
t was the "Rattlesnake," crowding sail, amid feelings so as to regain his is alth amd strength,

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.                             67
for he had received a commission to put his I dock, he left the room to impart the joyful news
yacht into the Government service, with orders to his father.P               dy
to take command -of her as soon as his health  "You'll be better in a hurry now, Mr. Win-
would permit.                                chester," said Pat, as they moved slowly toward
And he had determined to enter upon a cruise his father's room. " With such kisses to warm
as soon as l e could hear transportation to the ye, and such howly dew as a sister's tears to
vessel. He had secured the services of Pat wather you, you'll be growin' strong in a hurry.
Murdock as his first oficer, under the recoin- It's a good sign to see it rain while the sunis
mendation of the marshal; and the worthy Irish- shining."
man had got the yacht ready for war-service in
every way. She had been munitioned and arm-
ed at the Navy Yat. md now lay at anchor ini              CHAPTER XLV.
the stream, wai ing    or her owner and cap-   We cannot describe the joy which filledtlie
tam                             hertof Mr. Winchester (the father when h
Emrwsrather astonished by an early visit heard of Fluta's return, and once more pressed
one r     g      Mr. Murdock, who came into her to his bosom. They say sudden shocks kill.
his room in a great state of excitement.     I don't believe it. I never saw anybody dlie
"If the work was mine, I'd give three-thirds from an overplus of joy yet.
of it, sir, if you were able to be up and doin'  And sudden shocks are great in rheumatism.
this blessed moment," he cried. "For there's a That I do know from ocular evidence. For I
Yort packet just come in that has been chased saw an old gentleman once tumble from his
intth aeryjwsof the srbionr by a privateer crutches into a stream running full of drift-ice
that answers the full description of the 'Rattle- in the spring-time. He was got out with diffi-
snake '-the divil's hick be wid her!"        etilty, while his crutches drifted away. He had
"If the doctor thinks I can be moved as far no further use for them, however. Either the
as tHe vessel to-day, I will go," said Elmer. fright or the sudden dip of cold water cured him
"Have no vessels gone in chase of her from the of a rheumatism which had afflicted him for
yard ?"                                      years.
"It's more than I knew, sir. For when the    And yet another case, just to put a little truth
packet came in, firing alarm-guns, I went aboard with fiction, as one puts barley into souto
and heard what her captain said, and came right thicken it.,p
ashore to let you know.'                       Old Mother Flaherty lived in Diamond Alley
" Thank you, Murdock ; your promptness in that coal-begrimmned town called Pit sbu ',
pleases me. I hope the doctor will say that I and she had been bed-ridden withchronic rheu-
cans go, for I long to be in chase of the villain." matisia for years. One day, when Teddy, her
"Oh, sir-ohm, sir !" said the servant John, husband, lay drunk on theforlecaszd
whom we have before noticed, coming in with byan awkward kick, the jugflo rum which ie
eyes distended and a pallid face, "she's come- kept ever at hand. The liquor being strong
she's come, or else her ghost has !"         enough to burn, and running in the direction of the
"Who? What do you mean ?" cried Elmer. fire-place, soon was in a blaze, and in a moment
"Mi s Fluta," gasped John, just as that lady the room was all on fire. eddyds  o  enk
herself stepped ito th e roo  ; andrushing up to know his peril- but the (old woman, forget-
to her brother, threw her arms around his neck tin that she had been helpless for years, sprung
and gave him a combined shower-bath of tears frqm her bed, dragged the old man to the door
and kisses.                                  drenched him with a ail of water, and then ran
"You here, Fluta?   Here, safe and uninjur- into the street, shouting : "Firedfire !" with
ed ?" he cried                               all her might.
"Yes, Elmer, safe ; and so happy to see ydu  Not recommending any of my rheumatc
here and alive, thoughyou are fearfully cliamg- friends to prefer these methods to yinaeum and
e!" Hcapsicuni, I close fact and re-enter the field of
"How did you escape from that villain ?" fiction.
asked Elmer.                                   As soon as the first transports if eer father
"It is quite a long story to tell, but you shall were calmed, Fluta bethought i' of her guests
have it after 1 have seeing fther, and you have who were in the parlor, and asked Elmer to ac-
assisted me in tendering the hospitality of the company her thither.
house to some friends who are with me, and to  This Elmer did, telling Murdoek to wait in his
whoiIuam imdchted for being h ere."         room for a little time, as lie wished to see him
Flu,, had found Elmer in his own room, and before lie went on hoard the yacht.
now she begged hi  t     oo precede her to her fatb-  Uon reaching the pallor, Elmer was intro.
er, so as not to shock i too suddenly with the diced to Master Frank Rutherford, as the one
glad newne                                   who had been particularly the agent of her es-
You can follow me in a moment," said El- cape from Ashton's power, and to Mr. Albert
Iner, And leaning on the strong arm of Mur- Dinsrore and his daughter Abeona as friends

8

,


68               THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE~ REBEL PRIVATEER.
to wom se wsgratl idebted fr kindness,- of Miss Fiuta's-a guest in the house wherein
potoihom ahe was 'gretyme eo.            lie served  He knew not what to do.
protertiook Fr ssancrial by the hand, and " I wil ray figst, and then go and see Tabi-
M   r. ismoelo, Fand oedl mot praondly tha An  he aaid, alluding to a spinster to
Mr. Abenmor alo heiantlye prontoond o be whmhe had been " paying attentions" for
tho prtesadost intting iroethat lhe some veal's. " What she advises, I will do ; for
retd evrstn anot vivs oee ineedrbut ia his te spirt of grace is in her, and she is wise be-
Refnemnt   r  instant oderd, and then  As John could not go to see Tabitha Ann un-
Rlereshmedn wrecivtan ounret of the til night, and had in his capacity to be fre-
maner aske Ftasdap.hsh received one as quentl into the presence of Franki, he became
mael as aFdetae accounte. Thise rcase ofthe terribly nervous ; for when there, lhe could not
"Hattie, antald heiroubsequet voyae to os- keep his eyes off from Frank. who, disliking to
"to ie, adhersbeunvoge                  s-be stared at, gave him more 'an one fierce
tn. _
schooner ?' Eln er asked of  rank, after th~e  ok         HPE         LI
naraintascncudd'CAPE                           XV
narraioone w ocked. he abn a left her On the morning after the arrival of Fluta and "
to ke.  e helf." hrc  ia             her friends, that young lady was astonished by
to tak sae Mofhrelf. toptarsosbewth       h   cin     f John, who knocked at her door,
ma onl boad Mrto tk eof erponidlertch- theinsadmitted, dropped on his knees, and
t wosheoshe lie, Fl t  df              said -" Please forgive me, Miss Fluta. I
"AW he foot of iia       "                thought I did everything for the best-Tabithah
prAtc t e. Enot tein whr g  ,    gd    An   told me to do it, and I dido; and if he don't
sister   11.i wil rtrin ofemmoents"    ron away, they'll catch him, and hang him, and
ook orank my brother h, some " I-I will he all the cause of it        e
s  onkta yof thinAn ny a pea he went     And John sobbed and cried like a el-whip-
aote                                        pd child.
t Yes. Almost as handsome as Mr. Ruther- se"Whatis the matter, John  ? What are you
foderd,"sid Abeonavita  sightedbu h s  talkpii gatsiAreorazyshi' sebe
w   hat ae you tiing of Master Frank ?"     Almost hiss      ua.  c    k Mr. Rther-
asked Fluta, seeing that he appeared to be ford to run away quick-qick -,"
min-wap inrvei.                                " What must he run away for ?' asked she.
"Thinking of how I am to get home i these   "Because they'll ehore ate  . Docgme
p ig times of war. Were it known here that himu to go away. I am willing to lose my place,
" was recently a midshipman on hoard this very but I don't want to be the cause of his death. 
rebel privateer that as been so saucilv showing  " What is the matter' with you, John? .Have
her flag riEht under their guns here,eyou'd see  -ou been drinking too much? Tell me plaily,
a United States warrant for my arrest in a hiur- "what do you pean ?"..
Nykc"f                                       " Forgive me, Miss Fluta, and I will. Yaou
ry 'ad Frank Rutherford at that instant seen theft see, I heard Mr. Rutherford sa that ihe was a
elongted face of the servant John, who, coming midshipman on that dreadful privater-a rebel,
in with cake and wine, hiad overheard his words, and a slave-holder; and 1 went nd told my
ie might have been more guarded   But le did Tabitha Ann, and she said I must go and te
ot; nor did Fluta, who, with a laugh, replied ; the nut horities--and I did ; and n expet them
" They shiouldn't take you. I'd hide you un- every momeiit to come after himi I got to
ithatsecillretours."afewmmthinking just now that thieyd hang him if' they
Don tneyillety the tray containing the re- caught him, and it made me feie so dreadful bad,
freshments fall, he was-so astounded by what le I couldn't help coming to tell you. Oh, do
heard   But ie managed to place the tray on send him off-please do
the table, and went out just as Elmer returned  Fluta assumed a severity which she did not
-not, however, without taking a shy look at feel when she replied
the face of the youth who had avowed himself  AYou have betrayed the one who rescued
to be a rebel p'pivateersman, which, in John's me from captivity. John. Mericy only knows
e       asabad as a pirate, to say the least. what I can do! Go to Mr.  uterfrd s room,
And when ie got out of the room, he was in a andask him to come here instantly. Ten go
quandary. lle was a member of the Reverend down stairs, and remain until I conw."
Mr. Parker's congregation, and was a very fer- " Well, Miss Fluta, what is up ?" cried Frank,
S vent discipe of anti-slavery, and withal a eon- a moment after, as le entered her room. "our-
intimofa.WIle felt as if it would be a di- man-servant, whom you call John-the goggle-
wstcentounmthe rebel to the proper authori- eyed waiterwho always-stares me out of coun-
test  dtythat lPeed toshi    d and i  te a is the one I mean-came to me, and
country, but, then theisaidhrebel  as a friid  blabbered out that you wanted to see me right

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

69

away, and then begged me to forgive him, and was a rebel !" said the officer, loosing, or trying
went crying away as if he had the jumping to look, very stern.
tooth-ache. What is up, my fair heroine ?"     "I acknowledge no such thing !" said Fluta,
"Your secret, 1 am afraid, will have to be up !" curling her pretty lip.
said Fluta. And then she told John's story as  Elmer stood all this time a picture of amaze-
nearly like himself as possible-.            meant. The lovely girl who stood beside Fluta,
".What a fool ." said Frank. "Now they will dressed in    low-necked dress, and with shoit
try to arrest me ?"                          sleeves, certainly looked like Frank Rutherford,
"Udut .  ,especially in the large, handsome, saucy-look-
"How can I evade it ?"                    lag eyes ; but it was also certain, from more
"The secret must come out. They will not than one sign and token, that she was a lady,
be so very ungallant as to arrest you then !"  and, of course, could not be Mr Rutherford !
The door was closed at this juncture ; but   " I should like to know what all this means 2"
from the merry bursts of laughter within, it is he said, at last, addressing himself to that offi-
to be supposed that the secret was a funny one. cer.
" It means, sir, that I have a warrant for one
CHAPTER XLVII.                  MidshipmanRutherford, of the rebel navy, oie
The Winehesters---father and son-and Mr. in other words, of the so-called Confederate
Dinsmore, who became more and more rational States, who is, or has been, harbored in this
every day that lie mingled with society, were house !"
seated in the parlor, waiting for the coming of  " You are at liberty to search the house, sir;
F.ank Rutherford and the young ladies; for a and if you find any such person here, to appre-
plan to visit Mount Auburn and other places of hend him !" said Elmer, now beginning to get
local interest had been started ; and the physi- a glimmering of the true state of affairs.
clans had assented to the prudence of the two  "We should not take this step, sir, except upon
invalids riding out.                        the most positive information from one of your
Abeona soon made her appearance, looking as own servants, backed by his affidavit!" said the
beautiful as ever, even in the fashionable attire officer, apologetically.
which the forethought of Rutherford had pro-   And he exhibited the document to Elmer.
cured for hie use. While she was yet standing "'Where is John ?" asked time latter of a
before hi, father, whose outstretched hand she servant who stood in the hall.
had taken, tde servant John came in, with a     Gone out, sir; lie went out by the back-
pale face, and cried:                        door as soon as  e let these getlemenn at
"They've come--they've come !" and rushed  the front .
away, as if lie was indeed crazy.              " le hims saved himself aj kicking," said El-
"Who has coe?    What does the fool mean? mor. "Gentlemen, proceed with your search.
I do believe le has taken to strong drink lately. If you find Mr. Rutherford, I will go bail for
I never knew him to act so oddly before," cried his appearance, not being satisfied   that ihe is a
Elmer rrebel--the more especially that he lately bravely
His remarks were interrupted by thmeentrance rescued my sister from the clutches of a well-
of four persons, one of whom Elmer recognized known rebel !"
to be the chief of police.                     "We will take your word that lie is not
Tihe latter person bowed, and politely asked here," said the officer, feeling a decided dispo-
if there was a gentleman naied Frank Ruth- sition to back out from an unpleasant job.
erfod in the house.                           " Oh, by no means ! I misist upon your seni elm-
Elmer was about to say that there was, when ing the house-especially my sister's room; for
his sister Fluta entered, with a lady veiy neatly she, in her gratitude, may have hidden time en-
attired, who bore a most striking resemblance tleman who saved her honor and her life in a
to MasteiFgank Rutherford.                 bandbox, or trunk, or under a st of hoops!"
"Was this gentleman asking for Mr. Ruther-   And Elmer gave one mischievous glance at
ford " asked Flutai                         the companion of his sister, who blushed, in
"Yes, miss," replied the officer,          spite of her attempts to "keep cool."
"He left this morning, early!' said F   a.   "Since you insist upon it, sir, I will do my
"But her is his sister. Perhaps she may be duty ; and if your man has deceived us by false
able to attend to any business you may have information, he must look to himself; for I do
with him !"                                 not like trifling," said the chief,
"My business is withMi. Rutherford, miss, and  And,.ecompanied by his posse, he made a
very special, said thinofo ea somewhat em- very careless, and, of course, an unavailing
barasse . "You do not mean that he has left search,.
the city "                                    He attempted to apologize after it was over;
"To be sme ie knew tie danger of re- but was quite coldly dismissed by Elmer, who
maining  where-e was, amd left."            advised him to look after his informant.
"Then you acknowledge that you knew lie     "And now Miss Fluta," said Elmer, when

l1


THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.     71

70

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

the house was clear once more, "I will thank             CHAPTER XLVIII.
you for an introduction to your lovely compan-  Two weeks more of time have elapsed. Two
on, who greatly resembles ier brother in lace, more weeks of the lifetime of the various char-
if not in figure !"                          acters in this story.
"Miss Frances Rutherford, permit me to in-   Elmer Winchester has almost completely re-
troduce you to my scapegrace of a brother, Mr. covered his health, and his father is iuch bet-
Elher Winchester !" said Fluta, with mock    ter. For contentment is the most dficacious
courtesy.                                    iiwedicine inl the world.
'-1 am happy to meet Miss Rutherford--Miss   And new plans have been formed. Not be-
Frances, I should say," said he, with a profound hieving that the unhappy war, which at the
bow.                                         time distracted the country, would reach her
"Frances, or Fannie, or even Frank, as papa  father's elegant residence at Magnolia Grove,
used to call me," said the lady, with a laugh.  Frances Rutherford was anxious to get to her
Poor Abeona, who had been looking at her home. And as the physician of Mr. Winches-
all this time m utter astonishment, now left the ter had advised a sea-voyage to a warmer cli-
room without speaking; but Fluta, observing  mate, and Mr. Dinsmore and his daughter had
that tears wee coursing down her pale cheeks promised Frances to go to Carolina with her,
as she went out, folswed her.               Elmer had concluded to take them South in his
Qn reaching ier room, poor Abeona threw     yacht, and after landing the Dinsciores and
herself upon her bed, and burst into a flood of 1rances on the Carolina coast, to take is father
tears                                        and Fluta to Cuba, to main while he pursued
But in a morn.t, Fluta's warm   arms were his cruise.
around her; and she was asking, in the kindest  1t was a pleasant day when they set sail from
tone, what was the latter with her guest.    the harbor of Boston, and stretched out to sea
"Oh! it was cruel-it was cruel" was all with a gentle breeze, blowing enough off the
poor Abeona would say.                       land to leave the water smooth ; P' asant when
What was cruel?" asked Fluta.   Then, as a they rounded the classic point of hite-sanded
"ew thought struck her, she asked :  " Did you Cape Cod ; pleasant as they stretched off the
really thiu  that Frank eas wheat his dress pur-  hore to clear the "V ine  ard " and its sour
ported him to bea"                           grapes, and left the pale-green water of sound-
"Yes; and I loved him so much !" sobbed    ing-depth for the fathomless blue of the ocean.
Abeona.                                        Elmer's aht was far mole confortabhe thean
Why, I have known the secret of the dis-  th3 "Battie," which had been sold ' for the
guise a  on time," said Fluta  "I knew it be- I nefit of those concerned."  Tvr, fitted out
fore I lauded upo" thee island."  niiiml built as a plensure-vtse, she was exceed-
Frances Rutherford came in, now, and learn-  ingly roomy, aind her accommodations of a su-
ingFrie cause of Abeoas grief, endeavored to  huclior character.
oishe cee                                  Amd tie party was a pleasant one.  Miss
"Ilove ou dearly, and will ever be a sister  Frances Rutherford was full as gay as Master
to you," said cei, to Abeona. "My love will  Trcamk had been. Abeena had got over her dis-
be you," sefishen that Abo an."M vew   n,pointment, and endured the attentions of El-
be les selfish than that of a man." d  '        rastetya aygr-fsw tsxen
Abeona smiled through her tears, and said.: ier s'msPatiently as any girl of swetixiteen
I will try tohrove o, Miss Frs dances bt I could do, who knew that she hadthe heart and
shall never love vou as I did Master Frank."  hopes of a shandgome  ouqg nian ii her hands
"Y   ou cannot tell," said Frances, laughiiig. Mr. Dinsmore hind got to be quite anotlier moan,
"And besides, there is p   rcElmer Winchesterand proved to be both agreeable and rarely in-
dying of ove for onjust transfer your old telligent ; Mr. Winch ster, the senior, bore his
ove for Fra     y-k touhm, and it will make him  lessening'rheumatic pains with great cheerful-
haoey.                                      riess, an'd Fluta, as nurse, did well her part.
"Th anks! a thousand thanks, Miss Ruther-    When not on deck on duty, Pat Murdock
ford, for stating my case and pleadim  eke it the cabin in a roar with his odd witticisms,
cause !" cried Elmer, from the adjoining ps- w which were all the better that they seemed to be
sage, where, on his way to his room, he lad without any premeditation. Like most of his
overheard Frank's words.                E    atiome, lee was bort mforaktesnod  vQuar  bau
There was a little scream of surprise, and El- i-rs were e.noug  to make a Quaker laugh, or a
mer found the door slammed to in his face.   sa age warrior sise.
These women are hard to beat in anything   Aeosa used to laugh immoderately at: is
they undertake. Some of them take as atn   songs, especially one which ran in this way
ally to the breech's as ducks do to swimming,"         PAT MURDOCK'S DREAM.
said Elmer, as lie whistled a quick march and        " I was slaying one night,
went to his room.                                       When the ship was at say,
And was dr'aming a bit
On the deck as I lay,

And swate was the dr'aine
Tk at unto me came-
A dr'aine of a kies,
And an ocean of bliss.
II.
-  For a girl with blue eyes,
And cheeks like the rose,
Took me all by surprise,
In her holiday-clothes.
Sdys she 'Patrick, my dea;
..s there's nobody near,
o'ssa kiss for your lis.'
Octi ' 'twas nectar to sips
III.
-iut I opened my'eyes,
Like a fool as I was,
For I thought I'd surprise
The swateangel in gau -i
Blat the Civil a bit
Of an angel was there,
But the taste on my lip
Was like honey, I swear!
iy.
"And my mind I made up,
if a pretty girl cause,
With a kiss or a cnn,
In the shape of a de'ame,
Ia be quiet and kape
On a dr'anig of bliss,
For swats, when aslape,
Tastes the wine or the kiss."
The words of the song were not so funny, but
Pat's droll way of singing them brought tears to
the girls' eyes-tears of laughter, however.
But we are off our course in the story line.
Young Winchester ran far enough out to sea
to strike the edge of the Gulf Stream, and then
bore away to the southward. His intention was
to run down to an inlet, which Frances Ruther-
ford showed him on the chart, and near which
her fathers house was situated, and to take the
responsibility of running in there under a flag
of truce, and landing her and the Dinsmores ;
and then to pursue his cruise, hoping again to
meet them when the blessed angel of peace
Caine to still the temn pest of war.
For he did not think that the madness of re-
bellion, fanned into life by the incendiary breath
of a few disappointed demons of ambition, would
long usurp the power of reason in minds once
patriotic , and hoped, even as our bravest war-
riors and truest patriots hope, soon to see
"one country and oiie flag-one people, and
they a brotherhood" again.
CIIAPTER XLIX.
After Aishtoin lost the packet-ship off the har-
bor of Boston, well knowing that the alarm
would fly along the coast on the wings of light--
ning, he concluded to shift his cruising-ground
without delay.   For he too well knew      the
character of the navy which lie had just left, to
desire to fall in with any of its cruisers, especial-
ly any of equal or superior force.
So, standing across the Gulf Stream, he head-
ed away for the most windward of the West In-
dia Islands.
Weathering these, and capturing three sugar

and coff e 1 ln ve sels, which he s nt with
pr ze-re   o a i  cteure inlet on the Florida
east, amiiien i" lii nit expect would be block-
aded, and whence their cargo, could be easily
landed, he squared away ior the, track of the
homeward-uound steamers from    California,
which, as lie knew, generally carried a. large
quantity of specie on freight, besides the im-
mense amount held by passengers returning
from the Tierra del Ora.
Having a schedule of their days of sailing, he
knew almost to an hour and a league when and
where he could meet one ; and so arranged his
time and shaped his course as to lie in the
track of one on the day after she should leave
Aspinwall for New York.
Knowing that they all carried a couple of
guns, were full-handed, and had generally a
large number of passengers, he did not expect
to make a capture without resistance. And he
kept his men thoroughly exercised at great and
small arms, telling them openly of his plan, and
saying that, though they might expect a rich
prize, they would surely have to fight for it.
And money is worth fighting for, boys," said
Mr. Snaggs. " This fightin' for honor is all
fudge. Honor won't buy a man's grog, nor
clothes for his back, nor victuals for his belly.
But money will' buy anything - everything !
Money is what we go in for ; and we're bouni to
have it this time, or go under l Three cheers
for the casting, and then all hands to liquor.
Them's msy sentiments !"
Of course, the crew responded to the senti-
ments of Mr. Snaggs, backed as they were by
call to which few old tars will turn a deaf car--
the call to liquor.
It was a fair day, with a good ten-knot breeze
blowing, when the look-out in the crss-trees of
the "Rattlesnake" first sighted the smoke of the
expected steamer. And his announcement of
the fact was received with three cheers by the
crew below, who with alacrity obeyed Ashton's
orders to put the vessel in trim for action.
In a short time, the look-out sung out from
aloft that lie saw the smoke of another steamer,
which seemed to be in company with the first.
Ashton looked uneasy when he heard this.
"T'hey don't go in couples now-do they,
capting ?" asked Mr. Snaggs.
No," said Ashton; "but I am afraid the
company has had sense enough to get a man-of-
war to convoy their treasure-ship. If so, the
jig is up with us, and we iust keep well clear
of them, or our bread will be baked. For,
though we could disable and take one 'of their
side-wheeled steamers, we are no match fir a
man-of-war thrown in."
"Goodness ! no!" said Mr. Snaggs, alarmed
at the possibility before him.
"I will go aloft and-take a look at the steam-
ers, and yous may edge the brig up a little more to
windward," said Ashton. " If my glass tell

pS
{;.
t:
c s

Y


72         THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

me that we are over-matched, I shall haul off !
far enough for them to pass us without discov-'
ering what we are. To make things more sure,
run up the French flag That will be the least
suspected."
Snaggs hastened to obey, while Ashton went
aloft.
His inspection of the advancing steamers,
which came rapidly toward them, was by no
means satisfactory. In a little while, he shouted
to Snaggs to brace up his yards and stand to
the south-east-a course which would take them
right away from the track of the coveted ves-
sel.
The crcw looked astounded ; for they were,
in imagination, almost counting their prize-
money.
But when Ashton, coming on deck, told them
that the treasure-ship was convoyed by a war-
steamer of heavy force, which they could not
hope to compete with without a terrible loss at
best, and a fearful prospect of capture, they
were glad to acknowledge the prudence which
made him haul off.
"Which course now, capting ?" asked Snaggs,
a couple or three hours later, when the steam-
ers were far away on their "homeward bound"
career.
"We'll heave about shortly, and run to the
west of Cuba, and take the Gulf Stream up to
the Carolin i Coast. We may take something
bound fcom llavana or Matanzas, north ; and I
must soon make a port for water. There are
a dozen little ports on the Carolina Coast which
are open yet, and I'll-risk my chances for one
of theui."
Accordingly, in a short time the brig was cast
on the other tack, and took a northwesterly
course.
CHAPTER L.
The cruise of Elmer Winchester was devoid
of that interest which attaches to chases and bat-
tles; for, with the exception of speakiing a cou-
ple of our men-of war off the capes of Virginia,
they did not see a single vessel on their route
out. On the morning of the ninth day out, El-
mer, hay ing run down his latitude according to
his reckoni.ig, and finding, by the long lanes of
gulf-weed floating on the water, that he was in
the edge of the Gulf Stream, hauled in for the
-coast. This he did not do without sonic mis-
givings ; for there was every sign of a north-
easterly gale, and a lee shore, or a harbor in the
enemy's waters, were neither of them desirable
alternatives
But trusting in luck, or Providence-sailors
often irreverently take them for the same ting
-Elmer squared away, and about noon, or a lit-
tle before, mde the land ahead. It was near, for
the coast wrs low ; and within two or three
hours, Frances Rutherford not only recognized
.ever: I  ' ' ' uns, but actually de cried and

pointed out the cupalo upon the top 'of her
father's stately residence, lifting itself. tower-
like, above a magnificent grove of magnolias.
Hoisting French colors, to disguise his true
character, and also running up a white flag for-
ward, Elmer, boldly trusting to the pilotage of
Frances, ran his schooner in over a bar which
gave but little more water than she drew, and
then stood up a narrow but pretty inlet into a
miniature harbor, with good anchorage in front
of Magnolia Grove.
And in half an hour thereafter, Frances Ruth-
erford, weeping with joy, threw herself into her
father's arms, and introduced her friends, being
careful not to betray the position which Elmer
held.
When Mr. Dinsmore was introduced, Mr.
Rutherford regarded him very intently ; and
while he welcomed him with all the noted
warmth of Southern hospitality, could not re-
frain from remarking that they had certainly
met before, but he could not say where.
"And now, my dear," said lie, to Frances,
"you must make penance for all that I have
suffered of anxiety on your account, by telling
me where you have been, and what you have
been doing. You left me to truant-like at Rich-
mond, that I thought you had gone home. Buf;
when I got here, you had not been heard of;
and you can little imagine what I felt and fear-
ed!"
"I was very naughty, papa-very ! But I
needed a lesson, and have taken it," said Fran-
ces, as she kissed his pale and care-worn brow.
"Open confession is good for the soul, it is
said," she continued, " and I nay as well con-
fess all my sin, and ask for absolution."
"You shall have that before confession, my
child," said her father,- fondly caressing her.
"Now tell me where you went when you so sud-
denly left me at Richmond."
I went to sea, papa,' said Frances, demure-
ly.
"To sea, child ?"
"Yes, sir. As an acting nidsliipman, I serv-
ed on board the Confederate privateer ' Rattle-
snake,' until I learned that Wiliam Ashton,
her commander, instead of being what my ro-
mantic fancy had painted him-a man of chiv-
alric honor and patriotic courage-was a liber-
tine and a villain. Then I took my discharge ;
and, thanks to the friends who are now our
guests, I am once more with you, cured of all
romance, all desire to roam any more, and will-
ing to settle down sedately by your side, mix
your toddies, read or sing you to sleep, or per-
form any other daughterly duties, such as comb-
ing your hair and counting the gray hairs in
your whiskers."
"Which have increased terribly sinqe your
absence. But did not Ashton discover your
Nsex?"w
-"No, sir. Y ur fist introduction, whme ,for

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.
dsf'ety, you made me take male apparel for           -                                   78
disguise, and my boisterous, boyish way, ena- very close in shore.  t  th lat     t
bldime to sustain my character with him. He on , rcle in ashie  But ah vatereay gome
little suspects, to this day, if he yet be living  fr  once o b a whrilewfrin  ahor,
and he lives, if the hangman has not tied aca- from one of her bo-prts. wh threw brit
vat for him-that the middy who gave him  and or shell, dangerously near ti theth brig
nold Saggs, and poor Doctor Umbilicus,     ntWhy es not the castain of       theb r
much trouble, was a bonafide romp of a girl. onte harbor   " ld  Ma."ther
lut it must be near diner-time,and I amh       "        ee          d be.safee"      frd.
gry as a bear."                         hun-      Because she draws near to fifteen
h   fa have already given water, sir ; and we found scant tw                          the
"Ihv      aledgie      proper orders," said lead, when we came over thea bar," saidbPt
her father. Then he again looked searching 1    urdov                   t         e
at Mr. Dinsmore, and suddenly an old rem        "Then         ,wsaid Pat
brance crossed his mind.                 e-       Then you know the vessels"
"Were you not partially educated at Baden   FraTo be sure I do, sir. And I be
Mr- Dismore ?" he asked.                "at        by the wink of her ee
ades! said the latter, fushingup-fordWhat vessel is it?" continued Mr. Ruther.
."Andyou received that scar upon.        f     o-r'der
n a duel with on  Carl Von Gotti nour ace       "It's the ould *"Rattlesnake,' sir w'id M r
intsaid Mr. Rutherford.           gen, a stu- ly Ashton for commander; and she's near her
dn  'u are right. But who. areyou"a       last rattle, I'm thinking, for there g   her her
"Vor    ae igh.     utwh are    you   " asked mast close off bytedc    "
Mr.6 Dismore.    " That was nearly or quite     "st lse ba wy the deck ?   gos  erow-
thirty years ago. Who are you, that knew me ing bacshe battles well '
then-ten, before the life-clouds came ne  m  nge ckshotfor shot !" said  unsure rthrowd,
" I was your second. M  name was'Rtr          ose secession sympathies began to wa  rd,
fodAston- Upon succeeding to the             Ashon     lights   elsurrenderwrm up.
yo- scon.  y nme  asRuther-    "A shton might as well surrender.    There
t of my mother's only brother--Gerproer- goes her main-mast !" cried Elmer      "Nere
e fd--I took, by hris request, his name    - every shot from   the steamer's heavy nearly
erd. Timeaook,dvrse fateedst eai  hah."   strikes him, while his do but little hiv  gun
wime   ad    Mr. fatemave dealt harshly turn. The steamer can choose her paiin are-
ewithme" said Mrmber you. You were brave and i now I distance, while he is now anchored broadsideoand
remed  y me when friends were fewebv   a Id dan toher."
never forgotten it."- f                  ave    "The fool had better slip his cables and run
neverforgttenit."ashore. He could, at least, save some ofig
"I hope you'll be after exeusin' my bowld.l men," .aid Hefod
ness, Captain Winchester !" cried Pat Murdock,  m ey  uld jRutoerftrd.   f ome    o
coming in at this moment; "but there'sa bit thef They would jump out of the fr -
o' fun going' on outside the harbor, just now, was closaid Frances, lookinte ulcanqoto
that is worth looking' at ! D'ye hear that, sir ?"  s closely watching the uneqa lcomber,  h
And a booming sound from seaward fell upon  escaNe, fIss Rutherford,"said Elnier -"ifer
tir ears.,o                                 ecpe from the steamer, I    hll  h 1nteyr
"tHas the storm come up so quickly?   Is that wh any of them while the white flag flies from
my maet-head. I would be the last one on
thulphur and saltpater has the akin' of      ealh to trample upon a helpless foe."
that kind o' thunder, sir," said Pat.  "Thtere  ie needed an explanationowethat
a big st'amze-rrigate outside there chasing in a  eme a nepatohmtetuecaatro
brig. Tie st'amer carries the Stars and the his vmer at once told him the true charactob-
Stipes, but divil a rag of a flag will the brig  vessel; and the reason of his cominib
show.                                     rig lgsuderstiood, as well as the chival fr hi
S     must go and seehti          in  on      st declaration, Mr. Rutherford warmly gra
cre Emuser.     n   eewa     is g        -n  n  ed his hand, saying that if all thir enemis
cried lhe hurried out and down to the waste    bere so generous, the Confederates would soon
sidefollowed by the entire party.               enquered by      stindness.  to b   n
Whent db       ce    h    'Matime tebrigsere
en they r ached the little wharf where with a vigor bordering ue   to be defended
they had landed, they could see plainly, over masts wer godemg pon despair. Both her
the low haul which intervened between them    a t   erare      flag-staf whichahad been hoisted
and the ocean, the two vessels of which Mur- shotaway,   fdag-nset which ad been thri
dock had spken.                                 The s     asn g a   s set up.
The brig, a large, rakish, and beautiful ves- weatle sight was grand as it was terrible, for th
ehavin run into as shoal water as she dared  iag the smohad  ofthe guns offset int vapory wreaths
had now taken i all sail but her jib and two the momenttow they were fired, and briein  the
topsaies tand hauled by the wind. -She flow thundeimn thwreprso iread ring.th
hoisted the Confederate flag, and seemed deter-  "There, reports on its rapid wingsna  e
do resist the steamship, which, from her last rattle " eraed Murdock      "Te was ne rir


,a
}"
? ':
ii _  ~
.t

.4              THE RATTLESNAE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER
is a-fire, and there's a couple o' boat-loads of  Ashton, and Snaggs, and Umblicus followed
Ashtonl is one of them-I want to thank himn for from his old master, hurried to get the poor sea-
sai' my ieb    ad shootin, when he didn't mhen something to atn and drink.
mane to be soby merciful "  "iehetbHave you see               nyting f y boy, Frank?"
tYou will oblige me by going on board the asked Mr. Rutherford of Aston, after te  ter
y"ht, Mr. Muroli  ad if ei  ofnthose boats and his party were seated, and supplied with a
eht, Mr. Murdock, and if either '   bu   cheigls       fwn-,,
ffer to come on board, do not permit it, but cheering glass o he not come home ?asked
order them to land on shore. Tell  em we are   Yes,                           e    e
neutral I" said Elmer.                     Ashton.                   b    ic    elf
"Yes, sir," said Pat ; but as e stepped into  "No; I have not seen my boy since
the b at to go on board, lie looked as if the idea me at Richmond !" said Mr. Rutherford.
heuait townbard, "M. lly Ashton" did Ashton felt greatly relieved, for he feared that
of neutrality twasrd Mr  Billy          Frank had returned and reported his conduct inr
By the time the two bot were fairly clear regard to Fluta Winchester.
f the ri, the  o   vessel was a sheet of  "He came on board of my craft just as I was
of the brig, the doomed veslwsagoing to sea," said ,Ashton, "on              y-scn
flame, and her destruction inevitable,-on         osa"si        gtn     o    yscn
The staer, destructon asnseiscvere. hecuie  As he vowed he would go, nolens volens,
T asteame at oond     the leecovhe burn-  r to  him as an acting midshipman. I acci-
boat vessel, opened her fire on them. One of mentally ran ashore some time after; and upon an
them was soon sunk ; but the other, heading isandefar wihere  gipsy, and I am afraid
bravely for the month of the lit tle inlet, seemed ance of agoo d-lookingfgfipsboandisampeafrad;
to bear a charm;fourthough thie shot flew thik he ran away with her, for they both disappeared;,o
to bearound her, she passed the bar in safety, and I never have seen him since, He seemed to
and asthenrout eac h ofse the stamr, inchy be madly in love with her at ay-rate, but.I did
and wats then out of reach of the steamer, whfor not think that heis passion would carry himn so
headed off the land just as the brig blew up ; for no  i  that hs  p t wouder  mo
the increase of the gale made it necessary for far, or I should have kept him under more re-
her to mike an offing as soon as possible.  straint"
"Let us go to the house," said Frances.     "Where can the boy be ?" said Mr. R  .uter-
And," she added, addressing her father,  f  "fordNo ;she sadaerazy aoldone ?"
Ashton is among those who have escaped in the  r"No; s      c
boat, receive him, but 'do not let him know who her .Ado! sysewa    adsm'"
is here, for I wish to hear what he'll have to say  "And you say she was handsome -f
about me !" reHanveomee,                               did I nsayleNot handsome--for
ishrf"  i                                 Hadoe idblI s a      muato,1ndwent
r. Rutherford promised compliance with her she was nearly asbl afootd.  uttsehad a dash-
request, and the party hastened to the house, bareheaded and farefotd  u  h  a   ah
forsn the , aroty s g to board the yacht, iglook, and a free-and-easy air, wich prob-
for the boat, without stopping t he  y  ,ably took Master Frank's fancy; for I've an idea
was pulling directly for the landing. that he was rather precocious for his age. and
CHAPTER LI.                  thought more of the girls than boys of his age
There were only ten or twelve of all the crew  oughIt to .1a" ty he left you. Your example
of the "Rattlesnake" left. These landed in the  ld soon Iave cured him of such folly, I am
only boat left, on Mr. Rutherford's plantation. woued saidhr. ured  gravely    I am
Among them was Sam, who had told Ashton, who sure !" said Mr. Rutherford, gralee changes of
also survived, and who had escaped without a cause   a       t, ou a      ll   hae
wound, that they were on his old master's place. clothing,   and  oit p     in have
Mr. nagg  wasalsoaisuvivor, and Doctor articles  of clothing and toilet placed in rooms
Umiius. But Snowball had received his last for you, and after you are rady, we will din
billet.                                     For I doubt notthtyuapiiewllbgod
When Ashton approached Mr Rutherford's notwithstanding your ill-fortunes.
house, the latter met him at the door, with an_---
air of well-assumed astonishment.                        CHAPTER LII.
"What, is it you,' Captain Ashton, whom ICIATRL.
met, n  such eirumstances ?" he cried.  Only a folding-door, and that a thin one, sep-
"mCtme in, sir-come in with your officers! I rated Ashtonl and his party from the room in
action, andes your galant d efeepai !witheadi- trford stood as listeners, during the last de-
Itisn te foun efea wh "said Ashton, with tailed conversation. This arrangemeeilfath eb
SIt is the fortune of war                been made by Frances, wlho, now that h
si rh  n.s-the misfortin !" said came for further directions, told him to get his
agreskonit'srayte te  mnewcuests ready for dinner. and that then she
S    ags, snappishly.  n-we'll have sone would take the rest of the matter upon herself-
wello, ame in, gentlemerin--wl t e  s  wAnd she could hardly wait until Ashton and

- THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER-.75
his party had left the next room, before she while," said Ashton "As most of our crew are
burs int jels o laghte           whre no prize-money can reach them, our own
"You're an ulttooolng gipsy !" said she proportions of the prizes which we seit to the
E: to Abeona. "Aiid i   a dangerous boy after Florida coast will e large  And ti  o  ie
the girls! O moral William Ashton, what will ly that the Confederate rge And it is ll le-
you say when you see Mips Fluta Winchester wait for a vessel longifa GoerInment will let me
here !"h                                                ss-og,.i I ask for it, afte they
here" dn mat                              hear how well the ' Rattlesnake' was defended.
"I do not mean to see him !" said Fluta.   «"Now, yo     ak   oitingliectig,
Oh, you must !" said Frances   "Your ab- said Snagg, y"Just you getinother vessel, and
sence would quite spoil the tableau which I Pinwith you as fast as the ehmoterveorbus and
mean to arrange. First, I shall place in front a cueumbyrandlobster suphehera-morbusafter
: our tawny gipsy , and the ' crazy old fool' of Mr. "Y  an-«   sersupe.
o'twngisy, tmdie'mzy odfo'o         r     Your rooms are prepared, gentlemen. Reno-
Ashiton's. Tien I shall arrange the trinity of vate as soon as yo can, fonditlmer i eno
Winehesterdom on the right flank, while I ap- ready for the tabe" y said, fr duerfsnearly
pear in all my crmnolineai attractiveness on the lag in to show them whdMr. Rutherford,toomg-
left. Then, when papa introduces us, the tableau n    h     e     ere to go.
will be complete."C                                               R
" I can imagine the ' goodness-gracious' of  Tme dining-hallPin LM.Iliefod'
Mr. Snaggs ; the look of wonder on the doctor's was a grand  artment firishedrofodshouse
wonderful face, and tflatest  a   h  eat    a     rn    parmnfnse off much in the
mmefmgTeai thme flatness to say the least, old English style. It was coiled with oakand
of Captain William  Ashton, who, about that -rnish         re Ias. At ithe end
time, will begin to think that his pecadilloes are were the huge antlers of stags that had  en
more extensively known than lie had supposed in the chase at one time and another, and along
And now, Miss Abeona, do me the favor to make its sides were any elegant athermandoal
your gipsy person look as bewitchingly-beuti-  ial landscapenhunyelega scenes ngamostlye
fil as you can ; and you, too, Fluta, come both  pictures, from tie pencils of such choice game
of you with me, and I will act as dressing-maim is te, Momat and others.uartists
Keep yourself ' scarce,' gnlmra        ai.a       t     'onan  tes
Keepoos rself u sdin'nc'geitlemen, as tine  Upon tIe side-boards was a costly display of
Iloosmem's say, until dinmmer is ready, for army plmte, amid a variety of wines and liuors ol
premature discovery will spoil all our fun !"  be seen through ie sides of thimeqtgls de-
Aid Fra es, full of delight in anticipation, canters. And-the table itself was loaded with the
hurried away within her female friends to prename luxuries as well as time soliditimis of tiecimthe
for the denouement.                 ,rni      uuisa      ela   h   oiiiso the climate.
mA hge roasted wild turkey at one end; a veni-
son pasty further on; a'baked saddle of the
"Ale seems as clever as a sunshiny day ma same, and a dish of wild ducks -- all looked
April " said Mr. Snagg , after Mr.Ritheerford tempting ; the invariable spare-ribs ; plates
left them in the parlor. "I woder if lie owns of snowy rice and golden honimy ;hiuge plat-
thaMost likely ot ; I saw that she bore French  ters of sweet-potaitoes, smoking bot, with reliefs
colors !" said Ashton                        ere ai   theme of pickles, cold tongue, ham
"lr I" ishahid s;o je'nooysters, etc.-all added to the luxurious sight
"I wish he did ; Ame's not as large as I'd like, which presuted itself to time gaze of Ashitonan
but she'd make a sharpish privateer for all that !"his companions, who were hungmoy eooughtnd
said Mr. Snaggs, whose reverses had not alto- have dimed n  an alligatorsteak without t-
gether blinded him to the future,           ling, whed Mr. Rutheaordse wtht igrun
I've had about enough of )rivateering for the (ining-room, aid begge themed them into
time present !' said Ashton, bitterly.a r     ayinng-ro aehnd terges       to take seats
"Et ego!. Quantum suffcit !" said the doctor, ma presently    their guests, who would be
with asg.M.utherford had commenced to carve the
"o'reeasy satis     aid Snag, in rather turkey, when the door opposite to where Asl-
a scornful tone.  gAndt well you maybe, causee ton sat opened, and Miss Frances Rutherford
you've lost nothing to speak of, for you couldn't came in meaning upon the arm of Mr Winches-
lose what you hadn't. But now that my hrig ter; while Elmer followed, escorting Abeona, and
has gone to time deuce, and all my money in her, Mr. Dimismore brought uptime rearth' lad
I don't feel at all like giving' it up so! It isn't under his charge gh pt    with Fluta
in me to be beat,iamtd it me  '     las! Just as  "My God! what does this mean ?" cried Ash-
soon as I can git imto another cY4 I'll try my ton, springing to his feet, amid turning  as
chlances-agin. That was what I run down into the white cloth before himad r  gp     as
the cabin for, when you was agoin' to shove off,  "Jerusalem wept !" cried Mr. Snagsop
and ti nbig was nihiafire t  etierimouth and eyes to their fullest tension.
Aid Mm. Snag exhibited the letter ofmarque  "Diabolum I" ejaculated Doctor Uhibilicus.
fmom Jeff Davi*whichm lie hind saved at the risk  "Captaimn Ashiton, my  uests M'.amd ~is
of his life,.                            s       CptmAho, my gets, Mr. and Miss
o is   adif   b t e retDinsmore-                  rr. W inchester, son  amd  da gter,
" You hind better' rest on your oars a little arid my daughter, Frances. Pray be seated,
s

k


76

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

gentlemen and ladies," said Mr Rutherford, not cheerfully, gentlemen. We will not ill-treat any
appearing to notice the agitation of Ashton.  guest, whose conduct is quiet and gentlemanly,"
" Has this scene been got up to insult me, said Mr. Rutherford.
sir " thundered Ashton, looking at Mr. Ruther-  "We'll be quiet, and thank ye a thousand
f  rd.times besides, said Mr. Snaggs.                                               pe
Have your misfortunes crazed your brain, none o' these genthes will mix ine or the doctor
sir ?-or what is the matter ?" asked Mr. Ruther- up in the captings evil doings, fo r Fran't
ford, as bre motioned to the others to be seated, niothin' to do with 'en---did we, Master Frn,
but looked at Ashton.                       or miss, for ? I swow, I dgn't know which you
"Do you mean to say that you do not know are."
who that person is, sir  '     cried Aston, pointing  Miss Frances laughed, and readily vouched for
to Elmer Winchester, who had seated himself by the little participation whichtSnanggd having
Abeona, and now smiled contembptuously.     dulged in with the evils of Asiton arid him ig
" No, sir," said Mr. Rutherford. "That per- seen Doctor Umbilicus well helped, asked him
son is my guest, and as much entitled to my he would not take sone peper-Sice as5hehad
hospitality as you are."                    seemed to be fondh of it on board the rg
"hHe is as escaed.prisoner, and a commis-  The doctor knew what she meant, but did not
signed enemy of the Confederate States !" cried want any mo" at that time.
Ashton.            -                            And so that is your schnooner in the harbor,
"And more honorable as such than the ab- capting ?" said Snaggs, after he had got cor-
duetor of helpless females I" thundered Mr. Ruth- posed, and had laid in an average dinner' fr
erford, getting angry in turn,              him.
"Don't leave, cap," said Miss Frances, in a  "Yes," said Elmer.
tone and voice which Asihtonn int too well re-  "Well, she is a beauty. You haven't no no-
membered. "Here is our gi psy friend, from the tion of selling her-have you ?"
Isle of Shoals, and ler crazy tool of a father-  "No," said Elmer, with smile  "nShe s, at
will you not speak to them?''               present, in the United States service."
"Damnation!    I ann either crazy or be-   "Do tell ! Goodness gracious ! And is it
watched i" shout  Ashton. "Of one thing, true that you're a United States officer ?"
Mr. Rutherford, rest assured, your rebel friends  "It is."
shall not rest so very easy. If I have lost   "Then I suppose we're prisoners ," said Mr.
most of my men and vessel, I have yet enough Snaggs, dolefully.'   Eb
to arrest an escaped prisoner and his Yankee  "By no means," sai Elmer       I would be
relatives !"                                the last one to take advantage of your misfor-
"Don't be to sure of that, ny bould captain !" tunes.  I shall net interfere in any way with
cried Mr. Murdock, wiio, in obedience to a writ- you or any of those who escaped from the brig.
S    te order sent on board the yacht b Elmer, now I shall only keep Captain Ashiton under restraint
appeared with a file of a dozen well-armed men. until I am readyt leave, which will be rifsrn
Ashton uttered a cry of baffled rage, and drew  as this gale las abated:fur m 'oh'nwof-
a pistol. But, before hie coull use it, his arm  give way to iy duty."ad..W     '"
was  disabled  by  a  blow from  ie  back  of  Mu --  "You're re" truri ki ptin  gaud  I dkin
dock's cuthas.                              o   smr      bie    hntnu       a   xrb,
"You're too careless wid them pocket-cannon, said Mr. Snaggs, helping himself to a plateful of
Mister Billy Ashton!" cried M rdock. "What hominy.
shall I do wid the ohstreporous gentleman 2"  The dinner passed     pleasantly,Ruthefod-
askedhIf Mr. Ashton will give his parole to keep was a most entertaining host.
quiet while I am here, aind not to endeavor, by.,.
any report, to injure Mr. Rutherford, when I
have left the harbor in my seuoonier, you can             CHAPTER LIV.
let him remain as he is," said Elner.         Three days elapsed before the northeastern
"I will give rio parole !" routedd Ashton.  gale, whieh blew so furiounsly on the coast
"Then, Mr. Murdock. you will take him and infront of Magnolia Gove, subsided. Three
place him in close confinement until I am ready pleasant, rapid-flying days to Elmer Winches-
to leave."                                  ter ; for ie spent almost all the time in the corn-
"Sure, sir, I'll do that.  And he may be pany otAbeona, who now, ini her sweet open-
thankful it's not thi halter lie gets-the bloody heartedness, seemed to tfink almost as much of
pirate that he is !" sail Murdloek, securing Ash- him as she once hid of Master Frank Ruther-
ton, in spite of is crss aod struggles,  ford-and that was a great deal.
"I reckon, doctor, were twio to many in this  On the morning of the fourth day, Elmer an-
pty" said  Snggs, who  ain looked  on  in  con-  nounced  at the  breakfast-table  of Mr. Ruther-
fusion while Ashton was rving.d            ford that that wodl t I 1is last day with them,
.Not ;t all, sir-oray sit down and dine, for lie intended to set sail f'or Cuba early on thre

ensuing morning. And as he spoke, he glanced meat to Abeona, asked his consent to their
with an apparent carelessness, but really most union.
anxiously, at the face of Abeona, to see how she  is she willing to leave me ?" asked Mr. Dins-
would bear the announcement,                 more, mh ilmn oe  e "ase M.Di
Tiio his intense delight, lie saw that her face  m"No, msir smoved.willne
turned very pale, and that as soon as her eyes your consent  and that, if it is become mine without
met his gaze, they sunk  beneath their dark, go with us."                 given, you also
fringing lids, and the color rushed in a ruddy "Bless her ! She has ever been dutiful, even
floodtohrcekagiwn I was in my roughest moods. But my
"She loves me," he said to himself. b"I am  young friend, you, who aof a ig and wealt
almost sure she loves me ; but I will be fully family in this re publicano lihand onsemloter
sure before two hours pass over my head."  y1myi hi      eulcn land, do not seem over-
srbeoetoouspasoe my ha.                cautious in your choice of a bride. My child,
Mr. Rutherford urged his guests to a longer like myself, cannot e oint, as bride  ay i
stay, but Elmer said that it would be both wrong of aristocannpoint,.as you to a line
and dangerous for him to remain there and it you a cracy, perhaps. We are unknown to
was therefore fully decided that he was to leave  I only know that you, sir, are a gentleman
on the next day.                             ofIhonranowefnhmat   thatsi yreagtera
After brealkfast, as usual, the guests and Mr. s my ida of a isement-that your daughter
Rutherford all took a promenade over his beau- woman," said Elmer.1i perfect and lovable in
tifully.ornamentade Elmer managed, asouneds.n-f-Mr. Djnsmore smiled. Elmer augured well
erally did, to secure Miss Dinsmore as a corn- a final answer ged Mr. Dismore to give him
panion; and with considerable tack, so manu-e            r
vered as to withdraw her from  the immedat   gie WhsCentu far okn ow whourelf aay
neighborhood of the others, and to stroll along on my ehildsw r, I shall ot makeyourselfawa
a lovely, but rather lonely, avenue of thick-set objections," said Mr. DIinoemak any serious
orange trees.                                 And as Mr. W inchieste rea ls.it this moetjie
"I am very sorry that we are to part so soon, them, Elmer stated liefactmso    j w neter-
Miss Dinsmore," said Elmer, in an agitated mimed to keep "striking whilethe iron was hot."
"And. I am very, very sorry," said IAbeona whe think it but right that you should know
artlessly, but with evident feeling          s   Diaseore ti matter proceeds further "
"I wish tlha you and your father were going a self-exile from r native laud frhifebeen
w  So do I," sigedAbeona.r.years. The reasons I will not fully explain, for
"        nor I feel as if I could not live without fice tanah to say, tivtte faithlessfessnof atwoman,
:you," continued Elmer. "It must come out, and the perfidy t ofa-Lai 1 n whom I  th f ohtnm
Miss Dismore," he added, trembling so much 'friend, alone drove me fiom   thought me
ints'ilf tlait he did not feel how the arm trem- and an estate which in fe q a once happy Eiie
led ieh rist.d on his. "I love you better land. If I retum  tieras f  heialsnkayl Enor
ma Lp   'I I y,"arloe        emay I even both of those to whom I alluded are dead--I
pe 'e e    shall be welcomed as Earl Dimiore, of Dins-
"I believe I lovro a  better than I did Frank more Park, Now, sir if with this information
Rutherford," said Aheona. "And you know I you add your cioi-senut, wi thiseeinoreasion
loved him so well that I wept when I lost him." for break  t  hent th mine,s see no reason
"Youzine a dear tease," cried Elmer, almost ple."  gteearts of these two young peo
frenzied with joy.                             ",hl    eln    o   rolt    osn    ot~
And he clasped her to his breast, and  issued -unioslisail  t too proud to consent to their
her lips over and over again. And she did not  Elmer waited to Inchmster.
even reprove him. But tears of joy stood in heart bounding witn oyhrieo oe ; but with L'
her eyes.                       Jo to         er budn       ihjy, lmred to find Abeona
Thea le asked he if she would not be his boer f               a a         ia t i
bride, and sail with hi  n not the moirowc aught her in his arms and kissed her
"Much as I love you, I caiinot leave my poor,  "lie has consented ,yo , are mine, cryig.
dear fanthe," site said. "If liewill give me to you are mine !"'u are mine, Abeona-
you, and go with us also, I shall be very hap-  She gave a very faint shriek, pd tried to get
"I will ask himt in a little while,"  -   away from him ; and a hearty laugh from Miss
AndI ise took  ,h i ttle  i, said Elmer. Frances Rutherford and his sister Fluta, who
proposed rejoin anotherfest ofkisees, and then were inside the arbor, old 1him vhr.
e company-       ie was taken somewhat aback ; but when
r r      ot       e    op   nise.Mis sFrance           kel him if lie was going to em
Mr.   tsook tlone; earileclpprun istytasch ieMr  s nxmple, ai an away wiith
Mr. iiosrrorealone; oal dclarng hs atach  .)omuig lady, lie rejllied'

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

*i
7
y

77


dI

78

THE RATTLESNAKE; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

"I shall beat Mr. Ashton completely. For I Winchester. " While we are enjoying ourselves
shall carry away the young lady and her father in the delicious climate of the Paradisian Isle of
also."                                     Cuba, this unhappy war will blow over, and we
a  What a pirate ! Hadn't you better take me will return to enjoy a fraternity of peace once
and my father also ?"                      more."
"nAs passengers in my yacht, I shall be de- "I should like very much to do so," said Mr.
lighted to," said Elmer, gallantly. "But on Rutherford, thoughtfully.
the sea of matrimony I ask but one partner, and  "I am afraid you will rave to, father ; for I
she is here."                              have promised to be one of Abeona's bride-
And hepassed his arm around the unresisting maids," said Frances.
waist of Abeona.                             "Then I shall surely have to go," said Mr.
"I didn't think you'd forget poor Frank Ruth- Rutherford ; "for I would not be instrumental
erford so soon !" said Frances, pretending to in making you break a promise !"
pout.                                        " Then that is settled," said Elmer, gleefully.
"You'll acknowledge that he was a deceiver,  And when Mr. Rutherford proposed a but , r
and won my love under false colors," said Abe- to the health of Elner and his betrothed. Eht  r
ona, gayly. " Why should I not forget him?" was so far forgetful as to drink his ow b i  .
" Oh, the inconstancy of woman!'" said Fran-  After dinner was over, Mr. SIagL  ,.'  
ces. "I think I'll go to a nunnery."       private interview with Elmer. \i "..   u ,
"There are many of them in Cuba. Per- granted, he said:
suade your father to take a Southern cruise with  "If you please, Capting Wincliester i !
us," said Elmer. "By the time you are back creation 'shamed of havin' had anytlhiuL t.
this unhappy war will be over, and you willfeel with that mean cuss, Captain Ashton, al   i
more safety and pleasure at home."         'shamed still 'cause I let my love of ioney.
" I'm afraid some of the Spanish dons might me to fightin' agin the flag of my cout. r",
fall in love with me, and carry me off from un- And I want~to get out of the scrape tire I1
der your guns," said the gay girl.         way I can. And so does the doctor, who asi
"Resume your bree-excuse me, your former me to speak for him. Now, sir, if you will&amp; y
disguise," said Elmer, with a laugh,       please to let me and him work our passage on
"That would destroy your peace forever ; for your yacht as far as Cuba, we will take our
Abeona would go crazy after Frank Rutherford oaths never to help the rebels ag'in, and to go
again !"                                   into the black-bird trade,* or some other honest
"No danger. I have got an antidote against way of gettin' a livin !"
all such madness," said Abeona, pressing El-  "Although you erred very seriously in join-
mer's arm, tenderly, as it inclosed her own.  . ing the rebel cause, and, were you taken in
" Fluta, sister, why do you not congratulate arms, would forfeit your lives to the offended
me ?" said Elmer.                           laws of your country, I cannot be severe with
"Because I am almost too happy to speak, you, in the face of your regrets and resolution
brother," said Fluta. "Had you looked all the to reform. Therefore, I will let you go to Cuba
world over, you could not have made a choice in my yacht, as passengers. And if you will
more in consonance with my wishes."        take my advice, you'll keep out of the black-
And she kissed Abeona tenderly, and called bird trade ; for I do not think it much more
her "sweet sister"; and then she kissed Elmer honorable than the business you have just
a little, and cried a good deal-which I believe left !"
all women do when they are either very glad or  "Thank you a thousand times, capting," said
very mad. Why, they may be able to explain Snaggs. "And as you're set agin the black-bird
--I surely am not. I only know that it is so, business, I'll never go into that on this side of
for I've seen it.                          starvation-point.
"May I have a word with ye, sir, if you're
CHAPTER LV.                   not too busy ?" said Mr. Murdock, approaching
When the entire party were assembled at din- Elmer.
ner that day, Mr. Rutherford was informed of  "Certainly.  What is wanting, Mr. Mur-
the engagement of Elmer to Abeona, and that dock ?"
the latter, with her father, would accompany  " I'm wantin' nothin', sir ; but Mr. Billy Ash-
the Winchesters to Havana, where the marriage ton is wantin' somethin', sir !" said Pat, in his
ceremony would take place.                 usual droll way.
Mr. Rutherford congratulated the happy con-  " What is it?" asked Elmer.
ple. But he gravely said :                    "A coffin, sir, if lie deserves better burial
"We shall be very lonesome here without than a dog !"
you. It is hard to make such pleasant associa-  "What! Is he dead ?"
tions, and then to lose them."                "As dead as a brick, sir !"
"Why not give up the cares of your planta-
tion to your overseer, and go with us ?" said Mr.         * The slave trade.
-i         ti-

THE RATTLESNAKE ; OR, THE REBEL PRIVATEER.

79

h"What was the matter with him? He surely when we did haul him u     with a onth   .,h
asnofilled himseltf?"--i                                       p wih      bat-hoo k, he
hasnotkiledhisel:'                 was full of water, but divil a bit of life was
"No, sir. He died of hard drink !"         there in him  tb
ha"What did you give liin liquor for ?"         "Now I understand you." said Elmer. "Yu
"Divl te dop  id  gie hm, ir.If he'd need not mention this to Mr.  Rutherford'or any
had more liquor and less water, he'd not be of my friends. There is no need of    r .
spacheless now. It was the wather that killed ing it; and i miere    ee them  rlky.-
him; and if that isn't hard drink to die on, I der the carpenter to make a coffinaom h r
don't know what is !"                    '     oyecre       ionaeacfiad have the
dntnowhti "body buried quietly to-night. And remember
"Do explain yourself,' exclaimed Elmer, im- that we sail at ten in the morning, renembe
patiently.                                   tide ebbs "ng, when the
"Well, sir, the whole of the story is this : " Yessir."
.He was so outrageous and wild, as you know,   And Mr. Murd
sir, that we had to keep him in irons  Well, go brah 1"      ock went off, whistling " Ern
"out an hour or a little more ago, he asked to  Reader, m  story is doneIfy
h  up on deck, to take fresh ai. As there to Havana, to see Aione isyou wishe  e tge
nothming unreasonable in that, I let him come bride of Elmer Witclneste, just step on board
u i V'i a sentinel. No sooner didhie get alongside his yacht, and beicone one o the bridal-party.
t:e u tter-deck rail than overboard he went. As for myself, I'm off for the war. p
Ioot out   ott as SOOn as I could ; but it wasye war.
fta, f r'ewe could find him , and                           [THE END.3


NEW BOOKS
JUST ISSUED BY

Frederic     A. Brady, Publisher,
24 /ANN STREET, New York,
Mailed free of Postage on receipt of Pride.

.3
1

D MAS' NEW      BOOKS.          Retail
Royalists an     Republicans; or, The Com-
panions of Jel n.. ---.   --    -         $ 50
Since his fame$ us "Monte Christo," no work of
this great noveli t has produced such a wonderful
sensation. It i an immense book. Every chapter
is instinct wit life. Every incident is full of
reality. There is not a single dull "° e in the
whole book
The Guillo ine;                               50
Bumas take   up one of the most thrillhnk inn-
dents in the w rld's history--the war of La Vendee
--and interwelives with it a story of the most in-
tensely interesting kind. It surpasses in absorb-
ing fascinatio. any pages ever written.
The Palaee of Ice.-----------..---------50
This is thg latest, and, in the opinion of the
Parisian critics, the very ablest romance that Du-
mas has ever'yet penned. Certain it is, that a bet-
ter romance has not appeared for many years.
The Orange Plume; or, The Bride of the
h  ostile.......................................- 50
An admirable tale.:'told with all the brilliancy
and power that have made Dumas recognized as
the Prince of Romancists.
A new Book, by the Author of "The Romance
of a Poor Young I n."
The Marchioness; or, A Marriage by Will.
By Octave Feuillet          ..25
In this Book, its gifted author his fir sursased
his world renowned "Poor Young Man." Tit is
a most brilliant licture of the intrigues and crimes
of that fair mistress of the Adriatic, where
-er loved shrine the naked Venus keeps,
And Cupids aide the lion of the deeps."
NOVELS BY LADY CLARA CAVENDISH.
The Woman of the Worlel.            --....... 50
A faithful career of a Lady Gay Spanker style
of woman, who allows nothingto stop her in her.
career of fashionable folly andl dissipation in order
to gait the necessary means to attain her ends.
Lisa; or, the Mesmerist's Vict'om.....-- 53
One of the principal characters, Monti, uses, or
rather abuses this wonderful faculty to lead a
lovely but gentle spirited girl into the power of
heartless libertines.
The Divorce. A Tale of Fashionable Life.--.- 50
This tale is founded upon one f' the darkest
transactions that has ever disgraced the highest
circles of English fashionable life.
Margaret, Marclhioness of MUniver......50
Full of Beauties, and with hardly a fault in this
production of Lady Clara's.
T he Fallen Star.--......---................50
This story appeals strongly to our "heart of
hearts," and we cannot praise it too highly. It is
full of passages of thrilling descriptions and heart-
aoving pathos.
Lady Cavendish's novels are also issued us cloth
binding at 7 cents a volume

xx

J)                                              k¢

Baiti
Pric.
Out of the Depths. A Story of a Woman's
Life....-............... ........       50
A woman's story add a woman's book. "Out of
the Depths" 'will interest many and terrify some,
but it can disgust none ; it is a book written with a
tender and delicate hand ; and even the foul things
of which it treats lose much of their revolting
nature by the method of that treatment.
Almost a Heroine. A Romance.............50
This is one of the most original books in every
particular that has appeared since "Jane Eyre."
Florence DeLacy; or, Quicksands and Whirl-
pools.  A Tale of Youth's Temptations. By
Percy B. St. John. Illustrated.................50
Never have we read a work so vividly real, so
highly attractive, and yet so free from imagination.
The above three hovels are also published in
cloth, at 75 cents a volume.
Harry Berford; or, The Gambler of the Mis-
sissippi. By Jack Brace............-........---. 50
The Pirate's Daughter....................25
A story of exciting deeds upon the ocean. Full
of startling pictures, of the wildest and most ter-
rific interest, varied by passages of the most tender
pathos.
The Count's Niece ; or, The Veteran of Ma-
'rengo. This is a $1,000 Prize Story.......-----25
Fanny Campbell; or, The Female Pirate
Captain........................................ 25
Fanny Campbell, the heroine, is one of the most
interesting characters ever delineated, and her ex-
ploits surpass in boldness and brilliancy the most
gallant exploits ever performed. This book is ac-
knowledged by all who have read it, to be the'very
best romantic history of the stirring incidents of
our Revolutionary War ever written.
The Naval Omeer; or, The Pirates' Cave.... 23
A nautical tale, full of wild and stirring ad-
venture. Incident follows incident, as fast as one
blue wave follows another. Those who have read
"Fanny Campbell," by the same author, won't
need pressing to buy this equally gre romance.
The   Queen     of the    Prairi     ; or, The
Hunter's Revenge......................- 25
This story, fraught with contests and seeminc
impossibilities, has unknown eharnms nrc itiose
alone who have read the work, can compared.
The Royal Favorites or, Th         Mysteries of
the Court of Charles II. . ....  -..........- 50
The Rival Beauties. Seque          "Royal Fa-
vorit."................ ....----  ............ 50
Richard of York ; o, Tb           te Rose of
England.......---...--------------.. ........50
Romance of IVar; or, Napr'le'o '       ampaigxn
in Russia in 1812.----....--- ----.......-..-..-....75
The Horse Doctor.                ...   ..-.... 12
The Cattle Docto'.......................... 1

x
g
o
,
v

f

_'

i
a
}y
ShrZ'


Brady's Publishing House, 24 Ann Street, New York.
FREDERIC A. BRADY,
(SUCCESSOR TO H. LONG &amp; BROTHER,)
Bookseller aid                                             u          1ser,
AND NEW YORK AGENT FOR THE WORKS PUBLISHED BY
T. B. Peterson &amp; Brothers, Philadelphia.
Booksellers, News Agents, Postmasters and Sutlers will be furnished with Books in any quantity, at the lowest net cash
rates. All orders filled promptly. Every Book required, no matter by whom published,
can be supplied on seinding your orders addressed as above.
CATiA)LO1i-UiE     OF   SAL     AB3LE     BOOKS.
NEW YORK MERCURY STORIES.            POPU LAR NOVELS                                   RetaiL.
The Life Raft----------------..-25
Each Book contains Illustrative   By G. W. M. Reynolds.    True Blue----------.-       25
Engravings by Darley. RtiRetai, Ben Ratcliffe------------.-25
aetalEmrs     uei'Bodi-5
Saul SabberdaEugenie's Boudoir                             0 The Incendiaries------------.25
Sa Waif-------------------2 -The Young Duchess---------50 Violet Davenant------------ 25
The White Wizard------------Imogen Hartland--------------50 Fast Life    -----------.--- 25
Man-o'-War's-Man's Grudge 25 Ethel Trevor--------------------50 Ellen Maynard..------------ 25
1DStella Dlmi      -      -   Canonbury House----------50 Roderick, the Rover---------25
Luona  Prescott------  -- -   Ada Arundel----------------. ---0 Jack  Harold-----.----------50
Our MessO----------------- - - 2Olivia   ----------------------5 The Criminal--------------- 25
tLeila------------------------50The Outlaw------------------2
Thayendanegea, the Scourge
EKaraman-- ---------------------50 The Road to Ruin-...---------- 25
da-------..--------...---------  Omar Pasha----..-------------- 50 Kate Castleton-------------25
Pathaway------------------- ~ Catharine Volmar------------ 50 Harry Glindon.-.------------ 25
The Rift and the Spray-..-----2The White Lady    ----------  Adolene---------....-.------25
Sword-Maker of the Santee-- 2Wagner----------------.--_-_--5 Julia Maxwell ---------------- 25
The Shell-Hunter.------------'Faust-----------------------50 Mysteries and Miseries of
Golden Feather - -------------PIERCE EGAN.                    Philadelphia--------------25
Scotto, the Scout------------25                             The Virgin Wife-    -    - - - - 25
The Death Mystery-- -      25 The Snake in the Grass-    50 Grace Willard-..-------------25
Th O             .... °h      nkei     h   rs----       Alice Wade ----..------- --------.-2
The Owlet------------------- 25Lady Blanche-------------------025
Silver Star-------------- -- 50The Flower ofthe Flock.. --.--- 50 Career of the Champions----25
Th liwe 2                           te lok.-         Christy's and Fox's Complete
Catholina------------------------25 Ada Leigh------------------  Christys and Fo's---.---te
The Conspirators-----------25 Love Me, Leave Me Not -----50Melodies and Jokes-        75
Hilliare Hehderson -  -Black Jokes for Blue Devils-- 25
iarexinerson.ut---as----.---1
Whitelaw--------------"------25      POPULAR NOVELS          Boxing without a Master-    13
Night-Shade L---a-d--- -a--- -a---d-h-                 -   The Pirate's Daughter---------..25
Melpomene Surf-------------~5                                The Count's Niece-----------25
Sybil Campbell---- --------- -;0'The Woman of the World.-......50 Fanny Campbell-----------. 25
The   buckeye Ranger--      -2Lisa------------------------50 The Naval Officer--------------25
The Maid of the Ranche ---- -....-25The Divorce------------------50 The Queen of the Prairies-25
The Patriot Cruiser---     - 25Margaret, Marchioness    o f  Romance of War---------------75
The Maniac's Secret---------25 Miniver------------------- 50 The Horse Doctor.------------12
oEngish Tom---r-------------The Fallen Star-------------50 The Cattle Doctor-----.----..- 12
Milrose-    --------------------25                                   GOOD BOOKS
Ella Adams ---------------- 25BOOKSBY POPULARtAUTHORS.        For Every Day Reference.
La Masque------------------- --  Herbert-----------------  5 The American Housewife and
Mountain Max-----------------.5The Adventuress--..----------50 Kitchen Directory---------25
Kitty Atherton-----------------  Out of the Depths--------- 50 How to Cook and How    to
The Rattlesnake---- - --- -------IAlmost a Heroine--- ------- 50 Carve-------------------------- 25
Erminie ------------------------  Florence DeLacy------------50 Pastry Cook's and Confection-
Cepherine-------------_------  3HarryBerford-..-------------- 501 er's Assistant-------------......_13
A Dangerous Woman-        -The Royal Favorite-----------50 Letter Writing Made Easy--- 13
Blanche---------------------------2The Rival Beauties--------.......-50;Do Not Let Your Child Die--- 25
Grossbeak Mansion--------- ---2Richard of York--...-....-50Grand Expose of the Science
Victoria-------------------50jThe Marchioness --------."-..25 of Gambling--------..--------50
Pierre, the Partisan..---------25 Grand Expo vs of the Sons of
DUMAS' NEW BOOKS.        The Rival Adventurers----   251 Malta-    --.--.----13
Jane Horton----------------- 25
Royalists and Republicans-- -50 Forecastle Yarns -.-----...--25 BRADY'S ETHIOPIAlN DRAMA.
The Guillotine - -.--- - -  ---- 50 The Flying Cloud--------.----- 25  13 cents each, or 10 for $1 00.
The Palace of Ice------ ----- -50 Jolly Jack-- -- --......---...--- -...25 (For names of Plays, Farces, &amp;c.,
The Orange Plume---------- -50 The Young Shipwright--- --25       send for Catalogue.)
DE5- Any work in this List will be sent to any place, free of postage, on receipt of price. Address as above.
D~f Brady's Mammoth Catalogue of all the best and most popular Books sent free of postage.
Senad Cash Orders to F. A. BRADY, 124 Ann St., New York.

l g


                                            
             
         
       
   
