
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Our Mess, or, The Pirate-hunters of the Gulf .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6975
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Our mess, or, The pirate-hunters of the Gulf 
            
               OUIR
eh vcte jut

M0ESS
nahe se s.

2
A TALE OF
NAVAL IIROI8 AND WILD ADVENTURE IN TIlE TijPICS,

BY NED BUNTLINE.

NEW   YORK:
FRE D ERIC A.                  R A fDY,
NQ. 24 ANN fRLET.

I"


_

ENTEaED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1859,
BY CAULDWELL, SOUTHWORTH &amp; WHITNEY,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.

MY TITLE.
" Our Mess! I am the last one left of it-I
mean the mess of the ' Mosquito Fleet,' when
we went to fight the Cuban pirates under
Porter, ni 1b.ro, though I was there before
with poor Allen, of the Alligator, who was
killed by the black-hearted wretches."
Thus'said one of the most distinguished
and gallant officers of our navy to me, a few
days ago ; and then he related some wild and
thrilling incidents, which are the ground-work
of this story. I'In compliment to him, and in
memory of his brave departed mess-mates,
this story takes its title.
CHAPTER I.
It was evening ; and in the palace gf the
Intendente-General of the department of Ma.
tanzas-which overlooked the loveliest bay on
all- the coast of Cu-ba-beauty and valor, as
well as masked villainy, were gathered to the
enjoyment of a festival; for it was the eve of
the birthday of the Senorita Maraquita de
Regla, the lovely daughter of the Intendente-
General, the Marquis Garcia de Regla.
Gay uniforms glittered amid the lace and
gauze and gossamer drapery of the lovely Cu-
ban ladies. There were Spanish, English,
French, and American officers present. The
latter, though evidently regarded with great
favor by the fairer sex, seemed to be looked
upon coldly by the Spanish officers ; and it
was evidently a forced or constrained courtesy
which the marquis himself tendered to them ;
for though he had politely saluted the four
American officers, who caiie in at an early
hour of the evening, and whom lie had evi-
dently met bef re-for he addressed each by
name--- he ht     in that moment avoided
them, and p           particular attention to
other guests.
With one of these-a dark and swarthy
Spaniard, in plain citizen's dress-ho seemed

to be most intimate ; and as this person is -
one with whom we have yet much to do--
character whose history yet lives on record, as
well as upon the lips of tradition--he merits a
special introduction as well as description.
Don EnoIAnDo QuiEsrat, as he was known
at the palace, had suddenly appeared there
about a year before the festival-night which
opens this story. No one but the governor
knew who he was or where he cane from.
The governor was alone-or, at least, his
secretary and daughter only were with hm-
when, unannounced, this person had walked
into his private office, and both the daughter
and secretary were astonished at the unusual
agitation which the marquis exhibited at first,
and the marked respect, even deference, which
he showed afterward to the person whom he
introduced to them, not as a noble, but as a
plain senor.
But the secretary valued his place too much
ever to make allusion to it afterward., The
daughter loved her father too well to wish to
pry into his secrets ; for she, like most chil-
dren, believed that her parent could not do
wrong, and would not introduce to her an evil
man. Yet then, and ever after, when Don
Eduardo Quiestra looked at her with his black
eye-at times as cold as ebony, and then as
fierce as lightning lurking in the midnight-
cloud-she trembled within her heart, and
felt an unspoken terror.
Dressed plainly, but riehily-a costly din-
mond on his finger, and another in his shirt-
bosom-standing over six feet high, with a
forni at once elegant and muscular-a bearded
face, the features of which were expressive of
stern courage, but not of ferocity-and a lofty
forehead, marked, but not disfigured, by a di-
agonal scar as from a sabre-cut across it-this
individual was well calculated to attract ob-
servation, even among so many ; for he was
unlike them  all.  In  his manners, rather
haughty and distant, he avoided such contacts

a'

/  / x.s
OUR MESS;
OR,
i ivt-uu®~~   the  if.


I/

4                                 OUR ME
as he disliked-though, when he chose, he de-
scended from his pedestal of reserve, and in
his conversation, especially with the ladies,
made himself very agreeable.
There was an air of "mystery" about him
which made him attractive in their eyes. his
lavish expenditure of money in oceasiona
presents to some of them, and his charity to
the poor, proved him to be as unselfish as he
was wealthy. But though lie sometimes care-
lessly alluded to his country-residence, he told
no one where it was, and if  sked, evaded the
question. When in Matanz, s, a suite of rooms
in the palace was assigned h mn ; when he went
away, it was in such a man  r, and so secretly,
that no one knew where he went. Only one
servant attended upon his person-a young
man of singular beauty and dignity for one in
a menial position, whom he called Mariano,
and whom lie treated with an almost com-
panion-like kindness.
Having thus introduced mihi, we will leave
him ; and after having, for a moment, glanced
at the loveliest gem of the evening-Maraquita
de Regla-we will close this chapter, and hurry
forward on our,path of romance.
Just eighteen-which is womanhood's full
age of development in that ripe and delicious
clime -Maraquita possessed the oriental fea-
tures of her Moorish descent, with the fairer
and richer complexion of her native Castile.
11er figure could not have been impi-oved ; it
was faultless : for, although not so tall as some
of the beauties tliere, it lacked in no proportion.
l1cr expression was intellectual-soulful. She
looked like one formed alone to love and
to be loved. Of such a one as her the poet
wrote :
-"Such around her shone
The nameless charms unmarked by her alone ;
The light of love, the purity of grace-
The mind-the music bi scathing from her face-
The heart, whose softness harmonized the whole ;
Anti oh ! that eye was in itself a soul !"
She was very beautiful ; and so thought the
young American lieutenant, who, having se-
cured her not unwilling hand for the first con-
tra-dance, was now promnenadling the handsome
saloon with her hand upon his arnm.  nd lie,
with his erect, manly figure, cle blue eye,
rosy complexion, and curling b own locks,
seemed well mated to so beautiful a creature ;
for every step, every motion, every expression,
proclaimed him to be what lie was-one of
Nature's noblemen.
And who but the God-made are noble
Talk of blood and lineage in beasts ; but in
mena, balh ! Where among the demagogues of
the present day are the blood descendants of the
incn of "'7G :"  Where, even upon European
or Asiastic thrones, are the blood-descendants
of lImchard Cour de Lion, Charles of Sweden
Alexander of Russia, Tiniour the Tartar, or
Frederick the Gient?  Or, rather, what are
they
h.er and anon--and Qo 'twill ever be-som

ESS ; OR,
unknown man of obscure parentage, like the
Napoleon of Corsica, will arise, and, willed by
the strong spirit within him, dash upward
above all his fellow-men, to cast the 'lie into
the faces of those who proclaim nobility as a
heritage.            -
CIIAPTER II.
"'Who is tlha' young officer who, walking
with your daughter, seems to chain her ear
down to the accents of his tongue ?"' asked the
Seinor Quiestra of the marquis, hvlile the lat-
ter, with a cloud upon his brow, and half-con-
cealed anger in his eye, glanced toward the
couple whose description   closed our first
chapter.
"IIis name is Allen ; lie comnands the Amer-
ican war-schooner in the harbor. I wish he
were gone, for this is not the first time he has
paid marked attentions to my child," ref lied
the marquis, in a low tone.
" Ihis is one of the vessels sent out by the
Yankee government to prevent the collection
of tribute to the black flag, is she not ?" asked
Quiestra, while his passionless face lighted up
for an instant with a sneering expression.
" She is," replied the marquis.
"Introduce me to him, and then draw your
daughter away without arousing a suspicion
in him that it is intentional," said Quiestra.
Tle marquis bowed in acquiescence, and,
accompanied by the former, moved across the
room in a direction to intercept his daughter
and her escort. ie did so, but only at the
upper end of the room, as they were about to
step out uo)0n a piazza which overlooked the
harbor, whither Allen had invited his fair
companion to look upon his vessel, as she lay
upon the moonlit waters of the bay like a bird
asleep, but ready in a moment to lift her
wings for flight.
Permit me to introduce my particular
friend, Don Eduardo Quie-stra, to the notice
of Lieutenant Allen," said the haughty mar-
quis to the young American.
"I am very happy to become acquainted
with any friend of the Marquis de Regla l"
said Allen, frankly extending his hand to the
Spaniard.
,    To the surprise of Maraquifa, who had no-
ticed his habitual reserve, especially toward
, all the foreign officers, Quiestra not only took
f the proffered hand, but shook it warmly ; but
she had not time to observe more, for her father,
saying: "There is the Countess de Villalieneva,
my child, whom we have not wtloiied," placed
f her arm within his, and hurried heraway-lcav-
e ing Quiestra and Alleumi   a position where
they would necessarily be obliged to improve
s their recent introduction.
, i" The marquis is rather unceremonious
r depriving me of. my late partnr in the (ane
e said Allen, rather disappointed in the loss
a wished-for walk and talk upon the piazza.
e    "Perhaps he thinks that is child's warm

4,,

4

r

THE PIRATE-HUNTS
heart is endangered when in contact with a
fair-haired son of the North. She is his only
one, and we cannot blame him that lie guards
her closely," said the Spaniard, speaking in a
careless tone, and ev'incing no interest in the
matter by any expression of his face.
"I never would wrong her noble heart,"
said Allen, quickly. "lIle need never guard
her from me, for 1 would lose a life in her de-
fence, or for hqr honor !"
"A h ! you love her,,then ?"
Quiestra said this in such a cold, utterly
passionless, and disinterested tone, that Allen,
naturally ingenuous and confiding, thought
not of duplicity or a danger of betrayal, and
he said :
"Yes, with all my heart !"
"And is your love returned ?"
The Spaniard asked this question in such a
way that Allen began to be upon his guard.
IIe replied
"I have already said too much upon this
subject to z stranger-more than I should
done."
You have said so much," replied Quiestra,
in a quiet way, "that to reply to my question
will not add to your error, if you have erred.
A confidence should never be halved."
"In this case it must be," said Allen, ab-
ruptly.,
For a second-not a second, a breath's time
only-fire flashed in the Spaniard's black eye,
but the next instant it was as calm and cold
as before.
"As you will," he said, lsindly. . "I have
no right, as a stranger, to intrude myself upon
your confidence : nor, perhaps, should I offer
a friendship which might be usefulin promot-
ing your future happiness ; for I, 'elieve that
few men have more influence with the Marquis
de Regla than myself."
"Forgive me; I am over-cautious perhaps.
But this is a delicate matter ; only-the lady
and yourself are aware of my attachment,"
said Allen, again grasping the hand of the
Spaiiard. " I will not withhold my full' con-
fidehee from you. The lady does return my
affection ; but'she fears her father's anger, and
will not permit ine to make known to him my
feelings and wishes, as I desire."
"She is right, and possesses more sense and
prudence than most of her sex. 11er father is
a strange man, and must be approached with
caution and in accordance to his natures But
let us walk upon the piazza; there ire too
many Estening ears around us here."
Arm in arm, as if they had been t vo old
friends, these utter opposites in looks and na-
ture passed from the saloon to the piazza, to
the wonder of more than one whq knew Qui-
estra, and had never before seen(hiin touch
the arm or hand of a male acquaintance, or
descend from the icy throne of his reserve.

W,

ERS OF TIE GULF.                         d
CHAPTER III.
"Botheration to ye, should on ! Should on,
I say, and I'll have the ivory adrift before ye
can toss off a glass o' grog!"
Reader, permit me to introduce to your no-
tice, Surgeon Florence O'Shaughnessy, of the
U. S. schooner Alligator, a gentleman with all
the " rich brogue of Erin" rolling off his
tongue, yet claiming, and rightfully, to-be an
American-born citizen, for he was born under
the American flag, while his father was Amer-
ican Consul at Dublin.
The doctor's height was not less than six
feet, yet unless he stood by the side of another
person, you would think him very short, he
was so fat. His body was built much like a
rum-puncheon, and its capacity for acting as
one, was very frequently tested by the doctor.
His head was very small, and his legs were not
of a size to correspond with his trunk, in fact
they looked too frail to support such a weight
above. In truth, put a small pumpkin on top of
a cask, putty on a pug nose, cut a wide mouth,
and stick a few bristles on the top for hair,
punching two small holes for eyes, and then
put two broomsticks beneathfor'legs, and you
will have a very tolerable representation of
Doctor O'Shaughnessy.
His particular occupation at the moment
when we introduce him to the reader was that
of extracting a tooth from the mouth of the
negro cook of the schooner. He had got his
turn-key upon the grinder, and his assistant,
the medical steward of the vessel, was holding
back the negrd's head by the wool, while the
doctor, with both hands griping the handle of
the instrument and his feet firmly set against
the carriage of the gun on which lhe had seat-
ed the " subject of operation,'' was pulling
with a vigor which made it certaiiI that some-
thing must come up by the roots-either wool
or ivory. The negro, with both hands set
against the doctor's protuberant abdomen, was
involuntarily assisting in the operation, while
his eyes rolled in agony, and his face assumed
a bluish hue, with the pain of the toothache,
and this additional infliction.
As the doctor gave an additional jerk when
he cried out shouldd on," the obstinate tooth
gave way, and the doctor's body went with it;
and his next position was horizontal, so far as
his body was concerned. But his legs flour-
ished in the air, and his long right arm was
raised with the instrument and the to th in
token of triumph ; while the freed neg' , u'u-
ing a yell of mingled delight and pain, rushed
away toward the galley, fully determined never
to have the toothache again on board of that
vessel.
Assisted by the steward, the doctor regained
his feet in a moment, and as he regarded the
tooth, or rather tusk, which he held, he said
"Be jabers, 'tis no wonderit pulled so hard !
It has roots like an ould oak. The next one I

1 al

1

5,

K

i
_\
.'
i
i

i
1


6 0UR M]
have to pull for the nager I'll have the capstan
mannedl I've exhausted myself entirely, P1l1
have to take some of my own medicine !"
By way of explanation, we must state that
the doctor s principal rule of practice was con-
fined to what he called the three great " Bs"
.Bleceling, l)listeri n g, and brandy.
In this case, bi-andy was the medicine which
Le considered necessary, and he took a dose as
soon as possible.
CIIAPTER IV.
When Lieutenant Allen and the Spaniard
3tepped1 out upon the piazza, a lovely scene
greeted their eyes. Directly beneath their
feet was the beautiful garden of the palace,
teeming with flowers and fruits, all glittering
in the golden moonlight, or mellowing off iito
the shadows of the trees-but beyond lay the
ay, rippling like dancing silver in the wind
and moonlight. Several large vessels of war
lay in the anchorageusually allotted to vessels
of that class, and nearer in toward the town
were a few merchantmen of different rigs. But
by far the prettiest of all, was the taut and
rakish little schooner of which Allen was the'
commander. IIer black hull was long, sharp
fore and aft, yet of great breadth of beam at
and just abaft the fore-rigging ; it lay low in the
water, and up above it rose spars calculated to
spread an immensity of canvas. Though she
was a half mile off, the moon glittering upon
her brass eighteen-pounder amidships, and her
six carronades of a side, enabled the Spaniard
at a glance to note her armament.
I need not ask which is your vessel !"
said Quiestra to Allen.   " None but your
countrymen can build or rig a vessel like
that !" and he pointed to the schooner.
Allen was gratified with the compliment, for
he not only felt a sailor's pride in the vessel
which he commanded, but also an honest and
 patriotic emulation in the country which he
served.'
SIs your schooner very fast?" asked the
Spaniard.
"She has never been beaten, except by one
vessel, the Pilot, of New York, built by the
same man, a vessel of the same size and rig.
She can beat us slightly off the wind, we are
her match when close hauled !"
"Indeed! Is that vessel in your Government
service, also ?"
"No, sir-she was purchased for the Mexi-
can p;rin ateer service, just before we sailed, and
i probably on her way to Vera Cruz, by this
time, under American colors, there to assume
Mexican. As her captain intendyl to stop
either at Key West or Havana, on his way
out, we directed him to bring out our letters !"
I should like to see her! I have a passion
for beautiful vessels. You wuld hardly think
so by my dress and nppearance ; but I am a
savor myself or was in my younger days'"

ESS; U.R,l
"I had a suspicion that yen hac tasted salt
water-perhaps you have seen service !" and
Allen glanced at the scar upon the Spaiard's
brow..
"Sonic in my younger. days !" and a grim
smile lighted up the face of tha speaker. " If
I am informed rightly of your object in these
waters, you are likely to see active service !"
said he, in continuation.
I hope so !" said Allen, enthusiastically
"I would give three years' pay to lay yard-
arm and yard-arm with, or to stand upon the
same deek with COLCEFRINAS, the Terror of the
Gulf !"
A dark flush ran over the face of the Span-
iard, and his great eyes again flashed for an
instant like those of a fierce animal about to
spring into battle ; but Allen was'looking at his
vessel, and did not observe the agitation which
the Spaniard exhibited, though it lasted only
an instant. When it passed away, he said:
"Your ambition is but natural, yet were you
to meet this redoubtable chief, you might find
yourself overmatched. I have heard much of
him of late years. But why do you single him
out of so many piratical leaders? There is
Domingo, almost as famous as he; Velasqusa e
and others !'
" Ibeeause he is the acknowledged leader of
them all-the bravest-the most ferocious ! '
"Ferocity and bravery do not go togeth ,r,
young man !" said the Spaniard. "This Ccl-
cefrinas, if the report of his enemies be true,
possesses courage without cruelty, and even
though lie claims a right to exact tribute from
all who cross his path, he never sheds blood, I
have heard, except in cases of resistance !"
"That may be so ; yet, nevertheless, he is a
pirate-his hand is raised against every flug,
and we are bound to destroy him !"
"If you can catch him !" and again that
shadowy smile came out upon the Spaniard's
face. And his tone was so sarcastic when ho
spoke, that Allen, who had been looking over
the water, turned to catch the expression of his
face. But it was now as calm as when he made
his introductory bow.
"Are you well acquainted with the-coast of
this island ?" asked Allen.
"As well as one can be who from his child-
hood has been reared upon its shores. There
is se~'ce a bay or inlet that I have not visited
at one time or another !" ,
"I wish that I knew so much of the coast.
Our charts are imperfect-only the larger in.
dentations of the coast are down, and the very
spots which pirates would seek for hiding-
places are omitted. We work in the dark !"
"Being after dark men, perhaps it is best !"
and again the Spaniard smiled. "When will
you sail. ?'l he asked in continuation.
" As soon as either of the vessels appointed
to act in concert with me arrive !"
I should like much to take a cruise wit
you in search of that Colcefrinas ! I sho

J

nv

'1HE PIRATE-R1JNTERS OF THE JULF.

i

I'

r
.
a
A       A
6
S
ri
0
I
pit ,
gy    p .               rr

7

lute myself to meet him, though I would not
care to cross swords with him !"
"I a k no better fortune than that !" replied
Allen. "But if you are serious in your desire
to take a cruise in the Alligator, as my guest,
you will be very welcome."
"A thousand thanks ! I have some business
which calls me to my estate at an early hour
in the morning, and must go there. But if
you do not sail before I return, count upon
me as'making one at your table on your next
cruise. And now we will return to the saloon.
I will so manage, that you will have an hour's
converse with the fair M araquita, without in-
terruption from either her father or that vine-
gar-faced old aunt of hers !"
"Oh, thank you, my kind friend-thank
you a thousand times! Excuse the unjust
suspicions which made me for a moment hesi-
tate to bestow my full confidence upon you!"
Arm in arm, as they had gone forth, the
two gentlemen now re-entered the saloon.
Maraquita, surrounded by a group of admirers,
but still resting upon her father's arm, was
near, and to her Quiestra at once led the way.
"Marquis, I have a word to say to you in
private ; be so good as to leave your daughter
:n the care of this gallant officer, who will
doubtless keep all pirates at a distance from
sq fair a prize, and retire with me for a few
moments," said the Spaniard, to the father of
Maraquita.
The marquis looked astonished, seeming
hardly to understand the words of Quiestra ;
but at a look from the latter, which command,
ed rather than asked, he dropped the arm of
his daughter, which, with his implied consent-j
was instantly placed in that of Allen, and tak-
ing the arm of-Quiestra, he accompanied that
mysterious person back to the piazza, which
he had so lately occupied with Allen.
"What does this mean, senor-you surely
do not wish to forego your claim on Maraqui-
ta's hand, in favor of this audacious North
American ?" cried the marquis to Quiestra, the
moment that they were alone.
"Not for an instant, my dear marquis," re-
plied the latter, blandy. "But I have got to
heat this Yankee at his game, and must use
himself to do it. You know his errand to this
coast, and what its success will cost both.you
and me. I have already wormed myself into his
confidence, and that which I have just done
will add to .'my power with him. He loves
your daughter and she loves him-the fool
told me so !"
"Mid malediciones! I will shut her up in a
dungeon!"
"You will do no such thing. It is too late
to either starve, or chill, or frighten the love
out of her heart. But I care not for that !
When she is my wife, 'll draw the reins tight-
r; at present, like a decoy, she must be used
 blind him to our work, and to lure him to
point where I shall decide that he stops,

4

I

'     I

and stops forever ! DI shall plan all this work.
Garcia de Regla, I only ask you to execute and
obey ! Remember the past-had it not been
for, me you would not be what you are now--
only by my aid can you reach the post you
desire, and  become  Governor-General of
Cuba !"
"Do not speak of the past !" said the Mar-
quis ; and he shuddered and closed his eyes, as
if he wished to shut out some terrible vision.
"I will not, if you do a man's duty for the
present. Now listen to me. I leave for the
rendezvous in an hour.' There is a schooner
on her way out from the north which I must
capture, for she can out-sail the fastest one in
their fleet-which this young Yankee com-
mands. Use every means, except open force,
to keep him from going to sea before I return ;
for I intend to come back and go to sea on a
cruise with him, as a friend and pilot. Ho
wants to-see Colcefrinas, and he shalt see him!"
"Madre de Dios ! You will not place yoi ur-
self in his power ?"
"No-I shall not be in his power. I a- a,
with him, only your friend, Don Eduar 1o
Quiestra-not-"
"Breathe not your name here, for Heavei's
sake, capitano mio !" said the Marquis, wi ch
anxiety and haste.
"Don't terrify yourself-I shall not. B it
mark my words, and obey my directions ivii-
plicitly. If you permit this Yankee free a-
cess to visit your daughter while I am gore,
he is so much in love, that he will forget his
duty, and linger longer' ththi lie would do ofh-
erwise. See that'it is done 1"
"But senor, such freedom may prove har
ruin; she has warm blood in her veins, esd
he-"
"Is so chivalrous that he is honQrabls.
Though I hate him, I would trust' him with
her if she were my wife ! Have no fears, but
obey. I shall leave in an hour.. Mariano will
remain here -and aid you. If anything espe-
cial occurs before I return, send him to me !"
. "Do you not trust that youth too far ?"
asked the marquis.
"Have you ever seen a look or heard from
his lips a word that would tend toward my
betrayal ?"
"No, senor."
"Then I do not trust him too far. But now
let 1s return to the saloon; and Iwill go away
as soon as I can do so unobserved !"
CHAPTER V.
A half hour later, while ' the music of
the festival came faintly upon his ear, Quiestra
stood in the chamber which was always as-
signed to him when lie visited the palace.
His dress was not now the plain, peaceful cit-
ien's garb, which he had worn in the salqo
of the Intendente General. He wore a close-
fitting shirt of mail, whie  completely pro.
tected his person, from his neck to his hips.

I

I;
I'
ci

1

I
_


i
I
S'
f
t
i
1
t
'i
i
b
I
f
1
i{t
1
I
{
o
(
} Qtlf'
'1
i
p
f
f
a

68'OUR M
Over this he drew a loose frbck, or blouse of
embroidered velvet, and buckling a belt
around him, to which a short, curved sabre
was attached, placed in it a brace of gold-
mounted, long-barreled pistols, an  a long,
broad-bladed dagger. Upon his he 'dhe wore
a close-fitting cap, while the nether 1"mubs were
almost concealed by a pair of heavy-looking,
but really light turkey-leather boots, which
eamo considerably above the knee.
Upon a chair close by hung a large sea-
cloak, adapted to concealing the person, as
well as to protect it from what is seldom
known in that country, inclement weather.
Before him stood the valet, or page we
might call him, to whom we have alluded once
or twice before. lie was not tall for one of
his sex; in figure rather slight, but even
more elegantly proportioned than his master.
His features were exquisitely classical ; his
complexion so rich and transparent that the
mantling blood seemed ready to come through
the skin when lie blushed, as he almo inva-
riably did when his master spoke t   him.
His great black eyes were shaded by long,
silken lashes,.and about his temples, over his
white brow, and clear down to his shoulders,
hung masses of curling hair, as black and as
soft as the down on the raven's breast. His
dress was neat and tasty, a tunic buttoning or
rather lacing with loops across his chest and
up to his neck-loose trowsers below, and a
noroceo slipper fitting on a foot small enough
to have belonged to a woman. lie seemed
young, not more than seventeen or eighteen
years old.
"Mariano, my good lad, I an going to pay
a brief visit to our rendezvous, and~perhaps to
take a little fresh pir on blue water. But I
'shall not take you with me this time !"
A look of pain and disappointment express-
ed the feelings of the young'man, but he said
nothing.
"My absence will be very brief," continued
:lhe Spaniard, " and it is my wish, that with-
c-ut appearing to notice anything that goes on
mn the palace, you note everything : particu-
larly nwrk the movements of the lady Mara-
quita and the young American officer, who
ommnands the schooner in the harbor. Should
their folly reach'so far asto look like an inten-
tion of elopement or clandestine marriage, see
that it is prevented."
"Will my master take offence if I ask him
a question ?" asked Mariano, in a low voice
fulf of music.
"No, my good lad-you know that it takes
much to make me angry with you!"
Does the senor, my master, ever intend to
marry the lady Maraquita liimself?"
Not while your mother lives, my boy ! I
would not be unjust to\ hIier, nor break herc
heart. She is rmy queen, and shall be while
the lives ! lh'r,' wiiV do you blush and trem-
m..so?"

Trr" err

ESS ; OR,
"Anxiety for my mother, seilor-nothing
more," replied the young man.
"You need have no fears, then. But take
the heed I bade you. This American is sent,
with many others, to hunt out and destroy
the free rovers of the sea; and we must out-
wit him. lie deems me a friend ; if he ques-
tions you, your ready wit will frame proper
'replies. I have gone to my estate in the
country : you comprehend me ?"
"Yes, my master."
"It is enough, then. Good night. I have
leagues to pass over before the day'dawns."
The young man took the Spaniard's extend-
ed hand, kissed it reverently, and then helped
to put the cloak upon his form. A moment
later, Quiestra had departed, and he was alone.
Then Mariano, with a deep sigh, sat down,
and, hiding his face with his hands, seemed to
lose himself in sad thoughts.
CHAPTER VI.
Along the shores of the Queen of the An-
tilles may be found many a lovely bay ; many
"a pretty little river gushes out through her
flower-covered cliffs into the deep-blue of the
Guff Stream. Yet among all of these there is
no spot so beautiful as that which I am about
to describe.                     -
About twelve or fifteen leagues east of Car-
denas, there is an extended line of small
islands-all of them very lovely-which seem
tg stand as outposts between the gulf and
shore. About midway of this group, urhere
the rocky cliffs of the mainland rise dark and
frowning, a passage has been'pierced by the
hand of Nature through the stern barrier-
which is invisble until one is close upon it-,
and by one unacquainted with it would be
passed unobserved at a cable's length. It. is
narrow-so narrow that'no square-'igged ves-
sel' could enter without having her yards
cock-billed,; and the most careful hand at the
helm would have all that he could do to pick
his way in through the tortuous channel be-
tween the lofty cliffs. But, once in, a bay
large enough to anchor fifty ships-of-the-line
would meet his eye-a bay bordered all around
by a snow-white beach of sand, to the very
edge of which a vessel could be laid. So en-
tirely land-locked is this bay, that not a pulse
of-the ocean-surges from outside could wake a
wave upon its breast. A cresdent-shaped pla-
teau of level land stretches the width of a half
mde back from the bay ; and all around in
the rear of this, lofty and apparently inaccess-
ible hills form the background.
Upon this plateau-much of which is under,
cultivation, ind teems with the various luxu-
riant productions of the tropie --are many
little houses, built of cane, and thatched with
the broad leaves of the palm. In the midst
of these, and facing the narrow entrance to the
bay, is one of larger size and greater are
textural pretensions-for it boasts of a cer'

(.

-t
*1

O
0

1

k

e

r
i'
i.

/,


0    7'
5l-

1

;I

o

~1

THE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF TIE GULF.

dah, a, cupola-rotem in which- to enjoy the
balmy evening air-and in its finish is more
perfect than the others. And before it is a
mounted battery of six long eighteen-pounder
cannon, so leveled as to sweep the entrance to
the bay. All over this plateau, and among
the cottages, women and men are walking in
company, and little children are seen at play.
In the bay, lying moored to the shore, are
three armed vessels-two schooners and a
sloop-while a vast number of cast-rowing
boats are drawn up on the beach, with their
oars and boat-hooks stacked near them, ready
for use. Not a flag to denote the nation or
calling of these people could be seen. But
that it was peab3eful, was doubtful ; for nearly
every man wore weapons in his belt, and
seemed prepared to do martial service at a
moment's notice.            '
It is the morning of the second day since
the festival of the birthday of Maraquita de
Regla. We will for a moment look within the
larger house upon the plateau which we have
described. It is magnificently furnished, and
in its draperies, hangings, mirrors, carpets, so-
fas, ottomans, chairs, and tables, it would seem
that the art and industry of all nations had
shared ; for they were as various as they were
rich and costly. From the style of many of
the paintings, and the nature of some of the
gold and silver plate which was almost strew-
ed around (it appeared so profusely), it would
seem that churches had helped to adorn this
most singular and palace-like dwelling.
But of yet another ornament we must now
take note. In an apartment whose large win-
dows, opening from the floor to the ceiling
above, looked out on the bay in front, and on
the northern side toward the mountains in the
northeast, a lady stood, leaning with a listless
air against a marble statue, the form of which
did not see'ni more perfect than her own. It
was of the " Medician" height-five feet six
inches ; yet shc was at least two inches taller,
perfect in every proportion. 1Her age was
fully thirty-five ; yet her face possessed all
the freshness of youth. Her great black eyes
flashed with the fire and passion of sixteen,
and not a thread of silver could be seen amid
the great masses of black, glossy hair which
curled down aboat her white neck and ehoul-
ders. 11er expression was one of majestic dig-
nity. She seemed as if she had been used to
exact and command reverence and respect
from all who approached her. Yet there was
a voluptu''s and dreamy look that told that
love could find--probably had found-a home
a        in the depths of.her nature.
-           The sound of a bugle from the mountain-top
to the north-east reached her ear, and pro-
duced an instant change in her appearance.
IIer eyes flashed, and her countenance lighted
up with a look of joy.
It is Eluardo !" she murmured ; and tak-
ing a gold-monuntod telescope from a table

close at hand, she raised it in the direction
from whence the sound came ; and a look of
disappointment flitted over he' face as she
looked, and she said : "lie comes alone ; my
chlil { is not there ! What can it mean ! O
IIea yen ! should he suspect the truth, and-"
She did not finish her remark ; for a man,
armed and dressed with some insignia which
betokened him to be an officer, entered.
"The captain is coming, senora," said he.
"Yes, Pablo ; I heard his bugle. Raise his
colors on the flagstaff."
The man bowed and retired. A few mo.
ments later, a black flag, with two crimson
swords crossed in its centre, and the name so
dreaded in all the southern waters--" CoLcE-
raINAs"-embroidered in letters of gold be-
neath them, was hoisted from a staff near the
battery in front of the house ; and,- as soon as
this was done, a similar flag floated from each
of the vessels in the harbor, and the men from
every direction hastened to the plateauin front
of the flagstaff, and there formed in military
order to receive their chief, who could noW
be plainly seen descending the mountain-side
with rapid footsteps.
They were a wild, rough-looking gang, arm.
ed each to suit his taste, and, dressed in such
garbs as suited their will and convenience.
They were, judging from their looks, desper-
ate and hardened -men, culled out from al-
most every nation. There was the swarthy
Spaniard, the sallow Frenchman, the yellow
Portuguese, the florid Anglo-Saxon, and the
olive-hued Creole.
4s the-chief, who was none other than hirrm
whom we have known as Quiestrh, approached,
the murmur of many voices which had fi i
the air, ceased, and all was silent when 'he
stepped in front of- the line, and replied to the
salute given by Pablo de Canova, his second
in command.
"Send the crews on board the vessels in-
stantly, Pablo, and be ready to start on a
cruise in an hour! I go with you myself."
These were the only words uttered by Colce-
frinas. These spoken, he turned away as ha ugh-
tily as he had come, and entered the house.
The instant that he had crossed the thresh.
old, a pair of round, white arms were thrown
about his neck, red, ripe lips 'were pressed
burningly to hIs own, and the fair woman,
whom we have so lately briefly described,
murmured:
"Eduardo! Amer mio ! I am      se happy
that you have come again
"I am glad to see you, my Menona ' he an-
swered, far more coldly than her caresses
seemed to merit. "ButI have little tme new
for acts or words of endearment. I have hur-
ried hither for a purpose which I must speed-
ily accomplish. I must put to sea to try and
capture a vessel which I need. The coast will
soon swarm with a host of enemies, who seek
to destroy the whole confederacy of the Free

,)
;
;f ,
j!
1
{

11


/                                     -
/

I,

L2                                OUR ME
Rovers. I must beat them back, and I will !"
-' Aor nom, v liv ty here to meet thieni?
You have a kimigdoi's wealth in your posses-
sion, you can need no- more on earth though
you out-lavish princes in your expenditures !
Why not lower your fag forever, and do as
you have often in past times told me you
would, go to sonic land where the name of
Colcefrinas is unknown-where you have never
been seen; and there, with a new name, and
rank, which your gold can buy, and my love,
which only death can chill, be happy !"
"What, Monona?    Do my ears hear you ad-
vise me to bend the knee to the dogs of a na-
tion which has not yet counted a half century
of existence-me, ayson of old Castile !"
I did not advise you as a Castillian, bi.t as
one whom I lovcd-whose peril is my ao ny,
whose peace is my bliss!"
" You mean we, 1, Monona, but my course is
laid, and I shall follow it. These insolent Yan-
kees need a lesson, and they shall has e it. The
next thing they will do, after they crush out
the Free Roveirs, if they should do it, will be to
stop our planter, from getting negroes to till
the soil with. That dune, they'll ask for the
Island itself; and if Spain yields not to the beg-
gal's, they'll take it ! They need a lesson, and
Colcefriiias shall he their teacher !''
The woman sail no more, but a mournful
expression looked from her great, black eyes.
Where is Mariano ?" she asked, after a
brief pause.
"I left him behind, at Matanzas, to watch
the movements of some American officers
there, who are awaiting more vessels before
they coie in search of nc."
" Will he not be in danger ? You promised
me, when I first consented that lie should act
as your page and servant, never to let him
leave your side."
lie is as safe, yes,  ore free from peril be-
r.eath the roof of Garcia de Regla, than he
would be here : for here, if the Americans
(sectver my place of rendezvous, blood will
run like water. To give them their due, we
must sany, they fight well-more like devils
than men. for they won their liberty against
terrible disadvantages ! But all their navy
cannot eonle ir me here, if there is no treach-
ery beieatli my o.wn -flag !"
The woman said no more, although her
looks told that she was far from being happy
nmw. Colcefrimas noticed this, and in a kinder
tone. said .
" Cheer ~p. Menona mic-cheer up ! Bring
mne some wine. I am tired. and will ledge love
ar~r health to thee !''
Sh'e hurried into 'another apartment, and
een i'etiurned w-:t Iia large, gidein goblet filled
t to the b r.m wt h vie.
i)r.mnk you, and bless the cup with your
lips av sweetene,'' he'said. a= lie paused one
arm irund her waist, and with the other gen-
t  lu11 l ack the geblet.

ESS ; OR,
"My lord, my life, your 'health and our um
dying love !" she said, and she raised She cup
to her lips and drank, while the blood' in her
cheek, as if emulous of the color of the wine,
flushed deeper and brighter. For it had been
rare of late that his arm had pressed her form,
and now its touch gave new life into her heart.
hIe took the cup from her and drained it to
the bottom ; then tossing it carelessly aside,
drew her down upon her knee, and kissed her
white brow. With a low cry of gladness, such
as a yoi~ng child utters when the mother
comes, for which it has been weeping, she
threw her arms about his neck, and while the
tears of gladness trickled down the rosy path-
way of her cheeks, she gave him a hundred
kisses on his lips, and e5es, and broad, high
forehead. This joy lasted but for a few mo-
ments; for as he glanced toward his vessels in
the bay, lie saw that their sails were loosed,
and he sprang to his feet.
"When will my Eduardo come back ?"
asked the lady.       '
" When lie has succeeded in his enterprise !"
replied the pirate, quietly. " Meantime, let
my brave Monona prove herself competent to
guard her home and my treasures. 1h11e look-
outs on, the mountains must be vigilantly
maintained-those on the islands be on the
watch night and day, Should our foes, by any
fatal error on our part, or any good fortune
of their own, discover the entrance to the bay,
the battery nust tell their doom. Should
they enter, let the hidden mines be fired, while
,you seek safety in the cave known only to
you, myself, and Mariano. I know my Mono-
na will do all this !"
" With God's help I will !" she responded ;
and she crossed herself, as if the actions con-
templated were such as God would bless.
Again lie pressed a kiss upon her brow, and
turning upon his heel, departed.
She watched him until lie reached the beach,
where he launched a light shell of a boat of
peculiar construction. sharp at both ends and
decked ever (like the canoe of an Eequimaux)
except where the rower must sit. Into this
lie sprang, and soon placed himself alongside
of the largest of the schooners.
Springing on board, he left the little boat
to drift in toward the shore or be picked up
l'y some of the men there, and at once gave
such orders, that in a few moments all three
of the vessels were under sail and slowly work
ing out of the harbor.
CIIATER VI.
"What a singular influence this Seior Quies-
tr. seems to possess ever your father !" said
Allen to Maraeuita de Retla, as -soon as they
had moved to a place where they could con,
; erse without being overheard. on the night of
her festival, when the Spaniard. known as
Quieetra, had withdrawn the marquis from
them.

THE PIRATE-HUNT

"it is more singular that he should exert
this influence to favor you !" said the young
lady. 't Although lie has not yet himself di-
rectly pruoposed'lmarriage to mie-for lie knows
that I hate him-he not only has made such a
proposition to my father, but I fear has either
gained the consent of the latter to the step by
his will, or by this same mysterious influence,
forced it from him. More than once has my
father hinted that I am to become his wife !"
And will you ?" asked the young Ameri-
can, in a low, sad tone, as lie fixed his eyes
upon hers.
" Will I ?" she responded-and the hot
blood rushed in a flood up through her veined
cheeks, until, her very brow was all aglo,w-
"wll I?  Not from your lips-not from your
heart s'iould come that question! No, no ! a
thousand times No ! Sooner, far sooner, would
be the bride of Death ! IIe is-I am sure lie
is a-"
She paused, trembled, and turned as pale as
death ; for close before her, looking at her
with flashing, threatening eyes, stood young
Mariano. She (lid not finish the sentence she
had commenced, but turned away ; for the eyes
of the strange youth seemed to cast a spell
upon her tongue, and to chain he' will to si-
lence:         -
Allen had not noticed the youth, for he
came and passed like a shadow;~and he asked:
"What were you about to say, dear Mara-
quita ? What is this strange man ?"
" My filther's friend, and, as you say, a
strange man !" said the lovely girl ; and she
still trembled, for she scemcd to'feel that she
had been on the verge of endangering her
father, by the exposure of some secret.
Let us go and join in the dance again !"
she said, seeming to wish to be placed in a
position where (questions of delicacy could
neither be asked nor answered.
They were soon unon the floor, gliding away
in the soft and dreainy waltz, played as Spani
ish musicians know how to play it.
The Spanih are the only people in the
world who make a luxury ot waltzing. The
I)uteh-exeuse me, the Germans--make of it
a pers pirative labor ; tlie French go through
on railro-ad time ; the Americans go the race-
horse gait, and the Enghlih the rough-road,
stage-coach style.  But the Spanish glide
along like rosyclouds in a breeze-fanned sky,
or like dim shadows over softly rippling wa-
ters. But here I am again, out of the waltz
of my story.
Nose onler had the m lrquis received his final
instructions from Quiestra, and seen the latter
depart fer roni, than he took occasion to
rejoin- his daughter and the young American
officer. To t lie utter astonishment of both, as
well as pleasure of one of them, he seemed
in the most allable hiunor, and remarked that
he was very hapy1. to see them enjoying the
pleasures of the evening so much."

ERS OF TILE GULF.                        13
"I hope, lieutenant," said he to Allen,
"that -our stay will be long in our port, and
that, while here, your visits will be frequent,
and without restr'aint
I shall be only too happy to make my vis-
its frequent !" replied Allen; and rest assured
that no call but that of duty will hurry me
away from the hospitality of your pert !"
The marquis bowed, and passed on, leaving
the heart of Allen bounding high upon the
crested waves of hope. But Maraquita was
sad. She knew that this sudden change of
manner in her father masked some new design,
at the bottom of which lay her antipathy-
Quiestra. And her greatest misery was, that
she could not fathom the design-knew not
how to meet what she felt in her heart was a
plot to wreck his happiness and her own.
But, concealing her thoughts to the best of
her ability, she moved on with him as her solo
partner (luring the rest of the night, niuch to
the distaste of many an officer who would have
shed blood for the honor of having her hand
even in a single dance, and more to the sur-
prise of others, who wondered why her Ameri-
can-hating father should leave her in such
perilous company so long.
But so it was , and when, as the rosy her-
alds of the coming day came swiftly from the
eastern, sea-board, Allen found himself once
more on board of his beautiful schooner, his
heart was too full of the joy of the last few
hours to permit of his thinking of sleep.
There are times of neril as well as times of
trouble, when-sleep will not come to the eve-
lids of the weary ; and there are times when
joy and lmppiness forbids one to close his eyes.
May such sleeplessness be the fate of my read
ers !
CHAPTER VIT.
The Pilot, of Norfolk, the consort,-built
of the Alligator, was indeed a beautiful vi ssel;
and so thought Charley Howard, her ttapo-
rary commander, who was engaged to ta'h: her
to Yera Cruz, there to deliver hice to the Mexi-
can government to act as a privateer. 'He was
in the lahama Channel, heading for the Cu-
ban coast, and in Ehe act of taking Ins meridi-
an observations to learn his latitud.., when a
man forward, on deck (for lie had no look- out
aloft). sang out : " Sail ho !"
Dropping his quadrant, Iloward seized his
spy-glass,'as he cried: "Where away ?"
A point or two to windward of the weather
how, sir-not one, but three sail, if my eyes
don't lie !"
"You're right," said IHoward, as he looked
in the direction given. After a short recon-
noissance, he said. "There are two schooners
and a sloop. I suppose they're Cuban coasters,
for we should be nearly in to the island now.
Luff, there, you at the helm-let her come up
a point, and we'll speak the strangers !"
The schooner, which had been ru-ailing free,

rc

'
'I

1
e
1

!
i
,
,!
;
;


4x

I

OUR MESS; OR,

;;
,,
r)
;,
I;'
'
-        ,
Z
c        I " '
'i{7'((
'il
r  ','

heading a little to the northward of west, now
hauled more to th .wind and n estward, and as
the vessels which IIoward intended to speak,
were standing on a course which threw them
athwart his bows, they  cry rapidly neared
him.
The young captain of the schooner looked
at theni from time to tiune, but saw nothing
which led hin to believe them to be other than
coasters, as he had at first supposed. But
few men were seen upon theirdeeks, and the
sails were neghgeutly trimniied. as those of the
lazy Cuban droghers uiiially are-and as to
this day you can see them  along that coast ;
they were hugged close up to each other, as if
there wasmore safety in company than in be-
ing apart.
The breeze was not fresh, yet stiff enough
to send the sharp-built schooner some six or
seven knots through the water. In an hour,
or little more, the strange sails were close
aboard, and Iloward shortened sail to speak
them, taking in his foresail and flying-jib, and
throwing his fore-topsail and top-gallant-sail
aback, while he hauled his jib-sheet to wind-
ward.
As his headway deadened, one of the stran-
gers crossed his bow, while the other two
headed directly for him to leeward, all having
Spanish colors set.
"Look oupt there, you lubberly Spanish cubs,
or you'll run afoul of us !" shouted howard,
as he saw the danger of contact.
"Excuse us, Seior Amerieans ; we couldn't
well help it !" cried a tall and sp!enidid-looking
man, who leaped from the bow of the nearest
vessel on to the quarter-deek of the Pilot, and
who was instantly followed by fifty or sixty
men, armed to the teeth, like liimself.
Taken completely I surprise, himself and
his feeble crew  entirely unarmed, Ionard
could offer no resistance.  Yet the proud
Maryland blood in his veins boiled, and angry
light flashed im his eye, as lie looked the lead-
ing intruder in the face, and boldly asked what
the deuce he meant by coming on board of his
vessel so unceremoniously ?     '
We are rough people, Seior Aniericans !"
said the leader ; " and we do not understand
ceremony. But we have need of a fast-sailing
vessel, andl as yours seems to be speedy, we
feel an inclination to try her for a time!"
Then I 'mi to under tand that you're a set
of bloody pirates !" said IIoward, bitterly.
" Oh, no ! by no means, Senor ! We are
gentlemen, f ree Rovers-no more ! We ex-
act tribute, it is true, from  those who come
within our range ; if they are at all obstreper-
ous, we somietunes make them unalk the plank ;
ut if they are accommodating, and give us all
they have with a good grace, why we gener-
ally let them keep the most valueless of their
possessions-hje !"
"Very kind !" said Ioward, bitterly. "And
I suppose "     pare my :rew, now that you

t
li
I1

THE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF THE GULF.

have them unarmed, and entirely in your
power ?"
"Yes; but have you no favor to ask for
yourself?"
"I haye. Will you grant it ?"
"If it is not such a one as will compromise
me as a man, I will !" said the other.
It will prove whether you are a man or
not !"'said Howard. "You wear a sword--I
have one in my cabin ; and all that I ask is a
chance to measure weapons with you on this
deck !"
Time dark eye of the Spaniard flashed, for
the tone of Howard was most insulting. He
paused a moment, anid measured the form of
his intended competitor with a scornful glance.
"Do you know who I am, young Inan ?" he
as'ed, after a delay of a minute or more.
Who you are, T do not know ! But what
you are, I do know. You surely are a pirate,
if you refuse to fight me, you are a coward !"
"No man lives who can call Edward Colce-
frinas a coward the second time !" said the pi-
rate leader, in a quiet tone-dangerous, be-
cause it was so 'quiet. Go and get your
weapon, young man, and if you can conquer
me, you and 3 our vessel shall go seot free !"
" I am contented w th the -condition !" said
the brave young American, and he hastened
to his state-room for his sword, a we on with
which he was not unacq/ainted, an which, in
the hands of his gallan father, ha done good
service in the war.of 1, 12 and '3-,
In a few moments  ie return d, and the pi-
rate leader, in spite f the mm urniured remon-
strance of his men, ho dis iked his unineces-'
sary exposure to anger humpreaed for this
singular and impr mlitu duel.
There was not much parade, for HIoward-"
who cast away the scpbbard of his weapon as
he came on deck, tp show that lie intended to
find another sheath for the blade-at once be-
gan the attack, and that with a skill and im-
petuosity wli h for a tiue rather bothered
the pirate, aid forced him to keep upon his
guard and to act solely on the defensive.
But Howard could not for any length of
time exert so much vigor, and as every lunge
and cut he made was coolly met and parried by
his antagonist, lie soon began to feel that he
had taxed his' powers too heavily at the start.
And by the ease with whi h the pirate met his
most cunning feints and thrusts, he soon felt
that lie had found his master. In a short
time, instead of attacking, he found himself ne-
etssitated t4 stand upon his guard wliout be-
ing able to return a lunge. And as the blood
of the pirate warmed, his bright steel was
more'than once crimsoned with the blood of
his over-matched antagonist. - Yet he inflict-
ed no mortal wound, and only seemed to see
how near lie could come to takmin life without:
doimg i t-as savages do sometimes when tlhef
torture their captives.
"Have you not lost blood enough to cool

your mper, senior ?" at last said the pirate,
as  e beat down the guard of his weakened
o onent, and held him entirely at his mercy.
Howard made no reply, but springing back
to a fresh position, again raised his weapon.
With a skillful turn of his wrist, Colcefri-
nas wrenched the weapon from the hand of
the young American, who unarmed, but yet
unyielding, folded his arms upon his breast,
and awaited the expected death-blow. But it
did not come.
With a quiet smile upon his face, the pirate
thief reached out to the flag which dangled
from the main peak halliards, and wiped his
sword upon it. " Yo'n fence tolerably well,
fbr an American !" said lie to Howard. " When
I have leisure, I will give you some -lessons
which will improve your style. But at pres-
ent I have not time. By the way, a friend of
yours, Lieutenant Allen, of the Alligators, said
that letters for his squadron were expected in
your vess-el. have you a mail on board ?"
"Yes!" said Howard, moodily. "Perhaps
you will take the trouble to deliver the letters
yourself?" he added, tauntingly.
"Most undoubtedly I shall !" said Colcefri-
nas, in a gentle tone. "Lieutenant Allen and
myself are on the most friendly terms. I
wo uld not permit his letters or those addressed
to iny of his officers to be delayed a moment !"
"Allen your friend? Why he is sent out
to hunt up and destroy such bloody pirates
ae you are !"
a Yes-and I am going to help him. He
tcld me how fast your vessel was, and I made
up my mind to procure her for that especial
service"      !"             tt'
"You mock me, sir !"
" You are in error, SeiTor Americano-I- am
vury serious. I expect in a very few days to
see Mr. Allen, and I shall not only deliver his
letters, but tell him that the wicked and re-
morseless pirates have captured the fastest
schooner that has ever worn the Ameiican
flag!"
"Tell him that if Charles IIoward had only
known that pirates were near, lie never would
have been taken alive !" said the American,
bitterly.
"Your message shall be delivered 1" said
Colcefrinas, with a smile. "And now we must
part, for time just at the present is valuable to
me! Is your long-boat in good condition ?"
" Yes ! But why do you ask ?"
" l\Ierely to know if it will stand the voyage
which you and your crew are about to make
in it !"
"So you intend to put us adrift in it ?"
"Yes, senior. You are excellent at guess-
ing !"
'" You will permit us to have provisions,
water, sails and oars, perhaps, in your gener-
osity ?"
"The two first you may have! But I can
only spare you one oar. That wi11 keep your

r

boat head to sea, and if-a gale does not come
up to swamp you, you may be so lucky as to
be picked up by some passing vessel. I may
send your friend Allen to look for you !"
"You are very kind-I hope the d-1 will
reward you in the next world, if you miss your
due in this !" said Howard, in reply.
An hour later, he and his crew in the none
too capacious long-boat of the schooner, were
alone upon the heaving waters of the Gulf
tream, their frail boat steadied by a single
oar, being almost even with the water's edge.
Their only hope of salvation in life was, that
some vessel would pass before a gale should
arise, and pick them up.
CHAPTER VIII
"Well, gentlemen, you who have been so
anxious to see service will soon have a
chanceI" said Lieutenant Allen, one morning,
some ten days after the occurrence of the fes-
tival spoken of in our first chapter. His first
officer had just. reported that three vessels,
American men-of-war, were coming up the
harbor; and as he had only waited the arrival
of these to commence his search for pirates,
he had no further excuse for lingering in that
too enchanting spot.
"Faith, that's blessed news, and good for
the dyspepsy, cap'n dear !" said O'Shaughnes-
sy, the surgeon.
"A disease which will never trouble you,
doctor !" said Allen with a smile.
"That's true, blessed be the knowledge that
keeps it from me !" said the doctor.
"Here is a package of letters for you, sir,
just brought on board by a stranger from
shore, in a small boat !" said a petty officer,
handing the package to Allen.
"Letters from home and by the Pilot!" ex-
claimed the young officer, as he tore open the
package. "Forwarded by Colcefrinas, the
Pirate, with his compliments to Lieutenant
Allen! .Darnation! Where is the messenger
who brought these letters? Bring him to me
instantly !" added the officer, as he read a
scrap of paper which was attached to the pack-
age.
"He rowed away as soon as le handed
the letters over the side, sir! lie did not
come on board at all, and is asho e long be-
fore this time, sir ?" said the petty o 'cer.
Allen made no reply, but tore ope a note
addressed to him in the same hand that the
scrawl was written in, and his face flushed with
anger as he read it. No wonder; its contents
were
"If the Yankee who commands the Alliga-
tor can spare time from his dalliance with the
daughter of Garcia de Regla, and would like
to measure swords with Colcefrinas the Pirate,
he can have an opportunity. The latter has
taken the schooner, Pilot, and thinks her very
well adapted to his business. Not having any
use for the private letters of the officers of the

i
i!
I
.1, r
i

.

t,
N


OUR MESS; OR,

pirate-hunting  squadron, Colcefrinas takes
pleasure in transmitting them to their des-
tination. lie deems it unnecessary to send
the government dispatches which he found in
the Pilot, as he wishes to preserve the auto-
graphs of the Secretary of the Navy, and the
Commandant of the Marine Corps. Colcefri-
nass can be found on his cruising-ground in the
Bahama Channel, and takes this opportunity
to assure Lieutenant Allen of his distinguished
constideratiorn !"
Allen did not hesitate long after perusing
this letter. Turning to his first officer, he
said
"have all ready for sailing in an hour, sir!
1s soon as the other vessels come to an an-
ebor, send a boat on board of each, telling
r;en that I have heard from the pirates, and
shall at once sail in search of themr. I have
tome business on shore, which attended to, I
shall at once weigh anchor. Let the gunner
and armorer look to their stores and see that
nothing is lacking for service when we sail !"
These orders given, Allen sprang into his
gig and was quickly rowed to the shore-where,
giving directions to his crew to remain in the
boat ready for his return, he laid his course
for the palace, whither he went with hurried
steps.
('IHAPrEit LIX
"Youl have sad news for ie! I know it! A
ark cloud has rested, shadow-like, upon my
spirit all the morning, and all the long night
t have twssed restlessly u)otn my couch, an-
noyed with terrible dreams!' said Mararquita
do Regla, as Allen entered her presence but a
fsw moments after he left his boat."
"Not sad news, but good, my love !" he re-
°ponded, gayly, " or at least, it is sad in but
on thing -lmust leave you fora time. I ihave
heard from Colcefrinas, the pirate, and if he is
true to his challenge, will soon have the plla-
*ure of meeting him on blue water. Whets he
and his gang are exterminated, then  I will re-
turn to your side ; and it will be your own
fault, my loved one, if we are ever apart again
--for if your father then refuses me your hand,
I know that you will keep your promise, and
be my bride without his consent !"
1 will, if you conic back ! Put, oh ! I so
fear that you never will come ! I feel a pre-
sentimentthat death is near to one, or both of
us !" said the lovely girl, and she clung all
trembling to his arm, as if she would avert the
fate she dreaded, or share it with him.
Aht, lieutenant, i am glad to see you! I
observe that other of your national vessels
rave arrived in our port f" said the father of
Maraquita, entering at this moment, but not
appearing to notice the position of his daugh-
ter, which she changed in an instant, when she
heard his voice.
Yes, Seior Marquis !" replied Allen, "but I

they, as well as myself, will soon be forced by
the stern call of duty to tear ourselves from
the hospitality of your port and town !"
"Why, you surprise me, lieutenant. When
and whither do you sail ?"
"Immediately, and in search of Colcefrinas,
the pirate, who has sent me an audacious chal-
lenge !"
" Colcefrinas ? Sent you a challenge
asked the marquis, in the most utter astonish-
ment.
"Yes, scilor ! And it will not be long, i
hope, before I am ready to make hi   regret
his cool audacity,! By the way where s your
friend Quiestra ?"
"lie? Why do you ask, sir ?" answered the
marquis, very much agitated.
" Because he promised to take a cruise wittr
me, as he knew the coast well and I did not'
"lie is here, and ready to keep his prom-
ise !"'said a deep, full-toned voice ; and as all
three turned toward the open door, the Span-
iard known thera as Quiestra made his ap-
pearance.
The marquis, who had at first seemed sud
denly and greatly agitated,-recovered his pres-
cnce of mind in an instant, and said
"You are welcome back, e ior Quiestra !
have you just arrived from your puantation ?"
"As you can see by the dust of travel on my
person, I have, Seiior Marc uis !''aid the other.
Thdn, turning in the most friendly manner to
Allen, he asked
How go matters with you, amigo io
Prosperous, I hope ?"
" So, so ! But I sail in an hour-do you in-
tend to go with te " replied Allen, to whom
he had spoken.
If you please. A cruise at sea once more
w;ll be a novelty to rme, and iy knowledge of
the coast may he of benefit ti you. But ex-
cuse te a moment, if you please. I have a
message to send back by valet, Mriiano, to my
plantation, and then 1 shall ie ready to attend
you. Marquis, I wouldspeak a word with you
in private, if your leisure will permit it !"
The marqurs followed the Spaniard out, ani
Allen was again left alone with the idol of his
soul, his beloved Maraquita.
")o not trust that man, Quiestra!" said
the latter, the instant they were alone. " .
feel that he meditates some dark evil toward
you !"
"If he does, he will be foiled, for I am ever
upon my guard !" said Alien. " Ite shall not
have it in his power to injure me, and should
he be so foolish as to attempt it, his punish
meat shall be swift and sure !'
In a little time Quiestra returned alone,
being now armed as when we Inst saw him.
1 thought that vearpons amght be of serv-
ice on this trip, lieutenant, so you seee that I
have come provided !" said the Spaniard, with
a friendly smile.
) So 1 perceive, sir ; and I hope there wiil

0
in:
tis


r  f.,            TI E   .ATD-IIU4Ta
be  c eason -for weapons to be used before
-.Truly, so do "! It is some time since I
have sen tIte colorpfilood, except when ri-
flecte d in a maiden't;blush, or the flush of a
thin-skint'd tlni's cheek  But if you are
cady, I tam!"i
I will nuot ditaih you, sir-I have a word to
'av to this iuladeal will overtake you before
vou cait tuach  r i'boat at the quayf!"  .
An     yir i' liii-sh e  to the Spamard's brow,
but hO uilte no rep'itly, only bowing with
mock levity t the lady, as he went away.
I doot a  'ike i Ie intrusive ;iand Veic I to
see tw  love's iii the act of parting for a long
or a sirdrttiim,' surely would close my e:rs
to their wi-ds, nd mu  y eyes to tleiri'motions,
it' I wee' "so fixed that'I couldn't run away aid
lave i heum alotie.  Therefore, if you please,
exciu "' iw frtom  eing evel pen-present at the
pai'tintg t'rv'itew of Allen and his sweet lady-
love.  It is eiiotigli thtat they parted
Int nit-an oilearis,
toet cetf inmouth,
I'rechance.not for .years--
a maun eo~uttiirit, i
A  'loudntii  pc'tih soul,
Wa ei 't ..'- that coti  '-'ral not
T'ii''tr dtinotty's scroi.

CITAP1TEh' X.
T'he hour whih thloe hai  l  td had scarcely
pitSed, wihe Iieutenant Allen stood once
Itore tot the d  ot,ifis saucy-lohiig schooner,
and hitr ei' w'ere usyt iii iounding in h e
cable1. ;and loo:tng hor :ails, 1preparaitoto
get..ing uttndr way. lis consorts, delted ont
their Vm a' toil Ly hard winds, and calms,
wereli sht of a0t,'and1( 1toud not sail in mt-
p-any witi hthim, but theitmommnders teat him1
wor1' wt  it u hi olllldr ol, that thley would soon join himt usu_1otnlt  rtel 1'Wt  ou th
Twehtolion'r o'n had iher tuelora aeigh,
and hdd utd ' 1-n utlt' i ot'tihiarioder' g pi'ess (if
any. A --- whositte thear' was evidlenty I
l-f Ii hitinl  t a py'1h -glas in his han d  ad
iilont  t  a m'ir of the palace of the Marquist
de fRela couldhe -le  cii from his position on
the qui-rtrh-ek, his vesO wee bent it that
(dtinn.  unt a last they fadel ini the dim-
ness of' Iihadi tancetand land itself bcami-
tisti i--I aI hetu-i, w iti a sigh., All-n laid down
hisglhaw and 1thurnedt' to o h it tie timt of the
,ail. As h di d so, he sawthe Spaniard,(Qui-
astra, 1who wi~t fled armis was also lokng
;hireari : 1,lndsemd to bie in a thoughtful
- Wi1h this Itreec We will le ip with Ctr-
denas by daylilt, wil we tot ?'" 'he taskel, utna
celes.. way.
". Mr, ws' stil bti bey''iod there, and amriong
the i lmt1hs of the 'Ct-o, where' Colefrinas and
his Om:dn   rei' said to hav'e thei hatsh   '
a la   d  ito heat it Ant d I prsumltie yeul
It'd

15
r
t LE-

ERS OF THE GULF.                         19
The tone of Allen in the last remark sas
rather interrogative.
 Oh, yes," said Quiestra. " I am fond of ex-
itement. But supposing you were to capture
this Colcefrinas, what would you do with
him?"
"Do with him? Why, hang him to the yard-
arm, of course !" said Alien.
" Without trial ?" asked the Spaniard qui-
etly.
Yes! 'What chance does lie give to his un-
fortunate victims! le is a mluriderer, and a
wretch whom it would be a firing shams to
spare. if he was once within our power
"What think you he would do with you were
you in his power ?"
I neither know nor care. I should neither
ask nor expect any mercy from him!"
And yet you might receive it all the sooner
that you did not crave it
" You seem to know much of his charac-
ter !" said Allen, regarding his guest rather
closely.
"(Only from report !" replied the other. " I
-would have to be deaf were 1 not to hear of
him, for no oiie is mnore talked of than lie, lie
has friends as well as enemies, even amongst
law-abiding men, 'for re1ort, wiiile it magni-
fies his evil nets, also gives him credit for some
goo~d and genmeroums oiies!
" Well, all the reports 1 al anxious to
hear concerning him  are, the reports of his
guns "
You iay be gmatihed before uiotier sun
set !" said Quiie-d.ru etly ; and lie passed into
the cabiii, atd wxent to the state-rooii which
Allen had assigned lin, lie was Secn no more
that night by the young-officer.
 C)IAPTER M.
While her lover was present to sustai ad11(1
soothe her with kind- words, Maraqjuita nobly
bore 1the ordeal.of parIting, but wh ihe ha'd
gone, feeling herself at alone- iaI here was no
sympathy for her among those who knew uot
her secret-shie hid hmed slf away in a curtained
alcove in the room, and asve 'vemit to her sor-
row in a flood of tears. \V bile her heart spoke
its grief in heavy subs, ier father stole softly
in, and approached hier without attracting hr
attention. And he looked upon her with an
expression of deep pain, for several minutes
1efore he spoke.' At lat, in a tone of deep
feeling he uttered her aname. Sli 'started up
from lier seat and endeavored to wipe away
ier tears ; but they came all the faster, and tshe
put lier arms about his nieock, and laid her
head upon hit breast, anid wept ill the more.
" Why do you grieve so, iuy daughter''"
he asked at last----an his own 'eswere  moilt
while the qjtu'stion trembled oi'hi lips.
"'I amt s  unalppyfhler P l esob~bed.
"'Why should 'u1  .e ilailyl, uy child
You are idolized by all who know you-every

I


OUR1 MES ; OR,
AX ilr conr     mnd  -y o  possess  "G rieat  H eC ve   r   y ou   are m d  to . P
lean l  rt'no' '           lo)his iamie  i:: Cu E';  t  ? hnt i~ iL hist''
A    ,id  a  /ea m,1 1Vyv. father  I A  I In r 1  s'  i ,,  n t sre'
'er, w    -  ' o one ought to hav n   Oh, no, I su nos
Th 31 r   i unk  in this world 1'"  to use wheujec'r they ar nab  12von. n
?l( ibun   e no reply, hut seemed to  proud old I  tillino,  tI ' I so  OltiL(I  ui
im hrfo  e  ph   op  of this ida, for a  cielt n bleioh  lii' woi d  '
M r   t '  p in  i y' and  tu thi m  it,  ter  to  w, d  a  m iscreant  pirta t  a  m
i     i  v   le r d, 0 speak.  dier !"  1  (, a  un u
u  shr, " did(ti l s friend of yours,  " Chil, I am  in his 10
u101 o  cai  ( i  ra, g o with Lieutenant :rmarqnis  pwr rae  h
A Tl1                          "  liver him  to  'ot -'g  I l, li t
n o  whii  I cail Q2uiestra ?' ehoed  thien Viol will -ii  o ~   t nn  bha, and
nameiul           ( . tTh t Iiilil  X0io ldo not know  hI l1i i
nio wealth                         of k hin oum- I     as u e
h kIt  n  o   I 1J kvo by, where lie is  in Spain whieh i  n  ai1 iu e
-u l ai nrquit, holdly-f r her  stnd u ion  the  ¢e   e  '  nw hieo.
uor'  3    rwd3   up,1 11  anid  shie wa:  - ee  wish, nod  yoii w ii  i0  o  '  o 'lt''l
hio~av  t31i ii 1h1er thanm ai child- "' BE  v on  pow3er.  Thwarot ite ailely31auo
htto 1 n ston. Wiy di  le  " Aol to  ae  -  Vn  l . 1
to  3 it   I il =  t l ii d   l iii  00 1 i1'  :141,t    51yo11  1 1no }t iiiil  I ",,;ll I,
I ii i  1  ~e  nyihed to ''o  by' h~im  ?"'3   ' " lhll, li  11  Ci i  10   '
t:At 31311  1i ti " l.  l' . iiit ,  utilsfoP  ' Aol  t   -a 1  d 11  ri  ''1' 1  t h  toe'l
il3l          i   "  ut I i ae lt  l d of the  n llt  i ' i L
he  ot3If' (li t' i t ' i  :1  i 1ond  n dwe1030a lt h o  ''tl i i n   i333 '31-L7tIllll'Ic '
'If fn Ii lu havu'e xiled  hh;  to) capture'i,  pae'ii  I)111  fr  -i ii i  i'io  fo
k           nno w n  b yrie d h e i ema r q u is  i n  S an w i c  il  w i O  kC 'i  m a n r   fotl r
h ptlP  Ii ii i th~  raiandriaiptlit'li olo'i''i  -e  i n sired   .  ,   m
3'lt l l 1o y1,  t htil shul uttered  a i  3311won    "' i'  a r i'
I  1i'i ' im "'' i''1+oI '11)is    11001' I1' 1P1131  {I t u   0131
-       he  " And  to isavwh  ol-c  t
1owithonll Ii lis guird ;fill  I f  whio  lio  wrle ge  il  n hvoi cel'a
111133"'"+'   11 1 o"oi ( iiiv'  ius  'nl , 1) '' l  110(l I) astiV! ' 103   tlly l t  p _
a  . h ?i?1' , tla  q ta-'(  cu   riw e en nl -n ofa
namveInot know     h( is el ,  leh s  elh,1  t i!
ail  il  lo   tt atis truo  11anm1  1  hot  myl  milther  fal Iandi to 311li  to  ilay
y11   1 31  ' lo I  .11  ill  to ibe  a3  villin,  ''17 we 1  ('umM r'o   It tl   1311 A~
mu1 3 10h 1  y11you(know  t  i marui swi      Tut       "
rro hih y u kn w  o-n e              r
II(         1 accord)permisson. h f ofut'  myri  ma tt'), awi g
th ii N 1li  i  i  i  'idy teom ranc l o f  hadf  -  m  edt mto ead
1 n   iI\~l=tl~,    .~tint fo  y u i     n oiked  out eIrefull .  . t
nI. ite1Iwd  l, with'hit wtmt)I((lhat111 '
a   1     -  i'll 1(1e fodform es hark'   as It  1133', fin'  t lii "t  h i e 1r '1  - i An
I                                    one  we ilillave1
lG ir, 0\1i; 1(  311011 1)13', "=  Ii e, 1 fr tll1  MI  ti )i r3 tS 1k  11113' 1 0)till  '3 t( 0
3311 lt t      tn 3 1 11 1  it (   1 )1?'1  1 )11 '31  i' i't 1('  111li   I n  ' ~,(_e f t ' 'i i    'rl I  r t'  trt(  ti  33 ''T   it)  1  13 ~ li   3' l
1"1t                                         i '  )2
r  h eu  31 u3', et n ly,1   f' r in   h   i nl -  0 i l  1 1 11 . i ' , i '1 3 i
din  t   '1        '' lt 11  thmk3iflheiw et'lth mk1ifIhe1w e
Xt i 1 1 33)I\ 1' ' 013  1  i  Clul'    l'1  i31ht 3'  A'1.0 of n t 1':t )t;3'(:ii  3li '1'l'i(I
~t ~ ' u i i   ' i   A   m il l l L   3 1 1.i'1   ,u l t iiir 333e t,.   t ll ,   1 11'   i'?; i ' l}s ; t t   ; t Cm iii i  l
i  nln                 lore fhits11sedcremlts-cyl l' t r
l {iilwlwh 1h1hadl" (Juna              m  alongt  the . foroi
thIhh     u dane fn i  reh+ bre Io  fWt',      aha
I     l'  t it t   when 1(,  t he  Wild  ort 1 Orden : andot( e
I{{o      m gh  p ep ret()'o f         hareI'al'om  t  'ifu lIE a
+ ene       :i  as  e i rae tv  tkn Io     yee  ytl neare,  ' .
-c     ragaka,.suddeniV  ' ad   1'rlt'Ii t r}(;1101 t  muu't~ anli .   Tlllho
I     ,i+  t  i nto  h r  fa her'1very b  tp unl  m og t  fe'1 '  'lu
i .  I ( St . ('t FtI I  .1 I  t  #  o t  :  1(1  :  i s  'tn "  "u  i )  " ie  ,   e t a c i s n
P:1(!t' I I r~'l1  ' l i "',  ,  ,1i7  -e(o(w  ilans  and1)0  reeky tt  IIplay

i    chieh could be seen far away on the starboard  "Then those vessels awt 0our approach so
bow of thschooer.                       quietly because they' link w0canilot reach
It had just struck seven bells---a hlf hour them  "
to eight, 3we'n Alle cae on  deck ; for ho  " That probably is so ! But suppose you
had remained- up late, and, perchanee, slept fir3 a gun stand how your colors. P*ethaps
but  little  after  he  1d  retired.     they  then  will let us  ki'ow  3311o  an13d what they
Quiestra, who  had  rise m long  before, wa3 on3  r"e.
teC,  andi  ut 1 ke1d  t  quiet  and3  frmsh  a s  if  he  "  I  'will  test  thetml !'  :oil  L ilen1   3313nlf d  he  grave
never  hiadl ca ouse to  lose' an  biihour  of  scep  or  th  necessary  orders.
f e e l. 0 1  a n   in t a n t  /o   m  ni t a l  a n n o3 1 ) 'Iuy a n c .   A  t h eiA   A m 3 3et'r i c a n  f l a1   lu i f o l ' !  3 tit s  st t oan d
" Well,  'tior,  do  you  know  our  where- stripes  from  1 1the  peak  of  the I chooiei, lnd
hna  '' ' sk ed  Alle in  of  the  Spaniar ,  s  h13  the  blU   sioke  of  o 3e ofl tc  bow 113v gun 0s rose
03311en' 0o'' .                  -      j in the ai, almost simtihaneoudy1' rom1 each of
4  "1t   33'V   w1.i.  Thes  milands  e  c   14d ' the  vessels  im sore,  clis's  ap 1erd.  ''cy
1)%  )Ii itUos.'o  the  Little  1 1vi1. !"  were  the  sam e whimh  we  on3e  before  heave  de-
.  A l t   fo rl' W l t  ' io n ?"       'rib ed - bla ck ,  w ith  tw l'ol  e r ) Sse   3usw ord 3  im
.ht e   h1o 11( is s1end oily to Coleefri- erilsOln in the centre, 1nd the: name1 j otf Cole-
13 31neall i'iia3kes311 his hiead --q3imters', loere- ftrimas m3 golden letters blow.m3
tbou ts !" 'I ,   i l  the  oth r.  "  He  i, called  Allen, looking  with  care  through 1hius  tele-
Diabolitu, bm I lie is \little anid utteil'y de- ' ecope read the name and noted the colors.
vilimh in i d1iioeitio1"               'The rascally pirate is r. ady to meet me,
''\  'll !  I  hI1e fur  a  chance  to  meet him.  but  the  odds  are  in  his  favor  !  said  he  to
m a1'y bialei to teach him) a Christian Ics- QUiut3ra. " That is evidently thu fleet of Col-
-Y  our i 3 i 3 1 y   b eaccom plished  ' 1said  " Hiad  you  iot  better  retur1'n  tosMIntanzasZ ,
th ipaniar I1dr11y  Ytour look-outs are dull and avit for your coim irt ,''naked the Sb-
h ": ' '   -  see  01'utr  vessels  lyinu  close  under  lord,  q met   ly,  yet  rather  i u 1 o: ir11ing  t ilhk.
C h   o3int  t lantl  twi o  or  thrlee  J)OiInts  to  our    N"No,  sei 0or,- no !  1 (' l low1  them 1  thuir
te e  b 1 1w .  T h '  1r1'  u n d e r.l3' P  e a s y  c . 1an v 3as ,1  a n d.11  O d 1s3 1  a mi d  b e a t  th e m .  A l l  t  Ik  (o f  y o u   i s  t
'idently  w 'th in  0o ' m"tios1 !.    pilot  meit  mto  the  harbor  w her1 lth te   s em  to
SYou are r11iiht  ir !" cried Allen, siuddenly feel themselves secure."
alrunsed  to  iexdit'Iiemnt.  " All  hands  to  their  "  Iwill do  so, sir ; but the  l 'rt  I schooner
'3.talou . at  quartersl',  and  'as  sail-trin r eeml1s  to  be  willing  to  m et  n.  the  i  lead-
look' utmet1, there is work for you ahead "  ig oft sout-sitt by somth, mi a channel which
'T'hree minutes litter, every man onb board  l3ads to open water,'
t  nted  alive  'td wide  awake  for  the  proha..  "And  that  schooner  i  thl ' 1ilot !" s'ai
ability of a sight at, and an engagement with, Allen, who had been low' ' it her closely
the piracws, of whom they had talked so ruch through his glass.
er 1ince the commencemeit of their cruise.   4!h IThat then s thei vlve i i of which
3' m     rs went from station to station to you spoke to me the otherni mht i ?
'1ee that tall wias ready for service. Rigging,  ".Yes, and she has'beein sco tlon by Col-
gu--alackle, aid  canvas  were all looked  over  eefrinas. whether i fair tight  1.1 b  lisome ruse
and a very fes 'minutes had elapsed when the of his, I know not:  Io brshall I  1e,r to meet
choneriwas reported in thorough fighting  her?"
13d r.                                      "hand al l1your  light 'rsaib   1a d  haul  on  a
A'In her commander ws ine  a good humor wid.  There are reefs to leeward of you
to indulge his crew, if theirs was ta desire to which must be .weatlhere.I:1 1 and  3you haul
3"' woork. As his craft drew in toward the close on a wind, you'll  i iin gullhot of the
1(rd with a breeze which made  0 er1 1 m pa  schooner when she gets elcr of the island
'.:"  l andi her hull creak, his eyes'sparkled  shoals, which she now is threading"'
with additional light, for hie saw that the ves.  Again Allen gave lis ordes, : si oon the
et which hn supposed to be piratical were Alligator, under short sail, was hugging the
weil-3mined, ani seemed in ino way inclined wind and lufling away from thl dan13gers under
' avOid 33 contest.                       her lee. While her coure t3oo li directly
Are v"u acquainted with the coast here?" away from three of the vessls ul isih showed
asked Allen of Quiestra, as by his orders the the flag of Colcefrinas, it bought hr nearer
,chooner was headed directly for the sails in  and nearer to the Pilot, wlicai steadily stood
eight.        -                           onmtifor the open sea, as if, thoe on bogrd
Ilam-so well that I can say,.if you head sought to meet the pirates hunter on equal
the course you are now on twenty minutes terms.    For, regarding speedm nd size, the
longer, you will be high and dry upon a coral two vessels were very nearly equal. What
reef"                                      the crew of the Pilot now ewas, Allen could
a Ah !-the soeidings are good here."     not tell, for very few men showed themselves
-" And will be until' you run from twenty  on her deck. But there'vas room for plenty
athoms to two3 in hal( a able's length."'  below, Allen knew it, a expected soon to

.
.t

TU1J PIRATE-HUNTERS OF THE GULFS

21


22                      OUR MESS ; OR,

find proof that he was matched, if not over-
matched, so far as numbers were concerned.
The two schooners stood on until not more
than two miles apart, and the probability of
their soon being in telling gun-shot of each
other, grew into a certainty. But suddenly,
as sue things ever come in that coquettish
latitude, signs of squalls coining from the
westward were seen, and the Pilot hove about
and headed in for her former berth.
"She declines to meet me 1" muttered Al-
len, bitterly. "This olcefrinas is a cowardA "
"'Prudence is not cowardice, sir !" said Qui-
estra, who stood by his side. "You had bet-
ter take in your canvas quickly, or he will
have to show his getnerosity by rescuing a
shipwrecked erew before sunset."
"What do you mean ?" asked the lieuten-
ant.
"That a white squall is sweeping down
upon us, and the sooner sheets and halliards
are flying the less trouble you'll have !" said
the Spaiiard,
"A dark squall, rather than a white one !"
muttered Allen, as almost in an instant black
driving clouds seemed to shroud sky and wa-
ter. ie had given orders barely in time to
save his canvas and spars, for while the men
were aloft tking in the one, and the schooner
obeying her helm, was heading off shore soJ
as to take the wind abaft, it came like the
ebullitions of Irish friendship--in a gush--
such a one as would have laid the schoonerI
on her beam-ends if she had not been so well
handled as she was.
It came like the charge of a mounted army,
sullen and heavy, wild but steady, swueeping'
overthe inhuid ivaters which had been calm,i
and lifting them up in frothy foam. It came
like the first angry hurst of a man in power,
who knows ihat his power is not "for all time,'
but for a moment, pierce, wild, but began to  t
flicker away before its first rude thunders had
died into echoes.t
Yet it was strong enough to drive.the Alli-
gator far away from the coast, in the two or a
three hours it lasted.                     r
"gNo hope of seeing the infernal pirates I
squall wgs over, and his vessel once more  a
headed in toward the coast.
"The best of hopes ! The very best, if you ti
desire to meet them !" said the Spaniard, vho
seemed ever to be at hand when his thoughts  A
were on duty.                       u   a
"How so ?" asked Allen.                  a
"Because we will now have the breeze light w
frnthe nr-tha ha1zy ad msty nght; an    ec
fothnot--hayadmsyngt;adcI can easily take you into the harbor where is
their craft lie. They will think you blown off
by the squall, and be off their guard l"
"Ifyou can take me in my fortune is made. an
I never will forget the service you do me l" if
said Allen, warmly grasping the Spaniard'sI
band.,p

"I do not think you will'!" said Quiestr,
quietly. "But bid your helmsman attend to
his courses. If I am your pilot, my directions
must be obeyed, for we are on ticklish ground
now !
"I know it. Give your courses, and they
will be followed !"
" Set her head west and by north now,"
said Quiestra. Keep your lead going. When
you shoal to four fathoms let me know. Mean-
time, if you please, I'll go to my state-room,
and fool at an old chart which 1shate there.
" That man seems honest, and I must trust
him !" said Allen, after Quiestra hal left.
"Yet I cannot forget the warning of Mara-
quita. But if he should lead in into peril,
his would be the first life to pay for lhis treach-
e'y. lie dare not mislead me! I ant weak to
mistrust him!"
CHAPTER XIV
"Why, hild, how pale you are-are you
sick ?" ayt her whom we have met once as
Monomn, o the one whom we have I known so
hiar as Jar ano, his confidential valet and serv-
ant.
Only tired, mother, only very tired, for I
have come far and fast !" replied the youth, as
lie sank, half fainting, on a sofa near to her.
Where is niy lord-where is Coleefrinas !"
With the very men who are in search of
him! In disguise on board of one of the
United States men-of-war !"
" heavens and earth! Hre will be lost. They
will recognize and slay him
It should not matter much, mother, to you
"f they did !" said Mariano, coldly.
"Why, child?"             '
"Because lie is untrue to you. ite is en-
aged to wed a younger aud fairer woman
lhon you
It is false, child, false Y" almost screamed
lie woman.
I nis tiu, mother!" said the other. "His
tin now is to eztirpate this American squad-
on-that done, he will wed iilamoquita de
Regla, if he can. Her fathers consent is gined,
meis is not wanted by so1)01(amid lawless a
mui as Colcefm'ina!. You know that "
rCild, have you been dreaming, or do you
S"Neither, my mother! I speak the truth.
ad harder has it stricken to my heart than it
il to thine, for though he never has guessed
secret only ours, I have been so blind, so
teak, so criminal, as to love this luan, whom I
all master and you call husband-though  h
I sot !
"Love him-you ?"
"Yes, mothei-yes hi f dar to confess it;
adnow that I know him false to you, I feel as
lie were false to mc. I love bins not now-
detest him, and only joy that le is in our
ower, if he escapes the Americans!"

28

THE PIRATEJHUNTERS OF TUE GULF.

nou power?" said th mother, strangely  to two white objects, a mile or so ahead, and
SIn our pwr?,   adtemtesrney           eei     ietovsesbcle            oehr
quiet for one of her warm blood.           ecaug like two vessels becalmed together,
qu"Yes, mother! We have his treasures un- under canvass.
der our control. We have the powgr to be'   "They'll wait wthemre they sared till you with
tray nhi, and to punish him for his perfidy !  a chance to inspect the wn sad  oeade
-  Yet we will not do it, child ! Were he a  a quiet smile; and e went forward to evade
thousand times false to me,though never again further questioning."
should hie 115s bin lipy to nine, I would not  ";stand by your two forward gus!" croiied
betray hresis id Monona ,              the officer at this moment, and as he gave the
cry   w             -other, mine-very well! You  order, Allen came on deck.
may tamely bear your wrongs, if you will, but "What is the matter ?" asked the young
1-"commander.
The heacomGild sudden report of-a gun out-  Two vessels in sight, sir, nearly ahead l"
side thecavt line, caused the speaker to stop  " Which way are they standing "
crc the set-ne, cousmenced was finished.   "They seem to be becalmed, sir-they do not
"ere hat was that o asked Monona, starting  alter their bearings !"
at the sound.                               "wAre they within reach of our iron y"
" A cainnon from seaward! And there goes  "I was about to order a trial, sir, when you
another, and another. They seem to be in  came on deekL"
the direction of the ''Two Sisters,' Las Dos  "(1 on with it. Let us know who and what
Hcrmanas !" said Mariano. " Perhaps Lieu- they area                 r
tenant Allen has found work for his Alligator  "Fire as soon an you can throw a shot a
in strangeV waters. But the guns all seem to  half cables length to windward of the strange
come froi one source. There is no sound like  sail !"cried the officer.
the heavy netal in our vessel! "            " Ay     n ia, sir l" replied the gunners from
"That is so-we must send out a boat to forward.   nd in a very few moments a bright
see what is ;7oing o(n p"                 flash from one gun, and its thundering report,
"It is nigtmother, and a boat will not and that followed by another, shook the little
learn much in the dark h    b'           vessel from stem to stern.
"True, child. lBt I cannot bear suspense.  The hissin iron evidently struck the water
A boat may earst Buethig, and one shall be near the destined spot, but no re1y came from
Asbat  ave lansomethithander      the strange vessels-not a sound of any kind.
"As you wisln mther-as your wish-yet     "Are they in range of our broadside, sir ?"
'twhl be uselsa m!"                      asked Allen, annoyed that the strangers did
_               not return his fire.
" think they are, sir !" replied the officer
('IJAPTER  X V.               of the deck.
After the etoin had passed away, and the  "Then let them have a few shots as the
wind sighed itself down into a scarcely respect- guns bear on them, but keep as nearour course
able breeze, the Alligator was once more as you can.r"
headed toward the Cuban shore, under easy   The officer gave the required orders, and for
sail, according to the directions of Quiestra, to  a half hour or more, while creeping on with
whose pilotage Allen now confided her, for the the light breeze toward the stranger vessels,
apparent eagerness of the Spaniard to take h'er the schooner's guns sent shot after shot toward
in where the pirates could be found, and in the them.
night whie they would be taken at a disad-  "Have you an overps o powr n so
vantage, led him mmore and more into the be- on board, sir ?" asked Quiestra, quietly of' Al-
lief that the nma  was truly his friend, and  len, after the firing had been continued for
would work for his interest,              some time.
The breeze was quite light, and growing   "No, sir, not more than we shall need on our
more and mre faint, when shortly before mid- cruise-but why do you as
night, the look-outs forward cried out, "Sail  "Bcac se if you have not an overplus, tar-
hoi"                                     get.shooting at a couple of white cliffs, or ias-
"Where away ?" asked the officer of the ands, marked as Las Dos Hermanas, or the
deck, startled from a dreamy position on the 'Two Sisters,' on your chart, will not pay i"
weather quarter rauil,                    said Quiestra, quietly.
"Right ahahd! Two vessels under a full   "Rocks?rIslands? Are not those vessels
spread of canvass, sir !"                 at which we are firing ?"
"The watch toyquarters! Rouse all hands   "No, sirnot without they are on dry land I
from below! Call the captain!" said the offi- Sparc your' powder, you will need it y-and-
cer, hurriedly."by !"
"You take too much trouble, sir," said Qu-  Allen, mortified at his error, gave the order
lestraa. "What do you wish to do ?"       to cease firing, and as the wind hind died en-
"To bring those vessels to, and take there, tirely away, and the current was drifting him
if they are pirates I" said the officer, pointing toward shoal ground, he took Quiestra's ad-

r
+i
,
S
t
i
ip
i


OUR MESS ; OR,

vice, and ordered the sails taken in, and drop-
ped his anchor.
This done, he bale the officer of the deck
to keep a good look-out, with one wateh of the
crew on deck under armrv, arid then  tired to
rest, for he looked and hoped for work on the
morrow.
CHAPTF;R XVI.
Tae other Ameriean scsseis followed Allen
to sea on the day after he sailed, having hur-
riedly taken in water tan provisions. They had
scarcely' been lost s ght of, before a Spanish
rmcrchartman  came in, having  on  board
(harley Howard, and the crew of the 'ilot,
whom they had picked up. fortuaatily. The
American connander Irurred to his consu
to state the occurrenici"s whit-h had deprived
him of his vessel; and be the advice of the
latter, who accompanied n, he at once pi'o-
"ceded to inform tre Intendente-(, nercal of the
same.
The marquis did not seem at all startled by
the news, for news it was not to him. Hl" knew
it already. le merely replied
"There is a scruadron on the cet, of ru m'
own countrymen, and they may recover your
vessel!"4
"So I hear, and I'm off to help thin, if your
excellency will only let me have one of your
small guarda costas; and some aris. My
crew will be but too glad to measure strength
with the bloody pirates on fair chances
I have no vessel which I can spare," re-
plied the mard uis to Howard, coldly.
"Then let me have some arms. I will fit up
my long-boat-she can run down the coast!"
urged the young American.
" Armed boats without a license arc not
allowed on our coast!" said the marquis, evas-
ively.       -.
"Allowed or not, there are plenty of them,
as our suffering merohantmen know !" said the
consul, in a sarcastic tone.
"Not when or where it is in our power to
prevent it !" replied the marquis, haughtily.
"Captain, I uns sorry for your misfortunes,
but as you are in tire hands of your own eon-
sa, any offer's of aid on my part will only be
taking fromt him his prerogatives ! Adieu-I
amrr very imuch irgaged this afternoon."
This was said iin a tone which implied their
dismissal. Howard went away angry at this
discourtesy, but the consul had become so'
used to such treatment, from the san source,
that he paid but little attention to it.
"Have you not weapons to arm myself and
boat's crew ?" asked tire seaman of the consul.
"I regret to say that I have not !"
"You can at least tell me where they can be
bought !"
"Prhey cannot be had in this place without
a written permit from the alcalde. Such is the
rule all over this tvraut-ridden isle !"

"If you are as boll and fearless as you look
to be and will take me for a volunteer, I will
show yOU how to get, not only weapons. but a
swift-samling vessel 1" sa-l a cleas anti musical
voice close behind tihons.
t Both lowar'd an the consul turned suid-
dery to tee where and who the speaker was,
who evxideutly had been following then, and
had "'verheard their conversation, or he would
not have known :hoir wan s.
lie was young and slender boy---evidently
not .ore than seventeen or ciliteen, with a
very dark compulexion, and a brow almost hid-
d' under a heavy mass of black hluir. Ils
dres was like that of the better class of serv-
ant   r in gentlemen's houses in that country.
ws    but few white servants are seen.
" ew do you know that I want a vessel
and arms?" asked Holvard, sternly. "And
why aceyo vadogiing our. footsteps ?"
SBecause I happen to be in a position
where, unseen, I witne,'ssed your interview with
tIe alalie--heard your story and dernanis.
antl his refusal. I folow you to serve you, for
I can do it. I also wish to go down the coast
with you, to give LUentensa, Allen soume very
important information, which wiil enable him
to capture, the chief of the iratical horde
whom he is after "
What, Coleer''inias ?" exlaimed Howard.
Yes, tix' !" said the yonthw, frankly.
"  Then I'm with you, young man, if you
lead to the devil's own den!t"
" Who are you?    Your face is not familiar
to me, and yet it seems as if I had seen you
before !" said the consul.
" It matters inot who I air, Seiior Consul !
said the youth. " I know you very'well, and I
ans a friend to the North Americarns!"
"Whr'tere is the vessel you intend ie to take,
and where can we get arms?" asked Iloward.
" I shall with your aid hor row the alcalde's
private yacht. It is Ariean built, and fast,
and he always keeps plenty of arms on board.
It is never fully manned, except when he goes
on a pleasure-trip, and is moored off the pal-
ace-garden. We cars get her away at night, if
we are careful and you are skillful, and be at
sea long before she is missed !"
"You're a trump, and I'm the man to plav
the game out With our help !" said Ilowari
gayly. " When and where will you meet me
and my crew to put our plrian in operation ?'
"At the consuls house, as soon as it is
dark !" said the young' uran  andi turning on
his heel, he went lack the way that he. had)
come.
" Well, fortune seems on the change for
me !" said Howard, in a better humor than
when the alcalde dismissed them.
"Yes, if tlris young man speaks the truth.
I am trying to think whern and where I have
seen Rims before, for I am sure 1 have met hins
somewhere !" replied  theconsul, as they
walked on toward his o ice,

I.
-
1

P


THE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF TUE GULF.

-J

/

2   2
2 "S F
s
T
j
Y      iii
t

I
/
f

CHAPTER XVIIL
When the morning dawned once more on the
Alligat or, Allen was called, as he had directed.
wh'n he came on deck, the land-breeze was
blowing   mxlv, bringing off the delicious per-
fumes of tialffowery clime. But in vain did
he and the watoh look for the vessels which
they had seen the night before. N ot a sign of
theim, or of anything human, could be seen.
The small isaids which dotted the water as
far to the catward as the eye could reach,
were coered with a tail growth of mangrove,
nd t I swoodis, and among these, in channels
well known to them, but not laid down at that
day in an chart, they had undoubtedly found
'"Thi Coleefrinas was very bold on paper.
I do ot see why he should avoid me now, that
I.  a It I!" mittertl Allen, in a tone of dis-
ap prinnnt , while he lowered the glass which
he dt bll this eye for for some time.
iraips he wants to draw you into sonic
pmitio twelinee your retreat will be a matter
of liflieult v, if not an impossibility !" said a
quiet voice, at his elbow.
'ihe young lieutenant's face flushed, as he
recogt/izcd tie speaker, and he said
I would have the Seiior Quiestra to under-
stand that I siall never retreat. There is-not
an otlieter or iani of all my crew who would
not scoro to turn his back oin a bloody pirate,
and who would nrot die at his post, rattier than
do so. But the vessels which we saw last
might eanuot he far away. There has been but
little wind all night, and even with sweeps
they could have gone no great distance. They
imust hbtsome where among these islands, mind
I shall man mv boats and try to hunt them up !"
The rpaniardI smiled, but made no answer.
At the samiie moment, the eye of the young
A      urn t htened, for white and clear a1
column o suioke rose from an island, not a
league distant.
°.Man the first, second, and third cutters !"
cried Alien}, instantly. " Let every man go
fully armed, and put spare ammunition in the
boats. lie in a hurry !"
While he yet was speaking, another, and
then another column of smoke rose from other
islethi, a Iit least twenty of them could be
5.--
1Ini hab, sir, that you said .these islands
were unilbh ited!" cried Allen, turning to
Qoiestra.
I repeat it,''that they are not. Colcefrinas
is amusing himself at your expense. He in-
tends tt itari you the game of hide and seel,
I presum . I will wager that you will pull
front island  island, all day, and yet not see
a living nui on any of them!"
Yet mcii have lighted those fires!l"
"Yes-tien or women! But it is not likely
they'll care0t oanmain near them on so warm a
day as ti l'
"I'll s"ott see !" said Allen, and he ordered

every boat on board to be got ready for serv-
ice, and prepared to go himself in his gig.
" Are von not going to join our boat expe,
dition, secor ?" asked he of Quiestra.
"If 1 thought you'd catch Coleefrinas, I
would !" said the Spaniard. " But feeling
sure that you will not, I think I shall be more
comfortable with my cigar, under your awn-
ing, than I should be sweltering in a boat,
and fighting musquitos among the islands !"
As you like, sir-as you like !" said Allen,'
secretly thinking that, despite his fierce looks,
the seior was not much of a fighting-man
after all.
In less than a half-hour, Allen, with more
than four fifths of his men in every boat be-
longing to the vessel, was pulling away toward
the island. And Quiestra smiled grimly as
he saw them   depart, for well he knew how
fruitless would be their toilsome search.
Every officer had been a volunteer on this
occasion ; and all were allowed to go but the
1lethoric and rather apoplectic-looking doe-
:tor, who, under orders, was quite willing to re-
main upon the vessel, beneath a cool awning,
where he could indulge in his favorite drink,
cold brandy punch, to his heart's cohtent. For
he had laid in a good quantity of lemons,
brandy, and sugar, and the vessel was well
provided with water-coolers-that most neces-
sary' article in such a climate.
The orders of Allen to the doctor, when he
left, were to keep the few men he left him on
the alert, and to fire a gun if any sails hove in
sight. lie was to remain on deck, and also to
keep a look-out aloft.
' And am I to be cap'n ?" asked the doctor,
of Allen.
"You are to act as such in my absence.
Remember that every gun is loaded ; and if
you should be attacked, defend yourself to the
last, and blow up the magazine before you
suffer yourself to be taken. If-you don't, I'll
blow you up if we ever meet on earth, or e'en
in a hotter place !"-
S" How long d'ye mane to be gone, cap'n
dear ?" asked O'Shaughnessy.
"I know not. Notlong, I hope; for I expect
soon to find these audacious villains, and mean
to make short work with them."
A sardonic sneer flitted over the face of Qui-
estra, but it was tiot noticed, for his head
was turned in another direction. And in five
minutes more Allen and all the boa's' crews
were gone, aail soon lopt to sight among'the
islands.
"There goes as good a -heart as ever bate
beneath a blue coat!" said O'3haughness, as
he gazed after his departing leader. "I hope
the.day is a long way off that calls him out o'
the world. Let's drink his health, senior "
"With pleasure, but you. must drink it In
some choice old liquor that I brought on
board with my stores. It is Castillian brandy,
bottled forty years ago !"

/

27

s

I

;

,
t
3
t
t

, t
--

.:
f


f
e
"t _
k .E
1
i
5
r
-t
Fy
t
s
f
t
it a
f
_ s
E
.i
It
3
t    _
d
i
a

OUR MESS; OR,
"Oh ! bedad, it's nice--it must be. ill thing like them have been producci. No oa.
drink the eap'n's health a dozen ties in good  who has not seen a person tarred and feath
liquor I"                                   ered can for a 'moment imagine tii  uIue'll
Quiestra smiled, and invited the doctor to  ludicrous alpeaniciie wI'chi a huiulall li
the state-rooni which had been assigned to  makes in that condition.
him, and there opened his liquor-case. h'Ie  'he pirates having finished their Ic, nii
doctor was delighted beyond ieaurne with the  bound each man silo by side, in a sitlil- ps
flavor of the liquor, and required but little  tire on the deck, and placed the door lofore
urging to repeat his potations.  And they   them, with Allen's full dress ceckedl-hit on li
soon so opened the shiees of his generous na- head, and a plate, and knife and fork b1eftor-
Cure, that he made not the slightest objection  him.
when Q1miest'a made the l)roposition to take a  Upon this the pirate cie'f lcedI a sip
0ou1ple of bottles up an. treat the few men on  paper, on which he had writteii
deck, aItlotlthgh it was strictly against tihe rules  a\Thnese are the geese of Colcefrin ;when icpie I
of the vessel to give themu a drop beyohd their they will be ready for the spitr°
re lilar allowance of sip's liquor.           Ife had just done this, when one of his mi'
s he men l inot refuse--alas! !sailors sel- looking to seawa4rd, (re1 out : ' A sail in
doni do, thought rum is their deallhest foe ; and  sight I"
the brandy was eagerly drank by them. taking,  Colccfinas instan  niseizd hi,  '
as it did, better than liii t Ch ciiioi but p)h uresprang into the rigging.
tal isky which i as supplied as ti hei ration.  ' It is strange,' lie mhuttered as he saw 4
eint the I   sqmr p  u 1l'coI 04 an uncxpeeted  small vessel doubling a poi(nt ef 14144 lnd, an1111
effect on all ands. Not twenty tnutm 140] ing i toward him. 'lat sIurie1y is the 4n111
repsed before every maiin ni board, Quiestia(l of t1he MaITrquliI do l aim ; but whalt 1hold1
excepted. had sunk ito a profounda tupor. be doing i iihlese waters al thi timie  Thr
me hod, of course, not partakei of the drugged  miay be tiachery in thiis "
ligor, though lie hail pctenee to do so.      e descended to the deel, nid iin;tant
The moment that he was satisfied that every  bale three or four of hisO me1 Iito s o ini th e
mian was powerless under its effects, the Il old  cabin, arid put oni the unifi ifniis tfilinwntt tequreroitevsslnA nn ar  ,' th    ic
clihai went to Ile quarter of the vessel neaji~ ca oflieptoncruiorsofe. mr
totthe land, and waved a crimson handker ic ie'f
toward the shore.                                       CIIAPTEiR   XVII.
A moment only elapsed before three largd    In a very short time, the iie  4 whom he h I
at&amp;   with heavy crews were seen puihingfrom  seleted,recirie 11 p oe  Englishflu-
amid tjIe thick hbushmes, aindlthey were s001n  ently, were dreised in 1141'uifiorimsof t(hI
aon side.                                   American officers ; and iolny more of his 4m1en
ddSpring aboard quick, my men, and do my  lie cause to (dres iin thue caoff grimin
bidding!" cried the pirate, as the boats caoe  the tairrel and feathered seuam'n. Th.  n C
on. " Let every gun be spiked. Empty the    eefrinas glanced at the American flag et',d
ragapine of powder, and carry it to our near- at the flag-staff' of the sc1hwc  n rtfiluI 1
Tat hiding-place. Take all the small arms, tionnig his other men to crouch ?ow behind
That done, I will set the vessel aleakr, and give  the bulwarks of the vs oh, anan took his
her cew some pumping to do when they got glass, and closely recono n tried thie laplproach
mng yacht.
The pirates were strong-handed, and the or-  A grim smile made its 1ppearan;o: ' he no.
dora of their leader were soon obeyed.  ~   eognized his late acquaintance. Cat miii How-
"Rip their sails imto ribbons on the spars ; ard, of the Pilot, on board.
but don't out a gasket so as to let them fall!"  "So soon again in my fl!, young bird !" he
was his next order.                         muttered. " \ou'll not escape so easily this
TIts done, another thought occurred to timu, time. Let me see ; lie h1s twelve on board
"I see that feather pillows and beds are  besides himself-yes, thirteen; a dark-haired
ty m tme cabin, and there is tar forward, stripling of aboy stands beside him. If I car
in &amp;e rigging-room. 'The Yankee captain left onlhy coax them alongside, their capture will
his vessel in charge of mc when ie went away. he bloodless and eas- "
Let tim find them transformed into geese on   le now gave sonic directions to one of luis
his. return !"                              uiniformied ismen, aml rather conesled1 his own
Ttapirates caught the idea of their leader figure, by standing( back of the miiimast, sot
ia an instant, and, with great glee, set to ear- that lie could not'be seen by those on miard of
yig it out. The helpless doctor and the    the schooner, whiel now was tne r, if any there
crew were dragged to the quarter-deck, strip- were using the spyglass.
o their clothing, and then tar, followed  In a very shot time, the yacht came within
feather, was so quickly applied to their hail; but Howard was too impetuous to wait
de forms, that they soon host all resemblance  for a hail from the schooner.
anything human. In trt, neither in the    . Aligntor ahoy 1" he shouted. ,Is Cap-
thLered kingdom nor elsewhuer e' uld any- Itart Allen on board I"

T1tE PIaRATE-RJIUNTERS O? t        (TE GULF.
o;U a  gone ashir(inilhis boat, but  ailing the American flag down, and then
.  "ll b ; i aso  ! aeplicd on of the uniformed  re-hoisting it half-mast, union down, with this
pints obelfoon .te lo-toned directiois of hisI note fastened to it, he sprung back into the
pnef., beiatg    s ihat? and l where arc  yacht, which was cast off and taken intow by tho
eafts ith                           for- piratical boats ; and in a few moments they sal
Ao bound .          ip'tant newso     disappeared behind the ishnds which lay bi
you Ai vrun iongidaft te niacht is sm1alb tween the open sea and the main land. And,
uid ca lie dropped  stern ui a long- boat !"  glancing back, Colcefrinas saw, just as the
an11~d c   t dopi ael1- without suspecting  yacht was disappearing, the head-sails of one
for; n "iiS rdll rtt he ywaSddiessing any one  of the Aierican vessels coming down the coast
but an Ametrican 1044Tal T or.             " Just in time to avoid trouble " he ut
u-t and merand tonaa  e 1 .fast the imomielt tered - and then he hurried into the cabin, to
" t   d  r   o      beard and   ke ler see how the Senitia. de Regia fared ; for he
s, ithe ou ursulil2 ua 1(t ! said (oleefrinas, in a had given (lirections for 014e of his men to use
low tt11w4hule iis (lark eyes flashed, anud his restoratives while his own time was occupied,
t  e    Ii e m1  yiIiIio l.      Ile  found her not  only  recovered  from  hiec
\ 11tt' ihllt lU 1,ld lie yacht, rounding  swoo, but her wcaknes sand tenor had passed
to in l lt.'void, le owle 'her 'ails, w hille tlhey  away, and indignation and anger had tlaiia its
s  ik.h ii1diet ahill il', seU'ered by the shill- place. her dark eyes flashed as she seorfl
lt~l ~itl 1 ("I o"f 4I.Io u'd Iut seirecly had  fully said:
die ttiut'htIlti liehituis side, when Ooice-  " I find the so-called Seinor Qmuiestraoccc
fieia  u iii at t'at twenty or thirty of pied in his true OCcupti01o, at lat
his di 1111a 1s, leaped p uon her deka, a41,  You do, fair Iady ;and having taken '
(tuicherthaiiwe cal describe n4, evLery Aneri-  mu44ch pains to learn it, sah e i
q. Wr1t an desIitlis 115(i' .         time ad11(1 oppiortuniiity tomifiake further obse-
'aluhohadias'l   1    Lsisted towar1_ d to vtions in toit way !" said the pirate, with a
hl                                              !       tt i t, turned  as if  to  fly  ;  but  as the  siarcastiC  snile.
1114d11 i colinefi'ii as toucled li 11h111e tout- " Yol dare iot detain i m  from my father 1"
t''(1 ' l Ivw criamn, adl fainted.       i1d the spirited girl.
ttA lilt ' Erii 11ioi de 10 uth ltiihP "  , Colcefriiuas, dare do anything -cve .
ti'1i'ti lb rqeM~l'ttuhe k t:"'Ia 4' lie 441uutened, a' thing !''
r   :    irh;' 1 nu f '1 N1:l.a iIi-a Iiaudi h You ni0d ot ha1v1enll amied you'schlf.,i
i   u e.'ia he rais          her with olne knew you already, ad came to warn1 tho
:lt't1, l  1  in t1  owartn nd, who w a already  American comma inter, so that he might take
lc2~I.11111  inl  the  1u(14 'u101 0i coule (1iit s id411luing youis 1vo114leseiVe 1'"
l, l d ni ove  a go nlo   eof in a sn       e   iry conidlrate, my beauty I
lie 11114i mt  I gave 4 oull, lulldor ptin !'  In return, I shall let you hanig yn''  abio
*prt ,ll  1l li ho n  li suiden turn of the  i neck with your pre rstty arm wheneveri  o
tllit li~4' a ctI inc'C iilytrv, mtiadi no reply ;,choose!t"
in r! wee to 111a  hhusilieii fIt, as ;wellus1  oie-  " I woilid soone(r emb1ra1:c a corpse !"
1p111t  Is  'lnk.                           t" I n ma give yu a chuince to do so, when 31
lu rl +i~ ha . t e 110o now, rev laoi1s ; we  have played with l your Yankee lover lon
t    n   ,'ao s I" eriid Coleefrinas  enough, and choose to put an enl to han
h1 lalu'ast t         n    f 'toth     deatiis of love and fao 1 '
i 1e'iIi lon'' to it ifiend of mine14, ad 1  "  Then lie is Int in your power ." taexiittued
ivhll    er~ u   1 'i                 Mtaraitquita, who, until that moment, had dread-
'd I u t wi'44wt awh ; iletther are three  ed the worst fromt finding the pirate in posSCS-
A '  min-' ar but a4 little r p 'Pthe  sion of the Aimerican schooner.
( ,'   in 1l;dow  to 1y te'r r eels to  " No ; i pernitt(1 him to go of 1on a f
11tn iiid lhii 'rd.x laun1un11ty.: scent, while I p            him a    .trick.itis
h'aalik ou'i f r thr  niei'ws5. I 11 honor their  Yankee ; but if he can outwit Ulolcefrinas1 ho
desih'   n tlhii e ilt inehilatiin Is411m !  1'said is welcome to my hiead !"
(C i''  11  halu' oh lv.  \ liud hu' lirh IiWs still  "l  will 1ve1 it before another 0101144 foln
in' 'I iW  l ul (4 ':, 111  ialual , int :o tll' lows this. 1 fear not for myself, if /eis fre
11n 411 bi.1 ii toi uyll li'rsi weil pepiaring to  Imut o/u may trnile !'
to i  l' 4 h! av ,'li t .                   ,   "Ieitlhe  f/11   norlic,   iEli' 1'14mbligi l e  iin  my
Ae ilr, rni    irIals on the ta&amp;il, he  line !' replied the 1)iratc, with a si1tec.
ro' a Iin' to  heh,  iiisaying:" You1 wil not again observe weaniless on
Iy part!" said Mlaaqu1itaprom y. thoughh
"  ui'i  i"s  1 n till' ii    C alvi n otillil i  1  411n an  o ianiii, an111 inii. a  iai l's lo wer, 1 1have
^+ 1  ',( i io , u ' . l   1''r1'140 i114811(14fil t lit, , llt 1
'1111'ulit iliu"lci il   """"   fut"e " (l l 14tatiCastilian heart, whieh knows no fear.  I
ii lii It  '   I~ct  iltu~l  :! ''ii"rr;; 0 ti i et   i ' i  ietco l. 5141 s han  be  rescued , and you  will  die !  I fccl it
a 4  tl sh  a ther caree :sof  ert r   nen  f  t;(UC  .-I  "eeit !"   1  #
"ii, ,i i tt ""ii"i "oii A11 11e fri'ii to stu1 And so solenmly did she pcak these la
itGl         +,      t eisr near-timi tlolgli iuvtiA1"'  words so prouhetie-like was her tone, that tlo

I

4t
4


30

OUIR MESS; OR,

pirate, for ad  nst nt, seemed affected. But she dead ihas sne egopea?  Speak, before I
lik e  a  sh a d o w  o n  th e  w a te rs  e i st  b y   a  fle e tin g llo d th e m i n p a s , a d h e a d ,   ti " m u rd e r   y o u  e  r! I I
neer the emotion passed, and he said, with "Alas, seror! I know not. Somie ntime ago
sne r                                 she came to her room weeping, ani la tlue
the bridal bed is nearer toaloth of us than  go out, for she wished to be atone ! I  aredf
the grave, my fair girl. I shall undoubtedly ntot disobey her" but I did but gofronl
restore you to your father again, but not unti  into the rom of the major demo0 nol tinyre 1
you are my wi . That matter was settled be- tarried a little while, when I tltouehi, I go
twear hit a myk n            ome   i     and see if my mistress did not wattbe. As
Mlaraquita was about to iinake seone bitter I aprenoehed1 her room, I. met as boll andi
reply, when the head officer of Coleefrinas en- handsomelookig young ma sho had cvi-
tere th eihinandsai              dently juist' conic out of it  inUt lie Went by
We are off the entrance, setonr! Shall we'me so fast, I could on
"un in  ; features. I went to her door. It was locked.
"Yes;if the sentinld1loenotsignify that 1 knocked for admission; but hl  weiihl ei-l
we are watched ! I will join you on deck in their let ie in, nor even answer tm  li.i i
a moeit. Send a cou1)l of trusty men down  waited and waited, hoping sl waId let me
her., as sentinels, and setihat all the prison- enter  libut, alas, senor  !he a illnot-and I
cos ar cofned below. Their eyes must not have told you all!"'
. behold ouir secret !'                               'A-,adeog           Yuslolha        Co)
s" dAy, andt enough !s ,'o                                           hul a       oo
to me instantly, when von Saw     t audacious
gallant leave her room. Sonme'thin  il and
wrong is in all this ;but I'll Isoil 1e at the
CIAT2I  I.lilttoiof it 1:'" said the al1iio an1 ohs.
Seveire as Garcia dIe llega seemed to be to- " Follo tu iA! aihe  aro y  arquic s
"            twardi his child, he yet loved h1r -- d  e-og  ut ofo te palac ' wAn e hero i t,  o  hI
he had bidden her confine herself to her noom,   ot    p    e    rr.
4l            and sent her froni his h)-i'nsencc in ngr, it was  Loudly he knocked at her dr -  ith hit
not log before hie bean tos ter con pany, hand.  No answer came-  odIertti  r  iili ie
thwd to mrd ec than l regret the harshness ofknoCked with the golden hilt of liei owd.
i ; ~the wvoids whicllhe l ail used to~war-d lher. Anti Still nlo il-el)
ve-vsiomtly after ,li addismissedhe consul    i iti!" lie cried,  "pak !  T
and Captainmllowd, lie sent a servant to bid  1our father tat calls
li  g co at to  dor f servattsoon returned,   o ot a sound came in response, Lit tl echt)
aayiuig that the door of her apartment was (If lis v~oid and l)ow.                 ch
closed, and that he cold not e- n  t ire d  -   vte andos- '
frmhrwe  eanucdh j           3      L'all the armorer !" he said, Imhv." She
nessegrfrom her  eatiee       isef as a may have heei the victim   of an ~as: a sin!
ai   e- front liesa   -.                  Let the door be forced at once
inI The  i is sulky. I will go to her myself  The armorer, with assistants, wasa soon at
i a little while," uttered the marquis, as le hind, and the ponderosde do)- ill d to their-
For a wled h e placed. d                efforts. The tittirlui' iuiled 'in. l'iere wa
think while,li-acedto nat f  in the room, i) sign (If his daughter iin th firr uroo. thlre
thiimking alod-wa custti  iotuusual wi t-i she usually sat.   e Ilrio  n- t   r lay
"un. C en    i     sifwhere they usually did                        not hmi-  uni
iColcef-inas is alst too uereifit for one seemed to have soccer  hiir.  hIte half-
Wso daring and lawless in liideeds . he said. distracd fuather- Imrried lilt) thei Inn- eaIo-
m"et-c any of those whom  le has sared to  her, tnl there saw, scattenred in d lo,,  I lie
meet aid recognizeliut here, it wou d place  gaients which she  aa won wtii lat she
oinamt pritlous position. I wish that left this pesnce.  itt several atnutrof moa
or "that he would withdtraw f'n ti  . f- ,wee t n nd  aparl, I'such as thad b jeen u sed Iin some m lias-
othisisland!"      tl      i mthe coast of quirade in the palace, lay al;o  ition  the floor as
Thi i ela ry and sii a selection had been'male fromti anmugit
The revy ai soliloquy of the marquis them-
Were at this inonucitt iteir-upted I1y the en-  T 'ley  -]c1 u i- alyau-1yaet'ic-I In o i an openI
trance of the elderly female at teidiyit ape-  It  muis       iaii-niie t rad  to n
cally appointed to act its a diana to his dot wi   shih a   tht, trin a le u cn.
daughter.                  a    nto      hi i  i d oluli h tg wa ti tll teohl - t nd luenna
tearlou, senrr- paion atomes                    Theiote,livtbSuiiu        tit-
old woniat, as she cast herself uponleri hnes, nita l  T hiIe n   ee n
at his feet.               uonerknees,      win, an   heitt- ei Ias he aiy, i t s  i
"For what ?" lie cu-med in   .ti     e      "Whet all  arllerrIil ts toi yra??n
"' Diobeelo, what is thi  eri?, aIstomishment.   l ttis en   a  Lb icrimem
y young mistress, the Sn ioritaI" she nll till:1bit  b       -    tit-
"ape Whatttlofi hetu-u-iin Im."-
W  a t  o f  hie r,  w   o a ns - w hs la t  o f  h e r ?  I  "  T e-n  th u s'u i icrl - f r  ! h J I '  l .   .I a   i i

r PRllATF-U 1ERS OF TH~E ULP.

is disguise. Let every servant of my house  s
hundred douhloons to him who finds her!" fo
The news spread through the palace in a few  a
moments, and with the reward as an additional in
incentive to their duty, soon a hundred people c
Were scouiring through thsiy, tsacho
Mefantie, the marquis acted like one dis- e
traced. lIe went froi room to room in the  a
palace, amid his curses wverte neither few nor fuar
betsemnner very gentle. Suddenly, soon af- it
captain of his small pleasure-yacht made his  s
appdearanice.                               5
pWhat v-ant you here, Pedro'" cried the
marquis, angrily . " I hive biddden every one a
to git andl search for umy danugh1.er.
-  sYour pardon, senior. but I caume to tell f
you that ic0s alOs ernicrianos had stolen away
the vacht, and put me and my boys on shore !" a
"The Americans i?    What Americans ?" y
thundered the marquis, fairly livid with rage.
"I .know not, your excellency !" said the
old ian. " The tirst I knew, they were on
board, and had me in their pcwe. Teliir
leademr lls 501meisnd msy boyu in a biotat with aa
single padle,after le hid got early ott of
harbor, and told me to tl you that an Ameri--
can gentlemntan had borrowed ydur yacht for ae
time,uanu would return it when he was done
with it!"
" A thousand curses on him, whoever he is. I
tut his consul or his government shall pay
for the outs age.!" cried the marquis, almost ,
choking with rage. " Go androl join the scarce, ,
old man. Go!-4 wish to be alone P
CH APTERItX.
An hour, nt more, elapse t1after Coleefrinas
and his party had  ft with their prisoners,
when Ahlen, with his boats, again cameue m
right of the schooner, he having in vaiu sought
four a further sign of the pirates than that which
hadl been u ile by their iitlars of smoke.
Aud, heitug in the lad of the column of boats,
lie was the first to descry the flag of his vessel
it buf-ist aiswll as to se that three' veels
5 cu-wecl~i  iiiuricomin tusiu from seaward. And he had
cause to. wondietr why ( )'Shsaugeliuissy had not
obeyed his positive order, to ire a gun if any
- il hiuvy'  u i e w.,i.w
-4. -" way at your (ars with a will, ment"
u erI    inpatieutly. And then, in a lower
ice, hue aited : -" the devil must be n board
:~l~ucut-r, m'or else OI:taungbiu is drunk.
V hat oi cant t her colors cat Ibe at half-mast
tr whi l iher hull is above water, is beyond my
comprehens oion:"
The sharp-buhilt -ig of Allen fluka through
the wtr,  r t theCi rY  -sa in thit-r leader's
the his anxiety to ie on heard, and thn other
boats ' Clewr-e-tirained evuiry nerve to k ep up,
or they saw the sign of dbtress onm board the

ehooner, and the approaching vessels outsider
ad felt as if, at least, there was funm ahead,
or there is no better fun for a true sailor than
good fight in a good cause. The sails con-
ig in with a light breeze astern, were about
quidistnnt from the schooner, and, showing
merucan colors, caine on rather faster than
he boats, and'were coming to an anchor, and
lowing up their canvas, when Allen dashed
aongside of his vessel.'
lie was the first to spring on board, sabre
Sand, fo lie feared some dark treachery
lucre, in that Jis was not hailed from the
schooner, nor a uld a single living person be
een.
It is unnecessary for us to re-describe the
ppearance of the doctor and the crew, but as
e left them in a former chapter, so Allen
found them.
lIe was too angry to laugh - too much
mazed to feel diverted ; but as he seized the
yet stupCtied doctor by the shoulder and shook
him, he asked, in his loudest, bitterest tone
"What does this masquerade mean, sir
Speak ! what does it meanu .
"l.e jabers! cap'in, i it' yon that- a talkin
aud who arc you talkmi' to), amnd where itn the
divil's unhowly name am I?" asked the doe-
tor, lookmig with half-opened eyes on the feath-
ery semi-circle before hin, and vaimly endes-.
v oring to u-is-s.
v lowr mie you in this fix ?" asked Allen,
as with his knife he severed the doctor's bomd.
while the boats' crews crowding aboard ende-
vored but in vain to stitle their laugtaliter at the
sight before thema.
The holy sants only know, and it's theu
you'll have to ask for information . exclaimed
the doctor, as he looked at his p"ron fons
head to foot.
lBe the man that learned Mioses his leathers,
it's me-self would like to know how these feith-
ers grew to me.- I
While the doctor was considering this mst
pertinent question, tie mien who had just comn'
on board were releasiug their comrades from
their bonds. Allen, meanwhile, whose eye had
caught a sight of the note beneath the flag,
was perusing to him its iinexplicablec on-
tents.
" Quiestra has been taken away, and Colce-
forina s himself his been on board according to
this note," he cried. " But who on heart h can be
the dearer friend whom ae speaks of f? By
lietaveas, there is a deep mystery inmall this
which I would fam unravell" he added, in a
lower tone.
" Every gun is spiii, all of our saill arsa
are gone, mid the Amaazte has been emptied.
sir," reported the fit -lieutenait to Allen.
"The whole vessel has - eu ruansacked, and
robbed of everything vtl1uad."
" And she is leaking, iri ; there are three
feet of water in the hol,' said the carpenter,
who had just been sounding the puitips.

nr


OU R MESS; OR,

''5

.o      " The infernal wretch ! Why did he not
sink the vessel while she was in his power, in-
stead of merely disabling ?" muttered Allen,
angrily. Then turning to the lieutenant, he
bade him1 put one watch of the crew at the
pumps-told the carpenter to seek out and
try to stop the leaks, and then bade the other
men help to free their unfortunate comrades
from the disagreeable garments left on them by
Colcefrinas.
The doctor had already disappeared in the
direction of his ci ate-room--whence his voice,
heard in low and bitter oaths, and in calls up-
on his servant for sponge, brushes, spirits of
turpentine, and brandy, gave token that he
also way trying to renovate.
Allen had but just ordered the ensign to be
hoisted up properly, Ihen boats approached
from his consort vessels with their respective
conmades in them.
What in Heaven's name is the matter here,
Allen ?" asked the first ollicer who sprung on
board.
Nothing, but that Pvo been a egregrious
fool !" said Allen. " Nothing else n the world.
I was led to take nearly all m  crew away in
boats to try and hunt on   he pirates, who
made signal- mokes on a tyen different islands;
and while I was gone, y remaining crew aere
hoeus-pocuoed in ))me way - what way I
have not vet found out, but soon will-and the
pirates havte leen here and spiked my guns,
robbed and scuttled the vessel."
"'Pretty well done, lut no blood spilled so
tr," said the other, with a smile. " Now that
we are all toetherl , pecrhaps we can turn thn'
tableau on these gentlemen. and slow them a
Yankbe trick or two. Don't be,disheartened,
may dear Allen."y
" I am not dliheartenied, Gregory," replied
Allen h;"bit I amn imost confoundedly iot i-
tied. lut if ou an  t ihe rest will do men 
favor-imak, I ask where my rank pennits mte
to demed--you will oblige me eternally."
" Name it-you know that I am in fraternal
feeling bound to do all I can for vou."
" Then rest easily right here umtil I run into
port and re11t. I ean get all Ineed in Man-
tansas from tie anenal there, and he back in
four or five days all right below and aloft, and
ready with yot itnid tIn rest of "the old mess"
to carry the war with this Coleefrinas and his
red-htitikd gng:tt; into every den and strong-
hold they may lurk in. I i.ae been caught
once, but do ti iteni to be tain while life is
left me -at l:ast in 1hlIt'' latitudes."
1 niii doi s you wish," said (ireTory ;
Kearnev and Ranliiage will undoubtedly'do
the stame."
-"Yes ; what i it '" said K earey, who at
that instant mtepped n board, closely followed
by his last-imnhed colleague.
Allen's mshies were explained, cd the three
other otileers willingly agreed to remain at an
anchor until he could'retit and return; at the

same time receiving directtis to send strong
boat expeditions out to try and discover the
depot or main rendezvous of the lirtes. for
that they had some   lace in which to stom
their plunder and refit their vessels, there wi-
no doubt in the mind (f
By the time these natters had been arrang-
ed, Do or O'Shaugnessy had become a little
more fitted  for decent society than he was
when we ,4ast saw them, though his head still
was feathery, and his red face looked the more
fiery for its recent alcoholic sernhbinas.
I hope now, doctor, that von will be,; able
to give me a clear and succinct account of all
that has occurred within your rtiemnbrane,
since I left the vessel," said Micai as ie rt
down in the eahin with his vo trsiwhe
O'Shaulighnessy came out oif his stat -room.
"I hope that you will show that you hve been
rather the victim of misfortune tain the dope
of your own car'lesness or neglect.
" Faith, cap'n dear, it's a vitttim ['ve been,
that's as sure as that me mother midget wasa
lady, and I'l invite the gentilmet t o a 'tose of
powder and ball, whoever says to i e' contrary
But how  I was vietimaized, it lotihrs the life
0' ilmc to imagine. your friend, tih  Spanish
senor, and mesei took a glass f wtivine or two
after you lefttt, and that is all that I remin('tbor'
until you woke mn from some  ert of a wild
drame I'd been having , and 1 fiormi iyelf
feathered like a Inhiy,'
"   Where idy y  gut the winiii yot took ?"
asked Allei, as a tnraeng suspieit fuhettd like
a spari'k ofelectricityeih01 ln hi mhh
iThe wine or brandy-     or  ire I forget
which it was now--iun  ofrom the privais-
stor-s of the siior.
" An dii the imiec, get their lbl iq ' fnrom the
.1014' 5'ittne-' 7
"1 bhie' ie,  tid  in trnth,t hiveyoihtln't
e' 'got it anyie n ttelse, fr l hadi the keys
of the stor-mI i int m poctkh"rel\iedthe
doctor.
" By Ileavens 1 I see through it all. What
a blind fool I have ben all ti ti nwl "' unit-
toed Allen.  'This Qineetrat: a :  confederate
of the.pirates loot likely a piraitill leader
himself, and under the disguit'n ofi risnlship
has been leading me astray, aotli s  i  now
laughing at my folly. But if I ever s't eyes
on him  again, he'll have so'ntlhine- Iesides
laughiing to do.  entlttetn, yvu no .excuse
me, for 1 ar  in n  hiuirrynsn to g t It aport
where 1 cin refit ain pr p-nar r'  ih lia foray
on these wretches:.  ill, in Somtt  sutr-e, re-
trieve my lost hoaor-. I in ut he riet' way at
once."
We will have to Ib  elorhorertvw another
suit of sails first, sir,' ,aid thIit' tl-iiatnnot.
who entered thu eabin rtimo' tio hanr Allen's
last remark.  " The scoundrels Lave rib!(1ined
every sail on the spar .hoti h It ; oeued
from the brails and gaskets."
" Btt we have other suit beklor."

'{   -
4   _-
i
' .
_ r
c
r

_
i
. - "Y
r.
,
_

a
;=a
;"
,_.,
_..,
r -a
...
,3
rr j
'
..
.
..,
_
: 1


THE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF THE GULF.

4;
.;a
{
1
.

;
. =       ,
. ,
,
t i
}
F
R
'     r

i

" They are in even a worse condition, if such
a thing can be possible ! The wretches meant
utterly to disable us."
Well, thank fortune, it is not quite done.
The leaks are stopped-are they no"
Yes, sir-and the sails can be .ended.
But it will take some time."
" Time which we cannot spare. Cregory,
you can spIale us your second suit of sails to-
make shift to get into port with, can you not?"
Certainli'" replied the officer addressed ;
4 and anything else which you need that is in
my pissessioni."
It is not neeessarv that I should prolong this
chapter by a description of how it was done,
but in less than too hours the Alligator was
insider war andli staldilng up the co-astwith a
fr-eshi rle', while her consorts rcIiaincd to
-wait hr return, and to wat ch for such signs
of the pirate's as ighit be sen.
CIIAPTEIt XXI.
it was but iwo days later. The Marquis do
Regla, ye  hisensolaite for the loss of his
daughter,  a pacing to and fro in his private
chaitbietra, only receiving reports from t hose
wholi od tuts fur made vain isearcl for the
misting hilt-. 1lis face betolkenel his deep
grii foir, leartless as he might seem to at i
otlieri, ii alitnost idolized his child. lie did
-o, even tliougli lie seemeil cruel to her in his
smitotion to rise, bly the gift of her hanl to one
shomiii le kiie to lie a lawless ind desperate
erii:i all hough, in those days, and  ven
yet, piracy, and its fraternal hand-mnaid--nig-
gel'aittolitig on the coast- have not been
diii  vi-e criiiintal amolig the Spaniards.
Thi iittran ce of the Si'eretairy of the In-
tendiiite, with a lok wih bespoke news, at-
tract el t ie attention of the marquis, who
hastily eriod :.
"l   hs slice hien ard from ?  Speak! for by
iouri fe-' I rail that you inhave newt of some
kind fir ie B it gonlor had, let ie liar
t; lfor ini new ti"ill enn bfll miE'! At least, none
greater than that which I sufler in'ow
" Th eAmierican iimian-o'-iar schooner, whose
001)ptain ts lhadI the  i audacity to Iay such
rn-kI  a Iti-it iln to your lov- Idaigitir, las
ust i-nte-r-d tt harbor. and anchored. Tie
ctpttiin dislies ani iitierviet with Your excel-
mancy I''
° Adrinit him at once; lie niav -nay, he mutt
know1 of lier nb-sne. 'l'e note shei l-ft plaiii-
l  ntiioilIthat sli:" intended tit seteh ids piro-
tb't iiii,
Tie' i c'ertetar-- twithdlrew, anid in a fiw -ii{-
menNit Allen e'ntered the roomi.
" Welt, sirwhmrecis my danchrlter  ?" aaked
the iti , '',tyei, or'ii-e Alen ha even
tun' ti - enlte liim i iii toi)on coiitest' woild
"I do niiotuniei'stan? your excellence! t''
ofdn Akeni, hastily.  ini then-, while an cx-

35

I

pression of painful alarm gathere(l on his face,
he added : "Is she missing ?"
"Yes ; and I have every reason to believe
she has gone to seek you;who so vilely have
stolen her affections from me !"
"Marquis de Regla, this is strange language
for you to use, who so lately permitted me the
utmost freedom of access to her.' But your
feelings at her loss-if indeed shie'ke lost-are
a sufficient excuse with me!
If indeed she be lost ?" said the marquis.
Do you doubt my word ? Do 1 look like one
who had passed sleepless days and nights in
grief, or not? She is lost-lis tIed from my
root, and gone Heaven knows ;where only, if
you do not know !"
"I do not !" said Allen ; and thben, sudden-
ly, the remembrance of the note left by Cole.
frinas came to his mind.  ' 1id I understand
your excellency to say that you believed she
had gone to seek ie ?" he ai ed.
So a note left by lie intnated !"
"1low could she has1e reaceli mliii'  1as
any vessel sailed hence houid don othe coast,
except my Anericipi (on
"1 know not. My yacht is moissimr, and has
been stolen, I suspect, by an A inwrican cap-
tain and his crew-onte  'lltoward, isivhse vessel
was lately taken by the pi rat es, and who wished
to join you
".Merciful heaven !   i believe, I can see
through all now. If lhe reachid my vessel in
my absence, she is in the power of that vile
wretch--Coleefrinas ! Now I can understand
the iieaning of itlie note hie left on board my
vessel after lie hal disabled my Crew, by the
aid of his confederatei-Quieta'"
You really tliiiik, tin ii, that he is in the
hands of Coleefrinas ?'" aslo the Intendente,
while his face wore an easier expression.
" If she reached my easel, I :now that she
S !" said Allen.
"Thank Icaven that it is no worse, then !"
said the marquis, with a qpiite contented air.
" No worse !" exctaiiied Allen, in a tone of
surprise, and with a look of horror. " Can
aught worse on earth betl a  aidei than to
lie in the hands of a merciless, lawlet, liceu-
tious pirate ?  Wliat am  1 to iiiidler tand by
youri expression ?"
SThat. she is where she can be ransomed ;
and where they dare not, for their oin asakes,
harm her 1" said the imeuis, who saw that
he had gone too far-hir eiouglh, -rhiaps, to
iolli stiSj)ieins of is mynt ecililii-tioi with
the lawless hands ofi neatilers wholl Allen
and his comrades had been slit to externi-
nab'.
" ie  hall Ie rieuedi it life i  left me!"
sail Allen. '"1 it tor the:  wa'iwrlyo en ;d net of'
Coleefrinas-who, by a r     i II imo away
troum m y vess'1, I et I-tin  , el n-ae  lire.
ini   oir friend, Qui.' r,. w:ii 'traitor who
aidedthei pirate-i i iii hl.. i  s"
Wi     tics to cal Quith n ra a traitor ?'


-I

TIl E PHIATE-IIUNTEIIS OF THlE(GULlF.               37

Sc                                                            ()tJIL    M   r. 4    ;  o H,
o1'i('t1     w.1! I(!:+)t;'P      r).- +'   + t !^ (1nr+:' : all(1 t11t?        Ili a   f;w    (Ini    .    if T    cannot               v1n t, I    IIE'C'(i
I1+' it, 1u-,t1t'tt Ltt+    ftii"it -      rf'         i {_!t f()I':'  111U      Ilert', I It4THt       t1 l to        C1 .11 IL.tUI1, c)]      1   i' t  o  ltl
liis  fc11in i' lLill C':t Ir:               (i,'1 _ ', tr ttllout a       r CJut l         l)t)it '  of  tll+   U iiitotl      t:it+'  t    Hitt    I
\'i,;l;'" \vt'tlI)()li 111,()I1 iiilli.                                        ( 110  )C ih tt 111      ('1 ..ft;uC       will f  1  r"r   '  I1(){, 1  0't 1  't', ()11 1t,11t'
"  /  (1'), (i(),   ()l' ;i 1)i: tt_ ---I     J)t) t') ti111I11r('(l                 U! 1113" s'( I*'1']i%11t1Jt., \YiS:tt %Y()I111 11t;Vt;I'         It
.111"1! ;    till+l  il'   tli      l;i.;   \    !I ('1      tI1'  wu1't1     1 z t t11 ,+ t1  iu  our l'tnrl, t       :z                         i1ati()r .
i1d'l l)a    ';t'(1 111:; 1111.                                                 nor lir          te to    :ut1        In   I1ittiii
t' (..al)talll 11 1 It i, t       1', Orrit'iC't)li5 Gt  1114 1,t1.e              ()I  ('t)!1IO !1(,t         ail the       iii:ii't1ulti. with    II! ;
gu't ; ltltrl v+'i          1)1':te tr+ c1:ti'lll4         w   I1 ul')()Ii i             Ntill 11o11 tilt' letter w11IC1t h. {iii i I'+ aC tlltl,
.t!a illl'tt i11('(t fi'til !'      t 'I !Ili' (){lot') With1 a        1)it  f a     l it COV('1't      iililt' ill)(Jil his l1LC;.
1,t"i'  IL' (I.      '!I'1   t    (11'x' 1!i ; 1:111 !t)t't1I t()        it .       " An+I 1 will c'[1(1            01' ((J 111 (Oil Vt)1J' (1;ui h=
1'uI1    t  I1+iMitt      it h  fI'i\'=I     lk  uiJ1is    haughtily           ter \titli itiy      S vt+r+l; w11i1t' 11,          rt t''         ii, 1vii'
!iC ['()'  1i1    1),',):1'1  (;itf'  t                                           ;
r                          t"                                           TJ )t, t13111' i1(:lill()11 (   i     \- ttill' i;,till'!' ,t-.  ili" t)tt  C';ill (':! i1y  llst't, 'ile  t'()ur  t'1f with  :t  bt()1'rl  z :h  tu r.ik  1I' o!i'lt ! I1tt:'  ." t't'(itlrt-
\Yt R1,()tl,  it     ('l1  1111    i       ,rttl"1'P+'  tt)  n ;(   t)!lr  f''  hitt+)f   !'                "
ttl+l Xi1t I1, 1,lfl('I'lt'.           lF()liI Vu!! I Will 1           li'11       '. '[ hell, wilr'!J :IIi'l wilt't't'        11:111   1  t  l1 ( ()i(
R         th''   t'il+)r!ta (ht' t'i"''l%1 !.      (7!'__-"                   t+             t
1'lflit   t 1l, {,  y rtt,  l , .ttl  lll t  111111  ,    .      l))Il{,'-
c ( ) t' v il:d  .?'  ;alit tl1t' -j saii1:0     1, iii 1II  cc)ltl,      tra) (1uli't l\'.                                                   Y
611ot'1'II1    1','Itl ,           tli:tl 1\i1li to        itatcd.                  'i .1.t, liiiii iI.i.:ie     t11+.    gat'( __
%   "(%ut       vt)l!I'    1)1,('1,    et)1':u'tlly     l1('tli't'  ()Ill,:)'    to   1 (1:1      Nil1 l      u  lit'i '     My Iii tl(', will 1)t' lot
( 1'i( l1 All      , olitl(),t 1)t'= 1'1+'     ilttSt'll  0 ttli ra     re.     Olio \\"     14. if 1 Ii:t  t; to 1vt)ik      Iii;' art w    ni    ht, and
i  111(11. 0 i t ltt 1111       J'nftt      iV rat l t
"I 1 'i' :t t vtr +.' flit   t() lt" I':ttlv
(}n".lt, rit:i1+w von        Intl   lt        Its':tt't (%ttltil+ltLl(1.               I will    v't    it fr()Ili lliill     1Ii w1'itili      ;nil    il.
'l'lie     liOt'ita   k    al'v-;1 ,         til+' tlT1'T1l('1'    Ui tlt+'     nOi, 1r'OI' l)ui that" ill' will         1)0 tlit i       lt' l+l' }tat(
Cytll:nit (rle       lili:, w lit) 1::' - 1            iit ;t't1  niC' tt      t t_)n  a ltht tilt      tine   Mit     l
i't       that t     t ' ti,, Ill  I;t
1)t'  lt:'  1)t        ()i  iIi  l)::T+  1         ilt'  1)i'!e +   tt!  tll '  i  'l'll+ 1'it''  1 1 !':lt1T
'                                                                                  ..             its,
fr(v   t lsno,    l l+ i't'     ;t l    t     t    1+i,      ,    lit 1I("\".       i' lit;   In     ttJ l(            ?        s                       {
()'  t  t  tr,"  ,  y    .                 .,                     t -t'    l i'     I'1t C1  .  lir  ll,  1111.+";'i  t'a
flit'   )la ! t  Til:  (it'  ii''t! ".-  t     ,t
l                    t           ti ! _   l! !   an , +(rn.              I 1+' tkl'+ 4; ;111 'thifi,        t't i'a   to   il!!   11n    hi;
1)1 4)1tl;l\       :1118   ()!l   t"1ait t +\+l''( it'illOS t() Vt51J'-        hall    nn l   (ttl:ott       iii  r+ut' (t\;fl i:t      1    \ :iuliC'(' I
ve"l1,   'rh lf-!1  I  el"tlilr1  ii,,,   ',  i1  l+lc':i ,  a lit'  t i  lii 11  :tilt  t  +++1,'.  tt'ia :i   I -  , j'0  w its-it  ti''  l  it ,'  Ttir'c'it
it  Ch  ilil tt ii  t   ri!   iit-It+rl:i  to  H  !f[4'llt+'1Cilli, .   it"it."     lit  1  t'  _A li'.:  .  a  "1i+)          .         i,
,Ya. 1111 to ;t,     I      ii   1 +,+
Att+I    iii"   01-ltnlat'+l, lsrt',',nti      Ito' :ill+1 Ilit'1-          thin       it'ltt('!l                                                    by
1                        -,                                                     ,-1!!'l'I'1 ;'t  y  Ct)tllil  id ly  ,  t)!   ( 4
ln  Ij", hait 1. +1 Alit i) I:          1+'tt+  , «1W      ', lei"i''     +)- ; :,t')fl,   t,,    i b    ill)  t 11   tA  +1    \t tlit'ii l lit' 1)Ii"rlt.C'
''
little     li 't  it-  Jl 'J  t  tilt'  id  Ii    t+    1t    1,1 11' ti!1-     ltt l  i':l-t,  t' iiit  ti:ieITi u
t-iv 111 iii- !iii' 'I iii titttt'
The ti:'vt, two         It"   -Ii  ,1 t   i  J :i h    a n, Iii' tit ht'S        li:itl i a  nt- I [II't)Il ttl i ll(',"i lliill lt"lt t it\'
with     a    a:ltc",      11111,   i     i,' no     lit'  ati,     .,.ll,-n  (     'iii-' li!al'I(ui-t, 'Vitlt t:'t"li tb--tail 'lt'rl          llt'1)I'ivv'
viwatiie+.l      111    wi-+)   1, ot!'h "!'' :i 1   }ti-i  I't It'1'.   IL     ('1'!t"I  ()tit. ; t "   11tH      In    Illtt;'l.    1,1tint" l!lt:tl'y
1Ytt'i ii     l'    '   ii, 115'11    I1 ;1('1 ,lll\" in     :1 )iii   ' if 1 \\ !t \     Hi'-      lint' (t;li+"o1t':t vlt('ul'i 1)!'t'{t'll'I It)       11+,
i h11ral!'\ , t'i !ii''i tit'        WV f' :hi, ('t)1'"t'i'itl''o, till         wHii ll+' k       iii, t     I(1i'' Haiti I c':lil ilitt 1'. tltil+l t'
i)ittt' vat- t', :'l5+h ::t H'T' t '1'w            'It',"      t-o1ih fit'          t. { I   ti 1     111t 11 l1t    1
1              1 t'  \"            "    1!'t'{i  it' '  i'itl 1  '  1tt'tl  111'
lttt t~ t',    1  it:t\  .'  ti ll   S t     1  f'  .  +,I  1 1  t',  I ii' ,  1  l   r ; t [ '  l       I  I I t{   fir  fir  (  t+lt  +'11'11',:',  tliltl  it
\V llit'!i  1   li'ly ''  I'  -'l !'ii  it''  t  {' 'ii  '  11  t",  \1 't  itl ' 11,1  .l ,'  'it  iota  '4,i'ilit  1 ''  :t  I+bi'tJ  t ,  h -  11'1  1+  e  it  a t
Ili  llt)Ilt)i'  +'1  TI  V'    a t'              iii+'  il;,tla lit i  t'  t+l'  i  1:1 -l,  1  :   t(tilI i  lil+)t1'  I t  ttt'1'  a 1+1'  a "i:tto  1  lit
111"   \I'li'+'tii    e1'-  II "  !,  ; t  '  :n 1'I  it-:',  It     ltttt'i't'i  tl  ltt'a liit:;   a tltl  li 11
"t                                         ( it,  tl+":ll  i'. ,  t  1t
t                    it lt t  1  lit  t"
:ittfilfr'i+'tti  :i":,,  ;tl!(1  IliT:ll!rc   .  t['. _I  t11  _    ti  .1        c'  V r  i ii  tit)  t1iI  1 t
T t'.S.I, :.l1' : 11 ,1,:+ l to' Ill:
'
ti)I'  t i  lit  lt+  t'  itlt  tl+1t'  :1 11+1'i,  4th  1'  11()  t1+.tllll  1Jtit  '  tttlw )  a  h ilt'  tl  illi-it,  t  11th±'r  'ii  til l  {'1'  ,  atiYtili,
lilt 1 ('011 "IV"        1    '1'' 11 t;Ti   \Ilt'ii "i (l.iv- 110.,-        "titl'it:~''I            1                            1
tltilt'  w'll+"1  '\'  t'  11+'  t1  ,.it'  ,  I{  '                                1G  1 11011 ,  1it+'  ill:)I1  ill  I1!" lt  (+h 1t'i'  a li t  t':t !  It t,  it
fl y  iii;'  ii:l.  tti   it  I'  Il l'  4 ''  h'itt'I,  tlily  ill-,tilt-  i'ti -il l  I t  IIii  1)li'tiit'-;'hlt f.  H  till,-t'  1()  ill-;  tl,'t'
in  i "  11t):tH i't'  .  lliill  l+t'  ' i  '{                   ,                                                                                       t'.Y'
1,  :tiltl  Il  Ill  l, l ";  t+)      tIt1  tt   11111,'(.'11
nit'+'t% lilt' i'it    flit;' it a     v, 1', t' atll vv' wlit"h1 H                 "  1(ol't'.\r'ii 1!1'-)ttii:ttt' iitA, 1, oh', I:t1,+vri.it ;l,
tbt' 1+: tt+ t' ltliitt 1'    )' iii li't'+A   A  llt tt, :ice li+' 'lt    1                 +                   "'                '
l             Il:t\'t'  ;1ti  li{  t+t  t.+l  'tl  tilt  l+ll'iiL'  i .
e
tili'  It-ifr'1'.                                                                  "   l iii+   1'it1C'  1t'il5,:°,  l  rl;it''  :iit'it,:  i  :ttl\  t  lu ll '
.  lie   ti:It's :',  :o i l  tt' .  a n  +1  1)ttt;  \T":ii{ i  1' )t'  'a  11t11)11 It"!, "  !   till  ilt. :.  i{ ,ii)li' t        1
t      t
1,,  iia la t'  111.'  ti:,  ,,  ttl)+I  1,1_i,,,,,  l'l'()1t+1  \  il;t't'  l"     i   i°ii'  !  I  l it    a   i                         ' '     I
.         111+111   it  ;1"t)    t  rt,1"t"    } )~
:Jill  Qtiic --it',       e  lint, ii!a,'k     v   ii, hit' loltit' Illy' 1 t'Vt'iW      :till t') lit t)tii, ' "Ui'       t'".e'1  It h+:t{1lt' with
till 0.1111 1,1111 t tIll l) 'in'   il,  t't1         "     "    'l' ivitht "   [ii-'       t'
+     \'()n.     I1'  1  tilt  iii',  i1+'  I'  ii i!  (  !'-  I li't       t th t"  l  iIt)t,  t   _I  l;lt ')0    \'t)11  s1trl,,  vii';  11111  n , -v', x',111
".ta    ()tit:- :111 ('1 t'!t 1-tout' t'di)1"t' t't':llt, and         it ' iii  Ilt't a   t                             i                    ;
a   t l f',t1';lti  \'t)ii!  ti1t'C  .  I1   /' )[[  +11 1,  1  S ,'t))it(l
1,1,111  l'y  tll.l r,  ,iliVutlitt'  " r '                                    t't'1)t)1't  1 tiii  Iii   )   '    Vi , t  iIl  t)1,  1  h'(iVt'1 11I!J 11t..  :t1  ',t-t'i t
T                                                                h.                                                 f a
~ II.' it t'     Iti:i, ti':lt' I tt:lt. I it ill ado it lt: 1' :tits    { to   11th', t.,
tlt.llt 111\ !'Ott t'i'.t\ e     C'? t"a'.    I I1:11'C t'O'; tti t'ti til\' i      "   ll't'T' ii, IV    l . ~:'el((', 'It' tii)t    Sidi. t "   itI tl,
HI '±'. :'Ill Ii ' Itin til"      w     ltI lit itt'     k'it 1!1111 1    1  ' tWit"11110, Itll'l0ti '               \1'i '1 Fi111)i't'i'tt o)ii.
'    1
tv':it' 11i1i1 11(117, :ttltl \1t'iIi  I11,'t't, 1tint (flit' iasf:1111r i    t     "   Fir t)tlt, tn}; A't'r'vt.'l''p--"W1y. hilt] 151 Iil not,"
lull roilt        \i lilt, l} F   )1't)Ii:'  all      r+.; r('f   {.111 (Ii)    i'..i.td  Al 1!'ii, iA+t,'t'til.y"      ... ji For  ' o.i ),t, 1  of    CCItryIi
l                                             r  tilt' i!.tS.
V

lovely andt angelic daughter, 1 would rat, Lw
Laefuyua      n h ~~ilS  iiionlest loltil, thatnlito see 4von
the pit 'IetOot of all lie awotltU tever owyied liN'
Ilto lmarqulis now41really blushed~t, lhr he felt
t~ilt it egi~iti ill fir gill tIit if1111,inod llt i't
1't'U~iin 01 itt] of  ti'tn t  pi i t lh   s ii n  \to'
ais  ofI  to siit at  II ti' lit e'I  i thu  ofi lt IV
1)L~i l s'i'ld IInd  ofis 43il I' i1114Ititl  I'itio tit  Ut '
1 iilitl i d  ill  I ll 'I t}N1 )i1 Ic r u et t  1 ), 0 11 'hsat W t h n  ) 0 o  t 1 ") 1 o  d e , I  t  i,  i'
1"'hiflit  er' ti ie'114  I t'reXd  tin;)li ai'gls1)
uhei- li ft-tound tfe' 1 iltil 'Fbe olei''l etrs
ili  iii  I'ns11 ,tilt tll  ttlll.ruien 4101ilhunt h
li ue u(''ti inlopdAeicanudtnll'mitsj
'ili '.',li lue10 il y out d~o   oi' '
11)1d let  (If  al  -Clli l, i e  i l  et' aiitfiII'-i t),
al  lvlit'1 l le frt t oonh dow n.dAforitllt
ti,, ett iyouotil' i't':tly eix' hltlyehar I'
111(1ill' e ue' lig he lion.slto halthnevte,
':1134.'why tededIig id ' yoXXh11di)111 )li ld i
fl11  itred a' of l 011'in 'witdtht . i l]i is 1th.
"ut], oiodis e tid tto toy'own.bfer' than,
l' Cil iillseofth o eret eily. obultifo'ate
11  till)'X toli ly.t i I  iti I t0  Irh'XVlito15 mi i  1en
wonragey'lthonl'v lons' to be tlilIitifo-
I."1( '0'1deIii lt  he.Xoas11t, quImt u1i 01.Wlicis
Wr I lls   (11111 ' I'llan]ou .tli~e
f'tio.  ' ilyt]  da ughter!'----ii(wherefiid ()u;fand
U 1 1li'iotid XXof 4'youllctin hu1111,'lguile'
Icorainee w, he dCIlust' 11.  le'elJlw
art,(W111 110(0011] tn ee Ii lison' aonda
hi'1inXJti{l tV cll: to betnory11htodlnd utoi
-t  ' 11 ntto f1()Wfiti' knewf iy 1111said0
1)1 mlay fliasliodowl foll o"e~d 1t1h oolr
frot ts. himrt ytn1h.    uetn1.Wi
tl't1I selisnhydblidef, whoa0out'romc
°lhtiIe turted atavpemd let tleof ourh
tomintrs t wasfearful  theofacitehf"ls(i)

page of C'oleefl'ilIstile ehild] of lt141tconfidinlg
111is11'044. 'fli leedi'lI 04025 Iif Mii1itilio were'
Sonol11w IIX thtIX tO 141X'lit the IIt'trea-
1l I0'.(' etiN  t il  if 01:1  'i  1V Ilit l 11111itti  er
1'iill  r l'l'i 111i'))  ' t 'ttu  11XXIl 4111(1  i him
/ill!  - -nof l ilt'04)4: ? tW'll  ,.c0 I-il    t' ('  Ie
4'0 :  1 )r C lit ' i 1:111 0n '  't   ; 111  4
I+171 S ht ra '  i lov rlt 'j l- i l t  1!'  i  L't'il'
Ctti' 1 )40Il ' l tt  (I e ib''fr  tt',  lt th   fe'i'itu l
.huit l .11,  lt 'iI'','.lilt) 1X liit'  huh  ditIV,  :1  1
inl '  ii til~l'. t(11111 ll1t110_x. 1 Iill  we-h 111
(10It'i lt  tll  o( ,If I .  mo'll tl!t'4 )1 11i'f.t
1)Cll!41+)110S~i liiI'i:: 'itt!';il'morbuhatis'
4,1i11  n 1teI  rr  11 '  t Iite''1Iitlin] lt  tite----oali ' 'i
to I'l l''.  e e  1ooitii  l 1^  ~tl1. }Ii
Ito011)1oafelt'dl 1fbi"0 XX11100, ti'IIJI'ttiliii1't.' t
tISern 101of l('bt .'1 l pint1(11 s, iij t  ere
d~uel iibloX00si0Xly In'Ipt 1'Iufoly- (itd of t'i'
1)1 tile Dvil.f'fIi14.'1)1111i1 flume;XXftr' toi'lilaiili
1u(ilr t 1onebit 100'110 l)Vhiel1,11ie In~ i' 11(
of d(th soaretile, ' 1110Illiit'0, 0)tl1l114)h1t0 1)111
ofthe euieti 1011111(h    'ii.l ril
t i hm , l a t  ' T1  0:11111: illii n 4i lnfl'111111  a1
hadoa'edto e l :,+, fSX ' ii'1'0i11011]lke sllieioI
lita l)1_ o tero-e'a iorec--and11)1'h. iii 11 iug so o

ii

r-
I
xa  ;
z;
,

f i


-s
i
Act
h
I'
Y   r
r
t 3q3
1  S
i
[ 1
I  - t s
3 a
i=q
3
=8
t
t
i
x;t
Y z 5
IF

Yi
:f
.q

THE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF THE GULF.

88                                OUR MESS; OR,
men, yet not sunbrowned and bronzed by storm have often had occasion to see, when, with
and tempest, as were their comrades, whose  him, you visited my father's house, and before
scene of action lay abroad. All around this I knew his dreadful calling and terrible name.
huge cavern were boxes of goods, stores of Is it not so, good Mariano ?"
provisions, arms, and munitions;; and  the   The youth bowed his assent, and then ask-
greatest wonder to one would be, how they got ed; 
there? It was lighted by hanging lamps of   " Why does the seijorita call me good Mari-
silver, such as are still to be seen in the old  ano ?"
cathedrals and churches, from whence they    " Because you speak kindly and gently to
had probably been taken ; for pirates neither  me-have ever done so ; and it were very
fear man nor God, end seldom indeed have been  cruel, and, besides, unnatural, if I replied or
known to respect sanctuary.                acted other than kindly in return. You could
But beyond this hall were rooms, into which  do one act, Mariano, which would outmeasure
none but the chief and two or three of his a million words of kindness. You could ; yet
servants and most faithful officers were ever I dare not ask that which I know you would
permitted to penetrate ; and from these often refuse !"
came runiors, that within all was splendor and  " Lady, I do not misunderstand ydc,. You
magnificence, of a character almost too bril- would ask me to aid you to regain your fr'ee-
liant to describe. It was known that thither dom !"
had been conveyed the almost countless trea-  "I would, good Mariano ; and so far as I
sure which, in ninny years of daring piracy, could, would reward you."
had been amassed ; but many a secret yet lay " I ask no reward, lady ; it was to give you
within those inner doors, which none dare to hope of this I came now-but faint hope,
whisper, and but few knew. Let us begin to  alas ! for you are guarded by those over whom
overhaul some of them.                     I have no influence ; and only cunning and
In an apartment, curtained with crimson  the wit of-"
velvet, which blazed with wreaths and flowers The youth paused and trembled ; for other
of jewels, and through which a soft, dreamy and heavier footsteps than his had been were
light was east by several moonlike lamps, heard close at hand.
pendant from the lofty ceiling-a room furnish- Placing his finger on his lips, as a sign of
ed as a chamber and sitting-room, with every ar- caution and secrecy, Mariano sprang behind
ticle which luxury could dictate, or the heart of the heavy curtains, which concealed an al-
an empress desire, stood a pale, tearful, but cove, in whidh the- lady's couch was placed ;
yet very lovely girl. She stood in an attitude, and though thus not left quite alone, Mara-
and with a look almost of utter despair. Wine, quita seemed so to be when the hated pirate
fruits, and other food stood untouched upon a chieftain entered the room.
table before her-she seemed not to look upon  He seemed surprised to see her so calm, so
one of the thousand beautiful thingsabout her, haughty, and, withal, so full of bloom-for
but to gaze abstractedly in the air, while her that one ray of hope had left a flush of beauty
hands were clasped together, as if bound by  on her cheek, brighter, it seemed to him, than
the icy manacles of despair.               he had ever before noted there. He hal come
But at the sound of a coming footstep she expecting to find her drooping, wretched-a
aroused-aroused almost fiercely, brushed the  leader at his feet. Now, almost queenly in
tear-drops from her cheeks, and drew her form  her majestic beauty, she stood erect, and with
up haughtily ; and turning toward the closed a flashing eye, confronted him.
door, glanced with black, flashing eyes thith- "Your beauty improves with your. resi-
erward, as if she expected to meet, and-by  dence here, fair lady !" he said, as he paused
her looks-would repel some hated eneniy.    idwav of the room.
The door opened ; and her fierce, deter-   She made no reply ; but gazed upon him
mined look softened, as if the visitor who  with a steady but a scornful look.
came was not the one whom she had expected.  "And your power of conversation sums to
That visitor was none other than the youth  have rather failed !" he added, sarcastically.
Mariano. And in his look there was such a "When I was last here, you tried threats, ro-
mingled expression of kindness and pity, that proaches, pleadings, and even curses.  I
it was no woiiler the lady's fierce glance had thought you grandly beautiful when, in your
so suddenly softened.                      anger, you cursed me-none but a very pretty
"You expected my master, lady," said the  woman can curse, and lose nothing of her
youth, as lie bowed low and deferentially  beauty in her wrath-but I have never seen
"I dreaded tlat it was he who approach- you look quite so well as now !".
ed " replied tie fhdy. ..Not even when, by your connivance and
Wihy does the enorita so dread him? Is my Ether's consent, I leaned upon the arm of
he not handsome ?" asked the youth, in an ap- my heart's husband, the brave Allen, on my
parently careless manner.                  birth-night ?" she asked, in a tone even more
"Is le'not my captor and my jailer ?" asked  sarcastic than his own had been.
the fair girl; "has he not long been hated by "Your heart's husband !" he cried, bitterly. -
me? This, as his confidential attendant, you "Your heart will soon be widowed, if he hold

that relation to it! His doom is sealed ; for
within three days he will be in my power, and
with his whole crew shall be sent to eternal
perdition ! If you doubt it, you shall see his
head, and that shall grace our bridal feast !"
"Monster! I have known you to boast be-
fore.  heaven will protect him; and your
guardian, who reigns below, will desert vou
" Hardly ! I have served him too long and
well for that. But, no more of this nonsense.
You, having found the use of your tongue,
may belay its running-gear for a while,'and
open your ears. I have been to see your fa-
tier."
"Does he know where I am ?"
"lie knows that you are my guest."
"And is he content with that knowledge ?"
" Perfectly ; but would like to see you as
soon as convenient after you have become my
wife. Why do you smile, fair lady, so mock-
ingly, ?"
"It amuses me to notice with what grace
you can utter falsehoods."
"But, by heaven ! I utter the truth. You
smile again !"
"Yes, to hear you swear by a place of which
you know nothing now, and which will never
know anything of you !"
"You seem determined to provoke me! It
is rather a dangerous amusement, as you may
find to your cost."
"Those who do not fear danger, never pause
to count the cost."
"And so you do not fear me ?"
"We are not apt to fear those whom we
despise !"
"Girl, beware ! Do not tempt my good-
nature too far!"
"Your good-nature ! Let the ape boast of
its beauty-the serpent of its harmlessness,
after this !"
"You will regret this, proud girl; but I will
not war in words with you now. When next
we meet, prelpme for two pleasant surprises.
I shall bring you two presents: one will be
your wedding-ring-the other, the head of
your heart's husband Z"
With a frown darker yet than his threats,
the pirate turned away, and strode heavily
from the room.
After the sound of his footsteps had died
away entirely, Mariano came out from  his
place of concealment.
"You bore yourself bravely, lady-almost
too bravely, [fear ; for he will suspect some
hope has cheered your heart-some thought
that you may yet escape," said he.
"No; he will, rather, think that my $espe-
ration has forced away from my heart all fear
of him, and that I am' provoking him to slay
me !" said the lady. "But what did he mean
'by saying that he had Allen in his power-or
woul have, in three days ?"
"That a challenge has passed between them
to meet upon the ocean, vessa~r to vessel."

"-Then I fear not the result. Allen will be
the victor !"
"Were it not for treachery, lady, he might."
"For treachery? What do you mean ?"
"That your own father, lady, who supplies
Allen with his powder and arms, is to give
him a worthless.article ; and thus the Ameri-
can will be in the power of Coleefrinas !"
"Great Heaven ! Oh, do not say that my
father will be guilty of such an act ! It can-
not-must not be 1"
"Alas, lady, it doubtless has been done,
and the gallant American is by this time at
sea, proceeding to the spot where my master
is to meet him."
"Oh, cruel, cruel butchery !  This must
not be. Mariano, he must be warned in some
way. Can I not be set free-or, in some dis-
guise, get on board the vessel of your master
-so that, if I :cannot save him whom I love,
I can at least die with or near him!"
Mariano shook his'head mournfully, as if to
imply that it was impossible.
Tears started in those black eyes, which so
lately had flashed back glance for glance with
the haughty pirate.
"0 Mariano, you have never loved !" said
Maraquita, with a low sob of agony.
"Would to Heaven I never had-did not !"
said Mariano ; and never did a deeper blush
suffuse the cheek of a timid girl, than for a
moment reddened his.
A light step at the door-a  w "hist"-
was heard.
"I am called ; your sentinel, who is my
friend, has given me my warning !" said Marr-
ano, hastily. "If I can see you or aid you
again, I will."
,lie bowed his head, and kissed Maraquita's
band; then, in a moment, was gone.
When she raised her hand, and saw that he
b"ad left a tear-drop there, she wondered, but
only said:
"It is a jewel. All that I have. A gem of
pity. heaven help him whom I love ! Hea-
ven help me !"
And again she paled, and drooped down as
despairingly as we found her when we opened
this chapter.
ChAPTER XXIIL
Once more at the rendezvous. The harbor
was full of small boats, and there were several
more of the sloops and schooners in than were
there when we first described the place. And
by the number of men aboard and on shore,
not less than a thousand, perchance one-half
as many more, it was evident . that the pirates
had been driven in by the vigilance of the
cruisers outside, and were collected either for
some formidable foray, or else for the purpose
of making a last and a desperate defence. The
latter, indeed, seemed most probable, for all of
the vessels, with one execution, were moored

:


OUR MESS ; OR,

a o ana stern, in a matmer to bring thiiir
broadsides to bear u)on the hidden entrance
to their harbor. The exception alluded to nas
the beautiful clipper which the pirate-chief
ald talon from Iloward, and'which so nearly
matched the Alligator in build and equipment,
}vhen the latter was as she should be, ready for
i  mad for action.
t [r sails were loose and ready for hoisting
:md shitintilg hiote, her picked crew were all
1 botr1, lie' anchor was nearly apeak, and
c 1l' was the daring leader of those daring nct
waild for on board before her wings would b
? real to the land breeze, which was already
b0 )iwing to waft her out to sea. The sain was
s!inlg, and though it was setting in a dark
aind heavy cloud-bank to westward, no on1
seed to'notice that. All eyes were t unr'ied
it un the chief, who, dressed in a styleI o'
kitgiv mtagnifhcence calculated well i 11asej
Kl  h'voted but barbarous followers, eha  julist
h-ft, his house on shore, and walked though
th' masses of his men to tlih boat, whiih lay
eady to carry him off to the vessel which horse
his flag.
There was no sound of cheerine bitt imany
irighit blade waved inl the air,'iany a low
word of cheer fell ot his ear. Douhtls-, pren-
deuce had caused an order for this unusual si-
len'ce ; for with the breeze the sound if a thou-
sand or more lusty.voices would be borne al-
imost as far as the booming of a gun.
Coleefrinas was soon upon his deck, thlow
word of command was given, the anchor ran
up, and, as if by magic, every sail was hoisted
nl sheeted home at once ; and gracefully the
schooner veered away toward the narrow en-
trance, seeinlug to iove over, rather than
through the water. Er the gray of twilight
had darkened upon the bloom of sunset, the
vessel had passed from view, and then the metn
who were left behind returned to their usual
patimes when at leisure-cards, dice, doni-
ioes, and wine.
The moment that Clcefrinas hand parted
frem Moma, his queely mitstress, at the tren-j
iden'.ous--th toparting, too, had been stratsely
{ttl oin his parl, atd ilppii'itly its fond on
h-----11'h tu'ed i)toMa'iaio, who h bieen lteft
bhiinId, for (oleefrinas took  to supertntu'rt-
r   ont thitt trip, tad quickly 'asked, while her
swtellig hosot, lbiroe ey,'et, antd flushed cheek
ld hier passion, this question
Now tell me, child, and quickly, what has
bee his treacherv to toe. for traitor I know
ht, has beett and is, not from  your hints alone,
but front a fondness that niut be simulated
whetn it is so uttntsal-teli toe, what has it
liten"
You know, my tmothe'," replied the youth,
that when last he camne iI the iight with
sonte American prisoters and hurried them
away to the mountain, that he also told von
that lie had a treasure to add to his horde."
"Ay! I remember that !"

" The treasure was a' wontm Wwhom  he ba.
swain to make his bride."
A   ona'a !' gasped Mononn.
" A woman, youtgl d very air---the daug h-
ter of the Intentte4 generall of Maitanzs,
whom for a year or more ha has beon trying
to win willingly to his arms. In that le has
failed, but she has fallen initohis power.
")    sheh11a  him  ' askd i.dthe another,
abno. t gaspingly.
T es, loalies and d IsIts hint, and does not
f'ear even in her capti \ iy to tell him so."
"'That naves her life,'' sail \hoa, as she
drew an eier bt' 'rt hi. ' .1ad it 1ee1 other-
wie, would haveSlainl her with my own hand.
Ihat she must be freed from his power. The
gnarls will release her at ty coniuand."
" They will deiy that she is there, mother,"
replied Matriatn. '"t1 was only by accident
that I learned that sle was in hislsower--'onily
bV bribery and the friendship of old Bartom-
eo, that I found opportunity to see and speak
to he 'r. 11 wite can effect her rescue at all, it
mnutt be by cunitng ;fr you know force will
not avail there, and the ni are sworn to him,
hut not to us."
"'Irtie," said tlh'tonia-" true, but it must,
be done. As for hinm-fhim
"t \Khatfor hit, nother-h-afatfoghim?"
asked Mariano, ('tagerly.
" That is notling i you, child---Ill think of
that hereafter-now 1 must study how to re-
move her out of his power/'
" Nothing to'me, what is to occur to him-'
notlug to me ! "imirmuroed Mariano, in a low
tone, a he turne d awtay. " Ai ! if she could
but know liow on wild heart brns, she would
not dare to say slit. .I will thwart his pas-
sion, but he useer, niver shell comie to harm
through my ageiicy. Never, never-NEVER!'
(J t1.\PTl' 1v .X 1V.
Captain Allen--or rather, I should say, to
verify history and 11drop complitent, Lieuten-
ant-Commandant A lleu--had just mustered his
crew, while the good schooner completely re-
fitted so far as sails, riggin", etc., were con-
cerned, was standing off froni MatUzas Btaaty
under a cloud of canvas which whitened her
from her truck down to her low, black hull.
lIe had mustered i hem to let them know whi-
ther they were bound, and what duty was be-
fore them. And he had reason to be proud of
them, and hopeful for th victory, when he
 heard their loud and exultant cheers, and the
enthusiasm with which they received his an-
nounneenicat of the challenge of Ciolcifrinas and
his acceptance thereof. Cheer followed cheer,
in which the oiliers felt adnost like joining,
though it were ta matltr unheard-of in a disei-
plined service. But Doctor ()'Shanghnessy
could not retain lhis feelings any more than
could a new barrel of beer get along unvented
wit hout collapsing. Like it, he must give way

'3'I
i';

i-i
'-
r' ]

$1'
gsI
7T

40

r


THF PIRATE-HUNTERS OF
o the extraneous gas within him, or else Allen, po
bust."                                   amber fi
"1Bad luck to the black diVil that he is!  "Than
hurrah tfor-the chance. We'l hiave to feather death to
his nest for him!I" shouted the doctor, who had as he car
Iowed by Esculapiusayd every other saint in  his mout
,he medical calendar, neer to forgive the af- before h
- ront which had been put fpon him.          " That
Giving ordprs'that all hinds should he called  said Alle
t to  splice the nain brade,' o(in land-lubber the Cayo
i                                                                                                                        terms) to take' ap  xtr dr'nk of liquor, the  " And
conmuaiiding offetir invited dI of " the mess"  sir," said
butthe ollicer ofte deck to go int the cabin like as n
and  tke a drink with hin.  dipg that the ist
doctor rather held ba~k-li had been vevy     " No
bsteinious since his escapade from Coleefriiae and the
-AIkin s ni ed,:and said                   him," sa
"You need, not frar, door ; thewine or we musti
brandy this time will, be from mny prite the lead
f                                                                                                                           Store it's 11aterSdea, tores'"" That
" Sue i a  ot te faio thecrae ep'nthe mastic
dear, that hangs heavy on me," said O'Shnogh- and the
nessy, with a sigh. " I've never been afeard  back-bo
of it frin my cadle, foi I've heard my mother from five
say-IIe  nest the ould lady's sow-that cabls' k
I wnted1 to be weaned to it afore I was a week " Yout
old. Al ! 'tise not that which troubles me ! her hea
B5ut~ it's the botherin' remembrance of the sail she'll
darsiage it did me and the service when I took, to the qi
as 1 'blieved, but a friendly glass with that  " Ay,
murthirin' divil of a pirate." tar gave
~~Tinik no more of that-but of our speedy  stored hi
ehtauce to take full satisfaction out of him," lin, and I
said Allen, kindly.                          "Anot
"Faith ! to that I'm willing to drink, cap' Allen to
dear-itbut if the murdering' wretch comes be-  Tha
neath your sword in the fight, don't kill him  take the
quite intirely-lave enough life in him for me partutre.'
to (dale with in a scientific manner a little This w
while. It would be a burning' shame to let such ter ; for
a big ihafe of the world (lie in a minute, and frequent,
aisy. If I've an enemy I hate, all I want is, a  much on
chance to doctor him to death. Peole now- that is,
a-days, when they punish bad men, dott't un- etc., for
derstand it as they did in the o~d times. Why, But with
in the howly Inquisition they kept doctors-to seas is, a
kape the men they wanted to kill alive as long  are a t
as they could, so as to make them suffer the  islands a
'F                                                                                                                         more wid dyin'; and that's the way l'd do with  known,
this black Satan !"                        but scan
And the doctor washed down this kind desire  Not a
with a heavy dose of cogniac.              of steant
'  L   The officers all having drank to the success fills the
of thte cruise, repaired to their various duties, ster in tI
while Allen and the sailing-master took down  IHatter
a chart and began to examine it, preparatory Fear is n
to  giving a course. -wrecker
It                                                                                            They had scarcely done this, when an old  anmee doe
quarter-master, whose boast had been that so navigate
far lie had been aboard of old Ironsides in her the Bah
every battle, came down with a message from
the officer of the deck that the sehmooner had
made a good offing, and he desired to know   "Lan
what course to lay her on.                 masthead
" Take a glass of brandy, Marston," said thte after

TIHE GULF.                  - 4
during out a tumbler half full of the
e. "We will give you a course soon."
kee, sir, Long life to you, sir, and
the bloody pirates !" said the old tar,
efully took his quid of tobacco from
h and putit in the hat which he held,   s".
raised the glass to his lips.
is the island he names in his note,"
n, as he pointed to one in a group of
s Romano.                                -
in a dangerous ground it lays, too,
the master.  Reefs all around, and
ot the half not down which really ex-
tatter for that. It is the spot named
e, if lie keeps faith, we must meet
iid Allen, quietly. " For ourselves,
depend on a bright look-out, anti keep
going when it will reaclt bottom."
is the worst of the coral reefs," said
er. "You are off soundings one hour,
next you are high and dry on the
te of one of them.  've seen it shoal
hundred fathoms to three feet in tow
cngth ! '
cat tell the officer of the deck to keep
d east southeast, and to carry all the
l bear without strain," said the captain
tarter-mnaster.
ny ! sir-thankee, sir!" -And the old
an extra pull at his fore-lock, re-
s quid of tobacco, put on his tarpau-
hurried on deck with his directions.
heiE glass of wine, Mr. Howell," said
tie  master.
ak you, sir; and then I will go and
bearing and distance to mark our do-
as, of course, a most necessary mat-
in those latitudes, where storms are
a vessel has often to depend very
the keep of her "dead reckoning
departure, distance, courses, leewa,
observations cannot always be taken.
either or both, the navigation of those
nd ever will be, dangerous; for there
tousand winding currents, formed by
ind by reefs, which can never be fully
nd for which the mariner can make
t allowance.
gale arises there, even in these days
and perfection in seamanship, but
papers with accounts of wreck and dis-
hose fatal seas.
'as has ceased to be a terror-Cape
to longer feared---even the Barnegat
are now seldom heard of; but insur-
s and ever will run high for those who
the southern Gulf Stream,tor make
ama passages.
CHAPTER XXV.
d ho !" shouted the look-out from the
d of the Alligator about 3 o'clock on
noon of her second day out from Ma-


THl  uE PATE-1i TEIS O0F TlE GULF.    41

OUR MESS; OR,

tauzas, on the cruse conmenced in our last -
chapter.
"Where awa and what is it like ?" cried
the officer of the deck through his trumpet.
4  Nearly dead ahead, sir, and like a small
island. Other's a loom as if more of 'em Was
bm1beyond, and a bit to widward--but I can't
iak 'eim outi."'
Allen, who had coic on teck at the first
sound of the look-out's VOiCeO, 110W hailed
" Look carefully and see if you see any sign
of a vessel aut tnclor."
" Ay, ay  sir !" said the man, and a 'Vounilg
reeferlanxious to please his commander, took.
I            c t spy-glass, and went aloft as lively as a mon-
hex
I can see nothing like a vessel in thee,
nr," said the look-ott, after a careful glance
ft         t~ttil .
i"'1xt I can see a sail, sir, under canvas away
tiff oun t'l our weather-bem to the' soulttarI,
i'ir, " cried the little reefer, in a voice as shrill
as that of an ancient maiden singing 11l tn-
dred
hank you, Mr. lRogers-thank xon, sir,''
- 'aid the captain to thie delighted 'ouing ster,
xWho'd have ventured his life any time for such
a "thank you" beforeallthe crew.  a"Ca you
fil.'e01oo l ht'rig I''
f's, sir-- tihe ladtin. A foretopsail sehoo-
mner like this.  hm sure she's the pirate"
Most likely," said the captain, quietly.
We are now quite out of range of trading
vessels, and out the ground where she promised
itmeet us."
am sorry the wind is d(ng away, sir.
We can scarcely keep steerage way on her,"
said the oiicer of the deck.
1  We shall have more than we want before
itmany hours, if the weather don't belie its
looks," said Allen, as he glanced off to the
northwest, where a range of clouds lay heavy
and dark, hike some vast machine of lestrue-
tion, waiting but a touch to set it in motion,
or a huge army which needed but the word of
#'         command to send it onward to its terrible work
gof death.
The old quarte'-nmaster, Marston, was at the
bel, and more than once already his eye had
ibeen turned toward that cloud-bank. Allen
noticed it, and with a familiarity which lie
sometimes used toward his oldest and best
m110en, asked
" What does that look like to you, Mars'
ton?"
It looks as if wouldd come heavy and not
go down all at once, sir ! We come anigh los-
ing old Ironsides once-we took just such a
chap a little to the east'ard of the hole in the
wall, and had to send for it. hIow we got
through, the Lord only knows ; for 'twas right
ta the middle of the day, but we drove afore it
till we got ahead, or it gave up, and ftxx'e
was in a bite of the gulf axey in iy Lo aiwy
':      *omew her'e."

"if this brezee would only lastutti il1 col I
settle With Colcef'inrs, I'd scarcely ask any
favors of a gale afterward," said Allien to htin-
self. Then, turning to his first-hut c ''at, I i
said " You may as well exercise thet inonat/
quarters for half an hour or so,, ir, to 0ee
their hands in, andt the vessel will bt ret I
for action, no matter what turns up in  h P
meantime.7"t
Ay, y .sir .-- x'was the ret  yi "pts" at
the offieer, and in a few moments the ichee'
souds of drumi and life called all hands toi
their ;utI'te'.t,
kitty til, anti a right gallant stiglt to those
wt o lie it is oig to quarters and clearing
shti foat'ilo tiirt'lt sp1llatcefog -every one'
andove rt ihinihfitires :are put ou, save thy'
newe W' ihe mates ;are' putalight-th
mtaazin    ar il'op'tnel, arms dist'ibuted to
ltoude(rsend p  lik;m-n h  drn--it1 Ilonb0Yh
ut I t o  al ftrae'i' t wIif e  uthe t' -i txaitne ttnl  the
goun they srv''hott, round, grape,.canistr,
chlaini, and1d1lhe-headedt~t, are passed uip--hie
st noin is ihe m 'xxx With fhtis iinsttinnits--t he
sa I-ftrinune's at their plot, ver't'y iitet' it hit,
and th li l'ecounanilehlirt'e, there ni eveh'erVel l'
xutiilthe hip is at wort itt n tlienu lis tamt i
teinettlt thea  xxflaywlicu lhe wil de fend lhile
life Iti 'is.
S " hall we exercise great guns or smItall a'tis,
or both, sir ?" asked the lirst-lieutenant, after
he had reported all the crew at uart crs.
"Both, sir, for a little while !"i Was the ie-
ply. " But do not fatigue the men-if this
breeze does not entirely fail, we'll have our en-
eily i11 shot yet before dtar1k.'
With   rmfiii---or only , liexert'e' .'
"You can fire on" oiund to soalethle gunll,
and then see that teah oiteer is caretl iti moat-
ing and shiottinug fotr a btroadlide' that will tell.'
" Ay, avx ! sir i''  Ant td in a moeilit the or-
ders of the commntluder were conveyed through
the executive to th' officer of cath division.
Then canto the low toels itbUt buisy ctoim
niids: " Cast loose your guns-take out thu'
tompions, man the gun tackles, etc. in a
short time, the divisions being directed to tire
in succession, the first applied thuir uttehe'.
After a long fizzle, the powder in the guns
burned with barely sufficient force to throw
the ball out, but not far enough to do damage
at half pistol shtt.
" What can this mean, sir'?" crild Allen, an-
grily, to the first-lieutenant. "That powder hit
been wet ! have the other guns tried at
once."
The trial was made, and each gun proved
the utter worthlessness of the load.
"Let the gunner be sent for," said Allen, as
he paced ump and down the quarter-deck.
That person soon made his appearance,
"What is the matter with our powder, Mr.
Citly?" erier Allen.
Nothing that Iknow of, sir--it is itt the
samte condition in which it came to ame.

4

" Nofdapnrsin                      itthtm ine-no leil
there ?",.
"None, sir-it was never drei nr thn it is
Is nt this the  ate powidt'r which I tried
tlte ottier day, "ent to us byv t'h go;ernoo' '
latde iteh' of itntzas 1"''
''It is powder that he sent, sir ; b out that
white  he s'nt as a speimen YOu used on tri-
ali."
"t y (dod !cant th'vi lauin have given ius
wortilesspowder so as to crippIe us? Try
treble loads of this, and see what we can do
wit iit," irraned fi(Allen, Who Was conit;need
that fh thal again tben overreached, i spite of
 " It is of no tie to trehle) the load; only so
much of' th mt'iiserafl itutn wil burn, sir," 'e-
phied titlint einant, nt 'r'trial h!ad been itade.
'Lit" in   taven for tte storm that is com1-
in". for cotiig it is, and fast; fir tiat only
ctitktet' us out of' this.serape. bitt I'll make
that rascally governcxr swat for this, or eat mtty
aoniint,1' cted All-n. " ait the retreat,
and iar :t tat  to secure  hip for a loiw.
Yot cantl'e xwivii lff atn eye t ait it is corning
'[fit' 'or ' trs we httily i ioel, for the
ntt wt  '+rn  y as in ail blaixlk with the
raittg- l;iadvant;'ergmu-d'ts of t h0 storms.  Ye
xvi wth' iIh v'-fe now lay idly r''e'm ot tie
"'a,[thsr , uV nt  mvl"id  noughito  fill a stil, or
Ins f it'1ti tie liy t  whido  t'oait't dropped
from  ii tI' tiun  firt ''.'   \ in t  lit '  itrtetdt  ow1
o     it  orit   t n uib'-tilt-i'ti  iiit, was h tetiWas
t _« y1-   -
lad  In fit m f i  efthelight, cania paof t and'
bx'f ti t  fti i'ail hatdbe'nltrt   on' f  i thetspas
of tlh nim, tiv he .',nmerican had not (only been
Ieldtitdl to i a elo: et'-r'ftd' lii'ntatdfunih onnetfted
fle iio  mt''.   itialr ito  sta sati l, iutI  ad_ got
hettis tilltnd 1il anf''ieita  n fhoused', and
tlyii'-Tp om ut t"iff  mtt g'ms 01housed,
t'i aPk ';l u lbh1 of'   aItill  aei ti ralt dcy  to meet
the hmt rwnut-
.  ll (o Collettrmas h l-d ont, apparently hopmn
ti gept nenn ;"cr tth lae-es lntatie imtendled to
have tatkeni.ii  uch a :1  lnii-pcould lbe ; or, per'-
haps m hiililpes ti a umi  a a irb or int somue well
known u sp51t  at ilthe  int:dala .
All it iwaS tu' only a brave '  i-ntim, but a thior-
oun-I-"-amanii -othI m ie hspensabide rutistCs
mi ~ t. t h ,compomon 0'i~l pt 1 a navalhero : such a
011nei '" tas was-Niln, IDecatur orit Pauli Jones.
It L itt1,n ' w Ith ins  schoneriu, without1powder1,
ws-tl t n t  f  tm order ; buty  th iedter-.
Utile'It o o  p  lici  u  .r contr ,  n~t  t e
fsu t  l   e  hetlcr  aid  !hntm o   p   t,  r, if
manti, :an -  stt  I to  slt-helie  hadl  no  feari~t for a
-iMttry. Tide coulI Conly lbe done byidthe
preservais t ion oftis caas and lsptar:s.

Ihfaxing had his 'ss el b1ou1ght1- s11 itter'ly
head to the coniug gale, by the use ofLsweeps,
as could he done, Allen-with a ean twice and
([niet eye, but ant anxious heart-waited for its
comig ; now glancing    to the   southward,
where, the pirate, at last, was hurriedly short-
euing sad-and then looking to windward, to
see how soon the storm-king would be down
upon fon.
Not long had he to wait. Its distant roar,
like the tumultuous voics of auuimberless
multitude of mnaddene~d men, eang~ sweeping
over the waters ; the light fled from before its
ehon front ; the wat ers rose i a wall of foamy
ihite, as they felt its strong breath ; and the
oldest of those hardy seamen looked for a
sitr or a rope to clut cl lwhen it' gale should
strike their brave yet feteble craft.
"lod on all ! Two men at t10helmeh, and
when she 'veers, let her go before it. Let a
full gang of men stand by the sheets of the
sails set e" cried Allen, but a moment before
the gale struck them  ; and as he spoke, he
glanced toward th ' pirate, and saw flint she
hald n1ot got more than half of her canvas in.
he ii'xt second, she was shut out fromit his
(view - forl ihe storm with its deafenit- roar,
its bltidiig spray, its fearful, dmxnx ivmig
strength, was1upo)1 nelm.
ll nder-youwhl'o hiitd'r t  itt t I' blow,
whichil bends tIh  trees before yotr door, or
tears of a few of its leaves o' f w:s : i which
itay uiliip a r'ofaein Utawing, ori' t ettar of al nxw
tlenytldshmngles, and whte   merl111 It''or editor
someltun11eS terms a  t/ornado )- tutican11 have
1no ila of a West indmt inrriene. Y OU
have he'ard 1p'ople 1osa,uVwhen it.rined very,
xeryv 'i' ., that itlouaesn' na id tlursI'
Wel, a luitricnodie ()ti', blow  it -  iican't
tell int it does. !It tents sky, tart Iwater,
air, all fit) J'ti'°s,11 tt)   tl inhutIl st to  i .t  Ive
seenl ltree; ' ttih  in  mx' t eiail t   lifttioe,
andl donut woihto see anet her, at any price.
For a mom enit,xi Ito eautiiti o'lioniere(011m-
(i overwheht o wh ihfl  u1  t f't1 ipra atid
foam ii pol lherl dcks,ato( :ul tie iethit oftitm
wlichI siieeim tt 'ise'p down upon tat wr
than xover1 hr ; and hi lt'hoot i itn t xlof lift-
itt, seemed to go tinder, and tlie to gather
st'inii-board as if t.ho xwt 'c lid 'to tiuuder
her. But as the wind caut'il telit siaysail, but
sl lightly atfirst, inl a moment aft(r1 itoix' freely,
the bows egan to 'veer slowly at first, iteu
swiftero ntd sitte', until i i at fey Wmoiets she
was deal 1eforo it; d( (the shets, mtthvimg
Ibet'ti-en ed off1 b) strong and e llful men,
who receiv('(1  icir orders by shgns-for no
'voie could be heard there-sihe flow along,
with h r scant canvas fit  m  s, atil  no ain11to)its
1utmost strent      n  il a wst ee
so eturtully htid tsl txquiisites bclen tittetided
fto, t(hant. olo'txxwis iteotiitpl' itlytiiidethet l'cin-
fiolof' iei' h'lisnutun, wihile (i(lunhd open
water before them, as if there hail beenu but a
gentle bree blowi11g.
On, on she sped, for perclance half an hour,

44

.
,
im  i
^


OUR MESS; OR,

THE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF THE GULF.

in a darkness almost as dense as that of night,
while Allen and his officers kept close watch
for the pirate ; for the course upon which
they were driven was nearly or quite toward
where he had last been seen. Suddenly, close
aboard on their starboard hand, she was seen,
but for an instant: an almost dismantled hulk
--her hull encumbered with the wreck of
spars and tattered sails, yet driving in the
same direction as themselves.
Allen had time only to get a glance at the
face of Colcefrinas, who, white with rage,
shook his hand at him as they passed ; and
then they were separated, to meet again-
when, neither knew.
By signs, Allen now caused the crew to take
in both the main and foresail ; and had he
dared, lie would have brought the vessel by
the wind-for he asked no more now than a
chance to meet Iis foe, while his vessel was so
crippled that it could be boarded by Allen
without exposing the crew of the latter to the
batteries of the well-munitioned foe. But the
hurricane was ins its strength still, and no ves-
sel could have done otherwise than se d he-
fore it. his only hope was that it might lull in
time for him to take aback track, before his
enemy could so repair Iis craft as to be able to
work and manouvre his vessel. But on through
the long night she flew, until the noon of the
next day, when the wind died away into a gen-
tier gale ; and well indeed was it for that
brave crew that it (lid: for scarcely had a man
stepped above the rail when the welcome order
to make sail was given, than the cry of "land
ho l" was heard.
And there it was-the rock-bound coast of
Cuba--so close aboard, that two hours more
of that hurricane would have driven the brave
schooner upon it: and that would have been
the end of ier and hers.
-"It seems to me that this part of the coast.
looks familiar, sir," said the first lieutenant to
the young commander, as both were surveying
it through their spy-glasses.
"I know it well," said Allen ; "but where
our consorts have found a harbor is a mystery
to me. I can see the channel where they
were when we sailed, and the sea breaks high
upon the reefs which acted as a breakwater
there. But I see no sign of a vessel in shore
anywhere."
"Perhaps they have found a harbor under
the lee of s me of the islands near. I know
that neither Gregory nor Kearney would break
their promise not to leave, without they were
forced to do it by stress of weather."
"True. Fire a gun, and perhaps it will be
heard and answered by them!" said Allen.
"You forget, sir, that our powder won't
burn," said the lieutenant, with a smile.
"I do not forget, though, that I have a
small keg of Duponts prime rifle-powder in
my state-room, bought for my own private
use. Take that," replied Allen.
In a little while, a gun was loaded with this

powder, and its heavy report went thundering
over the water.
And not more than five minutes had elapsed
before an answering gun was heard, away in
shore, among the islands ; and soon a boat
was discovered making out from behind a
point toward the old anchorage. At about
the same time, a man who was aloft, fiddig
the main-royal-mast, sang out that he saw the
masts of vessels over the tree-tops ahead.
"All is right yet," said Allen. " As powder
is all we want, we can get it from them, and
stand out yet and catch our adversary, before
he knows that we have changed our ha lpow-
der for good, and his very suprise will n eaken
him."
"True, sir. We are indeed fortune-favored
on this cruise. Shall I make more sail-"
"No ; stand i, under easy canvas, till we
speak the boat. Perchance they can pilot us
into a better harbor, where a right s rest for
the crew and a chance to tauten our stretch-
ed rigging will not lessen our efficiency !"
In a short time the schooner reached the
anchorage, where the boat boarded her, prov-
iug to be one from  one of the other vessels,
which had foun .1 safe anchorage in a snmal bay
between the islands, and out-rode the gale
without a strain upon their cables. A hei at
once decided to run im there, and make his
preparations for going to sea with his consorts
i the morning-confident that the pirate could
not escape all three, if they took different
courses to intercept him ; for now, iii conse-
quence of the treachery in Iis supply of pow-
der, evidently known to, if not concocted by
Colcefrinas, he felt himself freed from all con-
ditionus to meet him singly, and itended-as
he had done at first-to hunt hun out nmsd de-
stroy hinm as he would a bloodhound, or any
other cruel, wortkless, and merciless least.
CHAPTER XXVII,
When, from his keen-eyed look-out aloft.
Colcefrinas first heard that the island of his
challenged battle-ground was in sighi, and also
that a sail which well he knew was the Alhi-
gator was also on the ground, his boy wars
more like that of a savage than a mi an. lIe
ordered a cask of brandy brought on deck,
and the head to be strived in. Then, with his
own hands, he stirred in pound after ponl of
gunpowder, a ter the manner of the old bue-
caneers, whose actions he loved but too well
to uitate ir more ways than one r; and drink-
rig first himself, bade each of the crew follow
irs example.
"  lere "-re cried, holding a drimking-cup
only used by him on such occasions as this, or
after some fearful battk--a cup composed of a
nUMAN SKULL-'' here is that we rmy drmik
the blood of our Yankee foes erc the un sets
ji the west, os' fie sup with the devil ir 13rim-
stone Hall below !"
With fiendish shouts tire pirate e--Crouwedd
up, and from that well-known cup, w itimure

than once had been reddened by the tide of
life, they followed their leader's draught and
toast!  And then they danced and sang
like demons, and drank until they were mad-
dened into tigers rather than men-if men they
ever were.
Meanwhile, Coleefrinas raved, and stamped,
and swore, because the wind did not blow
stronger to carry him more quickly to the
place where he supposed his victim would fall
into his power.
The curses of bad men avail not much-at
least this was the case with Colcefrinas, for the
more he stormed the less the wind blew, until
at last it died away, and his vessel rocked idly
in the calm. The look-out, who had come
down from aloft to get his allowance of grog,
had not noticed the taking in of canvas on
board the A merican, nor had any of the offi-
ers or crew been sufficiently observant to see
the now swift-rising storm.
And they had drank ; and Coleefrinas would
have raved until it had been upon them all
unprepared, probably, had not a new idea
struck his mind.
" We will board them in our boats !" he
cried. " They have no powder to hurt us, and
we can cut their throats like dogs as they are !"
Again and again the crew cheered ; pnd
Colcefrinas raised his glass to see how far
away she was. At first, he could not see her,
for. her 'canvas had been reduced, and she
seemed but a speck on the yet glassy sea-no
larger than a gull resting on its bosom. But
when he did, and saw that she had not only
shortened sail, but was also sending down her
upper spars, his seaman's sense at once return-
ing to him told him the reason, and a quick
glance at the swift-coming storm also made
him aware of the peril to his own craIt.
"Silence, fore and adft!" he shouted. "Let go
sheets and halliards by the run. Clew up,
brail up, haul down, and furl everything.
Work, curse youwork, or the storm will do
the work for you!1"
The men, thus urged by one who sel
dons spoke so much without dire necessity,
sprung to 'their work as rapidly as they could.
But some were half-helpless from drink; for
though combat would have manddened them,
they had no moral courage to meet this new
danger, and their brute strength left them,
The sheets and halliards were let go in a mo-
mrent, nod ninny men sprung aloft to furl the
sail. But before this could be half done, the
gale was upon them, and though their chief
shouted to them to lay down from aloft and
save themselves, not half wio went up could
do it, before the fierce storm came crashing,
with 'its thundering force, along--shivering
spars and rending sails like reeds and rotten
fibres with its breath. And men and spars,.
Went together over into the seething foans, and
the staunch vessel would herself inevitably
have gne under, had she not by clhnnce-drift

47

have happened to be heading directly from the
storm when it struck her. She buried for a
moment ; then, as her weight of spars went over
her bows, she staggered up, and, with all their
weight clinging to and clogging her hull, wal-
lowed on amid the fearful chaos bf the tempest
In terror at the fate of so many of their
comrades, and appalled by the suddenness of
the peril, the crew-who were left worked but
feebly in clearing away the wreck. She was
in this condition when, light and free, guided
like a bird before the wind, the American
schooner, which they had almost deemed their
prize, flew by them-their colors aloft, their
crew safe, their officers exultant, even amid the
storm.
Colcefrinas was almost mad enough to slave
himself, He shook his clenched fist at the
passing vessel, and shouted out his bitterest
curses ; but they eould  t rise even to his
own ear above the wild roar of the hurricane
And a moment later, the vessel was far ahead
in the gloom. le glanced at the compass a
moment, and muttered : "Let it blow so for
ten or twelve hours more, and her bones will
grate on Cuban rocks 1"
Then, with some of his best men under hi
immediate eye, he set to 'ork, with a seaman's
skill, to clear away the spars that were adrift
and to get the noble craft beneath him inte
something like working order.
CHAPTER XXVIUl.
In that grand but gloomy cavern-home-or
prison, should 1 call it - poor Maraquita de
Regla hardly knew the difference between day
and night, except as she might judge by the
time when two black mutes--or mutes they
seemed to be ; for they never spoke to her
except by signs-brought her food and drink.
No time-piece was there amid all the rest of
the luxurious furniture ; and if there had been
she would have paid but little note to time,
except to feel that the hours were terribly
wearisome and long.
One night-she judged 'twas night, because
some hours before her supper had been
brought-she woke from an uneasy slumber.
and started--for above her couch bent a tall
and stately woman, of rare and queenly beauty.
She was not regarding her with a look of extra-
ordinary kindness, nor yet with an expression
apparently other than that of curiosity. low
she came there, from whence, and for what
pumrpose-who she was, were all questions im-
mediately asked in Maraquita's mind; but not
responded to. The poor girl haud again some-
what drooped since Mariaano's last interview
with her ; for hope's is but a flickering fire,
and must be fed constantly to burn brightly.
Maraquita was about to speak, but the stran-
ger anticipated her:
"Do you love Eduardo Coleefrinas ?" she
asked.
" No I I loathe rhn " was the ready reply

46

4

k,
.Fri
_it
:
i
o                4
a
ti
; ; _ .
i
;
d
t
_#
1
i
}
f
d-Y

e'
;
.4
£
a:
=
',,77 }  #
Y333333t1*  #
:? i
a
gi


THE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF TUE GULF,

44

of the  ;pt ive ; and her look gave trele force
to hl' wr s' i.
- Itis iell ym dou  ! Tf you lad e(:ver dared
to love him i.tis' ho.ld have be en your re-
n ard' l ' 11ithe woman exhibited a dagger.
"h(1 tba th1an this cruel captivity !"
said  ardi';atu, with dignity.
" You  nail I free !'iMaiano, coimie 1ere !"
replied lh, wonan, who was none other than
Monona.
'd arsuino, who had remained hidden from
mlarnaqui a': : ihd by the curtamus of the couch,
nov stepl  i forwird.
"ialluno, I a 1it your 1lanlt' said Moniina,
.n .1 (uh] i  n"----but ' 0. f commandn. " You
w501l11ch11n' garmllnt wichjltthis girl, and reain 0I
in her pi. '.. ile dare oit huniarm yu, child !"
"sI do nit f r hiat he will, my umot her-I am
rx ady to do you bding !' said the youth.
Then, not iing tih  mods(1t blush which sud-
(l.my replaicedI the pialeness up11on Imuaraquita's
cleks. Maianou adledi :" IHave no fear, lady.
I1 am, like your 1li, a maiden ; but have worn
a boy' iu-b fin myi ' hlillool, by my moth-
es cominn1ind.   ert'em'hinei, she will explain to
von 1 h h I  o- coimmiandcd. INsit etveni my
nas't  o'Ie ha eve divined my sex. I pray you
Io eoxclhm; a ar't 'mont witIi me without fear
my digu i' a will ieCtiiaily aid in our escape
i1ir no oine omut00 noi0i where Mamnino goes.
Your bguri' a .mcl the samn as mmsie iii size
-your 1hai1r(11an m a-ilybearranged in the
-y1wya hij 1=11havel brough ancosmetic which
will give our face the hue' aevhi the sun and
wind11 giv 1n min". Do not delay, lamdy.
(oleeo.rimamss i ann iy, but l mmia reitrn ItI any
Pour:; and w' rS k r m1i'lives to itf nnet your re-
lease. Whit ne do, ust be (done quickly !"
It nii' dei imo moie au'iiimeiit to mam(ke imra-
quita didelde upon uur our. -n m'10further
words til o ha  n '1iter nation.
i 'm ridy-do litii ie as you will" sh'
isaid.
And as won, ii. Idhii they will, do wit hi a will
whit tiey wi/!, r1pidlIy, Si it ririiued but a
short tlle i0 1mk' the required transfer of
mgarnmel  mm;id ins Mmi'maiana-as We are now-" to
am1 her' ; lie ' mandi1(1 ihe o ilosne determining
the ummnounah'le amaceuline mii Spanish-inoVed
iro( 1thei ro , nio nw110 ouldl'11isi1have believed
stint h shl h.ad.' lii ivs bmeeon used( to the gar.-
me  5 shme wore.  Aruin'msiita, though nade
1m lonk ''ie0 0iliigly like what  laiano had
isemi. did l  n'mo i'. hiI the am.1e cise ; al-
shousgh;' h di1 y  bowell,onsidering, also, t mhat
1this  mthrtirm'    mainIiisquIrade 1im garmtinents
misemimil 10  11 1'  ''0.
1'siome, bini". n1 ;iiih  iwm niee1d delay uno Ion-
01' 1!  1111d 1t+nonac, imp1atienitly, t o Maraqu1ita.
'Tlake t his danger, Mariana 1'' said she to her
child. " I nele not tell Von how to Use it,
uiliid hi iuir lrii' Si 'iV io wrong1n m' Othee.!"
2mnrimmmmm iiil0 ook hi' glittei'ing weaponi, kissed
hher    er1111 ollysaluted M maraqulita with a.
b ror'thatlmade her blush through her new

cosmetic, and then waved them away.
A moment more, and they were gone.     a
was alone. For a iiimoienit the seemed to f i
weak and like a real wonmi, for a heavy sigh
broke from   her  b0soni, and tars caome ou
from  her great black eyes, and rolle'l down
mupon h'er breast. But sie hu  edi t he sigh,
shook the tears from   her c1bon lmshes, and.
moving before one of the massive mirrors,n S
ved herself from hcad to foot.
"   e  egla's child,'' she said, " is pretty
moie childish tham 1; yet not so beautildb
half! What will he smy whe hilie knows t L
secret so long an' so wnell ket 1 s tisi5 Im
been ? J t will be angry it her loss. mid-'1. t
chance, will slaya me !  I shall inot l'imk f '
the blow that com5les fro'm his hanIcm .  It h
must-not spurinmelie ust not di that !I1
can be his 'lax e if he loves me--his dieath i
lie despises nic ! 1 would h' we're lre-i 1
tired of captivity already ! But I wil try to'
sleep, and theni 1 may dream as I have dreamed
before--hiappy, such happy dra'mms !"
And, in a cLarel's way, lariadas ci hrsel t
upon the couch whereni piooi' Miaraqumitm had
tossed so 'estle.ly, mand11(  sso  mmn.s u11rmapped in 
mm profound sluimble-'.
And there, for' the prsenas't, we tmst lemimi
hier, while we turn again to tl' rough witersi
the sleepless ea.--
t1lAPTElt XXi  t.
The dmmy mm hihm iopn uiI ipon A !I at th b
anihora;' cioseni bl his cmonsoirtc, wasi- as clear
and pl       asciii. mm' ifi huica'ne mii  er' on si'cmu'red iii
tho. i'1litd1(1s.  It  'is aI ph'ntmmi a'omehar
faces mme huav se0n, n imits, i look omi tlhem,
apilrlmmi l' mro' magtmmim. lit 'io'ms iliof anger
or theliouds o. mwrathm01i. lm 1ioned biisiily for
Allein,. fo' 11010 i l   hit' li i' coni iorts. his' 1mmt
riv1     1.mm i'in a  ('hare  0osod:i mumim'i ioi imi place
of the nortlie  tr iwhichl lihe' himad east sove'-
boaurdl. Ands, smi'the in' soti highs iin thse eamt-
er sky, when he f1'sindi 1his craft onmeei amora
reidy, iist olnly fii' 'ca mbuit liii' mtm ism--ever'-
thing this time having iiis fairly toted and
overh'auled1 ; mmmd bf'onre it had realsnh  t mhe ei''-
ridian, he, with his consorts, was siaduuimgef
the coast, eacnoi  of t em  slimvergig to thi t
right and11  left-or, ini lore 1i'opi rer ers i  I
tthe eastward and westwt'arl-whil' he, with
keeneyed look-outs at the iitmmt-headls, t od on m
the couirsCie which  i' gale  hind mamrk' I  the Io
his bseadmiii'mul (rm' mmiwi+ hnmil ivl y  ipir is.
its ilmici-all ofhe lih h iut sliii mw.me spreada,
or such mit lemas htiiecould carryim los'Oe hui-
sd on a wind ; or the wind,111 (0hogh Ii lit um mm
hmdi not. changed in direebon.   aIs'' y n l' 1
floated  fronm ithe amim -- me-r long It peidant
streamed Iom time puiamk, hen cre s'eSmm'i as
light ini hemit s they had irolo1u'ionally e-n'm
saddened, when thiy fiouindI thrl' power worth-
less. Anl whein, er" ye, the Iald was out of
sight, the look-oits 'iig.hited a sail inda   iord,

OUR MESS; OR,

an involuntary cheer burst from every throat,
for the men seemed to think no other vessel
could be in their path thai that for which
they were in search.
On. more, and this time with.a heart beat-
ing strong with hope and ambition, Allen gave
the'"der to teat to quiartrs, and the men and
officer.  rang to their stations with an alac-
rity which proved their anxiety to be at
work to be at least equal to his own. The men
were at once put to exercise, while the vessel
rapidly clove the water in the direction of the
just-dnecovered sail.
Allen, taking his telescope, went forward to
examine her, and when he saw that it was a
vessel almost entirely dismantled, he did not
doubt but that it was the pirate ; but wonder-
,d why a man like Colcefrinas should not
have sooner got up jury-masts and put her
into something like working order.
While he was ints cogitating, the look-out
aloft announced another sail in sight, a little
$          to windward of the first ; and without having
occasion to awk any'questions, -Allen at once
.ow the other stranger, -which appeared to
have been under little or no canvas, and had
thus been unnotice . Bun now, as if by magic,
her taut spars were covered with canvas,
and she seemed to haul up on the same course
which the Alligator was heading.
Allen didl not need superhuman sagacity
to understand how matters stood. He recog-
nized the " Pilot" by her build and rig in a
moment., and knew ~mtuitiv, lv that the dis-
mantled vessel was some fortunate mer-
olhantman which had been taken by the pirate-
perhaps been entrapped by her signals of dis-
tress, and her spars, sails, rigging, etc., used
to refl~t the storm-disabled schooner.
But sad as the t ought was, that the crew
of the merchantnan might have perished, per-
haps even then lay bleeding on her decks, Al-
len only joyed at the sight of the vessel be-
yond, and in his hones soon to have her under
his batteries. But'why, when thus evidently
ready for action, she should fly from him in-
steal of awaiting his approach, at first aston-
ished him; but comprehending that the sails
of his consorts were in sight yet, his wonder
eeassd ; and that especial y,"when he saw
that they had altered their courses, and had
hauled on a wind in his direction. He now re-
gretted that he had not left them at their an-
ehorage and sought the adventure alone. But
it was too late for regrets. Having the retreat
beat, he directed the energies of officers and
men to trimming the sails and doing all that
could be done to increase his speed. The en-
emy was at least five or six miles to windward;
and well he knew that the chase would be a
long one if Colcefrinasso willed it-for the two
vessels, if trimmed aright, were nearly equals.
- aIn less than an hour from the time when
she was first sighted, Allen was close along-
side of the dismantled vessel, which proved, as
he supposed, an American     merchantman,

schooner rigged and Baltimore built ; and she
had served but too good a purpose for the pi-
rate when she fell into his power. Not ai hv-
ing soul from her greeted the approach of the
man-of-war, and Allen was too eager in his
chase to pause to board her. That he left for
his slower-sailing consorts to do. But he ran
so close that he and his crew could see the
dead bodies of the butchered men, who had
composed the crew of the unfortunate vessel,
and more than one oath was reistered to
avenge the 'hapless creatures.
The breeze grew fresher as the vessels stood
off, and they soon had all they could do to
carry top-gallant sails with "a clear full " on,
and the white caps danced merrily on the
crests of the huge blue waves.
From time to time Allen sighted the dis-
tance between the two vessels with his sextant,
to see if he gained ; and frequently was he
tempted to fire a challenging gun'to wind-
ward, to try and taunt his foe into bringing to
for battle. But he wished, so long as lie could,
to keep the latter from becoming aware that
he had good powder on l1oard; and as he was
very fast dropping his consorts astern, he
hoped every hour to see the pirate heave to
and give him a chance to close.
But night was fast approaching, and lie be-
gan to fear that the'wily villain intended in-
(Ieed to fly, and in the coming darkness might
escape, when, while yet the sun was an half
hour or more high, and the rails of his con-
sorts almost out of sight astern, the pirate was
seen to take in his top-gallantsail, biil up his
foresail, and make a show of preparation for
action, by running off with the wind a little
free.
Cheers broke from the lips of the American
crew when they saw this, for they felt that the
ong-desired hour was now at hand.
"Oh, for a few hours more of daylight!"
muttered Allen, to himself, as lie glanced at
the height of the sun.
"She will be ours before dark, sir I" ! d
the first lieutenant, who had overheard his ex-
pression.
"Perhaps-but if she tries yet to escape
us, the coming darkness will favor her. Her
escape is all that I fear !" replied Allen.
Still standing can under a press of canvas,
the Alligator was soon within gunshot of the
pirate ; and then Allen began to trim in"his
canvas for work. The enemy did not opens
fire, undoubtedly waiting for Allen to try his
poor powder first ; but the latter determining
to hide the advantage which he knew lie had,
held his fire also ; and just as the sun began
to dip beneath the western waters, ranged
along the weather-beam of the pirate,. and+
within hailing distance.
Colcefrinas, dressed magnificently, stood'on.
the weather-rail of his vessel, and hailing,'said':
"I am waiting for you to open the ballwith,
a salute, my gallant Yankee I"
"Youishnlhave your desire,cii' lt'sho ,te

gp f
S ,
'-;
i
t  *

t
t
) ,4
i
t,
_s
. 1
t.4 r
1Z-
F
frr
'rtei
tr;
tit
Y
,
.3
3 g
.
t
s


OUI MESS; OR,

TIHE PIRATE-IUNTERS OF THE GULF.

Allen, and at a wave of his hand, to the utter
astonishment of the pirate, a crashing broad-
sie was poured into him, of shot not sent by
Mzatanas powder.
"Hell aind furies! .l)e Regla has played me
fihise !" shouted Colcefrinas,as he sprung to
the helm himself, to put it hard-a-lee, to save
his vessel from being raked by the American,
which was wearing around his stern, while the
umn were hurriedly reloading the batteries
jut firedd"
And the pirates, who, taken altogether by
surprise, at first were panic-struek, now sprung
to their guns ; and on both sides the firing be-
came hot and lieavy
And now the skill of the two commanders,
as well as their bravery, was brought into
play. Allen, finding that he could not so ma-
nouvre as to rake his wily foe, sought to make
the conlict brief by boarding him. But Col-
refrinas, much as lie would have desired it had
his crew been full, had lost too many men in
the storm, and in the unexpected broadside,
to risk a hand-to-hand encounter; and he only
sought to hold his own until night set in,
that lie aight escape in the darkness. Pass-
ing forward among his gunners the order to
cripple the American in his spars, he nianaged
by skillful manouvres to buffle Allen in every
attempt to getalongside. The gunners of the
Alligator, only thinking of sending as many
pirates as they could to eternity, poured in
their grape and canister, and it was not until
it was too late that Allen found that only
round and chain shot were returned, to knock
sway his spurs and cut his rigging.
Darkness had come on, although from the
veryP commencement of the action both vessels
hid been in the darkness of a cloud of smoke,
when suddenly the lime of the pirate ceased-
although it had been tremendously heavy
until the very instant before it stopped.
"She has surrendered !" shouted many a
voice on board the American; and more than
one dying tar lifted his head to hear those
words-more than one man sorely wounded
ceased his groans, as they heard the cry.
But poor Allen, who though twice wound-
ed would not leave the deck, gnashed his
teeth in very anger at this silence, for he knew
that his almost conquered foe was creeping
away from him under cover of the night. And
the  reports which came to him of crippled
spars told him that he could not, even could
he see his enemy, pursue him, until new spars
had been sent up, others secured, and new rig-
giugg rove,.
The crew could hardly realize, in the utter
silence which succeeded the thunder of broad-
sides, and the yells of fierce combatants, that
their enemy had crept off; and it was long be-
fore they would believe it-long before they
eyesed to look for the flash of his guns, or to
listen for sounds betokening that he Was in
the vicinity. It seemed impossible that he
could have gone off so still.

The loss of the Alligator in amen was not
near so great in the action as would have been
supposed, when she had been almost yard-arm
and yard-arm in action for a half hour or
more - but the very means taken to cripple
her spars, saved her men?
CHAPTER XXX.
The Alligator once more lay at an anchor
in the bay from whence she sailed before her
combat with Coleefrinas, as described last. It
had been necessary for her to run in to repair
damages, but her consorts were actively croi-
ing outside, and she soon expected to join them,
and Allen yet hoped to test the prowess of the
pirate chief in another combat.
Allen was below with O'Shaughnessy look-
ing over his daily report of the wounded and
sick, and hearing his verbal statement of their
condition, when a messenger front the officer
of the deck announced that a boat had shown
itself some way in land; with a white flag
fying.
"hoist a white flag, sir, at our fore to en-
courage the boat to conic on board, and if it
comes, assure its crew that their flag shall be
re1sected!r" said the young commander. "I
will be on deck in a moment !"
"Whew! I wonder what'll be done next by
the murthern' spalpeens !" said O'Shaugh-
nessy. "They're like that sort o' Christians
that sare the Lord of a Sunday, and onlid
Nick the rest o' the week 1"
"how do you make that out, doctor?"
asked Allen, with a smile.
" Why sure, cap's dear, haven't they been
a wearin' the black flag all the while, and now
raise the white one for convaynience. 1 hope
they're wanting a doctor to cure their big thafe
o' a leader !"
"Would you volunteer, doctor?"
"Only let 'em try me once, sir !" said the
doctor with a look that indicated a desire to do
something desperate-but as it was directed
toward the brandy-decanter oitmthe side-board,
A llen invited him to take something to drink)
wie' he did without any apparent reluctance.
When Allen reached the deck, the boat with
the white xlag had already been-alongside, and
leaving a young man on the deck, had instantly
shoved off, and pulled away.
"What does this mean, and why did not the
boat remain ?" asked Allen of the officer of the
deck.
"I know not, sir, perhaps this young man
can explain-but I see that he is blindfolded,
perhaps he is a released captive l"
"Few of their captives are released but by
the hand of Death .' said Allen, as the sup-
posed young man, finding himself free, tore off
the bandage from before his eyes with his own
hands.
A low cry of surprise broke from the lips of
the stranger, and Allen who had little expected
such a meeting, or such pleasure, cried, inms-
tonishment:

" Ieavens !You, senorita-you here, and
irm fromtl the por of Colceefinias ?"
r.im-uita ie Rerla-it could be none other
-ave him one look, then as if struck down
1-v tie suddenness of her joy, fell senseless to
tie deeek.
Allen, heedless of all but her, caught her up
in lir  ii arms, and bore her into'the cabin,
ealling to Doctor O'Shaughnessy to follow him.
")o all von can to restore her, sir-do it
quickly !" he said, as he laid hist fair burden
down upon the cushioned transom seat.
"is it a ier, cap'n, and in boy's clothes,
too ? Slie's miighty purty for a pirate !"
"Silence, sir, I wish no observations, but the
muse of your skill, sir !"
' Tien, eap'n, if you plaze, either take off
heu jacket, or else rip up the slave of it-it's
bladm n' cr I'd be after doin' !' said the doe.
tor, rattier testily, for he did nat fancy either
thme eammtin's words or tone to him.
' She must not be bled-where is your sal
voh itile---here, steward, bring me some wine
dud water I Bear a hand with them !"
hlie doctor was about again to urge the ine-
cessity of his favorite practice-bleeding, when
the p) girl opened her eyes, and began to
recover without aid. Allen placed sone wine
and water to her lips, and as the flush of re-
turiiiig strength came out upon her cheek, he
turned to the doctor and said
 I cm dispense with your services now, doe-
tor! If I spoke too harshly, exese me-I was
,exti'umely alarmed for the safety of the lady !"
Ahm, eap'n dean, a rough word from  you
would never fray the silken cord o' f h-indship
tat hinds me to you. Deuce the bit. If the
young lady, sir, should feel nervous, if you'll
take my poor advice, a drop of smooth ouild
barily would set her all right. I've some tip-
top f mat I got from onld'Mother Mallony i
Ky West !" said the doctor, and lie bowed
hiomelf out of the cabin.
"Teil me h-ow you escaped, dear lady, and
hy what strange good fort mie I have the hap-
liiiess to recieve you here !" asked Allen, the
moment that lie was left alone with the lady.
a Seior, I scarcely kno w. I was his cap-
tive--anm free ;but why I became free, I ant iot
fully certain, But I believe the jealousy of a
ii    m nss or wife af his has been the happy
cause.  Whatever it was, I bless Ieaven that
1 am  free and safe, for beneath your flag I
know I will be protected!"
With my life, and that of every one on
la) wh, dear lady. But when did you see this
mole-r-can you give inc Io directions by
whmoh I may trace him to his haunts,and there
de   y hili ?"
\Vould to Heaven that I could !" said Ma-
raquita. I have not seen hint for three or four
dae and then lie onhaid inc a visit to taunt
m- wit hiIis threats, saying that in three days
to s wamId ha your head, and then force me to
tieu'cegne his bride. He swore that you were iii
Ii s power, aid I trembled lest it was true "

" He thought so, and by treachery I nearly
lbecane so ; but he has learned his error,
and i' has cost him deiry !" replied Allen-in
generous kindness withholding the nature of
the treachery by which he had so nearly fallen
into the power of Colcefrinas. " But from
whence came you to-day ?"
From his main rendezvous, Ishouldjudge ;
for from the .atticed blinds of a house where 1
was kept some hours, I saw many vessels and
men. During the night before I had been re-
moved from a cave where he has collected im-
niense treasures, and where he had me confined
after I was taken with poor Captain Howard !''
"Where is lie ?
I know not. I have not seen him since the
hour of my capture. I have not been carried
anywhere without having my eyes bandaged !"
"The place of rendezvous cannot b far from
here !" said Allen, thoughtfully. " Have you
an idea of the length of time they were engaged
in bringing you here ?"
Not inure than three or four hours, cer-
tainly !"
"''hen I will have this coast scoured o
closely that it whereabouts cannot fail to !3e
learned. That done, and the infamous wretches
shall be exterminated ! But dear lady, how to
make you comfortable will be my first thought.
Should you desire to be sent to Matanzas-"
1 I have no such desire, sir ! I fled from my
father's house to escape his tyranny, and a
forced union with a man whose crimes he
knows, and the profits of which I fear he
shares. But I know you are too noble and
generous to use this belief of mine against
him !"
I would not harm him for the world, lady
-if I wished, I have grave cause to do it. But
for your sake I ignore that all ; and if you will
give mc the bliss of becoming lawfully your
protector, the moment that duty will permit, I
will sail for a port where we can be united !"
" The heart which has so long been yours,
trusts to you entirely !" said the lady, frankly
-for hers was not the nature, nor was she of a
nation that is icy, or backward in expressing
the strength of its passions.
CHAPTER XXXI.
"Madre de Dios !   What, what does thi
mean? Your vessel, with the evidences of re-
cent combat in her pierced hull and sails,
brought to an anchor in our port. in broad
day-light ; and you, armed to the teeth, stalk
through the town and into the palace, as if you
were lord of both I"
These words, half in anger, and half in ter-
ror, were spoken by Don Garcia do Regla, to
the pirate chief, soon after his escape from
Allen. And it. was no wonder that the audacity
and fear ess boldness of the pirate astonished
as well as frightened Dc Regla. The fact that
his was not a national vessel, though on this
occasion she wore Spanish colors, must cone
out; and Dc Regla knew not how to act,

50D

f
S,

,4
-;  ..


OUR MESS; OR,

" I did not come here to answer questions,
Garcia dc Regla, but to ask them!" said Colce-.
frinas, stern's. "Why, did you give that infer-
nal Yankee good powder?'
"I did nqt ! lie was supplied with the
damaged !"
'"Garcia de Ieg'a, you need not lie to me
"Lie?   Do you dare to use such language
to me?"
"Ay, worse than words! I have lost more
than half my men by your treachery! I ran
my vessel right under his broadside, and
taunted him to fire, when my crew was already
weakened by disaster, intending to cut him up
at leisure, believing the word that you sent
was true, and that his powder was worthless !"
"The powder which I- furnished him was
" The loss of more than half my men prove
that!" said the pirate, bitterly.
"Ne may have got powder elsewhere !" said
d?)e Regln, who, for many reasons, wished not
to excite the pirate more.
"Impossible! lie has been in no port but
this. It is your treachery. Garcia do Regla,
E see through it all! You have tired of me
and our compact, and thought to be rid of me.
But mark you, Colcefrinas, the master of fif-
teen hundred daring men, and more than fifty
millions of dollars, is not to be destroyed in a
moment. You are in my power-body and
soul-you are in my power, sir! your child is
in my hands, and if I take ten thoughts upon
the subject, I will probably feel more than half
inclined to take you and hang you before her
facen "
"You are going too far, sir !" said the mar-
uis; for Vastillian pride, as well as some na-
tive courage, began to come back to his aid.
"Were I but to breathe your name, or the
oharacter of your vessel here-"
"Well, what then ?" asked the pirate, with
3 sneer.
The marquis did not know what to say.
"I would tell the people and the soldiers
that their Intendente was my compaiero-that
he was an old hand at the trade, and that if they
didn't want their town burned up, they would
beware how they angered Colcefrinas ! And
the--they would tremble as you do now,
Garcia do ReglaI!"
"1 do not tremble, or if I do, it is with an-
ger, not with fear!" said the old Spaniard.
"A child's anger is not dangerous. But call
insome wine, De Regla-I am thirsty ! I came
hero hot, and you've said nothing to cool me
yet!"
"When will you leave this port ?" asked the
marquis, not heeding the demand of the
other.
"When it so pleases me-not before. I
called for wine. Will you order it, or shall I
ringfor a servant ?"
"I will order refreshments ; I would do that
sf the devil asked them. But suppose the
Mericaa fleet were to come in he-'e now ?"

"I would run my vessel under the guns of
your fort, and make you protect me."
"1«jake me ?"
"Yes; or else drag you on board, and blow
you, and myself, and all that's dear to you, up
together."
"Is my daughter on board of your vessel :'
"Igo ; she is where she is treated like a
queen, and will be, so long as she and her fa-
thier behave properly. But I have not done
with you in regard to that powder."
"On my honor, I swear !--"
" Tush !  Swear by something tangible--
sa'mething that exists."
"I tell you, by my honor as a Castilian-..
by every tie that is binding on earth or in
heaven, that I gave him the poor powder !"
"Then he has made it good by some Yan-
kee trick ; for 1 had all that I could do to es-
cape him. had he been favored with an hour
more of daylight, it would have been my last
cruise !"
hind the mar '% expressed the wish that
was in his heart, it would have been, that Al-
len had been favored with suflicient light to
have put Colcefrinas out of his way forever,
But lie did not ; and ordered wine and bran-
dy from a servant who answered the bell he
had rung.
" You would like to know why I came a:
here ?" said Colcefrinas, after he had tossed
off a bumper of brtndy-iguorings the wine
in its more potent presence.
" I would."
"I had to, to repair damage. 'lheYan..-
kees, though they do not know it, are block-
ading my main port-where, just now, all of
my force is assembled. I must refit some-
where ; and here was my best chance. I shalh
pass as a Spanish privateer, which has been
in action with a Mexican main-of--war - and.
with your aig the matter can be carried out
fery easily."
"And you expect me to aid you in this do-
ception?"
"I do not only expect it, but I deniand it
and you dare not refuel me !"
-" I dare!h-if it costs my life, I dare !" said
De Regis, taunted into desperation.
"The future Governor-General of Cuba-
perhaps Prime-Minister of Spain - iorgets
himself !" said the pirate, sarcastically ;.e" and
perhaps he also forgets certain bonds for
government moneys squandered, which are
held as a safe-guard by one who never trusted
him beyond the length of a cLain-eable !"
The marquis groaned; Ih i sew he was in
the power of that bold, bad  an, and lie did
not indeed dare to thwart his will.
" If I consent, you will hasten you depart.
ure, will you not ?" he asked, at last.
"Of course I will, if you are reasonable. I
have no desire to tarry long in port-I have
too much work ahead, But I shall depend
on you to answer the demands of my officers ;
for. I must run down by the overland route,

a'd see my me, .If you have a message to
your daughter, I will bear it."
" I wo ki rather you would bring her here !"
said the marquis, sadly. "lre she will be
safe-and you know not how dear to meo she
is. I- did" not know, until her absence told
inc !"
"She shall come here only after she is my
bride !" replied the pirate.  When these
Yankees have been driven o'ff, and she isnmine,
you shall see her decked and jewel td as a
queen !"
CIIAPTER XXXII.
" I have nev, r counted hours-niinutes-'--
before ! lavs I may have noted: heeded
months; but 1 have never felt that every see-
ond was an age ! 0 11eaven ! how must time
drag to those who are bound for weary years
within a dungeon's walls ! HIte or she were
more than a coward who would endure it, and
possess the means of death.within their reach.
Have been here for but a day or two--a few
hours, and yet am miserable. Why does he
not cone, that 1 may know my fate at once."
The sound of footsteps interrupted this wild
soliloquy ; and Mariana, who uttered it, turn-
ed toward the door of her glittering prison---
well knowingr, by the hasty, heavy tread, who
was approaching. A moinent iore, and he
entered, urted as lie Lad been when he last
stood in the pr sence of Garcia de tegla, but
now coy, red with the dusty stains of hasty
travel.;
" Well, lady, I have brought you a message
froni your father," said Coleefrinas. not recog.
nizii the change of persons as he entered the
lighted room. " I hope you will be thankful
for it, and not attempt to carry your head
quite so high as you did whes last I niet
you !''?
" I have dreamed that my father slept in a
bloody grave !" said Mauiano, in the tone
wlic'l he had heard froni Mariano's lips a
thuso l times-a tone snot quite so rich, but
a thousiul I tiles more deep iand thiri-nibg than
that of o rdiniry women.
'lhe pirate sprung forward and caught her
by the arm, looked at her fiercely for a mo-
metnt, and then cried:
" how dare you, sir, to masquerade w:th
me! I have allowed you too much liberty
hitherto !  It shall he lessened materially.
Where is the lady ?"
I am the only lady here," was the reply,
given in so low and street a tone, with down-
cast eyes and a blush so natural, that Colce-
frinas felt for an instant inclined to believe
that a woman indeed stood before him ; but
this he could not, for Mariano had from child-
hooh served him, and lie had never doubted
that he was a boy.
A woman, with all of a woman's heart e.-
cept her fears !" continued Mariano. And
she drew her proud foi-m up, and looked so

much like what heri mother had been when
first she attracted his passion, that he re lead
her arm and drew back.
"You act well. But have done with this
mummery ; I am not in a humor to be trifled
with now, sir !" said the pirate. , "Where is
the lady Maraquita, whom I left here ?"
"That is more than I can tell: she is not
here. When I came she went away."
"Villain I have you aided her to escape ?"
cried the chief, trembling with anger.    -
"I exchanged garments with her, and she
is free."
"Curse you-you shall die for this I" shout-
ed Coleefrinas, as he drew a pistol from his
belt.
Fire !" cried the excited girl, as she bold-
ly tore open the silken robes, and revealed a
spotless bosom, which all too well proclainied
her sex. "Fire! and pierce a heart which
for years, in silence an I sorrow, has throbbed
only for you--dark, dark and sinful though it
has been ! Why do you not fire ?"
The hand of Colcefrinas fell powerless t.
his side.
" What does this mean ?" hle 'asked, trem
bling. " Is it a miracle ? You are not the
Mariano who for years have been near me-
the Mariano whom I fou--d but a mere child
wit its mother ?"
I am that thild ! For reasons of her own
which she may explain, butt eannnot, my
mother has ever made me conceal nv sex un
til now; and now, that it is revealed, -hsn
Mariano ot longer, but MAinuaN-and stihl
your slave !"
And tearfully, timidly, she knelt, and tools
his hand and kissed it.
"So your mother is at the bottom of all
this !" he said, thoughtfully. ' Andthen ho
turned upon his heel and left the room ; while
she s ill remained kneeling.
She rose a moment after, and rushed to the
door to follow hit: it was barred, and she
yet- remained a prisoner.   With a low cry
of anguish, idhe t :ned back ; and, easting
herself down uponi the carpet-covered ground
sobbed and wept as if her Ih at would break
She was indeed a woman now.

CHAPTER XXXIII.
Ihe queenly manner, as well as the rare
beauty of Monona, gave her much power
among the lawless followers of Colcefriuas ;
and regarding her as his wife,annd onee'lcvoted
to him and his interests, in his absence they
were in the habit pf obeying her comimantds,
and in tunes of tlhratened peril of seeking her
advice. When he had sailed in-the captured
schooner on his last trip, -he had told her, as
well as his followers, that if he was successful,
he would be back in five days, anti then would
lead them against the rest of their blockading
foes, But the five days, and even more ttne

THE PIIRATE-IIUNTERS OF TIlE GULF.

_. ,
;

3     L
Y fi   ,:
M1{tFh

":
:1

r _i
2 S ,
ylz
6, 1f 4
it
1
i
i aY}
e
{{t f.
B:
R =p
t 'i!
i
. 4
'E
t" a;
kL'1'
y.


THE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF THE GULF.

had elapsed, and he had not returned, though  better judgment prevailed. She knew that a
the spies had seen the Alligator come back to  storm must come, and she preferred to brave
her anchorage with the marks of a severe con- him alone rather than before the men. So,
fliet visible in her hull and among her spars. with an air as of one deeply pained, which she
The excitement of the entire band of pirates well knew would excite sympathy for her, she
was now intense ; for so fares such lawless men  turned away and re-entered her residence.
could feel, they felt attached to their leader.  "Men! retire to your quarters ! When I
He was, indeed, their ruling spirit. Tie had  need your services, you will be called !"
led them ever on to victory with a lion's cour-  These were all the words Colcefrinas uttered ;
age ; and when danger had environed, had   and the men were so used to obedience, that
drawn them from   its meshes with a cunning  they obeyed instantly. But there werc many
brain and a skillful hand. They felt that if he who were not well pleased with so curt a dis-
was lost, they, too, must follow-for in himn missal-thinking at least that tiey should have
alone had they full confidence. Others there  heard of the result of his recent cruise, and
were as brave, but none so fitted for command. tIhe fate of those who had gone with him.
Upon Monona they now called ; for the uni- But he was not in a humor to seek to please
versal wish of all was, to sally out and attack  any one, much less to care whether lie did or
the Aric" noan vessels in the night, carry them  not. lIe did not even appear to notice their
by surprise, and then to look for him. But looks of discontent, though little was there
too glad to have a chance to win their esteem, ever to be seen which escaped his observation.
and to gail power amongst them (for she knew
not howsoown she rghit need it), Monona-who
lad, as we have seeii already, sent Maraquita        CIIAPTER XXXIV.
out of her way in a boat, manned by men      " Well, sir-you said you had business to
whoni she had eontr'ived long before'to win settle with ie here--I ma ready for I lie settle-
completely into her own service-at once ne- meat," said Monona, when Colecefrinas entered
ceded to their wishes.                     her room.
" Armi yourselves, my brave free rovers,   She had neither laid aside her weapons, nor
ind von shall be led to victory by the wife of the haughty look which so well became them.
your chief. If I ai not as strong of arm as  " Where is Maraquita do liegi ?" lie asked,
he," she cried, " his heart is not more fearless fiercely.
than I ; and none of you will shrink to follow  "Do you ask of that of one whom you wid-
whet'rc a woman leads !"                   owed to make her your own--one, whom you
This announcement was received with many  have sworn was the mistress of your heart and
a thundering dicer from the men ; and hasten- the nartner of your fortunes, were they bright
ing to arm t hemselves and hp'e)are their boats, or dark ?"
they swore to follow her to death, if it were  " Where is Marquita de Riegla?" lie thun-
there she led them. I                      dered.
They had gathered together, ready for em-  " What is she or should be to you ?"
barkation. And when Monona, dressed more     " For the third and last time, I ask you,
like a Grecian warrior than a woman, and arm- Where is Maraquita de Regla?"
ed with sword, dagger, and pistols, made her  " What will you do if I do not answer ?"
appearance in their front, they received her  "Cut the tongue off that refuses to reply to
with boisterous cries of gladness.         my bidding!"
But suddenly there was a hush ; and as Col-  "That were a dangerous experiment to try
cefrinia himself appeared, and with a stern just now, Eduardo ! You see that 1 am armed
face confronted them, ,they were silent from  as well as yourself. And my mood is none too
surprise. For they hind expected him from  amiable, while I feel that I arm wronged by
seaward, and liehad come from the direction 'him who should be the last on earth to add to
of the mountains.                          wrongs which I should never have either for-
"\What means this wild hurrahing ?" he given or forgotten--wrongs which may yet be
asked, sternly, " Who commands here ?"     aveiged, for while life lasts it is not too late."
" Colcefrinas does now-but I should have   Coleefrinas withdrew his hand fromim the dag-
done so, when fearing that he was slain, we ger's hilt where he hind placed it. For hers
were about to go and avenge him, and drive was upon a pistol, and he saw that in her fiery
time Yankees fromni our coast, or slay them  glance which told him but too plainly, a m-
wvhere they lurk ! Who has a better right tion on his part would induce lier -to use the
than your wife-?" was tlie proud( reply of Mo- weapon.
none.                     -                   Monona!," said he, more gently after a
" Woman, your place is in the house ! Go pause, "youi are acting unwomaenmlike and fool-
there--I have sons business to settle there cish!"
with you directly."                          " Unwomnanlile, p'rhaps-hu-lt not with fol-
?Mhsonna's 'eri, ey -stlaashied, for lie spoke in ly," s. replied. ' Usiaomanlike, beecau1e I do
a iione of s3'ruifo'i: ange ; asun for a5 moment ant   bov myl he-ad in tear-s andh siliI to the
atr re- ply treibled upou ier lips. but lie  leepest wrong which a woman can endure-to

be supplanted by another. Unwomanlilke, be-
cause I dare to look with bitterness on the past,
and to determine to right myself when my
only protector rises to wrong me. Or do you
mean that I was unwomanly when I armed to
lead your men against your foes, and avenge
your loss-if lost you were, as they feared and
I almost hoped !"
"Hoped, -Monona-hoped I was lost ?"
"Yes, Eduardo-yes, better the loss of your
life and mnmine, than to be awakened thus rudely
from the dream of love which has made me so
happy."
And Monona's voice began to tremble and
her eyes to moisten. Coleefrinasrsaw that the
woman-nature wVas struggling to comie back,
and with wily art he threw out a decoy to bring
it further.
"You have not lost soy love, Monona !" said
he.
" Why, then, did you seek to wed this I)e
Regla's child ?"
I did not mean to wed her. I held her as
a hostage for her father's faith, for I had rea-
son to doubt that ; and if we have no hold on
the government officials, our homes here would
soon be too hot to hold us. Besides, there
would be no market for our plunder, were iot
they our friends."
" You need not try to deceive me, Eduardo.
I have known your movements too long."
"You do well to talk of deceit, madam, who
have deceived me so long, and kept your daughc-
ter as a spy ulpon ily motions."
If you termn that deceit by which I have
concealed her sex, I um willing to bear the
blame of it. So far I have preserved her from
the wrong which has wrapped me in shame ;
and I hope I have given her a courage to pre-
fer death to dishonor."
A new thought-a new means to subdue the
tigress temper before him, suddenly flashed, as
all things had come, upon-his mind.
"Do not think that I regret to have discov.
cred your secret, or rather'to have learned the
sex of your ehild. She is very pretty-very
like what youonce were," said he, and a quiet
smile stole over his cold face.
Not new the jealous fears of a woman, but
all of a mother's nature was aroused, and Mo-
nona, pale as marble, threw herself at his feet.
" Oh ! for the love of lIeaveh ! do not hint
tiht she--s/cc, my child, will suffer wrong at
your hands-! I know that no priestly lips
have ever pronounced the nuptial benediction
for us-but oh! have we not been as man and
wife in the sight of Heaven for long, long years?
Eduardo-Eduardo! speak ! You do not con-
template this dreadful wrong ?"
"Where isMaraquita do Regla ?" he softly
asked, for he felt that Monona now would not
refuse an answer.
" She has gone on board of the American
schooner, at anchor off the coast," sobbed the
woman,

"Ten thousand curses on you! Have yout
given her up to him-to my deadliest foe?
hall he conquer me in everything? Off, wo-
man ! cling not to me now-off!"
And he cast her from him with a force that
left her stunned and senseless on the floor.
i did not pause to look at her, but sternly
strode from the house. Meeting his principal
officer, he asked:
" What was the plan of the expedition which
you were about to undertake when I returned,
Solano ?"
"A night attack upon the Yankees in Tor-
tuga Bay, my chief. There are but three ves-
sels; and if we took them unawares, we could
kill every man or run them overboard !"
"That is so. I have left the schooner in a
friendly port to refit, and I would have liked
to have had her crew in the fray. But it mat-
ters not ; we have men enough, and the attack
must be made in boats. Muster our forces at
once, and tell them that we will take those
Yankees this night, for I will lead the expedi-
tion!"
Ay, ny, sir ! It will be the best iews
they've heard in a year.  low soon will we
start, sir ?'
" It will be dark within an hour-let all
things be lpreparel within two. That will give
us time to board them when they sleep the
soundest in the nu(l-wateh ! Let the oars be
muffled, and none but able men allowed to take
an o'ir. This time we fight for safety and for
revenge, not for profit."
The officer hurried away to obey the orders
of his chief, and the latter returned into his
house, for he had.met the oilieer beneath the
window, and but a step fromi the door.
As he passed through the room where he
had left poor Monoiia, 'he looked u)on the
floor, but she was not there. She had recov-
ered sufficiently to go from there. Ile went
into the room where he usually sat, and where
a sideboard was placed,ponm which stood de-
canters of wine, brandy, etc. Of the last
he took a brimming goblet, iiiuttering as he
drank : "I will have her yet! Ilis life or
mine this time."
Where is your mistress, Lisa ?" he asked
of servant, who entered.
"She hasjust gone into her chamber, leior 1"
replied the negress.
" It is well! That is the best place for her,"
muttered the fierce man. And he woninto his
armory to prepare himself better fr lie even-
ing's work.
CHAPTER XXXV.
By good fortune Allen had several trunks of
clothing on board, which had been taken from
a vessel partially robbed, and deserted by
pirates ; and in a short time, by the aid of these,
the lady Maraquita was enabled to robe herself
in a manner becoming her sex. le was then

K
j  4
'4y
}C
t
f
i'
;t
h3
,i   .
3
3 r
{
Y t
r '
ii
' 1,
,P
1
( r
. !
. t ;'
.
4  1%
_
T  ± X
$
f!
I
e,  ,
s
1
t  :
( i
} Z
#7 t
~[S  '
9' _
1:
fr
t
Yf
.t
F

;
irk
-                               t k
MV'                                 , 7 t
5   5
: r3
h
+ t

54

OUR MESS ; OR,

' t


TIE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF THE GULF.

less delicate about introducing her to his offi-
cers than he would have been had she been
forced to appear in her male attire. And lie
wished to introduce her ; for lie deemed it ne-
cessary to call a council of the chief officers of
the little squadron together, and to give them
information of the evident vicinity of a large
rendezvous of the pirates, as was proven by her
recent adventure.
The council was held ; and it was there de-
termined on the morrow to start a large boat-
expedition, which was narrowly to search
every portion of the adjacent coast, and to
penetrate any inlets, bays, or rivers which they
inlght find. As it was evident, too, that there
was danger of a surprise when a large body of
inc were so near, additional look-outs were
ordered, and it was agreed to hoist the board-
ing nettings alter dark, and adopt other usual
nrecautions. As the vessels lay anchored
almost load and stern in a line in the narrow
bay, their defence if attacked would be united,
while it would extend the attacking force. The
precautions were taken not because the Amer-
icans believed the pirates would really have
the audacity to attack an armed force, hut be-
cause it was their duty to provide against its
possibility rather than its probability.
The night was dark ; had it been moonlight,
Allen would have doubtless asked the lady of
his love to promenade the deck, now deserted
by all but the ofheer of the watch and the
usual andh r-guard---for in no climate in the
world are moonlight promenades more de-
licious than in that flowery land. As it was,
though, the hours flew on uncounted until af-
ter the mniight watch had been changed,
Allen and Maeaquita remained in the after-
cabin of the schooner, conversing, for neither
felt like parting, even for sluiber.
Suddenly the hail of a sentinel was heard,
shouting, boat ahoy !"
An answer was given in Spanish, and Allen
hurried to the decl;, for he felt almost intuit-
ively that it must be something serious to
bring a boat on board at that time of night.
On a second hail, asking where the boat was
from, and what she waited, at the same time
warning her not to approach without pernis-
sioni was granted, a female voice replied
erie to save you from surprise and
destruction! For your own sakes let me see
your cominimander, instantly
Allen gave t ie order, and in a few moments
the boat was alongside, and lie assisted a fe-
male over the side, whose form was concealed
as well as sheltered from the night air by a
large cloak.
Which is your carptaim? let inc see him
alone, instantly!" she said.
" Come into t he cabin, madam !" said the
young officer. Then bidding the officer of the
deck detain the boat in which she came until
further orders, he preceded her into that apart-
ment.

" Whom have I the honor of addressing, and
what may the news be you have to impart ?"
asked Allen, as he motioned the stranger to a
seat.
"That lady knows I am- I was - the
slave of Colcefrinas, until his treachery and
brutal treatment forced me to desperation and
revenge. At the risk of my life I have come from
his rendezvous with a faithful boat's crew, who
are sworn to my service. He will attack your
vessels within an hour, with at least one thou-
sand men, hoping to take you utterly by sur-
prise. If you repulse him you shall see me
again-if you slay him, and will let me have
enough to make me and my child independ-
ent in some far off land where we are unknown,
and guarantee us protection until we are free
from  this region, I will disclose the hiding-
place of his treasures. Now let me go, for I
must return and avoid his boats, or C am lost !"
" Can I trust in what this lady says '" asked
Allen of Maraquita.         -
I think you can. Her hand gave me my
freedom!" said the seinorita.
"Lady, would you not be safer to remain
here ?" lie asked of Monona. " 'ilus forewarn-
ed, we can easily repulse those who attack us.
and afterward I can better serve you, prhnapsm!"
I prefer to return, sedor-ny c li Id may
be in danger ; fom she is yet a prisoner, in place
of this lady !"
" It shall be as you wish. And you have my
thanks for this wrning!"
" I need no thanks, sciior! I avenge myself
in warning you. But, beware, be is even now
near!"
She waited no longer, but was gone in a mo-
ment. Allen saw her over the side, and then
hastened to send word to his colleagues to pre.
pare for the impending attack, and lhinmselfsu-
peinitended the acessary operations.  The
broadsides of the vessels were sprung so as to
completely cover the entrane of the hay-
the guns were depressed so as 10o sweep the
surface of the watter within pistol-shot-they
were loaded to the nmzzle with grape-shot and
bags of musket-balls-all of the sill-arms
were changed, and the crews of the guns sta-
tioned. All the lights, except those usually
shown by vessels at anchor, were put out, and
the strictest silence enjoined, so that those who
intended to surprise miight believe in their sue-
cess until it was time to turn the tables on
them.
The men and ofileers had ben at their
stations an hour at least-it seemed lon-er, for
suspense hangs weights to the wings of Time---
and as yet no sound of the expected enemy
was heard.
"I shouldn't wonder if that woman had de-
cieved us, and had only conie as a spy to see
whether we were prepared or not !" said his
first lieutenant to Allen, as the Ia ter leaned
against the quarter-rail in a listening attitude.
" hush--I hear the low dip of oars 1- Be

x
r,

ready to throw up the blue lights the moment
I give the worJ!" was Allen's low reply.     1
f To other ears t an those of one who watched
anxiously w.th tie hope of Paine in his heart,
thesoui is would have been inaudible, but
soon they beeaue so dist inet that at almost
the same mitoiment the. look-outs of the threeI
vessels hailed.
At that instant, a shower of rockets and blue
lights thrown up from Allen's vessel lighted
the little bay up with the glare of day, showing
its entrance illiel with  boats which were
stealthily pll)ing toward the me:.els-- boats
crowded with m'rmmed ien.
Ihitherto teIy hail heen silent as death, but
now, seeing thaiely were discovered, owth wild
yells and m naddening hiouts they dashed toward
the vessels.
The guns scarce needed sighting ;and in a
minute, w ith one terrific s hee of fire-one
earth-aid-acan-shakiing  sonI, the united
broadsides sen  the r freight of ironand lead
among the miserable wriethes. While yet the
wild echoes rolled from isle to isle, the erash
of splintere 1Iboats, the shriekis of dyiing men,
and the hubbling gronis of drowning ones rent
the air. ThaieInhvoci nis terriile, vet it did not
utterly cheek tlie onslaught of those terrible
men. More oats were n'rowrding into the bay,
and these, with  hise wi haiebt had aeseaped the
first dre rlfu I tire, still dhashen'd on with a brav-
ery worthy rrf a  ete curse.
But to oal and tire, ith great guns and
small, fromt Ihei''r yetihoo lb s hecks was an
easy affhirt to ti Aie riemans, in t they poured
in a fire so deadly, a binut a few hoats cane
near enogh to atlemit to hboar'd.
Coleefrinas, wiho hid led in a small, swift
rowing   g manirnd  bun t half a dozen men,
shouted his wi' r all in aoi--n-though escap-
ing every shot, a it' liv magie, It) dished to
a.id fino, al snoight to ire' his tif ltlowers into
hue and on to tin at rit, hlaecould not mally
them beyond;   mnecormnl ott n'k, afnh then at last,
with the loss of at list Inn n-twtmhi'rs of his Band,
when he ias wounded badly in three different
Places, ie sn Iinly gave the orler to retire.
The action int I las ed but a few miinites, and
the Anmeiric'ans hol nt maoman killed, ani but
a few wounded b tire  'mrandoam shots which had
reached them.   It waIs lno t a bloodless vie-
tory on their part. Al Iem was in i e tacies ; and
thoughtIan'si heInr fit boa' lo pick up such
wounded wm tes as mwoull    ncept quarter,
and to destroy tine*e whio lad aam to the
islands, anl et rin'isled, or is-iht to seape,
he scarcely lesired to spare one omfthema.
"It's strs g ' aintr they should want t be
saved from drowning, or a imiore decent one of
bladin' to death, when they're sure to be hung
if they live !" mrutered th iidoctor, while lie
dressed thn' wounshdo a pirate wh  was e ing-
ing to li:e vithi tenacity.
The attack mas iminhi' ae s'm thre hboors be-
fore daylight, or Hereabouts yet the boats,

crews of the vessels were kept busy until day-
light im picking up wounded men, while the
rest still loept eareful guard on board, lest with
reinforcements the pirates might be so desper-
ate as to attempt no reicw the attack. But
they did not--their loss had been too g:'eat for
that.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
When Colcfrinas was borne into his cham-
esr, at the rendezvous, by sonime of his now-
disheartened men, Monona, with mock-sym-
pathy upon her lips and in her face, was the
tirst to tender henrassistancec-fo'r she had re-
turned undiscovered, and none but thsse who
were imh the secret knew. Crowning more' with
bitterness of hioart than with the ain of his
wounds, Coleef'rins hsade lier  ave him, rudely
refusing her assistance. And ms soon as hs
surgeon had attendeid to his wounds, hlie or-
dered a council of his chief others to a-em-
ble.
" There has been treason at work somewhere
among ourselves '' said th. " If the r nkHes
had mot befaoirsrn''Il f orainiten' at-
takti, they could t1 hvhm V ina so cornletr'lv
prepared. 'l'iTy n mr at ihra' gnuns, a id titn'
guns loaded el    sly for an amunthek, an their
lights anda rockets ready to throw ttn'i glare
upon us ! It is evident that there must be
son one among us who is alise!"
The others assented to this-limit to discover
the traitor or traitors was th thing to be ne-
complished.
" Who among you will desert me ?" asked
the wounded pirate.
" Not one-we will die with you, but never
desert you!" wa the unanimon's reply.
The chief smiled a ghastly smile,, for he was
suffering all the while.
"I had expected   hais devotion!" lie said.
3ut you do not understand mie. I want a
volunteer who will lesert---under a flag of
truce deliver hninmself into the hands of the
Yankees, and under the pledge of iarlon and
protection, agree to not is a pilot for them.
He can gain their confidenimce by leading them
to some of our long-shore baoat-stations, from
which our men, forewarned, many escape to the
hills, and he can discover who the traitor is that
has been so nearly our ruin, and who will be our
destruction. without he is diseovere d and pmi-
ishedh ! Who new will volunt er to do this
wor'k ?"
No aisle responded ! t was dangerous ; for,
once on board the Annmericai vessels, an tiea-
ehery there would  isure to meet tie rope!
Open danger none of themm would have shunned.
Each man was willing to fight to the Iast gasp,
but none of thmns liked the idna of wearing a
hempen cravat.' Few men do. 'here would
be a thousand murder's a day were it not for
the wholesome fear of that uncomfortable ar-
ti'le. And yet some mawkish philaanthrm'opists,
with more sympathy for the amurdonera than

S}
i '
;y
r'
t
,1

67

L'

OUR MESS ; OR,


5-

OUR MESS; OR,

their victims, would have its use abolished !
A little rape among them would benefit the
world in general, I believe.
"I will not send any one, for the duty is as
unpleasant as it is full of risk!" said Colce-
frinas.
And then his face brightened, as a new idea
seemed to strike him. He dismissed all of his
*      officers, except two in whom he confided more
than all the rest. To one he said : "You will
see that the lady Monona is, during the rest of
the day and night, confined strictly to her
chamber. Let her have communication with
no one outside. To-morrow, I care not where
she goes !"
To the other he confided a inc sage in a
whisper, only adding, at the close, in a louder
tone, "If she consents, bring her here quickly
-if not, let her renuin until I will is other--
wise!"                                 '
Trie officer bowed and hurried away, while
his comrade went for a guard to carry out the
other order of his chief.
This plan will work, I think, muttered the
chief, and exliasted with his exertions, he
sunk back upon his couch to rest.
CIIAPTERt XXXVII.
Mariana, left hopeless by the sudden depart-
ure of Colcefrinas, pined even more rapidly
than did poor Maraquila, when she had no
hope of relief before her, and feared a fate
more dreadful than death. Ier heart had not
been schooled to reverses, and her nature
taught to bend and vield, rather than to resist!
and break. Alt ! this is a hard world to learn,
aid one is apt to die just when lie lis got
fairly schooled in its bitter lessons.
Mtariana ssat moody ad listless in the splen-
dor of her prison, 'when again the sound of
footsteps feIl upon her ear, and she heard the
door untbiarred.  But she did not raise her
owed head from the table whereon it rested,
foi she knew that they were not his footsteps
which she heard-that he was not the one wto
approached.
"1 bear a message from Ooleefrinas to Ma-
riana !" said the person who stood before her.
She knew the voice, and quickly raised her
great black eves, mind anxiously scanned his
face, as if she would read- there his tidins
before he spake them.
You know mie ?" said the otiicer.
I do, Solano-i do ! What message did
Ice sel to s ""-
lie is sorely wounded, or lie would htve
come himself; but hie bade me ask you, i lie
gave you freedom, would you swear'to render
honestly to him and the band a most import-
eat service! !'
I would die for 1imi  I never have been
unfaithiful to hint, uint in aiding the e;h s  'of
the poor girl whon he kept hes ot onelt-y
against her will. le is noble, too little to

war against women, or to t'ry to force their
love! Lovb is a thing which grows-slowly,
but alt ! how deep it roots. Go to him and tell
him, that he may command my every.breath
in life. I would lose each drop of blood in
my veins, drop by drop, im his service! I ask
no freedom  but to serve him. Go to hini,
good Solano, go to him, and tell him this !"
" My instructions ,ere, if I found you vil-
ing, to takeyou with me into his p'e5(nce!"
Oh joy ! I am ready this instant to go.
But shall I not go in the garments I used to
vear "' -
No, lady-if I judge ariglht, you will be
his page no longer!" sauid Sli oiieer. "And
the garment s you now wreat' h-come you too
umucht for any one to wish to see you in any
other !"-
Mariana made no objections. She was but
too glad to leave her trisot-oo glad to go to
hit for whont she felt a love as wild and deep
as it was strange and unnatural.
She stood by his side, blushing and trem-
bling like a child in the pr  ie of a god
lie, still faint and weak  omt t he loss of bl od,
wt-as ale pale, ut he never hld looked so noble
inlia 1-eyes, for he spoke very gently and
kinid '.
"These Yankees have been too much for
us, Mariana !'' said he. " And they will yet
destroy us all if we do not soon turn'the tales
(en them. Solano says Shat you are willing to
serve mite!.
" Witlh ty life, my'k lor'd-you have but to
command, and I will otey ,
" Some one among us'has been having the
traitor. The Yankees have   teen iade ae-
quaintetd with our inat -tol miiov temnts ; and
it is only wonderfuli t me tint the Iraitor,
whoever it be, hans ot revealed our pace of
rendezvous. But that salsties me that he is
vet among us, probably hats a ftittiiy here,
id has not yet prepare Ito unisI all lis work
of troatcherv. it is neacry-sam  to nt out iwho
he is, and to mislead the -nkeet until we ean
taike them at an advantage!
"You twish me to go ?'
Yes, ititana ;,for I feel that I can trust
yout, atnd when yott tell theta that you have
escaped front your prison, they twill believe
you-for the lady Maraquita is on board of
Allen's vessel, and will coifirt your state-
mtents r'
SSlu there? l)  voi wish to secure her
agaii ?" aske d l iain i  iths an eagerness
wich ibbetmayed Item'fehiig-.
" No," said Colcetrintt, vith aimtnair of care-
lessness whiih at once dii-irtmed Miriana of all
hter jealous thought. " 1 do net care to rob
the V'nkee of his wortll--i S 'ireasuttre. lint I1
a I have itis life, or drive hltim  ad his eon-
f edk-rate; away ' rmciii tih co t. ' hat done,
we cuitild seek a me' ' qhuiet lo';e iii some
other uasnd, hut t-u', thy e',en cut oi our

C,

only path of retreat. Can you do me this'
service, Mariana ?"
" I can and will, faithfully, if I lose my life
in carrying out your wishes. I have no desire
but to serve you, no wish but to live and die
near you !"
"We will never be long separated, Mariana!"
said the wily pirate. " If we but succeed in
driving these pests away, I intend to gather
together my treasure, and to go far, far front
here, I have seen enough of peril and of
bloodshed ! Your young days have been
dark ones, in future you shall see sunshine !"
The impassioned girl knelt by his bedside,
and covered his hands with glad tears and
kisses,
It seemed strange, even to Colcefrinas, that
during all this time she did not ask for her
mother. But she seemed to have but one
thought-one feeling-to know of, or to care
to know of, but one being on earth.
" When shall I go, my master ?" she asked,
as she arose to her feet.
"As soon as night mantles the sky, my love.
Take my own light skiff, which 1 will have
prepared for you. You will easily find the
Americans. They are at anchor in Tortuga
Bay, When you have learned all you can, and
found out who it is that has betrayed us,
hasten to my side. They will not watch you,
and escape will be easy. in the meantime, do
not speak to a soul here. Your mother is in
her apartment, and not verj well. But I do
not wish her to know that you are here !"
"If my master will permit, I will remain by
his side until it is time for me to start !"
You surely shall have your wish, my good
Mariana! I low strange that I should not have
discovered your sex before ! You are very,
very beautiful
So well was the entrance to the rendezvous
of the pirates concealed, that the boats of the
Amer can expedition rowed by within less
than two hundred yards of it, and did not
discover it, on the day after their successful
repulse of the pirates.  And though they
hunted up and down the coast for some
leagues to the eastward and westward of their
anchorage, they discovered nothing of note.
When Allen returned to his vessel at night,
he was weary and disappointed, for he had
felt confident that he would discover the main
nest of the gang, and completely break them
up. But he found a visitor who brought to
him news that was far from unimportant  it
was none other than the American Consul
front Matanzas, in person, who came to de-
scribe the suspicious-looking schooner which
was refitting in that port as a Spanish priva-
teer, and which he believed to be a pirate.'
From the consul's description, Allen had no
doubt but that she was his late antagonist,
and his first thought was to sail at mace and
capture her. But he knew that Coleefrinas'
was not in her, f r he had recognized him in

1
F

the night attack, and hoped that he was slain
for twice, with an almost unerring rile, he had
fired at hint, as he believed, with good aim.
The consul had also learned that near a week
would pass before the schooner would be
ready for sea, and Allen, therefore, determined
to spend a day or two more in his search for
the pirates, for he knew that they must be
somewhere near. While he was conversing
with the consul and Maraquita, a messenger
from the officer of the deck announced that a
boat with a single person, and that a woman,
had come alongside, not having been seen un-
til she was within a few feet of the gangway.
"If so poor a watch is kept as that, we are
never safe from surprise.!" said Allen, angrily.
"have the woman brought into the cabin,
and double the watch. It is doubtless the
same who forewarned us of the night attack.
She promised to return."
Wien the messenger returned, bringing
Mariana instead of her mother, Allen was
greatly surprised, and Maraquita uttering a
cry of joy, hastened to embrace her, for she
felt that to her, principally, she owed her free-
dom. flurried inquiries were made, and re-
plies given, between the two females, by which
Allen learned that Mariana, fearing that Col-
eefrinas would slay her, had escaped, and fled
to his vessel for protection. She had not seen
her mother, but had heard of the night-attack,
and that Colcefrinas was badly wounded.
And to her utter astonishment, Mariana now
learned that her mother had been the one who
had warned the Americans of the intended at-
tack-to her agony we may add, for she had
sworn to Coleefrinas that she would find out
and reveal the traitor, whoever it might be.
She knew how wild and jealous was her mo-
ther's disposition, but she had not dreamed
that it would lead her to be false to those with
whom she had dwelt so many years, and to
bin whom she had so wildly loved.
It must be remembered- that Morkana,
reared from childhood amongst these des-
perate people, did not look upon piracy as a
crime, and regard it with an eye of horror,
but thought more of it as an honorable war-
fare, in which all that was taken was a prize to
the victor. Was not all the world against her
people, and were they not right to prey upon
the world ? She thought so, and knew no
better. Who could lame her?
After hearing all that Mariana had to say
about liver escape, and also of the damage which
the pirate had sustained in the night-attack,
Allen began gently to ask how the pirates
were situated.
Mariana now had her most difficult task to
perform. Womanlike she appeared to fear-to
attempt to pilot the Americans to the strong-
hold of the pirates, and sie also said they had
several. And she so greatly exaggerated
their numube:s, that Allen believing al she
said, felt that it would be folly with his force

THE PIRATE-HiUNTERS OF THE OUIF.

,i.i

,


00

OUR MESS; OR,

to attack them in a body, but he hoped to
separate them and cut them off in detail, pre-
vent their marauding (xeirsioins, and finally
to harass them into leaving those waters for-
ever, or else utterly to destroy them. And he
forebore that evening to push his inquiries or
requests further, and left Maraquita and Mari-
ana to themselves, with the true delicacy of a
gentleman.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
"I am truly obliged to your serene highness
for permission once more to stand in your
presence," said Monona, no kingly, to Colce-
frinas, wh -, after finding the guard removed
from her door, she hal ventured from her
chamber to that in which lie lay.
" I did not anit to be annoyed by your
false sympathies, untilI found that my wounds
were not of a sertols nature, and my recovery
likely to be retarded by a woman who no
longer loves me !" said he.
"And whom you never loved, you might as
well have added."
"You can have it so if it pleases you, iiad-
am."
" I will. I am sorry that you are likely to
recover ; there will be one1 personal greatly dis-
appointed by it."
Yourself, I presume ?"
" No, sir ; yet anot her !"
" May I ask who ?"
" Certainly :his Satanic Majesty, whose
prime-miister you are on car Ii. lie needs
you below, where promotion awaits you !"
" Your endeavors to be fueetious are very
amusing, madaim."
" I)o they annoy you, sir ?"
"Not at all, nuolam: you may continue."
Not if it pleases you. IHlow can I annoy
y'ou ?"
" By cutting your own throat."
" That I shal not do until l y have seen Col-
cefrinas hanged. It will take a strong rope
to hold oiu; sin is heavy !
"A chain cable would scarcely sustain your
weight, miauhai.''
A chain of gold nwil, when I am your wid-
ow and heiress to your il-gotten wealth."
" When you :ire, nin ii, may' I roast !"
" )ouibt less, -you w ill h riastliug about that
time. .You ought to follow thiie example of
your illustrous prototypie., Blue Beard. Ile
used to kindle a hir'. of irimistone iii iis hold,
and go dorn there to sOee how long he could
stand it. \WTit h 'Your prospeets'hieloi'e you,
von should hariden yours, If to slphiureoius
flames a- soon as po sile.'
" I will, madm, if you will heal rme com-
pliny."                     -
" Ah! I see 'your ohL passion is returning.
You really wiisll to have mi by your ia
againI"
"' es, if it is to sul'er i'

"Well, I regret that I cannot oblige you
If you have no objections, I wll take a walk
in the fresh air. I am sorry the Yankees have
so disabled you that 1 cannot have the pleas-
ure of your company-very sorry        ! Should I
see a better-looking man, I may ask him to
escort me.''
"As you please, miadam ; no folly of yours
can now anger me-no net of yours injure ie.
I hate you now as bitterly as 1 once loved you
warmly. Were you not a woman, I would
feed the sharks with your parcase. As it is, I
despise you."
Tie eyes of the fierce, hating woman fairly
blazed wi h anger.
" Eduardo Coeefrimas," she lii.ed, " you
may hate me- care not for that ; but, by
the hivimg God ! you shall find that I amt not
t be despised !"
What do you mean, my gentle-tempered
love ?" asked he, with a sneer.
"That if you know when you are well off,
you will give moe and my child gold enough to
hive im comfort iin sie land far away from
the contamiuinatiuig atmosphere where you
dwell, and let Is lepart at once."
" You are modest ii your' ideimaiids. I will
give you gold, andi let you go, out of pi'y;
but your daughter loves nie too well to leave
ie. She wil gladly remain i your pl ee."
" Monster, you lie ! She loves you not"
" You had better ask her. If she will go
with you, you both are free to go."
If you have any honor left, will you say
that on your honor1 '?"
" If I have any honor left, I renew the p°ro°-
ise on my Iahuor, m iadim."
Coleefrimaus, I wil take you at your word ;
for I will not believe you to be so quite lost to
self-respect as to basehy deceive mie where you
have passed your word. I will see her ;,.and
ifi she says sie loves you-if she dares-"
'he inmotlier gasped : she could not utter
the horrible thought.
" Wul,,ntenmiaa, if shic does-what then !"
" I will drive a dagger to its hilt in hor heart
and my own!" edl the woiiani, mismig her
voice almost to a shriek, and clenchmig her
hands t iget her, until the nails sunk deep into
thme palmus and the red bloo I gushed from be-
neath ti mii. '' I will see her ! I will see her I"
shie cried. And, trembhulig with excitement,
shie left the house.
If you tind her !" muttered the pirate, glad
that she was gone for tie cxeitement had
been.too niuch for hu. lie was so weakened,
that hIe was oh igeh to simuminon a servant to
give him a stimulating draught.
CIIAPTEIt XL.
It jeered strange ; but Allen bad eonsent-
cd to the r quest. strange as i wa. if Mari
ania tluaut if her mother caine otf from  the
shore, sce was to be kept concealed from her;

THE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF THE GULF.          61

nor was her mother to be informed of her es-
cape. The reason she gave for this was, that
her mother was of a variable and fickle nature,
and in her anger so careless, that she might
etray her whereabouts to Coleefrinas ; and
Mariana seemed to fear him as if le were sonic
demon possessed of more than mortal powi r.
And well for Mariana's plans was it that she
had made this request ; for, on the evening
following that of her arrival on board, her
mother came as before'- and this time for the
purpose of betraying the pirate-chieftain in
his stronghold. Shebrought to Allen a draw-
ing of the rendezvous bav, and a chart of the
entrance, drawn with her' own hand ; but she
did not disclose the hiding-place of the trea-
sure - determined, probably, to keep that
knowledge for hier own benefit, for the time,
at least.
Mariana, from na state-room close at hand,
heard all this ; and she could scarcely conceal
her feelings from Maraquita, who remained
with her. it may be imagined that, with her
own feelings for Coleefrinas, she had not loved
her mother very deeply before ; but now she
felt for her no feeling of affection, and only
wanted a chance to escape from the vessel,
and expose her in time to save her chief and
his band from the effects of her betrayal.
With almost tremulous eagerness, she heard
her mother agree to have a small beacon-light
.placed outside the entrance to the bay of ren-
dezvoy's on the next night, and thus to aid the
Americans in their descent upon the band. In
regard to the numbers of the enemy and their
condition, her statement and that of her mo-
ther did not agree ; but Allen did not think of
studying discrepancies. So entirely was he
bound up in the duty upon which he and his
have colleagues had been sent, that he did
not feel inclined to ask how many he was to
meet: his greatest desire was, to know wh e
they were.
lie got the consul to go back to watt the
movementss of De Itegla and the seh ner in
Matanzas-promising to follow or send a ves-
sel to capture her after he had attended to the
ease of the pirates at their head-quarters ; then
holding a council with the other officers, he
made them acquainted with the rare good
news he had received ; and the evening was
spent in joyous anticipation of a livelier night
to ensue.
Perhaps no men enjoy, proportionately with
the hardships which they must suffer, life as
to our naval otli:crc; none can better appre-
ciate a social hour than they. Guarded against
.issipation by a stern and severe discipline,
they can yet enjoy their friendly glass of wine,
r more fraternal glass of "grog," and a fra-
grat eigar ; and when in a  knot," can spin
thei- " varus" with a gusto that cannot well
te2' o rihed or appreeiated, except by one of
". :c = or one who has been of them-as
,   r.with hiti who pen theme lines.

And on this occasion - the honors of the
" mess" being dulv performed by Allen, some
excellent punch brewed, and other indispensa-
blee passed round--the olicers of the little
fleet enjoyed themselves until a late hour.
They had not un    f ear of another night at-
tack  the last had pirlably taken a desire for
at turnal comiibat4 out of the main body of
the pirate . It was late when Allen's guests
left hiim, and he retired at onee; for Monona
hid gone back to the shore long before, and
lhi. other guests had gone to their state-rooms
at an early hour.
CH1APTEIt XLI.
W Where is Mariana ?" asked Allen, on the
ensuing morning, of Maraquita, as the latter
came from her state-room, looking as fresh as
a magnolia tinged with the morning sunlight.
" We wait breakthst now for her.'
" I will see," replied the young lady, " if she
is dressed."
She asent to her state-room and knocked,
but received no response. She tried the door;
and, it being unfastened, she opened it and
looked in. Mariana was not there. Maraquita's
exclamation of surprise drew Allen instantly
to her side.
" Not here !" he exclaimed, in wonder
"Where can she be ?"
And instantly search was made in nil other
parts of the vessel where she could have gone ;
for he thought she might have risen early and
gone to pronmenade on deck. But she was not
to be found ; and on examination, it was dis-
covered that the small skiff iii which she
came, which had been fastened astern, was also
missing.
Maraquita now bethought her how~ agitated
Mariana had been when they both heard Monona
telling Allen about Colee'rinas and his posi-
tion, and told 'Allen of it.
"I see through the matter now !" said the
latter. "Mariana hams been sent here as a spy
--she has been to us with falsehood on her
lips and treachery in her heart !'" -
"I cannot believe it I" responded Maraqui-
ta. "She was the only one who was kind to
me when I was in his power : her mother,
even when she helped me to miy freedom, was
stern and harsh. There is some mystery in
this ; but I cannot believe that Mariana came
as a spy l"
" We will see. I. shall learn, before mid-
night, if my conjectures are right ; for if she
has been here ns a spy, and discovered her
mother's treachery to the band, Colcefrinas
will know it, and be on his guard."
"Even if it were so, she would not betray
her itother to his terrible anger !"
"It would not seem natural that she should
-but crime, or an association with criminals,
hardens every nature. There is no imagining
what she would or would not do. But this

,
s
,
j
{}F
:i
,)
"a
!
s
,{
x
f
.E
*
1'
;
{k{ '
°i
~'
1
f
Ji
.  a ,
f
1 "
J
7


62                                OUR ME
must not spoil our appetites : to breakfast,
fair lady mine-to breakfast!"
Trhiey hal bit just taken seats at the table,
when a message from the officer of the deck
announced a boat coming into the bay, with
an English flag flying over hier stern-sheets.
The face of Allen Bushed with pleasure yi
he received the message.
"If any of the EniglhPli fleet are outside,"
said he, "~they will gladly cu-operate with us,
and our force will be so strengthened that no
position or defeice of the pirates will avail
them. If there is an oticer in the English
boat, let him be invited to breakfast with me,"
he added, to the messenger.
" There are two, sir," said the latter: "I saw
them before I caine below."
"Very well. Steward, place two' more
plates here, and let the cook do his duty.
l'hese Englishmen live by eating! They're
in a good humor only when their bread-baskets
are fill."
Maraquita smiled at this idea, for it seemed
singular thnt one's good-nature should depend
on his feeding.
But she had not time to make any remarks,
if any suggested themselves to her, for two of-
ficers were ushered into the cabin. Both wore
the crown-and-anchor button of the royal
navy ; but one was dressed in a black frock
coat, and wore the spotless cravat of white,
which told tint he was a chaplain in the serv-
ice. The first-a fine-looking man, of not
more than thiirty--introduced himself as Lord
Seymour, ca ptain of the frigate Medusa, and
introduced the other as Mr. Mordnunt, the chap-
lain of his ship.
Both gentlemen accepted the invitation to
breakfast without hesitation: a morning's row
from the frigate, which lay in the roads, five
or six miles off, had given them an appetite.
And Allen's appetite seemed to increase-for
a new and happy thought had entered his
mind the moment that he saw the clerical rig
of the chaplain. What it was, none but a di-
abolical old bachelor, or a wretched ancient
maiden, will have or take occasion to inquire.
And as his eyes met those of Maraquita, and
glanced thence toward the chaplain, a blush
on her lovely cheek told that she read the first
wish of his'heart-a blush of joy; for thought
she was modest and pure as a child, yet she
was too artless to conceal her warm heart's feel-
ings.
While they were at breakfast,Allen, without
hesitation, revealed his knowledge of the pi-
rates and their position, and his intention of
attacking them ; and asked the co-operation
of Lord Seymour and as many of his crew as
he could spire. The latter assented readily :
"'Twill be a jolly bit of fun, no doubt,"
said lie. "Parson, you'd as readily take a
hand in it as you would a game of wlhist,
wouldn't you ?" he added, addressing the chap-
lain.

ss, oR,
"More readily !" said Mr. Mordaunt. "Are
not those bloodthirsty creatures the enemies
alike of Cod and man. It is our solemn duty
to destroy them!"
" I was not aware before that the chaplains
of your navy ever encountered active service,"
said Allen, vith a smile at the earnest manner
of the chaph in's reply.
" If we tig itwith the men for a victory that
we have prayed for," answered the chaplain,
"they will be sure to believe in our sincer-
ity.'
"That is so!" replied Seymour, with a
smile. ' "You see, lieutenant, we have a model
chaplain, who believes in works as well as
words !"
"So I perceive, sir. IIe must be a valuable
auxiliary on board your vessel."
"HUe is, indeed. Why, he is quite a sailor,
withal. He can take an observation as well as
the master: work ship ; and to-night, if we
overhaul those bloody buccaneers, you will
s e how well he can handle a sword."
"Does lie understand knotting ndil splic-
ing ?" asked Allen. And he glanced at Mar.
aquita.
Though she did. not understand nautical
terms, the lady seemed to comprehend the
meaning of that question, for the red blood
again flushed her cheek and mantled her brow.
Seymour saw the look and blush, and in a
moment comprehended the drift of the quer-
ist.
"Yes, very well," he answered. "iIe has
hid several occasions to practice since  lie has
been on this station, andi I assure you is com-
pletely au fait at the business."
"If lie intends to join our expedition to-
night, I may ask a trial of his skill before we
go, for fear that lie may be incapacitated for
acting before we return," said Allen. "To be
brief md to the point, lMr. Mordaunt," he
continued, " this lady and myself are engaged
to be married ; and as there is no legal imped-
iment to our union, the emeiony might be
performed here, which should have been per-
formed in the first port I reached."
"Certainly ; and it will afford me sincere
pleasure to act upon the happy occasion, and
to tie a knot which no mortal can justly untie,"
said the chaplain.
Maraquita having excused herself and re-
tired to her room, Allen gave his visitors a
brief account of her recent romantic ativen.
tures, withholding for her sake the knowledge
that lie had of her father's complicity with
the pirates. In truth, he hind withheld it from
her so far as lie could, though she could not
but know something of it. lIe knew that she
was not to blame for any evil which her father
might have dlone, or might do ; and lie was not
one of that msite-souled, narrow-minded class
which think that tue ha. act of one person at
taints the blood of every one connected with
him by blood.

TUE PIRATE-HUNTERS OF TiE GULF.                             6S
CHAPTER 'XL.,       -          joy the cheerful society of his new-fou
Marriage, where. heart clings to heart and  friends. lie could appreciate it the-more now.
Nature's laws are not transgressed, is a holy for he had served against us in the war of 1812
thing. Otherwise, it is a confounded humbug. and '14, and been taken in the hard-fought ac-
There is my opinion given gratis, and I hope tion between the Constitution and Guerriere,
with sufliciciff brevity to suit all anxious in- and then experienced that courtesy with which
quirers after that opinion.                an American ever treats a conquered foe, and
And there is no eretony mtoreawe-inspir- formed an esteem  for the nation which no af-
ing to a thikin lg mind-not ev1 that which  ter-time could wash away. And simular asit
consigins " dust to dust," and gives soul-for- may seem, men who have fought together, if
saken mortality to the worm. I have witness- ever after they become friends,.are apt to be
ed it in the gloon shadows of old cathedrals much more ardent in their friendship than
-in the gayer churches of pharasaical Chris- those who have never quarreled or been op-
tendom-in the oaken halls of staunch ships, posed the one to the other.
in the broad aisle of the lofty forest, and have The day passed gayly on. The English
ever felt that that linking of the destinies frigate came into the anchorage, was saluted
of two beings-tlhat utterance of vows which  by the Americans and returned the compli-
none10 shouldbreak-(alas ! how many do)-was: meat. All the vessels were dressed in gay col-
a solemn, a holy thing.                    ors ; and if the pirates had any spies abroad.
And when Lieutenant Allen stood by the   they might well wonder what great holiday
side of Maraquita de Regla in the neat eabin  was tlis, thus celebrated. A superb dinner
of that schooner-clad, he in his neat uniform, was given on board the Alligator. But it is
she in a robe as spotless as her own bosom-  not my humor, even if it is my province, to
surronuded by his friends, the officers who had  describe the bridal festivities-I have other
. weathered mauy a storm in his company, the  work to do. .
low, deep voice of the chaplam rising i prayer, Allen, joyous as was the occasionl, and much
the scene was as solemn as any that man ever as lie endeavored to make every one around
witnessed. Every breath but that of God's him participate in the pleasure which he fe
minister was hushed-every look was serious-  did not for a moment forget lis duty, and the
every heart seemed t feel that the time and  armorers of the vessels were busied in s  ng
the ceremony imadp the place holy.         that every weapon was in order-the gun ers
The binding vyOs there uttered-the sacred  saw to the ammunition-the coxswain of every
benediction given, and Maraquita wept tears  boat saw to its ears and equipments, and the
of joy, as many a bride has done before, and  men all knew, that when night came on there
will do yet ; for she was a wife-the wife of hn  was work ahead for them, from which some
to whom her young, pure heart had been giv- would, in all probability, never return. But
en. And witi iianly pride he kissed ,her such thoughts as these never cheek the hilar-
white brow, and inly swore that never, never ity of a true sailor. IlIe is almost always a
should she regret tie hour that was then pass- believer in " destiny," and seldo'n looks ahead
ing. Neither of then thought how soon they  for trouble, believing that it will come soon
might be divo-ced by that stern Judge whose enough without his sighing for it.
law adtuit" of no appeal-how soon the icy    "I do not wish to disuade you from the
shadow of death might fall athwart the path  honor which you seek, or the fame which sue-
now sunny bright. ecs will give you," said Lord Seymour to Al-
The ceremionv over, Allen received the con- len, as the latter toward night began to partie-
gratulations of his brother officers as well as ularly superintend the preparations for the
those of his English friends; and more than  eight expedition ; "but under the cireum-
one' glass of sparkling wine was drank to the  stances, there is not an officer of us all who
health of a bride so fair, and a groom so brave, would not justify you in remaining on board
And before lie had an idea of it, else ie would  your vessel this evening, instead of leading the
have beggel them to save their powder, each  attack. If some of us single men ge\ knocked
vessel opened with a commander's salute in his in the head, it will be small loss to us, and a
honor ; nd their crews, on being called to  step of promotion to the lucky one below us.
"splice the main-brace" in honor of the event, But were you to fall, it would be death to your
made the air ring with their congratulating  young bride.'
cheers.                                      "If I knew that I should fall, I still should
Lord Seymour, who had none of the stiff- lead my men to-night," said Allen, firmly, but
naes of land-ihbherish aristocracy-for he had with a gloomy sadness in his tone and look
been bred from his boyhood in the service- that was long remembered by him whom he
was particularly gay, declaring it to be "the  addressed. "Yet I thank you for the sugges-
jolliest, best time he had seen since he had left tion, for I know'that it is based on very kind
the chalky shores of old Bnitannia," and was motives."
contented to send out his boat with Allen's  "You do me only justice in saying so," re-
sailing-master to pilot the Medusa into an an- sponded the English captain. "And since you
ehorage in the bay, that he might stay and en- insist upon going, you shall have a full chance


for the credit of the thing. I shall place my-
self and men under your command, and let
you control the expedition.'
"My lord, you are too~generods."
"Not a bit of it, my dear fellow. I am
only sorry that you will en !anger your life
when it has become doubly valuable to you."
Maraquita, with gratitude in her throbbing
heart, overheard this conversation ; and though
there was agony in the thought that he might
fail, she could not but love icr noble husband
all the better because no motive or ecue
would draw him aside from the path of duty.
Sh° applauded his resolution in silence, while
she prayed that every peril might h averted
from his dear form. hers was a paniseh  e-
man's heart-not a  Spaniard's heart, dear
reader, for the n of that nation have dwis-
dIed down into cowardly, worthless thoia. of
late years. litt their women hannotd Jate-
riorated in the same ratio. Why, I know not.
But such is the case. Look at the Chnusi,
though one hundred to one ainnst their (as-
tillian masters, yet bowing to the most tyri.n-
nical rule in the civilized world. An i when
such a hero as Lopez rises to aid them in
casting off the yoke of slavery, they are the
first to betray him, to shout at his murder,
and to aid in the cowardly butchery. But
this is not a part of my sto'-y-only a drop of
the bitterness that experience among such
bounds lis squeezed oit of my nature.
Back to my pen-path. Byt he time that
night fell, every'available boat from the three
American vessels and from the British frigate,
was manned with armed crews. The flags of
the two nations floated side by side in the
same friendly breeze, for the only contest now
was to be which would be foremost in punish-
ing the red-iatnded enemiits of all tile world.
The chaplain, who had laid aside his black
coat and white cravat, sat, in a sailor's jacket
and a stout leathern cap, by the side of Lord
Seymour, in his gig, nd everv officer was in
. his boat, except Allen alone, who was bidding
adieu to his fond, but now pale and trembling
pride. For the shadow of gloom which, in
spite of his efforts, had fallen on his heart
more than once during the afternoon, had
renehed her heart, and she now clung to him
with a foreboding that they would meet no
more in life. He felt-alas! sadly felt-that
foreboding, but he hushed it down And would
not let it reach her ears.
"heaven bless you, dearest-I must go, for
my men await my coming. Keelp up a good
heart, I will return victorious in a few hours
and my duty done, will give my time to love
and you I" lie said, as he pressed her warml;
to his noble breast.
"God guard and keep you, my life I" si
sobbed.
One thrilling embrace-one warm kiss, an
be was gone. The next moment she knee
that he was in his boat at the head of his men

OUR MESS; OR,

THE PIRATFhIIUNTERS OF TILE GULF.

for cheer after cheer reached her ers. Bt
they fell sadly upon her heart, and she went
into her state-room to weep and to pray for
him.
CIIAPTEIR XLIII.
Coleefrimas, al hough wenal n  by loss of
blood and hi alnia superhunii e-Lrtois in
the night attack upou tinh Ate e;1 anv-
rapidly ri'nIed ^e it  'ii h ;r l;hi, was
ILol a  piri or t 5Will 0 yeld to Bodily weak-
teraltA, and willal a n.tlh of nunn llhas ever
mo re to do in ra 1i euire than t urgrn s
skill. 1,.on the thii1 or iifiourti daiv Lfter ho
received h1 .:oundl he Wasio ' recovered
as to be tle to move slowly abolt his room,
andi to sit up and11 cO Ir-e whitI sucb of his
ofiieerS as he ebo  10) tdllt into hIts prtee1ce.
lie had se I Mrlonb hut o     sine side she
left hi iln suc  teribtie ailgeIr to gonu1)1 ( mi 11
iner daughter, nid thou ise p iosd lium nin sulh
lau anl moody sileige, not (n n('1 asking hint
where her daughter was. Thia did not dis-
pleasea him ;for he had bea fully satistied that
in tongue-battle Ishe was more thant a iaten
for him, and so long as site avoided and did
not actually annoy hu, lie card little what
became of her, or what she did f;ior if he had
ever felt any love for her, that feeling was
now utterly baminhed from hle heat, antd to
say the least, ilditference, ifnet dslike, had
taken its place.
But once had he seen her mi ii about noon
of the day succeedig her second eight visit
to the American ve sels.  Ilen she cane front
her chamber, looking, as cal and eontented
as if she had never beet paned or angered,
as if nothing whatever disturbed her.  He,
with all his knowledge of human character,
might have mistrusted that "calm," but be
did not seem to. lie ginned carelessly at her
as she passed in silence thiougi the room
where he sat, but made no remark.
When she bad gone out, h sai to Solano,
who was by his sde : " It is time that we saw
or heard something from Mariant I1do not
think it will take her long to discover what
we desire. She possesses the wit of a wo01 omn
with the courage of a man !"
Scarcely had these words passed his lips
when a hurried step was heard, alid the sub
ject of his thoughts and words made her ap-
pearanee. 11cr face was paleu and anxios--
her manner nervous, and full of agitation.
r    "You have news ?" cried Coleefrinas, hur-
I riedly.
"t have. It is not good. The rendezvous
e is known to the eny, and you will be at-
y  tacked to-night.",
"Who is the traitor that has betrayed us
e    "I cannot tell,'my master !" said Marinain;
and ahe turned deathly pale, and trembled
d  like a reed shaking in a gale.
wi "Do you know r" asked Coleefrinas, and
2, ia keen eyes seemed to read her very soul-

"I do, my master. I cannot lie to you-I
,do fo"
-  And will not tell ?"'
Oh, yI lilaster, spare mne-do not ask
me !" and sie dropped on her knees before
him, andI kissedI his hands, while hot tears
rained down ini showers from her great black
eyes.
I~ laan instant Coleefrinas divined all-; and
with a strong effort completely mastering his
r       passiols, an i seeing to be perfectly calm,
le said, in the mil st1)  gentle tone  " You need
not, myx' poor Mariaiia-you need not. Rise
and o to yourli ii room to take some rest.
ltt smre amoment-you say we ivill be at-
taeketl t -igh."
-Ve, imy aiister. At midnight a beacon
webill be shown at tie outer point of the wind-
. ag entrance to the bay-it is to guide your
destrovers he'r'."
It will guide them to death. We will now
show theml that we tlurned poiet.hing of them
the other night . Uut what meant the cannon-
iding we' harI to-day?"
I kniw not. It'was nearly (lawn when I
escaped from thevessel, and I had to row far
to windward, ailoiig the islands, to escape the
sight of their guard-boats, which are rowing
along the coast. I heard the guns fired asif
for a salute, and supposed that more vessel
hand joined themi !"
h " Likely. J)o vou think they know of the
stronghold ani treasure vaults in the moun-
tains '"
" No more Ilhan the Seti rita do Regla has
told them, and lishe knows not where they
aie!'"
"IS is well. let ire tinow, my good child, and
rest--by-aud-hy I will have von called I"
Mariana's tace flushed'with joy. ie spoke
to her so kindly. She again kissed his hand,
and then retired as he bade 1her'.
But the moment that she was gone, the
bland look upon the face of Colcefrinasphang-
and even Solano, who knew him so well,
was almost terrified at the terrible change
which his anger made in his face.
The tigress was right I" lie hissed. " She
Is mut to he despised! But she is to be pun-
ished! The traitiess shall dearly rue the heur
when first the thought of treachery to us en-
tered her heart !"
"To whom do you allude ?" asked Solano,
"To Monona. She it is who has betrayed
us! Siheit was who -rinformed the cursed
Yankees of our intended surprise, and who
caused the loss of half our best men, and gain-
ed for me these crippling wounds. I have
been blind not to guard against her, knowing
that a jealous woman will not stop at any-
thing. But she has had help, She could not
go alone, for she has not Mariana's skill with
the oar. We must quietly find out whom she
has in her confidence, who has rowed her
'about in the many little pleasure-exeursions

which she has recently undertaken. To yo,
Solano, I intrust this delicate work while I
confront her ; and then we must make haste to
prepare to receive our friends to-night. If
they do obtain a foothold here, we have yet a
place of retreat which they cannot force-if
they do, it will be the worse for them, for if
the worst cones to the worst, mlly own hand
shall send all to hell together. 'I know that
you never will desert me !"
"Never-never !" said Solano, as he grasped
the hand of the desperate chief.
" Then haste to do my bidding. But let no
agitation of yours announce our discoveries.
When you have found those mn out, secure
them where they cannot bh seen or spoken to
except by their guard, and bid the latter nei-
ther to ask nor answer any questions ! But
first tell that she-tigressthat'Iwant tosee her;
and if she refuses to come, have her arrested
and placed in the strong-room below. without
causing any excitement, if you can. If she
comes, send two of the trustiest men to await
my ordersr"
'Th'lie officer bowed, and'Colcefrinas, who, by
a great effort, had again become calm, was left
for the moment alone.
.CHIAPTER XLV.
"You wanted me-so said your messenger I
I am here."
Monona, when she entered the room and ut-
tered these words to Coleefriuas, looked as
quiet and innocent as if never a storm had
raged in her heart, or a bitter thought emanat-
ed from her mind.
The pirate chief looked at her intently for a
minute or two, without speaking.
" Sit down," said he, at last. " Your re-
cent exertions must have fatigued you !"
"Not at all. One scarcely feels fatigued
when they are in pursuit of pleasure"
"Then you have been in the pursuit of plea-
sure ?"
"Yes."
"And found it !"
"Not yet-but soon expect to do so 1"
"When-at midnight, to-night, when yoa
light the beacon on the outer point ?"
For a moment, the woman's forced compos-
ure gave way, and the color left her check, and
she trembled ; for she felt that lie had gained
some knowledge of her secret. But how, she
could not divine; for her boat's crew were
sworn by terrible oaths to be true to her, and
her only, and they did not know of the ar-
rangement to light the beacon. That had
been made with Allen alone. But her sterner
nature in a moment gave her strength to meet
his glance, and she replied:
"You speak in words which I do not under-
stand!"
"'You need not add falsehood to the crime
of treachery, madam. I know all of your ac-
tions and intentions, and when the Americana

t
:
j

,

5
t
t
fy.
F

: l


OUR MESS; f,

come to-night, they will meet a roost fervent
welcome. I shall be fully prepared to meet
them I"
" Very well, sir, 1 give you joy i  your
prospect. uit as you are lime, I would ad-
vise you to make due provision to assist you
in running away again !
You are thoughtful, madam. And for
fear that harm  may come to you before the
hour when you are to light the beacon, I will
have you place under guard.      '   t
And as he said this, he made a motion to
the men who had been sent by Sjlano, and
they at once advanced to seize her.
Back-back-lay a hand upon me and you
die !" she cried ; and in an intant she changed
from the clove into the tigress. Her dark eyes
fairly blazed, as she drew a pistol, from her ho-
son, and with her back to the wall, confronted
the enn, For an instant they hesitated.
"Coyvards ! She is but a woman ." said the
chief.
One of the men sprung forward to seize her.
The action was his last, for a ball crashed
through his brain crc le had taken two steps
forward. The other, with an oath, sprung to
seize her before she could draw another wea-
pon, but he was too slow. She drew another
pistol before he could reach her-fired-and
he sunk with a low groan to the floor.
"I would serve you as l have thm," she
said, bitterly, to Colcefrinas, "if I did not re-
serve to myself the hope to see you hanged."
"Murderess-you shall die for this I" cried
the excited chief. "Seize the she-devil
The last order was given to Solano, who,
with a guard of men, had hurried in, attracted
by the firing. And as they took her unawares,
the desperate woman was instantly secured.
"Remove her to tla e strong-roomd below-
she has slain your comrades, men, and betray-
ed us all! I will find a fitting punishment for
her," said the chief.
Scarcely had they left the room in obedi-
ence to the order, with their prisoner ,when
Mariana, who had been awakened from slum-
ber by the sound of the shots, hurried in.
a What is the matter, my master ?" she ask-
ed. "Are you in peril? "
"It is past, good Mariana, it is past," h
said, with a gentle smile. "Do not be dis-
turbed, but rest now; for in a little time I shall
call my officers to council, and then I shaht
need you."
The girl glanced at the bodies upon the
floor, and knew that the chief had been in peril
but she questioned no further. He was safe,
and the danger was past.
CHAPTER XLV
It was wi night; and at the head of the dens
column of boats containing the united forced
of English and Americans. Allen cautiousl3
approached that part of the coast where Mono
ualudpromised to light a beacon which would

lead them to the masked entrance to the bay
of rendezvous. Another boat close by the
side of hiis own, so near that low-voiced words
could be heard from one to the other, contain-
ed Lord Semour and his chaplain.
'ed  eight was not entirely obscure -the
moon was up, but drifting clouds moving over
the sky caused its light to fall only in patches
lure and there upon the earth.
"Is it not time that the beacon the woman
promised wis alight?" asked Seymour of Al.
i-n. "My watch says twelve.,,
Mine also," replied Allen  "And we are
iear the shore. Alh, there the light lashlme.
Sne is true to her word."
A bright blaze was seen suddenly to spring
il)foibunth a bold bluff a little mon the-it
p                 d        starboardhn  -andby its light thmre seeuimd
to be a group of persons stani g there. see-
1bmg a woman's dress, Allen exclaimed :-
"It is thi woman and her boats crew. We
are all right, and can go on safely'
Giving the order to his mea to row on, Al-
len steered directly to the point, and the other
boats followed. When within a few fathoms
of this shore, lie gave orem-un to thme other boats
to hi-s upon their oars, while he pulled to the
shore to confer with the woman, and learn
ho omattersstood ahead. lIe asked Seymour
to land wit him.
Allemswasma few paces in advance, ands had
alminst reached te group - which remained
silent and motionless--whichr, with ami exehmuma-
tiers of horror, lie stopped.
" o        rhat is thems atter ?" asked Seymour,
hurrying up.
hGod of nercy I Look there-we ourselves
are in peril, for the pirates are on their guardI"
exclaimed Allen.
Beth Seymour and his chaplain also paused
in horror for a moment, for now they saw why
tIe group had been silent and motionless.
Emch person-Monona and all of her boat's
crew--was dead, and fastened in an erect po-
sit )1 tmo stakes. Upon the breast of Monona
wasfutened a placard, with these words writ-
te-n l in it its letters of blmod
n Thms Colcefrin s punislies treason in his
own camp! Let    e Yankees advance. They
will find a earn welcome !"
Allen and Seymour for a moment were si-
l lent ; then the former said :
S    "W we ul advance - welcome or not wel-
come!t"
e     Isee no inlet here or hereabouts," said
ISeymour. "The lips which would have told
us how to steer are silent now."
"That is so; but from her previous descrip-
tic-n, I feel satisfied that the entrance is very
nathspot," said Allen. "We can but look
e for it; and if we do not find. it in tme dark, we
s need only wait until morning. In truth, now
y that they have prepared for us, it seems to mae
- that it were no more than prudent if we waited
d until we could see what was before"us.

i
a
s
r
.
k i
1
L
K }
3
L

It
FI

TlE PIRATE -HUNTERS OF THE GULF.
"I agree vitl you there, perfectly," said  man, as he took a       -pull at his flask to soften th
.he Englislim:an. " I like, when I strike, to  feelings of the winner uau.
see where lmy blow falls ; and if I am struck,  " What news, IHarkness?" cried Alln to th
to see where the blow cones from. officee commanding te boat, when e ue
Allen, after this coincidence in his own opin- np within hail.n
ion, (lid not deem  it necessary to consult his  "I have found the inlet i r"esl)oied
 offers further ; but gave the order for his  officer. " But it is strongly guarded tbmen
boats to fall back a few hundred yards, to a  planted at batteries ini the turns ; butt can
low islhiid of laen- sand which they had passed  be flanked overland, I think sr, and the inca
but a little while before, and which Monona  driven from  the gums, when we can    go min
had deseribld as beimg near the hidden inlet. with the boats without loss."' e    g
Here the men were allowed to land, and di-   "Thanks for the suggestion  '
greeted to restuntil further orders. Meanwhile, " We will ist ru tdown tothe inlet, aldlee
E l llde of lilit boats were detae retl to ie- how it looks. Comeiute my boat and act as
.onoitre along I le shore, and to pIeveit any a pilot, if you please."
(lmer of surprise. But the night wore on,    The officer obeyed the order ; and imme-
'iril nothing occurred to denote the vicinity of diately after, Allengav the  'lr  fr iallmthu
men to embark, and leading the eolumin of
thee boats abreast, he moved on toi the spot
where the officer told Imimm the inlet opened.
CIIAPTER XLVI-                     It was no wonder that they lasseu1 it udis-
Ere the (ThV dawmined, the driftmg (-leuds  covered so often as they hd, for th  swere
hilmeunl amid ldarkenied, and a tlini, drizzling  within  a feuv boats' lengths of they glar
raiile tu to fill, aIl(l a  turky fog Y aletopening il the cliff here t coulh sen,
which ituat((, t hie uast, close- as it wasotulmop  though they ~iwere looking for-it. I leamen,y
aguei nod inidLit hit.The mnen did not see1s ing u on    lie infumaatiumi wIhi h fle Othicum-
tu lie in rey hig  a1nt fo'- hough the     had gained inuafhaeing reerlluloisn(, Allen
knew a ihdit was almost e-taimnly boure themn, divided his uenirecting  o is,  e
the weather i was mnot favormable f- um     l   s                  g   o (Iimrtis, otof
powde i.     A uildthinglintly iglmt of the sgs ilr the elit  ad ( etI o     fm-i
butel ic-  WuII:I u ltiher )00t a cIew mas  lustt eries, while le, withitme rest, attacked mnd
-athier  (mlI  eat-I  cmii ag  ; lfw' they  11a(1 1aom y i-  drove  theta  in  ftm-u  ,,, Ilie  fr osit.  'u  i'i '  iour
pathy fur tih-  etims of the pir:ite ch'f, as h geg ticecomnmaumi of t     ll- land-foeyn,:sour
tmey'wouM  have ha I, had they beni eui ades th luIWbhim wn timst liemtu-anmt-wmi eett
of their own, m'i even iilnocent personss who  gal ul  nanlwhaiilkepteem immmlamid ut Sythme-
had not tlhemselves been pirates. Allen w  i  -                   naigw k cn  tt ynti
very gloomyv, andl lie strove in vain to shake l-ea id.e                         Fth
off the felis which; lay like a leaden weight  Tie -a-pamties beingOon immtfa  rtem
-upon his hcait. . Seyiour noticed it, and  to advance   g         u   hrp the g der
sat ve to cheer h an up-                    wentatthe'hadve   ,t itp thme rugged eliff  .
strov   to  emeim- Ii  ti  hum.We    t  tiee1mmdy  t ar,  wit  ninmny  a  nill he  er,
Take a drop of old cogniae from     mimy  nmany m hec-m-arty aiim.hSoont   cheeIr)mgdits
task !" said thie w-irm-hearted Englishmmam. were heard from tlir pimpiti mg ust!shug
We wml loni whip these bloody shamrks o-t volleys told that they wci warnly emingd.
oftihe r nest, a1nd then you will return to re-  "'  reward  um  -ert warm' lyengged.
C( ive t -epraises and the smiles of your beau- comes our time !" ered Ahllmmiiiwit Ii0
titmil mi-md-                    svwmldui m1m-aim thi iime ot elulmm dmshed itil) time
"SiVmour," responded the young officer.  ar-w emt mmeb      e.     ash  d tmin the
I shall never see her agmin.   I felt -sulc&amp;  met the black n mizles oflamu battery iruwninrg they
would lie tite cast when  partedt fem her, their very faces, but timediversi tImeigr
nave felt it ever since, fe  it now!  t does saed them front whatmust ihae hemiltter
not at allt muan me, Ihouhis it will be I irl - destruction, fur the gun  r
coIm pltely en ilade thmait reach of i hueehammuel
-'  1,immousenuse !  lDanislh such thoigh§, ;:, Bt the gunners hadtm n  t hmer
omi e, take a mt   aie       gulls, or imil fled ir onats whi-hmy ham
i te ----tliam ki  ou m  mo  t-  I  acedl  u  am -iueial  r ady  to  use  1mm  case  of  beim ng  P" i l  o x-c
iamiulanu t 1to rai imy spirits. Ii will be timet treats.b                g oc   to re-
uor   is to Ilmnvi J m a few limomen s, aini Im  Th'lime boats pressed on, muating timmum after
oun wil s- mu 1s cheerful as vn     T-e     tin, each of w' ich wa ge l amiedlbyr a  ebat
moi s  t me  ou-t, w hlich  I  last  su ;  out  to  try  fery,  but  fio nm all  nf awhichi  -lie- (mien  lId  buem
mid disr 'ezt m   +im1t.i,_t_, m 1  w  tIe ly  diven by Seymanuir's dashing aft tmmuk,imutil at
'  niu   cei  m~   tm   ~ i  m  e  to  be  5 i mi.,st  they  _ca mse  t  tu i  )ul (i  m a' otlfum m whi
:t-,aim-I iam , I hoee, d coeelWit:' le  thmey could Seetime ihums -hmns'Imumoit"hiits C1u-
;s m-is iii'' lii mll drawn u1u Pluruamude1 It the                        se, with
e lor riu lians tr  e   i r  eo      tt     eddl'glimisouerird   to  umliw
4 f.=1():v Cia-emciii and thlrough,"' said the noble-  with their deadly conatents. Leavinlgbts tofE


TH J  s I Al IINr~  FT1 E GULF.          ;

  OUR MESS; OR,
take i        - the parties which had acted so gallant- and shouted : " Forward, Americans-for n r
1on the latnd, Alln made scarce a moment's and avenge your leader !" they falted no long-
puse now, but dashed on as rapidly as pos- er.   o
siblen    ,                                   With one united cry for revenge, they pres-
Scarcely had   e reached the open water ed forward, and the. remainder of the  irates
when the aire of the whole piratical line began to yield. Colcefrinas was agail wound
opened upon him, and a battery in front of ed, and twice was almost in the hands of his
the hoe  y the main flag-staff on shore, foes. But Mariano, with her long, black har
poured in a t   herihle fire.               streaming in the air, her dark eyes flashing
pOred m abrrbe boys-on-the blood-thirsty fire, and her dress half-woianish, yet partial-,
fiends shall pay treble for every drop of ly such as she had worn when acting as page,
blood t eyshed' " e shouted, as standing p each time dashed in lke a tigress before hi,
in his boat, he urged his staunch oarsmen and beating hack the astonished Americans,
onward.                                     rescued him from their hands. At° lat the
"nworward, for God and the holy Saint pirates were pressed into his house as a last
George !" cried the brave chaplain.        resort; and thither they wo ul havebeen fel-
Ge !nwar  arind   t the deuce take him that's lowed, had not the builuig, in a moment after,
hindmot !    a cried the gallant Seymour.  been shattered into a thousand fl'agment, by
And tleughw an after man fell dead at his the exp sion of a mine beneath i..
a    nds, suit  the  sh t fell  like  hail  among  them,  Seymour  and  the  re nmaindher f the  officers
the boa tles id swiftly on in the face of the supposed that Coleefinas and the reit of his
deadly  lire, e not sauin to  return  it, but seek- band, rendered/ti pelss  by  the  deperat ion  of
ing ly fieto come puha ott band with the  their situation, har theinelv dciiesitroy'ed there
scourges htc fore theit.                  building and petrished in its ruins.
Aleii, still standing up in his boat, con-  Not so. By a safe avenue, all that had
Apicuous for his courage and but too good a survived the terrible sluh50r mnthe ve-Sels
irkouslfo his courang figure,still led  and on the beach, iiwn: a&amp;d 1bd ly MarunuO,
the va , his  c omar mvoCe heard  plainly  above  were hastening  unseen  to t heir i i i tron hold
the rail c of f'earrcs and the dash of  lun.g- in the mountains, hearing wit tli o hi,di-
the oar. Stevr as well as other of the abled chief, who with his win land hl itred'
officers.  etuhoi they could not but admire his the train that blew his houe mi ) tie an
reckless,  ourg ,  begged  him  not  to  expose  the smoke anl dut co m l-tely  hiig  them,
him self s  o   le ;  but  lie  did  not  heed their  and  thus  sec ring their  rre t a
enrelto mue.                                 Finding no more riistance, th  at tacking
e Ont- one-at nssthe  cursed  fiends  from  force  now  coipltd their  wiork  i deIructi ,
the  face  o  in - ti,'  was  hiseiy.     destroying  every  lo t and  imnlthig, lpik in
thex face olye arhainisg erboats dashed the g~imsihichm hadi dhill s- much danmaci
Drav e lynol t earantial boats, and thou-h  and cutting down every tree wlieli bore fruit.
they wtre dcned with the sternness of dle- Then ilently and satly l gath-red togetl- /
hpanr, the Auilericami swept down the pirates er thiir deal, an preiparei toreturn tio hemr
like grain br, irt e esickle of the reaper. vesels. They liiI otnquere I tih tnemy, de-
like  g  ta t  e at e back -  step  ' y step ,  troy id  their 'v  e - Is,  an dl tti ly  desolated
firint   -rt   i  ie they  were  forced  to  a bn  their  rendezvo s  ;  .n d as  theiy  su ippos ,   sc -
fot it.  And rteii conquerors were Clots pletely aniiiitat ed them ibi th in etory had
t   lto follow them over a wiall of betn dearly won.
fire. e i t  a ti   i d n ot  pause  for  sm oke  c'  T h e  m ost  of  t hI e  whiolie  fell  o i  h i   .
fames  wt i hat not stopped  for the  showers  of  and  American  side  wer,   ithi bri 1 f t  s lmx
ironmnd of lead,h ht on with thirsty steel itn ceremony, buried on the rsr  tii nith ire b I -
th eir n  a nd  o th ey e 1 ru ig .     in g  le ft  as  th e y  ell,  t  ro t   it t  i tt s  t e
Alltei  hal a hlst gained the shore, where earth with their bones.
oleefiminn laiiaisel  leading  his men, forgetful  l unt  the  r mai s  .t 'it n nd l  b a u i
oleenai, ratg like a wromded lion, eveii in death, wereeit'fly iil' n up iad
of his wound, amagingl, laid ii his boat, ith 1h                cut ry's h   fori a
"ouht. r -itblow with you, and I am    pall anm rowed by his sor.ns rei  w ii  eri ci
content"I' shouted Allen, as lie saw him.  carried hack to ti e hta of t he coliiiii ulnh
et  . si oC ot'ds were the last that ever he hal led, so that ii his w  weil  I.n1:emight
-i u' i       tiered.  While vet his taunt- have the sad sati lenon in snui-nce tot cot
his ori e  run      -.g out sip  the ait', and iee Col- him whom shte hha Ilivi t sot I1, and who
ceftin oiesd rt-eak uh reply the fatal bullet had fallen while yet the sunli ht  O bii  was
from  asilli u ritilomt  hand  sped  on  its  co use  warm  upon  his brow .
ad ithe n l  ar  'if  -the  da ,  the  gallant  Allei,  fell  - -1
forward i hli eiioied sand-a o'pse.AP                           i  h  II.
F oratt to  th . i iimoen  appalled  with; their  It  was  amoit  night  Wih "  he  returning
ho( soil       le   ,If-tiickeim. fatteied and fell back ; boats reached the \"tssti. N\itoii ilvfeel-
but when tcymour lifted him'fromi the earth, ings and tender scnits , h-K  ntand the

I-

chapin, Mr. Moilaunt, lpreedied thl heat,
which coitaied the body of poor Allen snme
distance, to endeavor to break the news of hbe'
gallant husband's untimely fall, as gentle as
possible, to pioor Maraquita.
To their utter surprise, they found that lady
aated im the eabin, calm and quiet, but with
the pallor of death on her cheek, which was
made more visible by the dress which she wore.
It was black. She had already donned the.
robes of mourning.
She smiled gently, but oh, how sadly ! iis
they cautme im, and in a low tone said, as she
motioned their to seats
. You are hind. .-You come to speak words
of consolation t o the widow ! You need not
shake your heads-----it is not mercy, for I know
alL- I saw hiim when he fell-i knew he never
would return !"
The officers thought that her reason hid left
'her, for shincould not have known positively of
the fall of lie husband. But mysterious in-
iluenees somtimes bea' to us the knowledge
of great nsorrows. And so there had come 'to
lier soae ispiritl unaeen--but felt-perhaps hia
own-whvich whispered to her heart, that thence-
torth it must bat alone.
ISgher o calm, the chaplain thought
that he miht u'er a few words of consolation
consonant wi the duties of his holy rofe s-
" sion, amidul 'mintd to do' so. 'But she did
not seen to 1ed d- words.
" Wh' do tr hy not bring him to me ?" she
a sid. " I wai _i look noon his pae fte I
B rium hiiito tnt' qmeikly !",. ..
-           leeyamiur lft tlhe cabin, and tears were cours-
imgj d0,n the blrmve man's cheeks, for lie had
never sen agri-et ll still aud so very pitiful as
hers.  ail ihi  shrilked and sobbedmid torn lie
himr, thie nolicne of.her demonstrations wtoutl
" have de.,tmryd the intensity of its effect upon
the Wieml -.-bitntt s hutsorrow, there was an
utt-er i aanmn  an intensity of desolation
mo'r pot.s iit  n-ty ibs and tears.
- leymlour ;nit, the men, who were carefully-
is   tiod- r- -al  theiralmost idolied con-
unzntier ore lgnu-h.  Too muchagitted to
semak, lti mdn'd to flue eabii and lid the
wayi lhei nO -'y was iacarried in and laid down
upon thtr mi c st, where it life hie 1had sat'
by her i+, and i told her 'low eitirely his
heart was hi  o . -i
W    thm i-    e It 3  lcls, nhijlt toll that
the v :- f       o -1s-f b -i heati- were burned
dry Iy t     r'tlo of th terrible sorrow
which -ha I.      eItnly otS upon he, the
s teicka a li( w    t   kelt downi v the
ideLof th-    ,l   and raistug tie a g froitm
over (the pil ffue; k, irr 10 t, nderly.  A
roudsnil- at'mdto rest upntiit the' ft res,
for thLe ill haIt pr  sle his hiteirt li elad
died s studnly that no exprs  - ,inii of Iiin
had time to fret- upon hi3 face.
He is rery handsome ? l)o't you ftink I
so? very hanomhoic I" she-siiin a low, plain-

ti' tone, which went home to every heart
that heard it, and which brought tears to ev-
cry eye there. " This is our bridal night I" she
aid, after a pause. And then she shivered as
with cold, and rose and stood for a moment as if
listening.  -1I hear the glad cathedral bells ?"
she murmured. " Come love-come !" and
she reached out her hand as if to lead him with
her.  The next instant, though, she reeled
and fell, so stiff and cold that all thought her
dead. But Doctor O'Shaughnessy, who had
been wee ping like a child, sprung to her aid,
and found that she was only in a swoon-her
overstrained spirit had not strength to sustain
her body.
Restoratives were used, and she was borne
to her couch, while it was decided by the oil-
ceas now in conuuand to take the vessel at
once to Matanzas, where, if the lady desired,
she could be restored to her father. Amid the
intention of Allen to go there in- sni:c the
"i Plot " was nott forgotten.
'W hen thef;Almai1u          ~ , s  e-mme
by the Mids.t 'tehiI the hurler    N
is, they found iha ihEy iWerei a few hours tlO
late to capture the supposed pirate. S lwhad
either finished her repairs sooner tlmati was ins-
ticipated, or gone to sea with sonie of them
left undone ; for, much to the surprise and
chagrin of the cnsulsi-Iho supposed he was
keeping a close wateh upon her--she slipped
off and went to sea, or somewhere out of sight,
during the night previous to the arrival of the
pirate-hunting fleet.
The people of Maftanzas seemed to be really
glad to hear of the destruction of the pirates.
Perhaps they were.    And the Marquis de
Regh, it need not be doubted, was glad ; for
Coleefrinas had beome to him more than a
te 'ror: and the report of the Americans was,
like their belief, that Colcefrinas was slain-
had perished in the explosion.
Nor did the marquis mourn for the death of
Allen, because he bore no good-will to the.
Americans as a natition ; but he did grieve sin-
cerely at the condition in which his daughter
had come back to himm: for, as we have said
more thami once in this story, he loved her with
all the love that was in his nature. She had
beco-me-or, in fact, had been-from the hour
when her husband's bosdy was brought to her,
 harmlessly, hopelessly, pitifuly insane.
It swas amnost heut-reirding to hear her talk.
Faneying at one time that lie was by her side,
she woui address him in the fondest and most
endearing terms. 'Then again, seeming to think
him temporarily absent, she would plead in
tearful agony for him to come back to her.
Still again, serming to see him in the red me-
lee of a terrible fight, she would throw up her
armis, and shriek to heaven to'save him ; and
in that mood she would fall away into eon-
vls ins, which barely left her alive

i
"
x
F
t
p
f.
F
e


TIlE PIRATE-IIUNTERS OF TIlE GULF.

She hid to be watched constantly, lest she
should destroy herself. And most hard of all,
to her father, she did not recognize him. Nor'
did she seem  to remember any of her old
friends, when they came to see her. Two per--
sons only could get rational replies from her
- these two were the only ones whom she
would call by name : one was Lord Seymour,
who had become very deeply interested in
her ; the other was his chaplain, Mr. Mordaunt.
Seeming to recognize them as her husband s
last friends on earth, she appeared to be fond
of their society, and was ever child-like cr1d
gentle when they were with her. But dilly
would not permit of their lengthened stay in
port ; for soon, though terrible their ciastis-
nienit had been of the pirates, reports of new
outrages along the Coast cane to their ears;
and they found that the pirates, instead of ho-
ing utterly extermiiated, were yet numerous,
and qven powerful on the coast. 'Thierefore,
both the English and American men-of-war
were soon off igrin to renew their exertions to
destroy the destroyers.
(JIAPTERt XLIX.
[t was nigl t-some brief time after poor
Maraquita Iad!been brought to her home, and
her father sat with her in is favorite sitting-
room, whiither lihe had her brought a often is
he could, in hopes that time, and his presence,
and tender kindness, niglit work some chnrige
in her condition of mind. her state had so
worn his heart, that iii the few days which had
elapsed, the weight of ranny years seemed to
have aecumiulated upon his head.
" Poor child !--poor child !" he uttered. sa--
ly, as he looked upon his yet very beautiful
auihter, whose face, though pale, was a thou.-
sand times Iiore spiritual now than it hirad ever'
been, and whose n'itii'e apu)peairaiie rwasu ns
nearly akin to what p(oet would term anu elial
as it could be.  P Poor child I poor child !",
c Who is poor ?" she murmured-'   who is
poor ?  No one thit loves is poor ! My love
and I are rich"
"tOh I curse - curse even the meory itof
holcefrinas !" said the unhnppv father. '' IIad
it  e not beerr for that wretch, iy child ilmgn  r
have been happy; and 1 not the nier hi'he-
inu that I am! Curses-a thousand curses on
the name of ColeefrinasI"
Old mian, you should iot curse ino loudly
when the devil is at your elbow I" said a voice
but too well known to )e legla ; ind iihe
groniied in agony, as he turned and saw hum
whom   he might now well deciii an enemy
-tanding before ihin.4
"Can hell yawn and throw up that widel
belongs to it I'' groaned the marquis.
" You thought me dead, and yours-if fr --
'rnr your engagements, did you not P erie
Coieeirinas, with a sneer.  - Ieeuse a- fea
'arikees, hacked by the English, :'natined
slight alvaitage over mue, you supposed tha

Coleefrinas and his power was crushed ! You
are mistaken,'ancient comrade-widely mis-
taken. I am yet afloat ; and 'twill be long b -
fore I strike my flag! Long !-long! Do yois
hear me ? Why do you stand all agape ? Pm
no ghost, but real fksh and blood  as the ves-
sels off your coast begin to learn. I shall reap
a rich harvest, now that the Yankees have
boasted that they have exterminated the pi-
rates ! Their vessels will no longer f ar to
sight our coasts until I've talkn enough of
them to make them feel that.I am yet alive.
It's rare sport, this man-hiiittog-rare sport !
I see that von have your pretty daughter back
again. Black becomes her. I um glad that
I helped to dress her so becomingly. So ho,
Seiiorit a Martqiuita, how are you"
And the rude l)irate stroke up to her, and
reached out his hand, as if he would touch
her.
"Villain ! lay but a finger on my child-
but touch her person wit ih your polutig hand
-and Ill slay you like a dog, as you are .''
slhtoultedI the father, recov-eiilig the presence of
min(luahich the sudden entrance of the )irit
had deprived him of.    I .ave the room and
t: e palace instantly--leave it, or your fate is
sealed!"
1(" Lit hinstay. I ant to talk tto lui  Is
not this the butcher that Iw-i my lamb '
asked Maraquita, who bail heen lookmg at the
pirate steadily ever sines ie entered, and act-
iog as if she were, trying to arouse herself
from tsomre dream. " ' ho are you, man-a
w bo are yuiou -
S-lie went up to him  and lai d ler thin hand
upon hi shoulder, and looked li noso steadily
im the face that his brazen iriprdrice shrunk
from thier look, and le aetirally cowered Ie-
neat i her dazzling eye.
' \\h hyto you not speak . ou iue the
forn of a man, but you shitke arid tremble.
?Jeni niieer taerimble- v lv  doe siot trern-
ble-. IUo is brave: yoo ir a o rd.i -
This is well put on 1'-said ilie pir-ate;
Syol ire a  good anet r s, Mraquita.  lirt
coie witha lre :you have be oedaway fr m m
too long. (nore with me, my opret. y
Aid he pasd hi-s arrmr ironid her slender-
waist.
I.ike a lrrs. of lighting lenipiig ofru a
cloud flew the svrd oh h r itirfat mlit -un its
scabbard ; and it woull i' a bren is dI-for'-
(loleefriins could draw hisiihht -hie arid and up-
on guard, had not the poo r iina c  v'jrl, with
t a vehement gesturilii irt niktIre  ..I
' I)o riot slay hrioi !' s -arid.  um irius t
nt  lay him. It isia-il ii  uii t' bok o
rate   uMn ri must not a  lin.  is is not
th' piens where Ire musiitn bIe. I Isha:, a grand
lit, full f -Welt, and gil 1, anidI l'eantiful
1 things.  I havesetni i  (i! it waw rrainid--
V e'ryV  au' .  I we i  i qein iit h r .
a        id stall be arain mi  eali 'aid fiul. Cert.-
t with me-come !"

"Yes, I will go with you-yes--yes--vs!
I will go with you."  And she retreated step
by step in froiit of the pirate, motioning her
almost pa'rilyzd father hack as she went.
The wretheud marquis stood for a moment
as if spell-bound, and then, with a wild cry of
agony, stepped but a single step forward, and
fell senseless to the floor.
When loe reeovered his senses, his startled
servants were aronul him, but his daughter
was not there. ie asked where she was, but
no one knew.   Ard when he spoke of Colce'-
frinas having carried her off, they thought that
he was ravig i; or report told everywhere that
the pirate was dead, and no one ha   seen a
stranger in the palace, or been a witness s the
departure of Maraquita -who had been priio0 -
)ly led away through sonie secret passage
known to the pirate ; for-all of the old Spanish
buildings abounded in such.

toast that you all can drink I Fill, each one-
fill to the brim."
"What is that ?" asked Maraquita. And
she pointed to the head of a serpent, rudely
carved, appearing to be a singular ornament
to the back of the kind of dais, or throne on
which he sat.
" My guard, pretty one-my guard I 'Is it
not, my men ?"
Some of them   turned pale, and others
laughed, as he asked the question. They
knew well what it was, and that a match ap-
plied to the mouth of that serpent would fire
a train which would blow them all into atoms.
"Yes, yes-I have eard of it before," she
said. " With it you hold, indeed, a kingly
lpowver in your hands-the power of eatli."
And she smiled-smiled so stranrey that it
was wonderful that he had no thought of the
fire in her brain and heart which was now all
ablaze.
0 rl   nns.. t n-. rrit4 'a -t .Y..  1,,
"    l~   u   jiliiy~l' oni,*n

('l        L.eiedqueen-your toast,
In then grandest hall of his cavern frastngess, -rged.
Colcefrninas heild fEativail. With vet a' hundred  .ii Slowl she rose ; ard lifting tre golen cup
x1hrleft hurud, ushule her nrighit s'i-s-rind to be
followers left, anl hihii'iart moredfill of bitter-inhure sly lying wit her rihltseerilteilnob
ness towrid al i imkiind tthan it had ever been  cyd
before, he hand connuitted several terrible out- jeweled dagger which adorned her belt, sh'
rages on vessels and their hapless crews which  raised it, and as she looked Coleefrins in thu
had fallen inuto hisrhands along the coast, and  she said
made his nune doubly a terror- on the seas    "Idrimk to my ded husband. Murderer,
And now, havInn returned from his daring visit go you to seek him."  And as she but touched
to Matanzas wiihth e daughter of the Marquis her hs to the glass, she ditr the agger- iith
de Regla in his power, he determined to hav her other hmnd, and drove it to the very hilt
that which his sensual men were ever read   in his breast. hen, before a word, except
tra freayt hone cry of horror, could be uttered, or a hand
for-ri fi I.,srece                                   otht    rvntl r
Mariuna was there as well as Maraquita and  stretched forth to prevent hur, the brave girl
both were dr ssed'  iitiin afstyle sswhichi 'q u'eens sseizeind a lighted lamp and tonched the fatal
might have enild. -Thir forms blazed with  train. With a wdd cry of d-spar,sine of the
jewels. Andu ir iwer'e more lovely forms s  rnen sprung from their, eats-otheersnd  seemed
ichly adorned. Marraquita, who seemed to    rooted the-. Burt  not teis secondsh elapsed,
have fully recovered her senses-thourgh to be  ri-ei toh wacicic other; vandwithan soenmor
with hrii, a mrdlr'er' andI wretch, usere a proof rison metac other; lnd wmitha rsun  tor
of insrinrity-seemied to ue rnore his favorite                           crashing t
h gether, burying wealth and mortality all in one
one sat on his right ando thre other on his .leftterribleheap. Colcefrinmias and his bnrd were
at the bnnqruet-tmhl-the wild heart of Ma- now, indeed, swept from the face of the earth
-riana did not seem to beat with jealousy. Sire  -poor Allen  as bravely avenged.
even srm id on Maraquita, and spoke kind      -
words to her.
The latter quite as pale as when last'we saw  A few days after, while the Marquis de
her, and yeti more ethereal, said, as Colcefrinas Regha lay uponi Iris bed, near the point o death,
filled a  ildeu cuijp of wine for her:     a 'disfigured and shattered forms-was brought
You have given this banquet in honor of to hiss ide. It was all that was left of poor
me, have yornrot, Colcefrinas "            M iaragta, who, surviving, had crept fronm the
" Yes, iovely one-yes ; you are the queen  ruins of the pirate's treasure-house, that she
of the night ; and from your lips must come  might tell heer'father that his enemy was dead,
the first toast of the evening. Fill, men ; fill anid be buried by the side of her husband.
to the brim, for a pirate-queen will give you a'  Reader, 1 have done..

0

'r "
4

71

70

i
i

.{

!+       6
4
1
{'"
U
cam- S      '
f
r
f
S(
'3

OUR MESS ; OR,


                                     
             
         
       
   
