
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Agnes, or, The Beautiful Milliner .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6956
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               AGNES; 
               OR, THE BEAUTIFUL MILLINER. 
             
            
               New York: 
               PUBLISHERS AND BOOKSELLERS, Nassau Street.
             
          
       
      
         
            Agnes, or, The beautiful milliner 
             
             
            AGNES, THE BEAUTIFUL MILLINER. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               "Help! help! oh, help!" 
               These exclamations proceeded from a young woman who was running quickly up a back street which ran parallel with the magnificent thoroughfare of Regent-street. She was apparently about sixteen years of age. Her features were of that Saxon type so well known in this country. Her hair was fair-almost golden; her mouth was small; her lips red and rosy; her nose had a narrow escape of being "retrousse;" her complexion was light and delicate-in short, she was a blonde. 
               The cause of her alarm was not so easily discovered. 
               It was broad daylight, scarcely past two o'clock in the afternoon. 
               It was ridiculous to suppose that she was afraid of thieves. 
               Equally so to imagine that she was terrified by a mad bull, for the Metropolitan Cattle Market was some miles off. 
               What, then, could have caused so much terror and alarm in one so young and beautiful? 
               That was the question. 
               And although one apparently intricate and difficult of solution, the interpretation was not so far off as might have been expected. 
               Not far behind her walked a well-dressed, handsome-looking young man. 
               If you can judge a man's age from his whiskers and the hair he wears upon his face, he was about six or seven and twenty. 
               But this is never a sure standard to go by. 
               Whatever his age might have been, one thing was certain-he was as good-looking a young fellow as you would meet in a day's march. 
               His complexion was dark, as well as his hair and eyes. And he had a look of "insouciance," which sat well upon him. His clothes were well made, and he knew how to wear them. 
               In a word, he might have been taken for a nobleman; but he could never have been mistaken for a lawyer's clerk. 
               This young man, with a few rapid strides, overtook the trembling and shrinking girl. 
               Then the mystery which at first hung over the whole proceeding was rapidly dispelled. 
               As he neared her, he exclaimed, in a low yet manly voice- 
               "Don't be alarmed, little one, I shall not hurt you. I am not an ogre, to eat up little girls!" 
               And he gazed tenderly upon her. 
               At the first sound of his voice she made another effort to escape her pursuer, but, finding that he had seized her hand, and that the attempt was useless, she looked up, and replied, in a tone which she evidently meant to be not only indignant but defiant- 
               "Why do you talk to me? I do not know you." 
               "Possibly, my 
                     dhild
                     child
                  ," he answered, coldly, almost sarcastically; possibly, what you are pleased to state may be correct, but I am sanguine enough to hope that we may eventually become better acquainted." 
                
               "Oh! let me go!" she cried. "Why do you detain me thus?" 
               "Am I such a monster, then?" he demanded, smiling. 
               "Oh! I know not what you are,' she replied. "Pray Heaven you mean me no harm." 
               The stranger appeared to muse a moment. Then he said- 
               "You are young-inexperienced. You may like me better when we next meet. Come, tell me, where do you live?" 
               "Where I live can be of no consequence to you," she answered, boldly. 
               A cloud passed over her interrogator's brow at this response, and for a moment he again appeared plunged in thought. 
               His reverie, however, was interrupted by a beseeching appeal from the girl whom his grasp detained. 
               "Oh! do let me go!" she exclaimed; "do let me go! Were I seen with you it would be my ruin!" 
               For a woman to be seen talking with a street contiguous to the Hay market is nothing very wonderful, as most people are doubtless aware; and consequently although these two had been standing together for some minutes during the scene we have been describing, the passers by manifested no astonishment whatever, but quietly pursued their several ways without bestowing more than a casual glance as they hurried past. 
               "Well! well!" said the stranger, at last; "take this card, and if ever you want a friend call on Bernard Leslie." 
               At the same time he released her hand, and she sped up the street as if her life depended upon her fleetness. 
               "Now, there is a contumacious piece of innocence," he muttered to himself. "How I detest innocence! Well there is one consolation-it is a fault easily cured. Adam and Eve were innocent once. The tree of knowledge still flourishes, and I suppose we all pluck its fruit, and eat it some time or other. Women are the fools, and men the deceivers ever. Well! 'Tis the way of the world." 
               During these reflections of Mr. Bernard Leslie, as he called himself, the young girl whom he had so rudely way-laid had entered a house having a frontage on Regent-street. Over the back door, through which she had entered, were written the words- 
               
                  "MADAME CERISE."
                
               The girl crossed a yard and passed through a passage which led her to an open door, which revealed a room containing from twenty to thirty young women. 
               They were milliners, and worked for the celebrated and fashionable Madame Cerise, the well-known "modiste." 
               Most of them were too busy to look up as the girl entered. 
               There was one, however, whose duty it was to see that the "young ladies," as the work-women were in the cant language of the business called, were punctual in their attendance, and also that a due amount of work was diurnally-and nocturnally, too, for the matter of that-extracted from them. 
               This woman's appearance is summed up in the popular and expressive words, "a hag." 
               Who else would have been a slave-driver and a task-mistress? 
               Her name was Smithers, and she was a distant relation of Madame Cerise-so report had it. 
               Smithers approached the girl, who through the circumstances we have detailed, had made so tardy an entry. 
               "Well, Miss Clarke!" she exclaimed, in an acrimonious tone of voice; "you are late to-day. You ought to know as well as the other 'young ladies,' that we cannot afford to allow skulking here. You are all paid liberally." 
               Here an exclamation of dissent was audible in every part of the workroom 
               Smithers, at hearing this, appeared to be vastly incensed. 
                
               "Let that be repeated!" she cried; "and every one in the room shall be fined a day's wages." 
               The poor creatures, who were 
                     sarificing
                     sacrificing
                   their health, their very life, for their daily bread, dared not but respect the warning so solemnly given. 
               "What have you to say?" demanded Smithers, turning sharply to Miss Clarke. 
               "If you please," she replied, "I could not come quicker. I will make up for it." 
               "Of course you will!" exclaimed Smithers; "no doubt about that, my girl. You are not paid half-a-crown a-day for nothing-oh! dear no, don't flatter yourself!" 
               The girl was turning away to go to her seat, when Smithers cried- 
               "Stop a bit! I have not done with you yet, Miss Agnes Clarke!" 
               Agnes stood still, looking timidly at the floor of the room, which was destitute of carpeting, and rather dusty than otherwise, owing to the number of people continually walking over it and the excessive heat of the weather, for it was the middle of summer. 
               "You forget, Miss Clarke, you have not told us yet what made your ladyship so late this afternoon," began Smithers. 
               Agnes made no answer. 
               "Our young ladies," continued Smithers, "are allowed half an-hour for dinner, and you have taken an hour." 
               "I couldn't help it," repeated Agnes. 
               "That's all very fine-you told us that before, I think. I suppose the truth is, you have got a sweetheart-a lover, eh?" 
               As Smithers said this, all the girls in the room looked up, and fixed their eyes upon Agnes. 
               But she boldly returned their gaze, and, with honest indignation, although her 
                     unsophisticaled
                     unsophisticated
                   heart fluttered a little, replied- 
               "No, I have not; and whoever says so tells a bad, wicked story." 
               "Oh, indeed!" said Smithers. "Then what is the meaning of this?" 
               And with a sudden movement, Smithers dexterously snatched the card, which Agnes still held in her hand. 
               This was the fatal card given her by Bernard Leslie! 
               She had retained it, almost without knowing that she held it in her hand, and little dreaming the unmerited obloquy it would expose her to. 
               Smithers read the name and the address-Albany, Piccadilly-aloud, and then, pointing the finger of scorn at Agnes, she said- 
               "Young ladies, this must be instantly communicated to Madame Cerise, my respected relative, and she shall determine whether so hardened a hussey is to be allowed to pollute, by her presence, the rest of her former associates?" 
               "Stay' I implore!" cried Agnes. "It is true I had the card in my hand-" 
               "We know that too well," said Smithers, with a sardonic grin. 
               "Oh! indeed I am innocent!" 
               And she fell on knees before her accuser, who never having in her own proper person known the delights of love, could by no possibility make any allowance for another accused of so grave an offence in the eyes of a old maid. 
               Smithers pushed her rudely away, striking her clenched hands with a small cane he always retained, to enforce order amongst the "young ladies" under her care. 
               We don't want any acting, Miss Clarke," she said, coldly. 
               "Oh! I am innocent," sobbed the unhappy girl; "a gentleman ran after me and pushed this card into my hands, and when he let me go I ran away as fast as I could." 
               "A very likely story," replied Smithers, with an incredulous air; "a very likely story, indeed; only, unfortunately for you, Miss Clarke, I don't believe it." 
               At this a low laugh ran all round the room. 
               The "young ladies" were not a bit more charitable than their amiable task-mistress. 
               "It is true. Oh! it is, really," sobbed Agnes still more vehemently. 
               "I appeal to your companions," said Smithers, "whether such a story as you have told us is true, or anything like true. What do you think, ladies?" 
               A chorus of noes followed this abjuration. 
               There was, however, one exception. A rather dashing-looking girl, good-looking, but pale from over-work, and want of fresh air and exercise, with hair and eyes dark as the night, exclaimed- 
               "I believe her!" 
               "You do! Who are you?" asked Smithers, 
                     contemptously
                     contemptuously
                  . 
               "I suppose you know as well as anybody else," replied the girl; "my name's Charlotte Saunders-and Saunders is better than Smithers any day." 
               The girl who spoke so boldly seemed to have come to a sudden determination, and to have made up her mind to risk everything to protect and stand up for her friend. 
               "Indeed!" replied Smithers. "We'll attend to you presently, Miss Saunders." 
               "I think you will attend to me now or not all," said Saunders. "I brought Agnes Clarke to this hole, I am sorry to say, and I have known her for years to be a good and virtuous girl, and I won't have her abused and bullied by you." 
               "I wish I could say half as much for you," replied Smithers, in a great passion; "but this is evidently a plot, a conspiracy you shall both suffer for it though. I will have you dismissed, both of you, without your wages, and then see what you will come to." 
               Charlotte Saunders threw down the work she was engaged upon, at these words, and walked up to Smithers before that disreputable old lady could guess what was going to happen to her, and violently snatching the little cane we have before mentioned out of her hand, she seized her by the right arm, and for the space of a minute administered so severe a castigation that the sufferer's breath was completely taken away, and she sank exhausted with rage, pain, and fear, upon a chair. 
               During the chastisement, Charlotte Saunders refrained from making any remark, but when she had punished the task-mistress to her satisfaction, she cried, "You old hag, you are nothing better than a murderess; you know you drove three girls, within the last year, to commit suicide, and one died here in her bed the other day; and if I hadn't lived at home-you'd have killed me to, most likely; but I have had enough of it for some time past, and I had made up my mind to cut it, only it didn't seem to suit me till today." 
               Agnes during this scene had remained perfectly passive. 
               "Agnes," said Charlotte, addressing her. 
               The girl looked up inquiringly. 
               "Come, child," said her friend, "put on your bonnet again; you know, I suppose, you can't stay here after this." 
               "Yes," replied Agnes, "only I am so sorry, dear Charlatte, you should have spoilt your chance by taking my part." 
               "Oh! don't talk nonsense; dress yourself, and come with me, if you don't want to be kicked out." 
               Smithers made a movement as if she wanted to get up. 
               "Not if I know it," exclaimed Saunders. "When I have done with you-not before, Miss Smithers." 
               And she struck her a sharp blow over the knuckles to enforce obedience. 
               When Agnes was fully equipped, Charlotte attired herself, and nodding farewell to her associates of the workroom, led the way out of the place. 
               No attempt was made to follow them, and in a short time they emerged arm-in-arm into the street. 
               "Oh, what an unlucky day!" cried Agnes. "I am again thrown on the world." 
                
               "Never mind," replied her friend, "there are more ways than one of gaining a living, and I for one am tired of dressmaking, I can tell you." 
               "I dare not go home," said Agnes. 
               "Why not?" 
               "Oh, father, you know, will be so angry; and mother is not much kinder." 
               "I tell you what, Agnes, I have my doubts," said Charlotte, "whether those people are your parents. 
               A strange flutter agitated Agnes' heart at these words. She too had had an intuition to the same effect. 
               "What do you mean?" she asked, anxiously. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               Before Charlotte Saunders had time to reply to her friend's question, her attention was arrested by a showily-dressed young woman, who, walking on the same side of the way, had almost run up against them. 
               It was evident that Charlotte Saunders and the new comer were acquainted, for a rapid greeting passed between them. 
               Turning to Agnes, Charlotte said in a low voice, "Norah Nolan, a friend of mine, and a good sort, too." 
               Norah Nolan might have been pretty some years ago, but dissipation and excess had left their mark upon her, and although when dressed and made up, she was still tolerably decent, she was but the shadow of her former self. 
               Nevertheless she cut a very respectable appearance in a black bonnet, with strings and trimmings to match, a black shawl and a moire antique dress of the same color. 
               "Why have you not been to see me?" asked Norah. 
               "Business," replied Charlotte. "I am not so free and independent as you are." 
               Norah could hardly repress a sigh at these words. 
               "How, then," she asked, "are you about now?" 
               In a few words Charlotte told her friend what had happened at Madame Cerise's, at which she laughed heartily. 
               "You see," she said, pointing to her attire, "I had gone into mourning for you already, for few women, as I know, last more than a year or two at that slave-driving business." 
               "What, have you been a milliner?" asked Charlotte. 
               "What haven't I been!" she replied. "But come and have a dram somewhere. Where will you go?" 
               "Anywhere," was the reply. 
               Accordingly the trio went into a public-house where Norah seemed to be well known. 
               "What will you have?" she asked Agnes. 
               "I never drink spirits," said Agnes, timidly. 
               "Oh, nonsence! have a drop of brandy. It wont hurt you. Here! three drains of pale, please." 
               "Three drains of pale, Miss? Yes, Miss, replied the barman. 
               After this, Norah insisted upon Charlotte and her friend's coming up to her rooms, which were in a neighboring street, and hardly knowing what to do, the young woman accepted the invitation. 
               Norah opened an unpretending-looking door with a latchkey, and ushered her friends into a dimly-lighted corridor, leading to a staircase which eventually conducted them into some handsomely-furnished rooms on the first floor. 
               "Here's my crib," exclaimed Norah, "What do you think of it?" 
               Agnes thought she had never been in so beautiful a suite of rooms in her life-her untutored and inexperienced mind could compare it to nothing but Madams Cerise's show-rooms. 
               Going to a cupboard, Norah produced a bottle of gin, saying- 
               "You know women can never do anything without a drop of gin." 
               The pictures on the walls were certainly ly not works of high art, but those tawdry Parisian prints, which are what is called a little free without being 
                     postively
                     positively
                   indecent. 
               When Agnes had looked at them, and opened one or two gaily-bound books lying on the table, an idea suddenly came into her head that, in popular language, her new acquaintance was no better than she should be. 
               This was a discovery that any one but one so young and innocent as Agnes Clarke would have made half an hour ago. 
               Yes, Norah Nolan was a gay woman. She was one of those ephemeral butterflies who regard those moments wasted that are not devoted to pleasure. 
               Agnes did not wish to make a mistake about her new acquaintance, so she went up to Charlotte, and said, in a whisper- 
               "I say, Charlotte, is your friend gay?" 
               "What's that to you?" replied Charlotte. "Perhaps you'll mind your own business." 
               "Well, if you are going to stay here I shall go," said Agnes, firmly. 
               "Go!" cried Charlotte; "go where?" 
               "Oh! anywhere away from here;" and rising, she made towards the door. 
               "What's the matter?" asked Norah. 
               Charlotte told her in half a dozen words. 
               "Oh! Bless her little heart, let her go," laughed Norah, good-humoredly. 
               "Well, I shall remain here," said Charlotte. "And look here, Miss Fastidious, mind you don't come to the same thing sooner than you expect." 
               "Remember, I shall be glad to see you, if you want a home or a friend," exclaimed Norah. 
               Unheedful of these exclamations, Agnes quickly made her way out of the room, and was soon standing in the street. 
               Where was she to go? 
               If she went home her father would be sure to scold her, and most likely beat her. 
               Her mother was powerless to protect her. 
               They would be expecting some money, to, for it was nearly the end of the week, and they relied a good deal upon the small sum that Agnes brought home weekly. 
               Jabez Clarke was a tradesman in a small way, we may say in a very small way indeed. 
               Mrs. Clarke was a poor, sickly woman, who always seemed at the point of dying, but yet had the appearance of not being able to make her mind up on the matter. 
               The unfortunate daughter of this worthy couple was in a dilemma. 
               She had lost her employment, and she had quarreled with her friends, and now she was afraid to go back to her paternal abode. 
               Yet she could not remain in the streets. She was becoming hungry. She felt faint and weary. So, summoning up her courage, she turned her steps in the direction of Clare-market. 
               Here, in this poverty-stricken neighborhood, was the domicile of Jabez Clarke, Coke and Potato Merchant. 
               It consisted of the ground floor only, the rest of the house being let to other tenants. The front room was, of course, the shop, while the back one was the sitting-room, kitchen, and bedroom of Jabez Clarke, his wife, and daughter. 
               So much for the boasted civilization of the nineteenth century. 
               He looked up as the girl made her appearance, and said, in a tone in which surprise and displeasure were mingled- 
               "What! You 'ome urreddy." 
               "Yes, father, I've lost my place," replied Agnes, thinking it best to plunge into her troubles at once. 
               "You 'ave yer? Came 'ere!" he exclaimed. 
               As the girl approached, he seized her by the arm, and drawing her towards him, gave her a heavy blow on the side of the head with his open hand, which had the effect of partially stunning her. 
                
               She staggered a moment, and then, with a low cry, fell on the floor. 
               Mrs. Clarke was during this scene engaged in the kitchen, cooking, but when the noise of her daughter's fall aroused her, she exclaimed- 
               "Here's Jabez up to some of his games, now." 
               "Missus!" cried Jabez, through the half opened door. 
               But Mrs. Clarke did not require calling, she was in the room in a second. 
               "Oh! deary me, what is here?" 
               "Back her up, you tool," said her husband, with an oath, "or I'll serve you the same." 
               The poor woman did as she was told, and raised Agnes up. 
               The girl opened her eyes, for she was more stupified than hurt, and rising to her feet, followed her mother to the back room. 
               "What's the matter, child?" she asked. 
               "Matter," suddenly exclaimed Jabez who had followed them in from the shop; "why, there's lots the matter." 
               "Let her speak, will you, Jabez, now?" asked his wife. 
               "She shall speak fast enough, or I'll know the reason why," he replied. 
               "I've lost my place, mother, that's all. I'm very sorry; I couldn't help it. 
               "And who do you suppose is a goin' to keep you in idleness," demanded her father, gruffly. 
               "I don't know," sobbed Agnes. 
               "No, I suppose you don't. No more don't I." 
               "How was it, child?" asked her mother. 
               "Why, mother," explained Agnes, "I was going back, when a gentleman ran after me, and wanted me to talk to him, and I wouldn't; and he gave me a card and when I went in I forgot the card; but Miss Smithers saw it, and said I had been doing wrong, and I am sure I hadn't. And so I had to go." 
               "Where's the card?" demanded her father, roughly. 
               "Miss Smithers kept it," was the reply. 
               "Well; you'd better find it, and go to the gentleman who seemed to take such a fancy to you. I ain't going to keep you, that's flat," said Mr Jabez Clarke, brutally. 
               "Don't talk like that, Jabez," expostulated Mrs. Clarke; "it aint right." 
               "She's no child of mine," cried Jabez, incautiously, "and I don't care what becomes of her." 
               "She's listening, Jabez," said his wife "You'll spoil all." 
               "Spoil, indeed! I don't see what there is to spoil," he returned. 
               "You're a fool, Jabez," replied his wife, with unusual boldness, for her. 
               "Am I?" he cried. "You don't call me fool again?" and he violently pushed the woman to the floor, and her head came in contact with an old iron fender. 
               Jabez turned on his heel, and walking out of the room, went to the bar of his favourite public-house, and there remained to drink and smoke with other congenial, though ruffianly spirits, to whom he could boast how he had taken his old woman down a peg. 
               "Oh! mother, mother!" cried poor Agnes, falling on her knees beside her mother's inanimate body. 
               "What shall I do? what I shall do?" she sobbed. 
               But the necessity for action forcing itself upon her mind, she got up from her recumbent position. Then going to the sink, she drew a little water in a basin. This she sprinkled with her fingers over her mother's pallid, though blood-stained countenance. 
               But no signs of animation showed themselves. 
               Agnes then thought of using a little vinegar, as she had seen that used as a restorative at Madame Cerise's when any girl happened to faint. 
               Getting on a chair' she took down the vinegar-bottle from a shelf on which it was kept, and bathed her mother's brow, also putting a few drops just underneath her nostrils. 
                
               This treatment had the desired effect. Her mother in a short time recovered her senses, and with her daughter's assistance, laid herself down on the wretched paillasse which served them for a bed. 
               Agnes ventured to express a hope that her mother was better. 
               But she replied-"No child, no. He has done for me this time. However, there is something you must hear before I go." 
               Agnes' sobs choked her utterance, and she listened to her mother in silence. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               "Oh! mother, mother, dear mother!" cried Agnes, "don't say so." 
               "Why, my child, should I disguise the truth?" asked Mrs. Clarke. 
               "But it is so horrible, so dreadful!" said the poor girl. 
               "Ah! it is a bad world, Agnes, and there are many dreadful things enacted in it," replied the wounded woman. 
               "It was cruel, it was unmanly, to strike you, mother," said Agnes, as for me, why I am young, you know, and I can get over such things." 
               "If you knew all, dear girl," answered her mother, "you would indeed pity me." 
               "If I knew all?" Yes, all, child. I said all, for at present you know next to nothing." 
               "Are-are you not-" she stopped, for the question almost choked her. 
               "I know what you would say," her mother replied. "I am-" 
               Here a sudden faintness came over her, and Agnes was obliged to have recourse to the friendly bottle of asgar which was of so much service on a former occasion. 
               When signs of vitality again appeared, Agnes tremulously exclaimed, 
               "Yes, dear mother, I am listening." 
               The injured woman recalled her scattered senses, and continued, 
               "I am your mother." 
               "Thank God for that!" cried Agnes, overpowered with emotion. 
               "But-" murmured Mrs. Clarke, in a gentle tone. 
               "But what, mother?" said Agnes. "Oh! tell me all. I can bear anything but the loss of you." 
               "Well, the time has come. You shall hear all." 
               "Yes, all; let me hear all," repeated Agnes. 
               "Jabez Clarke," said the sinking woman, "is my lawful husband but he is not your father." 
               "Oh, Heaven!" said Agnes, clasping her hands, "am I, then, the child of shame?" 
               "Hush! hush!" cried her mother, "add not fresh pangs to my present misery." 
               "No, no," answered the unhappy Agnes, "I would not for the world grieve you, dearest mother, for you are my mother, but this is sudden-so sudden." 
               "Would that I had never sinned!" said the dying woman. 
               Agnes buried her face in her hands, and seemed rapt in grief or meditation. 
               Her mother gasped for breath; it was evident that she had not long to live. 
               Always weak, and subject to anxieties of many kinds, her overtasked mental and corporeal system had for some time been ready to succumb to the first great shock which fell upon them; this had at last come in the shape of the cowardly and brutal attack which had been made upon her by Jabez Clarke. 
               Suddenly Agnes looked up, and said, with evident traces of agitation about her: 
               "Mother, may I ask you a question?" 
               "Yes, child; speak." 
               "Who, then, is the author of my being?" 
               A tremor passed over the features of her mother, as she replied- 
               "It is hard indeed to publish my shame to my own daughter, but-" 
               Here a fit of coughing interrupted her utterance, and her frail frame seemed on the point of dissolution 
                
               "Oh, speak, mother, speak!" exclaimed Agnes, in an indescribable agony of expectation. 
               "Oh! avoid my fate, my daughter," said her mother. 
               "His name; let me know my father's name, mother, I conjure you!" 
               "You shall," she answered, faintly. "His name was-is-for I know not that he is dead-" 
               "Yes, yes," said the expectant girl. 
               "But to me he is dead," resumed her mother, "yet to you he may be alive. His name, I say, was Leslie." 
               "Leslie!" cried Agnes, the reminiscences of the afternoon flooding her already over-crowded memory. 
               "Yes, Leslie-Bernard Leslie." 
               "Oh! let me hear all." 
               "You shall, but briefly; my life is ebbing fast." 
               "Oh, say not so!" 
               "Why disguise the truth? Yes, my time has come, but there is yet enough life left in this feeble frame to tell the story of my guilt. May my confession be some slight reparation in the sight of Heaven for my offence." 
               Here the wretched woman paused a moment, while her daughter listened intently for the resumption of her all-absorbing communication. 
               "I was young," she continued, "and men told me I was beautiful. I was admired by many. How should a poor farmer's daughter escape from the meshes that were east around her? Let it suffice that I fell; how, you shall hear. The son of the owner of most of the land in our neighborhood was a young, good-natured boy of between twelve and thirteen; his mother had been dead about a couple of years. Well, he would come to the wakes and festivals held in the village, and when they made me Queen of the May, he danced with me on the village green, and afterwards asked me into the domain of the hall, to fish and take past in other sports which his father's place was famous for." 
               Mrs. Clarke here broke off abruptly in her narrative, and said, 
               "Some water, child; some water! I feel a fire consuming me." 
               Agnes complied with her mother's command as speedily as possible, and she resumed, 
               "One day your father saw us together, and he spoke to me, told me he was glad to see so beautiful a flower flourishing on his poor estate, and paid me similar compliments-but why dwell on the history of my disgrace-he took me to London, and I became his mistress. You were the only child of our union." 
               "Oh! my poor mother," sobbed Agnes, leaning her head upon her mother's outstretched hand, "how I pity you!" 
               "At last, my child, he left me. But before he did so, to save his own reputation and character, he married me to one of his dependants." 
               "And that was Jabez Clarke?" suggested Agnes. 
               "You have guessed rightly," said her mother," the man I married was Jabez Clarke, and bitterly have I rued the day he called me wife." 
               "You have not told me all, mother?" said Agnes inquiringly. 
               "No, child, no, but you shall hear. For a time Mr. Leslie made us an allowance, but suddenly this stipend was discontinued, and the agents said they had no authority to continue it. Their principal, they told me, had gone abroad, and left them to instructions." 
               "Horrible!" groaned Agnes. "Can such base ingratitude exist?" 
               Oh, yes; men are ever deceitful," responded her mother; "but to my tale. Being deprived of the little pension for which Jabez Clarke married me, he grew peevish and morose, and never lost an opportunity of hurting and ill-treating me; and you see, my child, to what his ill-treatment, and Bernard Leslie's desertion, have brought me." 
               "You have been cruelly treated," said her daughter. 
                
               In vain she waited for an answer. Her mother, overcome by the ill-treatment of her husband, and her painful recollections combined, had succumbed to their united influences, and swooned away. 
               She was destined never to awaken. 
               A crimson tinge dyed her lips. 
               The ill-fated woman had broken a blood-vessel in the intensity of her emotion, but even had this event not taken place, she would have expired of sheer inanition, so exhausted was her system from want of proper food, and the worry brought on by the perpetual ill-treatment of her dastardly husband. 
               On receiving no reply, Agnes looked in her mother's face wonderingly. 
               She was filled with an undefined dread-could she be dead-was it possible that she had lost her only friend in this world? 
               Alas! It was only too true. Mrs. Clarke had breathed her last in this world. 
               
                  
                     Unccustomed
                     Unaccustomed
                   to such scenes as she was, Agnes could not disguise from herself the fact that her mother had departed this life. 
               Overcome by her feelings, the girl fell upon her knees by the bedside, and breathed a prayer for the repose of her mother's soul. 
               If ever a wrong was forgiven, the wrong done her by her mother, was forgiven by Agnes. 
               "It is not for me,' to cast the first stone." 
               For some time she remained rapt in meditation and prayer. 
               When she had partially recovered herself, the great question which had more than once perplexed her that day-"what was to be done?"-again presented itself. 
               Alone and friendless, she might almost say homeless, what was she to do-what could she do? 
               "Twas a question more easily asked than answered. 
               If she remained at home she would have to accuse her father at the inquest, which would undoubtedly be held. 
               To accuse him of the murder of her mother, or at any rate to depose to the fact of his having struck her most brutally, which, combined with his habitual ill-treatment, undoubtedly hastened the poor woman's death. 
               Such would be her ungrateful task, yet were she to go away, where would she go to, and what was there before her? The very ground seemed to be, by a series of accidents, cut away from under her feet. 
               Agnes could not help thinking, in the midst of her grief, that it was a singular coincidence that her mother's seducer-her father-should bear the name of the stranger who had that day accosted her near Madame Cerise's, who had given the unlucky card which seemed the fore-runner of so many evils. 
               For misfortunes, as many people can attest, never come singly. 
               It was her duty, however, to follow her mother's remains to the grave. 
               But could she brave her reputed father's anger? Would it not be better for her to leave him to his fate, and to go away altogether? 
               She thought it would; let us not then blame her. Youth is always a series of contradictions. Sometimes right, sometimes wrong. 
               Impressing a fond, long, loving, lingering kiss upon the placid brow of her inanimate parent, without touching anything in the house to which she might, or might not, have had a good title, she sallied forth from the dwelling, and wandered she knew not whither. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               Agnes Clarke, destitute and forlorn, left her father's house-that house in which her mother's corpse was lying. 
               Yet her steps did not falter. 
               After walking for some time without any well-defined purpose, for the poor child's brain was in a whirl, she sat down upon a doorstep. 
               She was still in the squalid neighbor hood of St Giles's, not far from those seven branching thoroughfares, which, converging upon a common centre, give it the name of the "Dials." 
               The two squares, Soho and Golden, are the only oases in this desert of filth and wretchedness. 
               Agnes began to cry. 
               This was no uncommon spectacle, and attracted little attention. 
               We should be in error though, were we to say that the fit of weeping passed wholly unnoticed. 
               A young man, apparently about two and-twenty, paused in his onward way, at beholding the spectacle of the young girl's grief. 
               He gazed compassionately upon her and exclaimed, "Can I assist you in any way?" 
               Agnes shook her head. 
               "Come, tell me," he said, what the matter is. Those eyes are far too beautiful to be spoilt by weeping." 
               Agnes was roused at these words. She wanted help and assistance of a practical sort. 
               "Compliments are poor food for misery to feed on, sir," she cried. "It is not manly of you to insult a helpless, unprotected girl." 
               And at the thought of her isolated position her tears flowed afresh. 
               "Calm yourself," said the stranger. "I will not harm, I will help you, if I can." 
               "I am indeed in want of help," sobbed Agnes. 
               "Then trust in the honor of Marmaduke Wilson, and all will be well," said the stranger, in a voice that thrilled through Agnes, it seemed so full of genuine compassion. 
               She repeated his words, "All will be well," mechanically. Her head was becoming a little confused. 
               It must be remembered it was now evening, and she had been some hours without food. 
               The exciting scenes she had gone through, too, had had an effect upon her nervous system. 
               "I will give you shelter," said he, who called himself Marmaduke Wilson; "say, will you accept my offer?" 
               Agnes made no reply; her head drooped gently on one side, and had he not supported her she would have fallen on the pavement. 
               "What shall I do?" hastily muttered the stranger to himself. "She is evidently poor and friendless, perhaps homeless." 
               The conclusion his cogitation led him to was speedily made manifest by his hailing a four-wheeled cab, that luckily happened to be passing at this critical juncture. 
               With the cabman's assistance, Agnes was lifted into the vehicle, and on receiving an address from Marmaduke Wilson, which was spoken in a low voice, the man drove off rapidly in the direction of Holborn. 
               After a while the cab stopped at a house in a quiet and respectable-looking street which led out of the Gray's-inn-road. 
               By this time Agnes had opened her eyes, but was still too faint and ill to realise her position or to offer any resistance. 
               The cabman on receiving a liberal fare touched his hat and drove off, leaving Agnes leaning on the arm of Marmaduke Wilson. 
               The latter personage produced a key from his pocket, with which he opened the door of a house, ushering in his fair prisoner, for so she might almost be called, then with a celerity which showed him to be well acquainted with the premises, he lighted the gas in a little parlour on the ground floor. 
               Gently conducting Agnes to a comfortable-looking armchair, he exclaimed- 
               "There, little one, sit down; you are at home now." 
               Agnes stared round her in a bewildered manner. 
               "I think," said Marmaduke Wilson to himself, "that a glass of wine would not be amiss here." 
               So saying, he went to a cupboard and produced a black bottle. 
               He evidently despised that refinement of civilization-a decanter. 
               Pouring out a glass, he offered it to Agnes, and pressed her to drink it. 
               She took the proffered cordial and drank it off. 
               It had the effect of restoring her worn-out energies. 
               "Where am I?" she asked a little nervously. 
               "This is your home, now. I found you fainting on a door-step in St. Giles's, and I brought you hither. The apartment you see is only homely; I am not rich, although I have enough to live upon, but what I have is very much at your service, until we can communicate with your friends." 
               "Oh! thanks! thanks!" cried Agnes, "how good you are! But-" 
               "But what?" he said, smiling; "let me hear anything you have to say." 
               "But, can I trust you?" she asked, timidly. "How do I know who or what you are?" 
               A slight cloud passed over his good-looking countenance as he answered, 
               "I am a man of honor, and as such bound to protect a woman in distress. You are safe in my hands, so be not uneasy. These are your apartments. That room communicating with this your bed-room." 
               "And you?" she asked; "I am turning you out of your apartment." 
               "Oh, never mind me!" he said, laughing, "I can take care of myself. I dare say my landlady will be compassionate enough to give me a shake-down up stairs; and, with your permission, I will send her to you. You are, doubtless, in want of some refreshment. I will order some supper." 
               Before Agnes could utter her thanks he had left the room. 
               In a short time a good-natured, motherly-looking old woman made her appearance. 
               Agnes felt from the first that they would be friends, and the few cheering words with which she greeted Agnes confirmed the impression. 
               "Mr. Marmaduke, my dear, has sent me to ye," she began; "he says that you are an old friend of his mother's down is the country, and have come up to London to see some of the sights, but that you are powerful tired, and have lost your box at the 
                     railray
                     railway
                   station." 
               Agnes at once saw the fact and delicacy which had induced her preserver to invent this little history. 
               So saying, Mrs. Widdicomb, for such was her name, led the way into what was up to this time Mr. Marmaduke, Wilson's bed-room. 
               "There are some of Mr. Marmaduke's things about, my dear," said the old woman; "but they're goin' up stairs directly and I can lend you something to go on with; for Mr. Marmaduke says I'm to be a mother to you while you stop in town, so you musn't mind what I say, for I have taken a fancy to you already." 
               Agnes smiled her thanks. 
               "Now," Mrs. Widdicomb ran on, "now my dear, take off your bonnet and your shawl; we will go out shopping to-morrow, and buy lots of things. To lose your luggage like that, poor dear! Come never mind, never mind." 
               After a time the various arrangements consequent upon the new arrival were made; and after partaking of some supper-the wing of a chicken, and a glass of bottled ale-Agnes retired to rest, as Mr. Marmaduke Wilson had sent word to say, that as she must be very tired he should not trouble her again that evening, but he would have the pleasure of breakfasting with her at nine o'clock, if she would kindly permit him to do so. 
               When Agnes woke in the morning, all the strange occurrences of the past day, which had been so eventful in the history of her life, rushed like lightning across her memory, and her only feeling was one of unmitigated thankfulness to Providence for its care and protection. 
               At breakfast the next morning she frankly told Mr. Wilson everything-who she was, and how she came into the position in which he found her. 
               She saw from the expression of his countenance, that he believed her. So she added- 
               "And you can now exercise your own discretion, Mr. Wilson, in extending your shelter and protection to Agnes Clarke." 
               "My dear Miss Clarke," he replied, "your remark implies a want of knowledge of my character, which I trust a very short time may remedy." 
               Agnes expressed a hope that she might not be altogether a burden upon him. 
               "Rest perfectly easy about that," he answered, with an intelligent smile. "I may, perhaps, ask for a reward for my poor services some day; but of that, soon." 
               He then told her that he was a commercial traveller, and out a good deal; but he would supply her with books, money, &c., and recommended Mrs. Widdicomb as an honest if not entertaining companion. 
               Time passed on, and Agnes settled down in her new home. She assisted Mrs. Widdicomb to get the dinner ready for her preserver on his return home, and contrived to make the time pass pleasantly enough. 
               Her new friend, too, interested her strangely. Did she detect a tenderness in his manner towards her rather more than that prompted by friendship? 
               Or was it her fancy-her vivid imagination? 
               Who shall say? 
               Again. Did she not sometimes detection air of melancholy-even of utter sadness at times, about the noble features of Marmaduke Wilson? 
               Yes she could not conceal from herself that there was a mystery about this man. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               It was summer still; the month of August was waning, but it was summer. Glorious, gorgeous summer! The rays of the setting sun were dancing over the waters of the silvery Thames, and steeping in a deluge of golden light the fair and lovely gardens of Hampton-Court Palace. 
               Under the shelter of a stately spreading cedar-tree, a fit rival for those of Lebanon, sat two people. 
               What need of disguise? They were Agnes and her protecter. A blush mantled her beautiful face, and then the crimson tide rushed back again, leaving her pale as monumental alabaster. 
               Was he murmuring words of love in her untutored ear? 
               Alas! yes. 
               "Agnes, dear Agnes," he was saying, "I have long loved you; from the first moment these eyes fell upon your peerless form, I have loved you. You must have seen it." 
               Agnes, with her eyes, sought the ground. 
               "Yes, my love has been constant as it is sudden," he continued. 
               Agnes felt that a crisis in her fate was approaching. And as she sat with her lover and protector under the spreading branches of that solemn cedar-tree, an undefined presentiment of coming evil stole over her. 
               Why or wherefore she knew not. 
               Yet it was so. However, she was the child of fate, and she felt that she must pursue her destiny, whatever the consequences might be. 
               At last the declaration she had looked for came. 
               "Agnes!" he exclaimed, in a voice that trembled a little with emotion or with anxiety; "will you be my wife?" 
               She had often asked herself how she should reply to him when as asked her this momentous question. 
                
               For she had felt assured, for some days past, that such was his intention. 
               But now, when the occasion was actually at hand, and she had to decide, she hesitated. 
               She could not conceal from herself that Marmaduke Wilson's handsome face and pleasing gentlemanly manners had made a deep and lasting impression upon her. 
               But there was that intuitive feeling of coming, if not of present evil. A still, small voice it was, which she found it impossible to smother. 
               She knew that when trouble came, though it was at first like a little cloud no bigger than a man's hand, on the verge of the horizon, it generally, as it passed over, assumed formidable dimensions. 
               For misfortunes never come singly. 
               Yet if she loved him, why not marry him? She was friendless and destitute, and his proposal was definite; he offered her a home. His intentions were honorable. Why, for the sake of some girlish scruples, some superstitious nonsense, should she make him and herself miserable? 
               And, in spite of the prompting of her better nature, she determined to accept him. 
               "You hesitate, Agnes," he said, in a hoarse voice. "Oh! let me hear my fate! This suspense is worse than death itself!" 
               She opened her lips, but so agitated was she that the words refused to come. 
               "Speak, speak, my darling Agnes!" exclaimed Marmaduke. "If you do break my heart, I will try to forgive you. Then, for the love of heaven, speak!" 
               Agnes put her little hand in his, and replied, "Marmaduke, I love you; I will be your wife." 
               No sooner had these words passed her lips than a vivid flash of lightning cleaved the air. 
               And hardly had a second elapsed ere a terrific clap of thunder burst, as it were, ever their very heads. 
               Did the earth seem to tremble at the shock, or was it a mere fancy? 
               Imprinting a burning kiss upon her brow, Marmaduke caught Agnes in his arms, and strained her to his breast. 
               Her bosom rose and fell, and their hearts beat in unison. 
               Both in after years recalled the happy scene, and it was ever a pleasant reminiscence when worn down by battling with a cruel and heartless world. 
               But the storm aroused the feminine fear of Agnes. 
               Large drops of rain were falling on the thirsty sward. 
               Marmaduke speedily removed his precious charge from the dangerous vicinage of the tree. 
               He then as quickly sought the shelter of the Palace. 
               And under the cloisters that had once re-echoed to the foot of Wolsey and the loud laugh of the sensual and voluptuous Eighth Henry, these two young people pledged their troth. 
               The storm continued for the space of a quarter-of-an-hour to rage with great fury. 
               The terrible thunder-claps shook the venerable pile. 
               And a bolt, some people said, had been seen to fall into the river, hissing and boiling like a thing of evil. 
               Was the tempest but another warning to the astonished girl? 
               She dared not think-she shut her ears to everything but her present happiness. 
               Was she not to be Marmaduke Wilson's bride? and was not that enough to send her wild with joy? 
               For, in spite of her strange warnings, she knew she loved him-fondly, dearly, as well as truly, as ever man was loved. 
               And he-he, too, was wildly happy. 
               Well, they have the joy cup at their lips-let them drink, drink, drink deeply. They know not how soon the bitter gall lying at the bottom may be reached. 
               When the storm passed away, they sought the station and returned to London. 
                
               The next day-so anxious and eager was Marmaduke-they were united. 
               Agnes Clarke became the blushing bride of the man she loved. 
               Things went smoothly and pleasantly with Agnes for a few brief blissful weeks. 
               After that it was evident that she had been born under the auspices of a stormy constellation. 
               Those vain suspicions which had already agitated her mind were destined before long to assume some reality and consistence. 
               One night her husband came home rather later. He was palpably annoyed by something. 
               All his art was not sufficient to conceal this fact from his wife. 
               She, with all the tenderness she could compress into her manner, inquired the cause of his uneasiness. 
               He replied that it was nothing. He was not very well, and with this excuse he jumbled up the heat of the weather. 
               "Dear Marmaduke," she said, "do let me into your confidence-you know how I love you." 
               He made no answer. 
               "Oh! there is some secret," she cried, "which you conceal from me! Why am I never to be part of your own inner self?" 
               Marmaduke Wilson was visibly agitated, but yet he made no sign. 
               "Marmaduke," said the young wife. "I insist upon knowing-I have a right to ask, to demand your confidence." 
               "You had better not, my own darling," he replied, sadly. 
               And he seized one of her hands, and kissed it passionately. 
               "Oh! Marmaduke," replied Agnes, "you will break my heart if you hide anything from me. I am prepared to share your perils as well as your joys." 
               At these words he looked up incredulously, as it were. 
               "I can never forget," she continued, "that you saved me from destitution, starvation, from something, perhaps which I have always regarded as worse than death itself. I gave you my hand and my heart; and I do not think you could tell me anything which would alienate my affections from you. Indeed, I am sure that such an occurence is utterly impossible from the love I bear you." 
               Marmaduke rose from his chair, and taking her head between his hands, gazed fondly upon her upturned countenance. 
               "My poor child," he said, slowly, almost solemnly; "do not ask me any questions." 
               "But I will, Marmaduke," she replied; "I must. I cannot live in this dreadful state of anxiety." 
               "Well! she must know all some day," he said, as if speaking to himself; "so why not now-at once." 
               Agnes caught these last words, and exclaimed, "Yes, now-at once. Oh, Marmaduke! if you love me, tell me all." 
               "How can I publish my own shame to her?" he said; "but yet it must be done. Oh! would to God I had never seen her." 
               Agnes threw herself at his feet, and said, "Oh, do not say that! anything but that. You cannot-do not hate me!" 
               And she burst into an agony of tears. Marmaduke Wilson soothed his lovely wife as best he could, and taking her in his arms, placed her on the sofa. 
               When her paroxysm of weeping was past, she sobbed rather than said- 
               "Oh! recall those dreadful words, or rather kill me at once. I could not live-if deprived of your love." 
               Then he whispered words of kindness, of love, and of encouragement in her ears, until she said- 
               "Forgive me, Marmaduke; but little woman are so foolish sometimes, and I do love you, my own." 
               He kissed her tenderly, and a tear-drop stood in his eye. 
               Well, it is a weakness we like to see in men-it shows they are not utterly hardened, and depraved by contact with a bad, money-making world. 
                
               "Now, love, you will tell me, will you not?" she asked, with a winning smile. 
               He heaved a deep sigh, and replied, "Dear Agnes, you will hate, despise me; I know you will, you cannot help doing so when you know my secret." 
               "God forbid," cried Agnes, solemnly, "that I should despise my husband, for I do not think I could ever hate him. Oh, speak, Marmaduke, speak! You raise strange terrors in my heart. Let me, in Heaven's name, hear the worst!' 
               "Suppose, Agnes," he said, as if he were feeling his way-"suppose I am one of the pariahs-the outcasts of civilization-suppose that society was against me, and that my personal liberty is never safe?" 
               "Oh, my God!" cried Agnes, "you cannot mean that you are-" 
               Here she stopped, waiting for him to complete the sentence. 
               "Yes, 
                     gnes
                     Agnes
                  ; it is but too true, I am-" 
               "What? what? Oh, this will kill me!" 
               "I am-yes, you shall know it-I am a thief." 
               "Oh, Heaven!" exclaimed Agnes, "this is indeed hard to bear." 
               "I knew you would hate me," he said; "but now you have heard part you shall hear all." 
               "Yes, yes," she murmured, faintly. 
               "The officers of justice are even now on my track, and a reward is offered for my apprehension." 
               Agnes raised her hands in mute amazement. 
               "A price is set upon my head," he continued. 
               It was strange that this young woman, whose whole soul was centred upon the man who stood before her, should not have fainted, or have lost consciousness, at the recital of a story fraught with such horrors to herself. But no. She bore up heroically. 
               There are some natures which in times of very great danger become sublimated by the misfortunes and calamities which menace them. 
               Hers was one of these. She did not faint. She even repressed her tears. 
               Sitting up on the sofa upon which he had deposited her, she exclaimed, with a strange fortitude, "Let me hear every thing now! You know what I mean." 
               "Agnes," he said, while that sad look we have before remarked, came over his face, and gave it an almost Byronic beauty, "you have sacrificed much for me, and when you hear my history, perhaps some touch of pity may penetrate your heart for a man who has been more sinned against than sinning." 
               "I am listening," she answered, quietly, without moving a muscle of her countenance. 
               "I am the son of a gentleman, Agnes, who had considerable property. This has long since passed from his possession, but it lasted long enough to educate me. You will smile, perhaps, when I tell you that I have been at Oxford; yet such is the case. I kept four terms at that classic seat of learning, and then my father, who was a merchant, failed. My mother I never knew, she died when I was born." 
               Here he paused a moment, as if overcome with unpleasant recollections. 
               "And your father?" asked Agnes. 
               "My father," he replied, "committed what people call a crime. When he found his affairs becoming involved, instead of giving up his property to his creditors, and either becoming a bankrupt or making some arrangement, he collected all the property he could, and turned it into money; he also raised money on accommodation bills which had but a short time to run, but before they became due, he had sailed with a mass of property for America, I believe; but from that day to this I have neither heard nor seen him." 
               "Is it possible!" cried Agnes. 
               "He left me a thousand pounds," continued Marmaduke Wilson, "and he wrote me a letter saying that the best thing I could do was to be called to the bar; but I had not the elements of hard work in me, Agnes, and my father's disgrace recoiled upon myself cut me at college, and I left in disgust. I gained a fellowship though before I left. It was only thirty pounds a year for three years, but low as I have sunk, I have hitherto avoided detection, and the college authorities pay me the annual stipend I gained, not by the sweat of my brow, but by my brain." 
               He laughed a low laugh of triumph as he said this. 
               "I was born a gentleman," again he went on; "my father was a younger brother, but he came of a good stock. Men call me now Marmaduke Wilson, but I am a Leslie." 
               "Leslie!" cried Agnes; "again that name. Do I hear aright?" 
               "How!" he said; "does that name excite memories in your mind?" 
               "It does," she replied. "Some day you shall hear, but at present it does not suit me to tell. Let me hear your tale." 
               "You shall," he answered. "My thousand pounds, as you may imagine, did not last long. I gambled, I raked, I-pardon me-I amused myself with women-" 
               "Oh!" cried Agnes, "you have, then, loved before you met me?" 
               "Never!" exclaimed Marmaduke, "be fore Heaven, I swear it!" 
               "Well, well," she said, in a hollow, heart-broken voice, "it is my fate; I must bear it. Go on!" 
               "There was one who was my mistress; she called herself Norah Nolan." 
               "What do you say?" said Agnes, with some impetuosity. 
               He repeated the name, and asked, "Do you know her? Oh, Agnes! can it be possible that I have been deceived in you?" 
               "Yes," answered Agnes, confidently, "I know her." 
               "Oh! this is too much," he exclaimed, "I counted upon her love. I thought her young, and pure, and unsophisticated. Can I have been deceived?" 
               "No, Marmaduke, you have not been deceived. I am all you ever in your fondest moments thought me; but still I am in a manner acquainted with Norah Nolan." 
               "May I ask you to tell me?" he said. 
               "Oh, yes, you shall hear." And she told him the history of her acquaintance with Charlotte Saunders, and their accidental meeting with Norah Nolan. 
               "Pardon my suspicions," he said tenderly, with a penitential air, "but to lose faith in you would utterly demoralize me." 
               "Be as brief as you can in continuing your narrative," responded Agnes; "these things pain me." 
               "Norah Nolan was my mistress," he continued; "she involved me in debts and difficulties, and one by one my former associates cut me. At last I found myself without a halfpenny, and Miss Nolan quietly wished me good-morning. This did not break my heart, for I had only made her acquaintance because it was the custom of all the men I knew at college to do the same thing; and as she was the first I came in contact with, I protected her, as the phrase is." 
               "Is that all?" asked Agnes. 
               "No; not all. I then became a frequenter of billiard saloons, for I could play a good game of billiards, but I did not make enough money at that to satisfy my purposes, so I in a manner took to the highway." 
               "The highway!" ejaculated Agnes. 
               "Not exactly to Hounslow Heath," he answered, with a smile; "but what I mean to say is, I made other people who had plenty of money contribute to my wants. I have been to public balls, and concerts, and gatherings of the cream of the society, and I have put some of the visitors at those festive scenes to the expense of obtaining new diamonds 
                     aud
                     and
                   new watches, and all that sort of thing. There, Agnes, now you know. Have I not told you enough?" 
               He left off with an exclamation of annoyance noyance which was almost immediately followed by a reckless laugh. 
               "Yes," said Agnes, "I have heard all you are. Marmaduke, is your name Marmaduke?" she asked, calmly. 
               "Yes." he replied; 'my christian name is Marmaduke, and to all but you I am Marmaduke Wilson." 
               "Well, be it so. Yon are, as you truly old me, a thief." 
               "Yes; that is no news to me," he said, bitterly. 
               "Marmaduke," she said, gravely, "I save made up my mind." 
               "Yes; I expected it," he replied, with a wild, careless laugh; "and you will leave me, I suppose?" 
               "No," she answered, "I shall not; you are my husband, and with all your faults I love you." 
               "Are you in earnest?" he cried, not crediting the evidence of his senses. 
               "Perfectly," was the reply. "Let this kiss prove it." 
               So saying, she held out her arms, and was instantly clasped in a close embrace. 
               "I will never leave you Marmaduke; come what may, I am still your own Agnes." 
               "God bless you for those words, my sweet angel!" he replied. 
               At this moment came a loud knocking at the door. 
               "Good heavens! what can that be?" exclaimed Agnes. 
               "I know not," he replied, "but I must expect the worst." 
               Rising on tip-toe, he gently raised the blind and peeped through the window. 
               One glance sufficed to convince him of his danger. 
               Returning to his wife, his agitation assured her that there was something wrong. 
               "Oh! tell me, Marmaduke," she said, "is there danger? If there is I will share is with you." 
               "Yes; and the danger is imminent," he replied. 
               "What can it be?" asked Agnes, "is it-" 
               "You're right," he said, "the police are at the door!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               The terrible reality burst like a thunderclap upon Agnes and her husband. 
               The police were at the door. 
               That was the dreadful fact. And their mission was to arrest her Marmaduke-he man to whom she had just vowed a devoted allegiance. 
               How was the danger to be avoided? 
               Marmaduke Wilson soon solved the question, by saying- 
               "My love, I must escape somehow or other. If I am taken by these myrmidons of the law, my fate, I am afraid, is certain." 
               "Alas! yes," said Agnes. 
               "And to be separated from you," he replied, "is intolerable. No, it shall not be." 
               Again the knocking was heard at the door, and this time more loudly and imperiously. 
               The delay arose from the fact of Mrs. Widdicomb being safely ensconced in bed. 
               This good lady, hearing the noise, was hastily donning her apparel; but she felt it inconsistent with her dignity to appear in her nocturnal attire. 
               "Oh! Marmaduke, dear Marmaduke, what will you do? I am worse than a child, I can suggest no plan whatever," said Agnes, tremulously. 
               "Fear nothing," replied Marmaduke. "I have a plan. God bless you, darling! Kiss me." 
               Agnes did as he bid her, and in an instant they were locked in a fervent embrace. 
               "Here is money!" he exclaimed, putting some into her hands; "take it, and meet me to morrow, at one o'clock, at the National Gallery." 
               "Oh! no, I cannot-will not leave you," she said. 
               "Yes, you must; indeed you must." 
                
               "No, no; a thousand times no. where you go, there I will go." 
               "Oh, Agnes!" he said, "do not destroy me. We shall meet again to-morrow." 
               "Well, be it so. If I can secure your safety by any sacrifice, it shall be done." 
               Imprinting one kiss upon her lips, and uttering the word to-morrow, he left the room, and entering the passage, made towards a window which opened upon a small yard in the rear of the house. 
               Opening this, and gazing outwards, he perceived several policemen, who had somehow or other gained admittance to the rear of the house. 
               At this juncture the knocking was more furious than ever. 
               Marmaduke Wilson's first idea had been to escape by the yard at the back, but finding that occupied by his enemies he was obliged, on the spur of the moment, to organize a new idea. 
               This he was not long in doing. 
               Running quickly along the passage, he reached the front door, and with the greatest carefulness drew the key out of the lock. 
               This he put in his pocket. Then, imitating the voice of an old woman, he said, "Who is there?" 
               "Police," was the reply; "and you had better make baste." 
               "Very well," said Marmaduke. "Don't be in a hurry, and you shall be let in." 
               "Now," exclaimed the leader of the police, "now, we want Marmaduke Wilson, and if you don't let us in we shall break the door down." 
               "Oh, dear! oh, dear!" said Marmaduke, still counterfeiting his landlady's voice, "how dreadful! but you must wait, gentlemen, indeed you must. I have been and left the key in my bedroom." 
               "Well, look sharp, that's all," replied the policeman, "or we shall not be long in effecting an entry." 
               With the agility of an antelope Marmaduke leapt upstairs, meeting Mrs. Widdicomb at the top of the first flight. 
               One vigorous push sufficed to send the old lady on her back. Then, seizing her by her shoulders, he pushed her into her room, and taking the key, locked her in. 
               It was the work of an instant after that to rush to the top of the house, to seize the steps, and to open the trap-door leading to the roof. 
               The roof was unoccupied. 
               Then, with equal celerity, Marmaduke descended the stairs, and going to the door, said- 
               "Oh, dear, gentlemen! do be patient, you do worrit a poor lone widow so. I have lost the key, and if you flurry me I shall never find it." 
               "Make haste, my good woman," said the head of the police force, "or we shall force an entry." 
               "Oh, wait a minute, dear, good air!" said Marmaduke, in the quaking voice of an old woman. 
               "Well, we will wait two minutes longer-no more," replied the officer, "so look slippery." 
               "Yes, yes, air; I will, I will," said Marmaduke. 
               Than gliding along the passage, he entered the sitting-room. 
               Agnes was stretched upon the sofa, her hair disheveled, and her eyes red with weeping. 
               "Come, Agnes!" he said, "we will not be separated except by the grave." 
               Joyfully she sprang up and followed him, without asking a single question. 
               He led the way up-stairs to the roof, and as they passed Mrs. Widdicomb's chamber, they heard her bellowing like a mad bull- 
               "Thieves! fire! thieves! fire!" until her voice was as hoarse as a raven. 
               It did not take Marmaduke long to reopen the trap-door and to lift Agnes through it. 
               When they were once safe upon the tiles, their first anxiety was to fasten the trap-door as well as they could. 
               Having accomplished this by employing some loose bricks and tiles they found lying about, they had to consider what was next to be done. 
               Their only course was to hasten along the edge of the roof as quickly as they could. 
               For there was little or no doubt that the officers would eventually effect an entry. 
               This being the case, their only chance was clearly to escape as quickly as they could. 
               With this purpose in view, and hand in hand, they passed over the roof of several souses. 
               At last they espied a window, leading, they supposed, into an attic. This window was open. 
               It seemed to be their only chance. It was now between eleven and twelve o'clock, and if they were to make their a cape it must be done quickly. 
               There was certainly a moon to guide their footsteps, but its light also enabled them to see that if they pursued their on ward course much farther they would come to the end of the row of houses, as a cross street intervened, and then what was to become of them? The thought was dreadful. Agnes, by sharing her husband's light, had to a certain extent involved herself 
                     an an
                     an
                   accomplice, and although it would be difficult to prove her guilt in his malpractices, still she would lay her self open to grave suspicion. 
               At all events she would be exposed to such annoyance, and most probably many insults at the hands of the police. 
               This thought struck her husband, but he was determined that the fair creature whom he had married should have as little cause as possible to regret that marriage. 
               So, whispering a few words of encouragement in her ear, he boldly entered the open window. 
               Without making the slightest remonstrance, she passively followed him. 
               The moonbeams penetrated a part of the room, and showed the intruders that a female-probably a servant-occupied the apartment. She was fast asleep, and had evidently left the window open to relieve herself from the severe heat. 
               Marmaduke's plan was soon made, and in a low tone he communicated it to Agnes. 
               She made no opposition she seemed disposed to follow him blindly wherever he led her-such is the force of love. 
               Their movements were so gentle and so quiet, that their entry did not arouse the slumbering maid-servant. 
               After they had entered, Marmaduke carefully closed the window and bolted it. 
               Then he, with as much gentleness as he could command, undid the door of the attic into which he had penetrated, and with Agnes descended the stairs. 
               Although they accomplished the descent with the utmost caution, they could not avoid making a certain creaking noise. 
               For stairs at night always creak and groan if any one trusts himself upon them 
               This noise aroused some one who slept on the second floor of the house. 
               It was most likely the landlady or owner of the house. Anyhow, Marmaduke and Agnes heard a door creak upon its hinges, and in a moment a form emerged clothed in the garments of a vestal virgin. 
               "Who is there?" demanded the form, which might have been mistaken for a ghost, only the voice was too unmistakeably human. 
               Marmaduke pressed forward and replied- 
               "My dear madam, myself and my wife are strangers in London, and we have only just arrived from the Great Northern Railway. Not wishing to incur the expense of putting up at an hotel, as we have heard so much of the rapacity of hotel-keepers, we have made up our minds to look after lodgings. So we told our cabman to drive slowly along various streets until we saw a house we liked. We saw yours, and, as you see, we have made an application." 
               "But I did not hear you knock!" exclaimed the lady of the house. 
               "No, I dare say not," replied Marmaduke, carelessly. 
               "Then how did you get in?" she demanded. 
               "My dear madam," said Marmaduke, "servants, you know, will be servants." 
               "Well, sir-" 
               "And the fact was we found the street door, so at first we took it for an hotel, and as it looked so eminently respectable-" 
               "Yes, sir, I trust it is respectable, as you are good enough to say," replied the landlady; "but it is not an hotel, and how the door came to be left open I cannot conceive. It must have been that Dinah, who sleeps in the attic. Dinah, air, is my servant." 
               "Very likely it was Dinah's carelessness," answered Marmaduke. "But, my dear madam, the question is whether you can accommodate us for the night?" 
               "Certainly I can, sir," replied the land-lady; "but my terms are rather high." 
               "Name them," replied Marmaduke. 
               After some slight conversation these preliminaries were arranged, and Marmaduke and wife took possession of some decent apartments where they could for the moment take refuge. 
               Marmaduke explained that they had left 
                     ther
                     their
                   luggage at the clock-room of the railway station, and that they would call for it to-morrow. 
               He also gave the old lady a couple of sovereigns as the first week's rent, since she had intimated a wish to be paid in advance. 
               After all these things they retired to rest in a room into which the old lady ushered them, and she herself slept none the less soundly, for they assured her that they had fastened the front door securely after they had entered the house. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               Although Marmaduke Wilson and his lovely and confiding bride had succeeded in obtaining a temporary refuge, neither of them dreamt of retiring to rest. 
               The danger which beset them was imminent that at any moment the police, who are not wont to be beguiled by subterfuges, might be upon them. 
               Is it to he wondered at then that Agnes's heart was full of alarm and terror? She had just sworn everlasting allegiance to a man whom up to the present time she had looked upon as faultless. Now she knew him to be what her inmost soul shrank from. Yet she did not cast him out. She clung to him. He was her husband. She had loved him. She loved him now, and whatever his faults might be, she determined that she would neither cast the first nor the last stone. 
               Who shall determine the subtilities of a woman's nature? 
               It was well for them that they were on their guard, for the police, as relentless as bloodhounds, were still on their track, and pursuing them with unremitting ardor. 
               The chief on the force which had came in the night time, armed with a warrant for the arrest of Marmaduke Wilson, was Inspector Wyman. Ever a man of great determination, he united with this quality that of extreme cunning. Altogether, Inspector Wyman was a foe worthy of a courageous antagonist. 
               It was not long before Wyman effected an entry into the house in the small street leading out of the Gray's-inn-road. But it would be superfluous to say that he found that his trouble had been taken in vain, as the birds were flown. The manner of their escape has been already detailed to our readers. 
               The Inspector was not a man thus to be baffled in this way. He argued, and very justly, that they could not have escaped either from the front or back of the house, because he himself had been keeping guard in front, and a trustworthy detachment were by his orders doing the same in the rear. 
               There remained, then, but the roof, and this the Inspector carefully examined. But his examination was without any practical result. One thing, however, he felt assured of, and that was, that Marmaduke could not have emerged from the block of houses in one of which he had hitherto lodged. 
               About Agnes they knew nothing. She was as yet utterly unknown to the police, and in this fact, as will be seen, lay Marmaduke's great hope of safety. 
               The Inspector was contented with setting a guard in every position from which Marmaduke could possibly make his escape. That done, he betook himself to his home, where his wife and family were awaiting him. 
               Marmaduke came to the conclusion that the entire street would be strictly watched, but he was also of opinion that the police would not venture to disturb the inhabitants by searching every house And after some consideration, it seemed to him that Agnes and himself might snatch a few hours' repose, and fortify themselves for the coming events of the morrow. 
               The morning, grey and misty, was not long in making its appearance. Marmaduke knew well how to exercise the important power of waking when you will. accordingly, at cock-crow, he was on the alert. 
               And he racked his brain to devise a means of escaping from the danger which threatened him. The only plan which occurred to him was one fraught with great risk and peril, but from its very audacity likely to be successful. This, after some deliberation, he determined to adopt. 
               Breakfast was duly brought them by their new landlady, and discussed in silence by themselves. When Marmaduke considered that the time for action had arrived he exclaimed- 
               "Dear Agnes, if you will be guided by me, and seek your own safety, I can, without difficulty, dictate the means." 
               "Never, Marmaduke," said Agnes; "where you go there I will go." 
               "But, my child," he replied, "consider the risk you run; would it not be better for us to separate, and meet again subsequently?" 
               "If you tell me to leave you," she said, "why, I suppose I must; but I would rather-much rather, share your risk-and who knows but that a woman's ready wit may, some time or other, stand you in good stead?" 
               "It may, Agnes; it may," he answered; "but I am indeed loth to expose you to the endless annoyances which must, I know, follow, since the police have commenced to persecute me." 
               "Marmaduke," said Agnes, after listening to him attentively, "we must not separate. I feel it. It will be better for us both that we hang together. You remember the bundle of sticks; when they were tied together no one could tear them asunder, but, once separated, they fell an easy prey to all who chose to pluck at them." 
               "What you say is true, my own darling, and I thank you for your courage and devotion. We will not part," responded Marmaduke; "at least not voluntarily," he added. 
               "What then is your plan?" she asked, anxiously. 
               "My plan is simply this-" And he talked earnestly to her for a few minutes, but in a very low voice. 
               "I think that will do," she replied. 
               "You think so," he exclaimed. "Very well, let us then act upon it." 
               Agnes descended the stairs, and sought an interview with their landlady, who seemed glad to make the acquaintance of the new lodger, who, as she afterwards declared, was such "a nice, soft-spoken body." 
               "And what can I do for you, my dear?" demanded the old woman, whose name was Hughes; "I am sure I am right glad to see you." 
               "Well, Mrs.-" began Agnes; but not knowing her name, she hesitated. 
               "Hughes, my dear, Hughes," suggested the landlady. "And it's an honest name, if it isn't an aristocratic one." 
               "Well, Mrs. Hughes, you can go shopping for me, if you will. I have promised to send my aunt in the country some mourning. She has just lost her husband, so that she wants it as quickly as possible. Look, here is some money; will you go?" 
               "What should you want, think you?" asked Mrs. Hughes 
               "Let me see," responded Agnes. "A black crape bonnet, of course, and a black dress trimmed with crape, and a black shawl, and other little things, Mrs. Hughes which the men at the shop will suggest to you." 
               An idea seemed to strike Mrs. Hughes, for she looked grave for a moment, and then suddenly exclaimed- 
               "You won't be offended, my dear, but when poor dear Hughes died"-here a not over clean pocket-handkerchief was brought into requisition-"I, you know, went into mourning." 
               Agnes did not know, but she accepted the declaration as a matter of fact, though she did not perceive the drift of her companion. 
               "Yes, Mrs. Hughes," she said. "Pray go on!" 
               "And that mourning, my dear, is still in this very room, in that identical chest of drawers," replied Mrs. Hughes. 
               "And what then?" asked Agnes. 
               "Well, my dear, if so be as you are not too proud, there it is, and you shall have it cheap, too, although it isn't much worn, considering I was in weeds twelve months." 
               The truth then burst upon Agnes. Mrs. Hughes had kept her mourning by her since the death of her husband, but now, seeing a chance of parting with it on advantageous terms, she agreed to sell it to Agnes who, most probably, was the first bidder. 
               Finding, by an inspection of the melancholy-looking attire, that it would well answer her purpose, Agnes agreed to buy it of the considerate Mrs. Hughes, and cheerfully paid the price demanded by that rapacious old lady, which was about ten or fifteen per cent. in excess of the cost price. 
               Agnes had the mourning apparel brought up-stairs into her bedroom, and told Mrs. Hughes that she would pack it up, and get her servant to take it to the Parcels Delivery Company. 
               Then she sought her husband, and told him upon what terms she had effected a purchase. 
               Was it not strange that this simple announcement seemed to fill the breast of Marmaduke Wilson with delight and joy? 
               Of what possible use could these old clothes be to him, or indeed to his wife either, for that matter? 
               We shall shortly see of what use they were. Marmaduke Wilson was not the man to act without an object. 
               He disappeared into his bedroom, and in a short time emerged, fully equipped, in the despised widow's weeds. 
               As he entered the room he looked in the glass, and turning to his wife, who had assisted him in his toilette, said- 
               "Shall I do, Agnes?" 
               She responded in the affirmative. 
               "You think that, disguised like this," he continued, "I may defy detection?" 
               "I am sure I hope so, dear Marmaduke," was the reply. "And indeed I think so but the issue is in the hands of Heaven." 
               "It is so," he said, "but we must still rely upon ourselves. Well, let us make the venture. Do you, Agnes, send the old woman out for change of a five pound note. Tell her you will not trust the servant, and if we follow her closely we can emerge from the house without being exposed to her scrutiny." 
               Agnes complied with these directions, and then, having hastily put on her bonnet and shawl, they descended the stairs together. 
               
                  Just as Mrs. Hughes' portly figure disappeared round the corner of the street, Agnes and her husband left the house which they had so unceremoniously entered the night before. 
               They were not calculated by their appearance to excite any particular attention; a widow and her daughter are not uncommon spectacles at any time. 
               There was one thing in their favor too. As they had proceeded up the street in their flight of the previous night, they would be spared the necessity of passing Mrs. Widdicomb's house. 
               This was fortunate, because had that good lady been looking out of the window, as was her diurnal custom, she would infallibly have recognized Agnes. 
               Marmaduke looked carefully up and down the street, but he saw nothing to excite his apprehension. This apparent quietude did not exactly please him. Things were too quiescent to denote perfect security. 
               The street was perfectly deserted. No one appeared to be moving either one way or the other. It is true that it was a very quiet, out-of-the-way street, but still it was suspicious that there should be no one standing about, either as a spy or a sentry. 
               This very circumstance ought to have put Marmaduke upon his guard. And so it did, to a certain extent; but not sufficiently, as will be seen in the sequel. 
               At the corner of the street stood a shoe-black. He was not one of the ordinary sort, for he had not a red coat on, nor was he of what we may call the 
                     orthodix
                     orthodox
                   size or age. He appeared to be a poor, ragged fellow, about nineteen or twenty; but he was evidently awake to the exigencies of trade, for, as Marmaduke and his wife passed, he exclaimed, addressing Marmaduke- 
               "Boots cleaned, sir! Clean your boots, sir! Polish your boots." 
               Marmaduke, for a moment forgetting his disguise, replied, "No, thank you; not this morning." 
               Directly the shoe-man heard this reply, he scrutinized the pair closely, and the result of his scrutiny was that he abandoned his stock-in-trade-blacking, box, brushes, &c., and followed Marmaduke and Agnes sedulously, although at a respectful distance. 
               "I did not like that man, Marmaduke," exclaimed Agnes, "who spoke to you at the corner of the street." 
               "Which one, darling?" he asked. 
               "Why, the man who asked you if he should black your boots. There was something which struck me particularly." 
               "And that was-" said Marmaduke smiling. 
               "That was he addressed you as sir, and you, my pet, were foolish enough to answer him." 
               "You are a very clever little woman, Agnes," answered Marmaduke, "but I think you have discovered a mare's nest this time. However, we shall know, and come what may, I hope and think I am a match for one man." 
               "I am sure you are, Marmaduke," replied Agnes. "But be careful what you do, and, above all things, be on your guard." 
               Marmaduke hailed the first cab they saw, and as they got into it, he said to his wife- 
               "Agnes, you must trust implicitly to me. I am not going to take you into the neighborhood of Belgravia, but I am going where I think I shall be safest for a time." 
               Agnes's only reply was to press his hand tenderly. 
               "Go to the Whitechapel-road," exclaimed ed Marmaduke, addressing the cabman; "I will pull you up when I wish to stop." 
               After entering the cab Marmaduke took the precaution to look out of the window to see if he was followed. A few moments set his mind at rest upon that point. The man who had accosted him at the corner of the street, asking to be allowed to black his boots, had, notwithstanding his seedy attire, hailed a cab, and, as Marmaduke was looking on, he was pointing towards his cab, and evidently giving the man instructions either to follow in pursuit, or else to keep the other one in sight. 
               Marmaduke fell back in the cab, and began to reflect. It was clear that his silly answer to the shoe-cleaning man had aroused that individual's suspicion, and that, in spite of his attire, he was suspected. 
               He could think of nothing except to allow his pursuer to follow him to some of the small, deserted streets about the Tower of London, and there meet him, and, boldly confronting him, ask him why he was following him, and if his reply was not satisfactory, to knock him on the head or durke him. 
               Desperate diseases require desperate remedies. Marmaduke's cab slowly pursued its way through Holborn and the City till it reached the Bank, when Marmaduke let down one of the front windows, and told the driver that he wished to go to the Mint on Tower-hill. 
               He was not long in arriving. When he had done so, he got out, and handed Agnes out. Another mistake, which a prying pair of eyes not far off noticed with a gleam of satisfaction. 
               Marmaduke paid the cabman liberally, and plunged into a narrow street leading to St. Katherine's Docks. 
               Huge mountainous masses of houses arose on every side; they were, however, only inhabited in the daytime. They were storehouses for grain and various other articles of merchandise. 
               Those warehouses cast a gloomy shadow over the footway upon which not many people travelled at the busiest of times. 
               When Marmaduke and his wife had progressed about one-half of the street he turned round in order to reconnoitre. 
               Yes! there was the boot-cleaner but a few yards behind him. He must, then, be a police-spy; there could be no doubt about it. 
               Marmaduke was a man who never lost much time in thought. 
               Not saying anything to Agnes beyond, "Be quiet, all will be well," he turned round, and began to retrace his steps as quickly as he could. 
               The police-spy also endeavored to retreat, but Marmaduke was upon him before he could go many feet. 
               "My friend!" exclaimed Marmaduke, "it appears to me that you take a great interest in my movements." 
               "So much so," replied the man, "that I arrest you in the Queen's name.' 
               "Not so fast, my boy," said Marmaduke; "not so fast. I shall have a word to say to that." 
               "I am Wyman, the Detective Superintendent of the C Division," cried the boot-cleaner; "and it is useless to resist." 
               "Then take that, Wyman!" said Marmaduke, striking the detective a blow in the face, and immediately afterwards, before he could recover from the blow, seizing him by the throat, and strangling him till he grew black in the face. 
               When he thought he had gone far enough in order to accomplish his purpose without committing actual manslaughter, Marmaduke let go his hold, and the detective fell heavily on the ground. 
               During this scene no sound had been uttered by either party, and strange to say, no one had passed by on either side of the way. 
               Certainly Marmaduke had calculated the chances before he embarked in his perilous contest. 
                
               But now there appeared several people coming each way. 
               In a few minutes quite a small crowd surrounded Marmaduke, the officer, and Agnes. 
               "What is the matter?" asked one. 
               "The poor man is in a fit," replied Marmaduke. "Look to him, some of you, and unfasten his neck-tie, while I go and get a cab to take him to the hospital." 
               The bystanders thought what a benevolent old lady it was, and proceeded to carry out her instructions to the letter. 
               Marmaduke, accompanied by Agnes, made the best of their way out on to Tower-hill again; and seeing an empty cab standing still, they hailed it. 
               The man, however, said he was engaged, but on Marmaduke's offering him half-a-sovereign, he accepted the fare, and drove them in the direction of Whitechapel. When they had passed Leman-street a few hundred yards, they alighted, and paid their fare. 
               Agnes remarked that the cabman, seemed to look after them as if he was watching them; but she said nothing to her husband, who led her at a smart pace through numerous small streets, until they stopped in a neighborhood which we will describe more fully in the next chapter. 
               Suffice it to say that Mr. and Mrs. Marmaduke Wilson were in the precincts of Bluegate-fields. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               Marmaduke did not pursue his peregrinations much farther. After passing up a long street lined on either side with low looking, squalid, tumble-down houses, with four small streets on either side running out of the main thoroughfare laterally, he turned round to see if he was followed. 
               But after throwing a searching glance in every direction he appeared to be satisfied. 
               Marmaduke, we say, saw nothing to arouse his suspicions, so he turned down a small street, which was one of the miserable-looking arteries we have before alluded to. It even seemed more ruinous than the rest. The very doors which gave ingress to the houses were so rotten and out of repair that they refused to move on their hinges. The glass in the windows was broken here and there, and pieces of dirty rags were stuffed in to exclude the wintry blast, which at times seemed to penetrate the very marrow of the bones of the inmates. 
               Marmaduke stopped at one of these houses, which appeared to be untenanted, so very desolate did it look. The door hung by one solitary hinge. The windows were so obscured with dirt and rags that to penetrate the interior visually from outside would have been impossible. 
               Entering the passage Marmaduke put his fingers to his mouth and blew a shrill whistle. 
               After the lapse of a few seconds this was responded to. It was evidently a signal. 
               Presently, what in the dim light of the mouldy passage appeared to be a horrible monster, made its appearance. 
               Yet it had the semblance of humanity. 
               Its hair was long and shaggy, its eyes gleamed fiercely, its finger-nails were long and gnome-like, and its head was fixed deeply in its shoulders, as if nature had omitted to give it a neck in a moment of forgetfulness: add to all this its insignificant stature, scarcely exceeding four feet; it was an apparition calculated at first sight to inspire terror in the breast of the bravest. 
               "Stubbles!" ejaculated Marmaduke. 
               "Is that you, captain?" asked this hideous dwarf in a shrill voice. 
               "Use your eyes, and you'll see," responded Marmaduke. "Is there any one here?" 
               "No one, Captain," answered Stubbles, who indulged in what was the very ghost of a laugh, but which evidently denoted the height of enjoyment or amusement at something or other. 
                
               "What now, you abortion?" exclaimed Marmaduke. 
               "You does the widder well," replied Stubbles, with another and more prolonged cachinnation. 
               "Lead on!" exclaimed Marmaduke, impatiently; "we are tired, and would rest." 
               On receiving this summons, Stubbles entered what was once the kitchen, but which was now deserted by all but the mice, and rats, and black-beetles, some of the latter crushed beneath your every other foot-fall, so numerous were they. 
               Having traversed this, the dwarf led the way down some steps into a subterranean apartments, the existence of which few would have suspected. It was nothing more than a cellar, but the damp and slimy walls had been securely hidden by double layers of thick carpeting, and the floor was likewise protected. It was a spacious apartment, but its dimensions were rather contracted by a partition which had been put up or the purpose of forming a sleeping chamber. Some luxurious pieces of furniture gave it an air of comfort. There were two armchairs and a sofa, and the room was lighted by two candles placed on a table at the further end. 
               This hiding place was, only known to a few-half-a-dozen at the utmost-who resorted to it in times of danger. Of course this half dozen were all of one fraternity, but Marmaduke had become acquainted with them, and had by them been initiated into the mysteries of the underground apartment in the old house in Bluegate fields. 
               Stubbles, the dwarf, was the ostensible tenant, and he paid a slight rent every quarter to a grasping and avaricious landlord. The dwarf acted as the servant of the men who frequented the cellar, and Marmaduke was well known to him. 
               "Do you think, Agnes," asked Marmaduke, "that you can stay here with me until the storm blows over?" 
               "If anything is good enough for you,' she replied, "you know it is for me." 
               "Very well; 
                     bnt
                     but
                   your patience and good nature will be a good deal tried, I warn you. But now to change these garments." 
               Retiring behind the curtain, which formed the partition, he in a few minutes returned dressed as a bricklayer. 
               "You see," he said, smiling, "that we keep all sorts of dresses here, so that we are prepared for any emergency." 
               Stubbles, without waiting for instructions, produced a flask of wine, some cold ham, and the remains of what was once a fine goose. 
               "Fly-by-night and the Surrey Wolf were here last night, Captain," he said by way of explanation. 
               Stubbles then sat down on a stool in the corner of the room nearest the door as if on the watch. 
               "Marmaduke," said Agnes, "will you make me a promise?" 
               He readily consented to do so. 
               "Then," she said, "leave off this dreadful life, and go abroad with me to Australia or New Zealand." 
               This request took him somewhat by surprise. 
               "I would do so," he replied, "but I have not the means. It is easier to propose such a thing than to accomplish it." 
               Oh, that she had accepted the omens which agitated her in the gardens of Hampton Court Palace! 
               But no; she would not say so. She would not now look back. She would cling to her husband, and endeavor to reform him. She knew she had great influence over him, and she did not despair of effecting his reformation in the long run. 
               Every man's hand might be against him, yet should not hers. 
               Suddenly Stubbles rose to his feet, and holding up his finger, cried "Hush!" 
               Instantly the silence of the dead reigned in that collar in Bluegate-fields. 
                
               Gliding stealthily, like a snake in search of its prey, Stubbles crept up the ladder which conducted to the 
                     kitehen
                     kitchen
                  . 
               Having brought his head on a level with the floor, he placed his ear to the ground and listened. 
               Then he descended as carefully as he had gone up, and advancing towards Marmaduke he uttered the single word, "Slops!" 
               "The police! good Heavens! Am I again environed?" cried Marmaduke. 
               "Indeed I fear so," said Agnes. "Heaven help us in this our hour of need!" 
               Marmaduke boldly, though with the almost caution, ascended the ladder as Stubbles had done a few minutes previously. 
               It was unmistakeable that two people were conversing either at the doorway, or in the passage of the old house. 
               While listening he had made a discovery-a discovery fraught with 
                     tremenduos
                     tremendous
                   danger to him. 
               The man who was making all these inquiries was Wyman, the detective-Marmaduke's inveterate and sleepless foe, was again on the track. 
               He had evidently recovered from the assault made upon him and now he would add personal pique to his official duty. 
               "Then, let us resume. You say you saw the woman and her supposed daughter-" 
               "That's right, that is." 
               "Very well, then," said the detective, "if you will take a note for me to Scotland yard, I will give you another half-crown." 
               "I'm your man, capting, although that's neither 'ere nor there; what I mean is, I'll go." 
               Wyman took a notebook from his pocket, and hastily scribbled a few lines. He then folded the paper in a three-cornered form, and giving it to the man, said- 
               "You'll make the best of your way, my man?" 
               "Sartainly." 
               "Then off you go, and I shall wait here for the answer." 
               The man started off at a good round pace, and after watching him out of sight, entered the passage of the old house, leant against the wall, and indulged in what appeared to be a reverie. 
               Marmaduke was a silent witness of all this. 
               One thing was clear, the inspector was convinced that his prey was safely housed; but not liking to indulge in a hand-to-hand conflict with Marmaduke without some assistance, he had despatched a message to Scotland yard for help. 
               Why he had not sent to the station at Spitalfields, or at Leman street, Whitechapel, was not clear. Perhaps it was an unintentional blunder. Even the cleverest men are not always infallible. 
               Certainly it was a blunder, and in Marmaduke's favor, because it gave him more time. 
               It may appear singular that the Inspector should have been able to trace the fugitives so quickly and with such certainty. 
               But it was not mysterious or singular when all was known. The cab driver who had driven Marmaduke had really been waiting for the inspector, but, tempted by Marmaduke's half-sovereign, he had taken the fare, afterwards returning to see if his first fare was there still. 
               A little cold water, and a drop of brandy, supplied by some of the spectators, had revived the inspector, and when he was able to walk he asked to be assisted towards Tower-hill, where he had left his cab. 
               It fortunately drove up again just as the little crowd emerged on the Hill. 
               The Inspector got in, and drove first of all to a public house, where he slighted, and went into the parlor, beckoning the cabman to follow him. It was from this worthy that he derived information which determined him to go to Bluegate-fields. Here he again made inquiries, and with what result our readers already know. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               It will have been perceived by this time that Marmaduke was not only a man of resources, but also a man of rapid invention. In the present crisis it was fortunate indeed that he was possessed of those sterling and valuable qualities. 
               He took in his position at a glance. He was concealed in what had hitherto been considered a secure hiding place, but it was now no longer so. Marmaduke's deadliest enemy was awaiting him in the passage of the old and lonely house in Bluegate fields. 
               Escape seemed out of the question. Buried, as it were, in the cellar, he could only escape by walking over Wyman's body. 
               Another danger menaced him. He knew, from the conversation he had overheard, that in a short time a force of constables would be upon the ground, so the moments were precious. If anything was to be done it was clear that it must be done quickly. 
               Marmaduke conceived a bold idea, and with the help of the dwarf Stubbles, he proceeded to put it instantly in execution. 
               As may be readily imagined, Agnes was terribly alarmed. This sort of life was new to her, and she could not conceal her trepidation. 
               Marmaduke whispered some words of consolation in her ear, which served in some measure to reassure her, for her confidence in her husband was unlimited and unbounded. 
               She knew his bold and fearless nature, but she also knew that he was far too clever to do anything rashly or without sufficient deliberation to insure thorough and complete success. 
               She pressed his hand tenderly, and with a throbbing heart awaited the sequel. 
               Marmaduke was totally unarmed. Not so the dwarf, he carried in his left hand a deadly looking weapon resembling a poniard or stiletto, only longer. This was evidently to be reserved for emergencies, but if the occasion required it, it was evident from the determined air of the dwarf that he would not scruple to employ it. 
               Marmaduke trusted more to his muscular 
                     strenght
                     strength
                   and agility, for if it could be avoided he had a great objection to shedding blood, and he was never known to have done so or to have countenanced by his presence any scene where such atrocity as the murder and assassination of innocent victims was perpetrated. 
               Closely followed by Stubbles, Marmaduke once more ascended the ladder, and having reached the level of the kitchen, he looked cautiously around him; then he gradually drew his body free from the aperture which revealed the descent into the cellar. 
               Stubbles was not long in following; and as these two rose up in the semi-darkness which pervaded that part of the old kitchen, they might have been taken for two ghosts, so strange were their movements, and so weird like their appearance. 
               Gliding very quietly over the floor with all the subtlety of a Red Indian on the war trail, Marmaduke took up a position from which a view of the passage leading to the street might be obtained. 
               Having accomplished this to his entire satisfaction, without making so much noise as might have aroused a fly, he commenced to reconnoitre. 
               It was as he suspected: Wyman was in his old position, only he did not seem to be particularly vigilant, his eyes were fixed upon the opposite wall. It might be that he had not altogether recovered from the severe attack made upon him that morning by Marmaduke. And if the truth were known, he had a legitimate cause for feeling a little dizzy or faint, as Marmaduke's hug was like that of a grizzly bear. 
               However it might be, the Inspector did not, to use a popular phrase, seem to be "all there." 
                
               It was evident by this time that Marmaduke's plan was to take his enemy by surprise, for he commenced moving along the passage with the same quietude that he had observed all along. Stubbles following closely at his heels. 
               The adventurous couple had arrived within a few yards of the unwary inspector, when that individual chanced to glance in the direction from which they were advancing. 
               With that intuitive keenness of perception which is habitual with thieftakers and detectives, Inspector Wyman comprehended everything in an instant. 
               He had been discovered by his enemies, and they were even now upon him. That they had come with an hostile intent he could not doubt, or why such excessive caution? 
               He turned then to fly. It was his only chance. Once in the street he could arouse the neighborhood, which, bad as it was, would scarcely suffer any deed of violence to be done in broad daylight in an open thoroughfare before their very eyes. 
               But with a bound like an antelope and a spring like that of a tiger, Marmaduke was upon him ere he had time to reach the threshold. 
               "For your life, silence!" exclaimed Marmaduke. 
               But the Inspector was not the man to be taken without a struggle, and he boldly grappled with his assailant, meanwhile shouting at the top of his voice; but the Inspector, clever as he undoubtedly was, was evidently not clever enough on the present occasion. Besides, he was not acquainted with the dwarf Stubbles. 
               This latter rendered Marmaduke good and effectual assistance-he seized the inspector by the throat, and flourished the dagger we have already mentioned before his eyes. Wyman in addition to being a bold man was a prudent one; and when he saw himself out flanked by a strange, uncouth-looking monster with a dangerous weapon in his hand, he considered it best to surrender at discretion. 
               Besides, his strength was not so great as it had been in the morning, and he felt that altogether the conquest was unequal. 
               Another reflection which consoled him not a little was, that in a short time his men would arrive from Scotland-yard and then how gloriously he would turn the tables! 
               Of one thing he was certain; his captors did not intend to offer him any violence, or they would have done it at the first attack. 
               Marmaduke hastily improvised some bonds with which he secured the hands and feet of his captive, and stuffing some pieces of old rag into his mouth he gagged him to his satisfaction; for although a few cries in that part of the town were not taken much notice of, as being of too frequent occurrence, still, if they were repeated for any length of time curiosity must have been excited. 
               Having captured the inspector, Marmaduke's next thought was what to do with him. As it happened there was a water-butt in the little bit of a yard at the back, and Marmaduke determined to make use of it. 
               Leaving the inspector in charge of Stubbles, he walked into the yard and had a look at it. It was certainly not very savoury; in fact, a rather disagreeable smell arose from the pestilential water which the butt contained. The water which had probably been there unchanged for years, except when diluted by a fresh shower, was full of animal life, and formidable-looking tadpoles might have been seen disporting themselves upon the surface. 
               Returning to Stubbles, Marmaduke, with the dwarf's assistance, carried the inspector into the yard, and, with a little difficulty, placed the unhappy detective feet downwards in the water butt; which was of such a size that it only permitted the head of the prisoner to appear above the iron rim which surmounted the tub. 
                
               With his chin resting on this, and the gag in his mouth, the inspector presented a pitiable, but, at the same time, a ludicrous appearance. 
               "He won't hurt there for half an hour," said Marmaduke. 
               "His men are sure to find him, and, at any rate, he is out of mischief." 
               "That's true, captain," replied the dwarf, with one of his elfin grins. 
               There was no time now for delay, and Marmaduke knew it, and he turned to go downstairs and prepare Agnes for immediate flight; but before he went he could not resist the temptation of saying to Wyman- 
               "You have got a cooler this time, Mr. Wyman, and I think it would be only prudent in you to give up the chase." 
               The Inspector shook his head violently to express his dissent from this opinion. 
               "Very well," returned Marmaduke; "this time the game is all on my side, and I don't think you will catch me without getting up very early in the morning. Good bye, Inspector. I hope you won't forget the morning you spent with me at my residence in Bluegate fields." 
               So saying, Marmaduke sought his wife, who was anxiously awaiting his return. 
               Their preparations were soon made, and in a few minutes, they, accompanied by Stubbles, left the house. 
               Then a question arose as to where they should go. Marmaduke only knew one place of refuge; and that was the house of a celebrated receiver of stolen goods, with whom Marmaduke bad often done business. 
               The hospitality of the "fence" was well known, but then he made his visitors pay handsomely for their accommodation. 
               There was, however, one little objection. Marmaduke once had occasion to seek the shelter of the "fence's" house, and a little adventure befel him. 
               Mike Moss, as he was called, had a daughter. 
               Marmaduke was then both young and free. It followed that he made love to Miss Miriam Moss, who thought him the most accomplished cavalier she had ever had the good fortune to encounter. 
               Such being the case, a mutual passion was the result, which, as usual, was much deeper on the part of the young Jewess than on that of the man. 
               Not that Marmaduke was a gay Lothario or a Don Juan. 
               But shut up in the old Jew's house it was a nice 
                     amnsement
                     amusement
                   for him to flirt with and make love to a pretty young girl. 
               They swore eternal constancy those two young people. 
               Miriam set her whole heart upon Marmaduke. He was her idol. But the time came when Marmaduke was called away, and after he went he forget all about her. 
               Not so Miriam. She was constant ever, and impatiently awaited the return of her lover. 
               But how could all this prejudice a visit to the old "fence" now that danger threatened? 
               She might be jealous of Agnes. 
               It was this fear that made him hesitate. He knew that if Miriam had not supplied herself with another lover she would consider herself badly treated. 
               The sight of his young and beautiful bride might inflame her anger. And the fury of a vindictive woman, when her passions are aroused, is not a thing to be laughed at. 
               Still, it was important that they should have an immediate shelter, and that of the securest description. 
               And Marmaduke with some reluctance decided upon going to the house of Mike Moss. 
               He dispatched Stubbles to a thieves' haunt in Westminster, where he would most likely meet with Fly-by-night and the Surrey Wolf, so as to put them on their guard; for it was clear the police would hold possession of the old house in Bluegate fields for the purpose of making captures. 
                
               Then getting into a cab, Marmaduke drove with his wife to an outfitter's in the Minories, where he obtained some decent attire, and then proceeded to the Foundling Hospital, where he alighted. He did this so as to prevent pursuit or identification of any particular house by she cabman. 
               Then threading the streets about the hospital, he at last entered one which seemed eminently respectable, but so old-looking and so deserted that you would have thought it inhabited by a colony of ghosts. Everything had a mouldy look as of long continued neglect and decay. 
               At one of the houses in this street he stopped and rang the bell. They were instantly admitted by Moss himself, who greeted Marmaduke very kindly, but stared inquiringly at Agnes. 
               "My wife," said Wilson. 
               The old man bowed. 
               But just as the words were uttered, a shrill scream was heard, and Miriam Moss, who had just descended the stairs, fell heavily upon the floor of the entrance hall. 
               Marmaduke guessed the cause of her agitation, but he 
                     siezed
                     seized
                   her by the waist and took her into the dining room, exclaiming- 
               "The heat, sir, probably has affected Miss Mir am's health." 
               Agnes seemed rather astonished at this scene, and did not seem to exactly like her husband carrying a strange woman in his arms. 
               "Ma tear," said the old fence, addressing his daughter, "you ish not vell." 
               Miriam soon opened his eyes and complained of a headache, adding, she would retire to her room, but as she left the apartment she cast a glance so full of hatred at Marmaduke, that even he trembled. 
               That look boded Marmaduke no good. 
               The "fence" drew Marmaduke into the recess of a window and said- 
               "Have you got anything to shell?" 
               Marmaduke explained that he wanted protection for a few days till a certain unpleasant affair blew over, and Mike readily agreed to afford it him. 
               So Marmaduke and his wife were duly installed as inmates of the quiet, mouldy-looking house in the vicinity of the Founding Hospital. 
               But in the mean time, neither Miss Moss nor Inspector Wyman were idle. 
               The latter personage had, as Marmaduke had predicted, been discovered by his men on their arrival. 
               When taken out of the water butt the inspector looked like a drowned rat and shivered as if he had the tertain ague. 
               He swore a very big oath that he would have a terrible revenge on Marmaduke Wilson. 
               How he kept his promise will soon be detailed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               When the beautiful young Jewess, Miriam, retired to her bedchamber her mind was tormented with doubts and fears. At first she could scarcely bring herself to believe in Marmaduke's treachery, even when there was the clearest evidence of it before her eyes. 
               So prone are people to hope against hope and cling to shadows. 
               Although Miriam could love well and fondly, she could also hate, as Marmaduke was to discover to his cost. The girl whose affections had been blighted by his senseless folly and heartlessness was not one to tamely submit to an insult. Miriam determined that she would be revenged. 
               But when the first feeling of anger had passed away a spark of compassion glowed in her breast. 
               "Perhaps," she thought, "the woman I saw is not his wife after all. She may be his sister, or a friend. Let me then ascertain this beyond a doubt before I act, so that I may do him no injustice." 
               With this intention, Miriam descended the stairs in order to interrogate Agnes as to her relationship with Marmaduke. 
               Miriam found Agues alone in the sitting room into which she had been ushered on her first arrival at the "fence's." 
               She was reclining upon a sofa, but rose as she entered. She was a little pale and appeared fatigued. Evidently the excitement and worry of the morning had been too much for her. At any other time Miriam would have done all in her power to make her feel comfortable and at home, but now there was a consuming fire at her heart which burnt up or smothered al her better feelings. 
               Although there were traces of langor and harrassment on Agnes's face she still looked very beautiful; and Miriam could not conceal from herself that her rival was a young and lovely creature. This fact, however, only increased her rage, and made her hate the unsuspecting girl more than ever. 
               "Your husband," laying a stress on the last word, "your husband is not at home, I presume?" 
               "No," replied Agnes; "he has stepped out to attend to some business, but he will not be long before he returns." 
               "She admits that he is her husband," thought Miriam; and she added to herself, "Well, let me see how my poison will work. It has been doubly distilled, and ought to accomplish its end well." 
               "Ah! Marmaduke is a sad fellow," said Miriam, with an insinuating smile. 
               "What mean you?" asked Agnes in alarm. 
               "Oh! nothing much," was the reply. 
               "Marmaduke, as I dare say you know, is a very old friend of mine." 
               "Indeed! I was not aware of the fact," answered Agnes, agitated, she hardly knew why. 
               "Perhaps you will tell me that you did not know we were engaged once, said Miriam, carelessly. 
               "You and Marmaduke engaged? What is this? Oh! let me hear more?" exclaimed Agnes, now painfully aroused. 
               "I have nothing more to tell," replied Miriam, a little coldly. 
               "Nothing more! Oh! yes; there is some mystery hidden in your words," said Agnes. 
               "I would spare your feelings, poor child!" replied Miriam, whose basilisk glance certainly rather belied her words, for there did not seem too much compassion in it. 
               "But you have said either too little or too much," said Agnes. "You have made me uneasy. Oh! I pray you, tell me all you know!" 
               "I could tell you," replied Miriam, "how Marmaduke Wilson was an acknowledged suitor for my hand." 
               "Yes," gasped Agnes. 
               "He vowed eternal constancy. Sooner might the stars fall from their places," he said, "than his love for me could wanes but I made timely discoveries and rejected him." 
               "Oh!" cried Agnes, as if a great weight had been taken off her heart; "I see what you mean now, he was not good enough for you. You knew him to be what, unfortunately for him, the world calls dishonest. I, too, know all that; but that is totally different from what I thought you meant." 
               And Agnes positively laughed-a small laugh of joy-as if she had escaped some dreadful danger; and then she began to scold herself for being so naughty and foolish as to distrust the man of her choice. 
               "That was not my meaning, Mrs. Wilson," said Miriam, bitterly. 
               "Not your meaning," repeated Agnes; "what, then, in Heaven's name do you mean?" 
               "I too, could have forgiven the faults you pardoned, but there were others of a nature a woman never overlooks or pardons." 
               Agnes sat still, speechless with amazement, wondering what singular disclosures her companion was about to make But after firing this last shot Miriam remained silent, occasionally glancing at her to see what effect her words had produced. They had, it was easy to see, raised a tempest of suspicions of various kinds in the mind of Agnes. This was what she wished, and she protracted her silence in order that Agnes might demand some more of the "doubly-distilled poison" she had prepared for her. 
               She had not long to wait, for in a short time Agnes looked up and said, "Will you go on with what you were saying? you would not keep me in suspense, I know, if you were aware of the interest I take in the subject we are discussing?" 
               "You will not accuse me of being unfeeling?" inquired Miriam. 
               "Certainly not, whatever may be the affect of what you are about to tell me, I shall have brought it on myself." 
               "In that case I am prepared to tell you what caused me considerable pain at the time I heard it. Marmaduke is not what he assumes to be; he is a heartless libertine, and I should have been one of his victims had I not found him out in time. He amuses himself with a woman for a time, and when he is tired of her, be deserts her, and throws her friendless and heart-broken on the world." 
               "It is a base fabrication!" cried Agnes, indignantly. 
               "Just what I said myself, my dear, when I was told of it; but I found out the truth of it," replied Miriam, quietly. 
               "Oh! no, no! I cannot believe it. He is so good and true," said Agnes, the tears starting to her eyes. 
               "Well, you may please yourself about believing it," answered Miriam, rudely; "but you will discover before long that what I say is only too true; and then you will be able to distinguish your friends form your enemies." 
               Agnes remained with her head bent down and her eyes fixed upon the carpet, as if plunged in the deepest melancholy. 
               "There is one thing I must discover before I leave her," murmured Miriam. "It is essential to the success of my plans. Your husband is in some little trouble, I suppose?" she demanded, in a careless tone. 
               "Yes, indeed, he is in danger," replied Agnes, innocently, not suspecting the subtle nature of the crafty Jewess, Miriam Moss. 
               "In great danger?" said Miriam. "Indeed, you surprise me. I deemed him much too clever to allow himself to be so hard pressed." 
               "You see," said Agnes, in a low voice, "Wyman, the detective, is hunting him from place to place." 
               "Wyman, the detective," repeated Miriam, mentally making a note of the name. 
               "Yes," replied Agnes; "from Scotland yard, you know." 
               "Ah! Then he is in danger, for Wyman is a sleepless foe; and your husband does well to seek the shelter of my father's house." 
               "You have made me very miserable, exclaimed Agnes. 
               "Nonsense!" replied Miriam; "of 
                     Marmadude
                     Marmaduke
                   loves you he may treat you better than the rest. At all events, never meet troubles half-way. There are as good fish in the sea as ever came out of it." 
               Poor Agnes! There were very sore tidings for her. To have her faith in Marmaduke undermined was sufficient to break her heart almost, so fondly did she love him, and so implicitly did she trust in him. 
               After this conversation Miriam quitted Agnes on the pretence of attending to some pressing domestic business. 
               "So," she thought, as she quitted the room, "so Marmaduke is in trouble the Inspector is on his track. This is great news to me. I once loved him, but now, when I look upon the little chit whom he has made his wife, I lose my patience. I have a right to be revenged upon him for his perfidy." 
                
               Miriam had convinced herself by the questions that she had put to Agnes that Marmaduke had made her his wife. 
               This thought was intolerable to her, for she had, up to the present time, indulged a hope that he might be hers. 
               Being of a passionate and headstrong nature, Miriam resolved to be revenged upon the man who had so ruthlessly trifled with her feelings. 
               By talking to Agnes as she had done she had aroused the demon of suspicion, which is almost as fatal to domestic happiness as the green monster, jealousy. 
               This was part of her system of vengeance, and when she gazed upon the pale shrinking girl before her, she rejoiced to see how her scheme had succeeded. 
               But her great work was as yet unaccomplished. He was still at liberty. She would, however, swoop down upon him as a falcon on a dove, and dash all his hopes, his plans and aspirations, to the four winds of heaven. 
               She was a creature of impulse-most women are, and she was no exception to the rule. If she conceived an idea she must carry it out immediately. In fact, with her to conceive was to execute. 
               Accordingly she dressed herself, and leaving her father's house, went rapidly towards the west. 
               At length, after much walking, the young Jewess reached Scotland yard. 
               It was now plain that her purpose was to betray Marmaduke to the police. 
               Entering the station, she found herself in a large room. A man in uniform was sitting at a desk in a corner; busily engaged in writing; on benches placed in various parts of the apartment, were seated policemen who had either come off duty, or who had come to make some report at head-quarters. One of these latter rose as Miriam entered, and politely asked her what she wanted. 
               "Be good enough," she replied, "to tell the inspector that a lady wishes to see him." 
               The man bowed, and went on his mission. When he returned, he requested Miriam to follow him. 
               After conducting her through several small and rather dismal-looking passages, her guide stopped before a door covered with green baize. Pushing this open, he beckoned to Miriam to enter, and doing so, she found herself alone with the astute, but at present baffled the detective. 
               The walls of the apartment were garnished with bills offering rewards for notorious offenders, and amongst there she saw one headed "Marmaduke Wilson-100 reward." Then followed a description of his person. "So," she thought, "the hounds of the law are still baying at his heels. Perhaps my information will stimulate them to a little increased exertion." 
               "To what, madam, am I indebted for the honor of this visit?" inquired the Inspector, with a low bow. 
               The inspector was always polite to ladies. 
               "Are we alone?" asked Miriam. 
               "Certainly. Speak freely, and without fear; though," added the inspector, with characteristic caution, "if you come to accuse yourself of any offence, I must warn you that what you say will be used against you in evidence afterwards." 
               Miriam smiled, and replied, "Indeed you quite mistake the object of my visit. I come to give information about others, not about myself. I am too much afraid of the law and its satellites to put my poor little self in its power." 
               "I shall be happy-I may say, very happy, to hear anything you have to say. Pray proceed." 
               "Marmaduke Wilson," began Miriam, when she was interrupted by the detective, who exclaimed- 
               "Did I hear aright? Who did you say?" 
               "Are you, then, unacquainted with the gentleman?" asked Miriam, laughingly. 
               "On the contrary," said Wyman, "I have such a regard for him that I should like to have him near me at this moment, and if you can assist me nothing would give me greater pleasure than to renew my acquaintance with Mr. Wilson." 
               "Very well. So far we are in accord." 
               "There is a reward offered," said Wyman. "You know, I suppose, that it is customary for the informer and the captor to share it." 
               "Money is no object to me" replied Miriam, a little haughtily; "I don't want any pecuniary reward, Mr. Wyman; do with that as you think best. If I am once assured that Marmaduke is in the hands of justice I shall rest contented." 
               "Some case of revenge' I suppose," thought the inspector. 
               "Well, it is nothing to us what her 
                     motifve
                     motive
                   is; but it is a fine thing for me. Why, if the woman did not peach on their pals, where should we be? I don't believe we should catch a quarter as many as we do now." 
               "Will you answer me a question?" asked Miriam. 
               "With pleasure," replied Wyman. 
               "What I want to know is what punishment will be allotted to this man Wilson when apprehended?" 
               "Most probably six years' penal servitude, perhaps more, according to circumstances." 
               Although she had made herself acquainted with the terrible doom she was bringing on the man she once loved, she never wavered a moment in her purpose. 
               "You are always here, I suppose," she asked; and being answered in the affirmative, she continued, "Very well, then, if I send you information at any time, you will be prepared to act upon it?" 
               "You may rely upon that," he said, with a chuckle. 
               "This fellow has given me so much trouble, that I will spare no pains to secure him. I have not forgotten a morning I spent with him at Bluegate fields. No no; in a case of this sort you don't catch Wyman, the detective, napping. I will lay all my plans so well that even Jonathan Wild himself couldn't have done them better." 
               "You shall hear from me, them, Mr. Wyman," said Miriam, "very shortly, and I will send you such information as must inevitably lead to his capture." 
               So saying she wished him good morning, and left the police station to return to her father's house. 
               It may be asked why she did not at once say where Marmaduke was concealed, and have returned with a party of constables to effect the arrest then and there. 
               But the objections to this course are obvious. For instance, to bring the myrmidons of the law to her father's house would have been to betray him as well, and besides, she would have annoyed and 
                     irritrted
                     irritated
                   her father beyond measure if she had given his enemies the least clue to his whereabouts, or his pursuits. 
               She had determined then to listen carefully and find out if Marmaduke went to see any of his companions, and if so, having discovered when and where, to forward the information to the Inspector. 
               Miriam had not long to wait before an opportunity of carrying out her vindictive purpose presented itself. She was seated near the window engaged on some embroidery work, when her father and Marmaduke entered. Miriam's form was partly concealed by the window curtains, and it is probable she was not noticed, but her father placed implicit confidence in his daughter, and would not have hesitated to speak before her at any time. 
               The conversation overheard by Miriam was somewhat trivial in its import, but of great consequence to her. 
               Marmaduke informed the old "fence" that he had seen his friends Fly by night and the Surrey Wolf,' who had some plunder to dispose of, and as they were in concealment as well as himself, they did not like to show themselves in open day. 
                
               But Marmaduke, being of a bold and adventurous disposition, had undertaken to visit them at night, at the Three Tuns, in Westminster, where they were staying, and to bring the watches and jewellery they wished to dispose of back with him. 
               The Jew was much pleased with this arrangement, and told Marmaduke to tell his friends that although diamonds were quite a drug in the market, nevertheless he would give a handsome price for all they could send him. 
               Miriam carefully treasured up in her memory the address of the Three Tuns, Westminster. 
               Sitting down at a desk, she wrote on a sheet of paper, "To 
                     Inspecttor
                     Inspector
                   Wyman. He will be at the Three Tuns. Fail not to be there." 
               This notification was written hastily, and as hastily dried on some blotting paper. Then, folding it up she put on her bonnet and shawl, and wended her way to the police station, in order to betray her father's guest. 
               Now she would be revenged upon the man who had, by his cruelty, broken her heart and crushed her finer feelings into dust. 
               But an accident happened upon which she had not reckoned. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               No sooner had Miriam quitted the room than Wilson, by one of those strange chances which influence a man's whole life, re entered it. 
               Certainly there was, at the first sight, nothing extraordinary in his doing so, but the event became of great moment by what followed. 
               It would seem that he was desirous of writing a letter, for he went to the desk that Miriam had just left, and commenced turning over the blotting paper as if in search of some writing paper. 
               Suddenly he stopped with a convulsive start. And his eyes appeared to dilate with astonishment. 
               What strange sight was it that met his view? 
               She had dried her letter there, and her note was as legible on that blotting book as if it had been on paper. 
               Yes, there it was in black and white. His place of meeting-his name. In fact it was so self-evident that there was no room for doubt. 
               Yet could he believe his eyes? Was it possible that the gentle and confiding girl could so far play the traitress as to place him in the hands of justice? 
               Alas! there was the evidence; it was not circumstantial, it was plain, and to the point. 
               "This is a lucky chance," he exclaimed. "Fortune seems to favour me. What could have been this girl's motive? Can it be slighted love? No; she could never have thought me serious, and yet her faint-her agitation. Yes, she loves me, and rather than see me the husband of Agnes she betrays me to the police, or-" 
               Here he clenched his fist, as a new idea struck him. 
               "Is this," he continued, "a plant of the Jew's to sell me? There is a reward offered for my apprehension. Of that I am well aware. Can he have sold me? By Heaven, if I thought so I would give his rascally old carcase to the worms! Let me seek an interview with the Israelite. I will question him shrewdly, and if he prevaricates, the worse for him." 
               True to his purpose he sought the Jew's private apartments, where many of his nefarious transactions were negotiated. 
               "Vat is it, my young friend?" inquired the Jew. "I am busy, my hands are full of bishness." 
               Marmaduke gazed around him for a moment to see what pressing business was engrossing the Jew's attention. Happening to look under the table he discovered a fine lobster on a tray. 
               The Jew's eyes followed Marmaduke's searching look, and when he saw that he was found out, he exclaimed- 
               "Ah! yes. I see you have found out my dinner. It is 'tryphor food,' but I shall eat 'cosher' to morrow." 
               But without taking any further notice of that, Marmaduke exclaimed, "I have known you for some time, Moss, and you have always behaved well to your customers and friends." 
               "Yes," said the Jew. 
               "And if I thought that you were capable of selling a pal, I would wring your old neck where you sit." 
               "Take a shair; be seated," said the fence in evident trepidation and alarm, "and tell me vat all this is apout." 
               Marmaduke Wilson took a chair, and drawing it near to where Moss was sitting, leant a little forward, and said in an impressive voice- 
               "I trusted you, Jew; but my confidence has been requited with treachery." 
               Had a serpent stung him, Mike could not have been more astounded. "By Abraham!" he cried, "I know nothing of it, Mr. Wilson. Nothing vatever, s'help me Heaven." 
               The man's manner was so evidently genuine and sincere, that Marmaduke was constrained to believe him. 
               "I had thought that you might have been hankering after the reward," he said; "and the circumstances of the case were certainly suspicious, as you will admit when you have heard them." 
               "Tell me, tell me, Mr. Wilshon," cried the old fence, letting his spectacles fall upon his papers in his agitation. 
               "I went into your dining-room when I left you just now," said Marmaduke. 
               "Yes, yes, Mr. Wilson." 
               "My purpose was to calculate what was a fair price for you to give for some little trinkets I was to bring you to-night from Fly-by-night, as we had arranged." 
               "That ish true." 
               "In order to do that I went to a writing desk to obtain a piece of paper, but while turning over the leaves of a blotting-book, what was my utter surprise to see-" 
               "Jehosaphat! vat did you see?" demanded the Jew. 
               "I will tell you what I saw, Mike Moss," replied Marmaduke sternly. "I saw your daughter's handwriting." 
               The Jew gasped for breath. 
               "And that handwriting convinced me that she bad betrayed me, either by your orders, or by her own inclination." 
               The Jew expressed a wish to be further enlightened. 
               "The note was evidently just written, and it contained the name of the place where, as you know, I am to meet my friend, Fly-by-night, this evening. The writer strongly impressed upon her correspondent the paramount necessity of taking a large force with him in order that my capture might be secured." 
               "Ha!" exclaimed Mike. 
               "And if you doubt that the writer of that letter was your own daughter, you can easily undeceive yourself by looking at the handwriting." 
               "This is pad work, very pad work," said the fence, when Marmaduke had finished his narration. 
               "I can think of nothing to account for it," continued 
                     Marmakuke
                     Marmaduke
                  , "except-" 
               "Ah! she wanted the monish-the reward. Miriam is a sharp girl, but a pad one to shell her friends," interrupted the Jew, with a laugh. 
               "No, old man," replied Marmaduke; "your daughter did not want the money. Her object, as I was about to tell you when you interrupted me, was revenge." 
               "For vat should she vant revenge?" asked Mike Moss, opening his eyes. 
               "She loved me," replied he quietly. 
               The effect of these words upon the Jew was indescribable. He instantly became violently agitated; his countenance was convulsed with passion, and his whole frame trembled with rage. 
               "Vat!" he cried, "my daughter love a Christian-a dog. Bah! I spit at you. No, it ish too pad; too dreadful. But," he added, getting a little calmer, "if Miriam has cast the eye of affection upon a Gentile, she must die the death.' 
               What these words portended was a mystery. 
               Marmaduke took no notice of the old man's rhapsody, having for some little time known his antipathy to all who were not of his own faith. 
               Just then a timid knock was heard at the door. 
               "Ha! 'tis Miriam!" cried Marmaduke. 
               "Hush! be shtill," said the Jew, holding up his finger warningly. 
               In his natural voice he then bade her enter. 
               Miriam entered boldly, but on seeing Marmaduke, shrank back a little involuntarily, but in a moment she recovered her former confidence, and advanced towards the middle of the room, and seated herself on a chair which Marmaduke presented her with. 
               She had sought her father, she said, to ask him some questions of domestic interest, but Moss replied- 
               "Shild, listen to me first." 
               Miriam, although a little uneasy, expressed her willingness to do so. 
               "Where have you been now?" demanded her father. 
               "For a walk, and to do some shopping." 
               But you write letters, ma tear. Do you not?" 
               "I? No; very seldom, was the reply. 
               "Vat did you write this afternoon?" asked the Jew, with a searching glance. 
               "Nothing, father," answered Miriam. 
               "Prevarication is useless here, Miss Moss," interrupted Marmaduke; "your secret has been discovered, and by me." 
               Miriam was much astonished at this announcement, and she felt 
                     greatfy
                     greatly
                   mortified at the ill success of her scheme. 
               "I regret that any secret of mine should have been discovered, sir," she answered boldly, "for it argues badly for my skill, and care, and prudence. I am at a loss, however, to guess what particular secret you allude to." 
               Marmaduke Wilson drew himself up to his full height, and with a withering look replied- 
               "Miriam Moss, you are a traitress!" 
               She started visibly at the denunciation. 
               "Yes," he continued, "you are a traitress of the blackest dye-you have betrayed your father's guest-you would have had me fall into the hands of the police this evening, and I charge you with having even now been in communication with them." 
               "Your proofs, sir-your proofs!" exclaimed Miriam. "You insult me by these suspicions." 
               Marmaduke bowed, and quickly left the room, returning in a few seconds with the tell tale blotting pad. 
               "Here," he cried, "are my proofs!" And holding the paper up to the light, her treachery was manifest to all. The evidence was so straightforward, and so damning, that Miriam saw there was no escape from it. 
               "You cannot deny you wrote that letter," said Marmaduke. 
               Miriam hung her head as the full conviction of her treachery was placed before her. 
               "Your motive, Miriam, asked the man she had so deeply, cruelly wronged. 
               "Can you ask me?" she replied, her eyes flashing, and her face pale and red by turns-"you, who have trifled with my affections, and who changed my love to hatred-you, who have blighted my whole life, and made me entertain bad and wicked passions? Will not the trodden worm turn upon its oppressor, think you?" 
               At these words the old fence rose, and going towards his daughter took one of her hands in his, and said, in a gentle coaxing tone- 
               "My child-my Miriam." 
               "Father, I am listening," she replied 
               "Tell me I am mishtaken; shay you did not love that man. It ish all lies, ish it not, my Miriam?" 
               The expression of the old man's face was pitiable as he thus pleaded with his only child. 
               The reply came slowly, but distinctly. 
               "Father, it is true. I loved this man; but now I hate-yes, hate him even unto death." 
               At these words the Jew's face became once more convulsed with rage, and casting his daughter's hand violently away from him, he said, in a voice hoarse with anger and concentrated passion- 
               "She has defiled her father's sepulchre. She must die the death-". 
               Again those words! Surely some awful significance must dwell beneath them. 
               She must die the death! Of a verity the clouds are gathering over the head of Miriam. 
               "Stay! deal not harshly with her," interposed Marmaduke. 
               "I want not your pity," said Miriam, scornfully. "Were I in want of bread your charity would choke me" 
               "Peace, girl!" cried her father. Then, turning to Marmaduke, he said, "Her punishment rests with me. Rest assured the full measure shall be meted out to her." 
               "You are saved this time, Marmaduke Wilson," exclaimed Miriam; "but you shall yet feel the effect of my hate, my vengeance shall never sleep! I swear it! By my father's grave, I swear it!" 
               Marmaduke smiled disdainfully. 
               "Ah!" she said, "you are congratulating yourself on your escape. The police will seek in vain to-night, but a time will some." 
               "You are wrong, Miriam, answered Marmaduke. "I shall keep my appointment this evening at Westminister." 
               "What? do I hear aright?" she cried. 
               "Yes; my friends must be put upon their guard. And I fear not the police." 
               "You know not that," she replied, rather astonished at his audacity. 
               All this time the Jew was occupied with his own thoughts. The discovery that his daughter once loved a Christian seemed to have completely upset him. 
               "Jew!" exclaimed the young man "to your charge for the present I confide my wife; and remember, I shall claim her from your hands. Should aught happen to her while under your roof-should a hair of her innocent head be injured-I will exact a terrible revenge." 
               With these words he left the room, and sought the companionship of Agnes. 
               The Jewess and her father remained absorbed for some minutes. At length the Jew looked up. The traces of a severe mental conflict appeared upon 
                     his his
                     his
                   features; and as he gazed upon his daughter his face was cold and compassionateless. 
               "Yes," he said aloud, "she must die the death!" 
               The girl became alarmed at the iteration of this ominous phrase, and rising, walked towards the door, intending to leave the room, but the old man with a bound reached the door before her, and locking it, put the key in his pocket, and confronting her, said in a severe voice- 
               "Thou must expiate thy sin." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               Wilson kept his promise to his friends. When the clock struck the hour of twelve he entered the old hostelry which had been selected for their meeting. 
               As he passed through the bar, he perceived a number of low-looking ruffians, with a sprinkling of women, swearing and drinking, and although they were mostly thieves and pickpockets they looked at him wonderingly, not recognizing him as one of their own profession. 
               "Glasses round," said Marmaduke, addressing the bar-man, and throwing down a couple of sovereigns to defray the expense. 
               "Hurrah!" cried the crowd. 
               When the liquor was served out to them, he exclaimed, "Friends, I don't suppose you would like to see a brother pal lagged?" 
               "No, no," shouted everybody. 
               "Well," he continued, "if I don't look about me to-night I shall be in the unpleasant position I have indicated." 
               "Not if we know it," said the crowd. 
               "Not as long as I can lift a finger," cried Leary Ned. 
               "Thanks, thanks!" replied he. "I thought I could rely upon you all, and I will tell you how you can assist me." 
               A breathless silence reigned, while every ear was strained to catch his words. 
               Every eye was fixed upon him. 
               "Inspector Wyman has been informed that I am to meet two friends of mine here, and he, with several officers, will most likely be here in search of me in halt an-hour." 
               "We'll fight for you." 
               "We'll pitch the police out of the window." 
               "They'll go faster than they came, I warrant." 
               These and similar exclamations greeted Marmaduke's ears at the conclusion of his address. 
               "Now I will tell you what to do. "One or two of you must keep watch outside for the peelers, and at their approach, some one must come up-stairs and give me warning. Then extinguish the lights and fight as well as you can, and in the scuffle I shall make my escape. You may wonder why I came here after having such explicit information. I answer you that I came because I love daring for its own sake, and I think it is a bad plan to show the police that you are afraid of them." 
               "So it is. Hurrah! we'll do it," responded his auditors. 
               The Three Tuns was a night-house, and frequented almost entirely by thieves and pickpockets and ruffians of all descriptions; there are not many such houses, but those that exist are pretty well patronized. 
               Consequently there might have been from thirty to forty men and women in the Three Tuns. 
               "Take him! take him! Dead or alive, a hundred guineas for him!" 
               Pulling a pistol from his pocket Marmaduke thought of selling his life dearly. 
               But he considered on reflection that the odds against him were too great to make any way against. 
               If he fired all four of his pistols, and took as many lives, how would it assist him? 
               It would only aggravate his offence; therefore it would be better for him to surrender at discretion, and to trust to his 
                     ingenutiy
                     ingenuity
                   to devise some means of escape subsequently. 
               There was one thing he could do, though, one thing he was bound to do, if he could possibly effect it in any way, and that was to secure the safety of his two friends. 
               Turning his eyes in the direction of Stubbles, Marmaduke saw him at last succumb to the force of numbers. 
               The dwarf fell heavily to the ground beneath a vindictive blow from one of his adversaries' truncheons. 
               With a shout of triumph the Inspector and two men, for only two had escaped the furious onslaught of the dwarf, darted forward. 
               Seeing that the police on either side of him had made a temporary halt, Marmaduke exclaimed- 
               "Inspector Wyman, I will deliver myself into your hands on one condition." 
               "And that is-?" 
               "That condition is the safety and liberation of my three friends. 
               "Well, it shall be as you request," "your friends shall have their liberty." 
               "I have your word for that?" 
               "You have," replied the inspector; and he accordingly threw down his weapons, and quietly allowed himself to be bound and handcuffed. 
               And he conducted his captive, without molestation, to Vincent square, where he was safely immured in the strongest cell of the police station. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               After having placed the key in his pocket, as we have related, the Jew assumed a threatening manner. 
               Alarmed at her father's strange, unwonted behaviour, the Jewess approached him softly, and exclaimed in those gentle tones which belonged to her- 
               "Father, what mean you by these strange proceedings? you frighten me." 
               The old Jew looked sternly at his daughter without replying for the space of half a minute, at the expiration of that time he said slowly and emphatically- 
               "Miriam, thou hast offended, insomuch as thou hast committed an unpardonable sin." 
               "I! father?" cried Miriam; "oh! how have I offended so greatly?" 
               "In loving a Christian lies thy sin," still keeping his basilisk eyes upon her. 
               "Oh! trouble is indeed the lot of our doomed nation," sobbed Miriam. 
               "Not so, schild; ours is a glorious race, but disobedience brings its own punishments." 
               "Say what you have to say, father, and let me go," said she, recovering herself, and looking up at the Jew as if conscious of innocence. 
               "I have little to shay," replied her father; "but that little interests you mosh." 
               "Say on; I am listening." 
               "Your mother, Rachel, hated the Christians, and vowed that as long as she lived you should never be the bride of a follower of the Nazarene, and swore that if you sho mosh as cast your eye favourably on a Christian, you should die the death." 
               "Again those dreadful words! Oh! father, you alarm me; let me go. I will go; I cannot stay with you; would you murder me?" 
               "Your mother's fate is yours," he replied. 
               "What of her?" 
               "Before the 
                     cheif
                     chief
                   rabbi in our synagogue, she vowed to love me." 
               "Yes; oh, yes." 
               "And well she kept her word-" 
               "I could have sworn it, oh! my sainted mother." 
               "Until one day, when a Gentile, unclean dog as he was, came to my house to borrow monish. I let him have it. But as Heaven and Abraham willed it, he saw your mother; what followed, child, would not, before you met Marmaduke, have 
                     deen
                     been
                   fit for your ears. But now you have eaten of the tree of knowledge of good and evil." 
               "Oh! no, no," sobbed Miriam. 
               "And thou hast chosen the evil from amongst the good." 
               "Thy mother," continued the Jew, 'dishonoured her nuptial couch." 
               "Oh! this cannot be. It is not true," cried Miriam; "you malign the dead." 
               "Schid, Miriam," said the old man, angrily but firmly, "thou hast heard the truth." 
               "And-and, what became of her," asked Miriam, timidly, trembling in every limb, and pale with anxiety and excitement. 
               "She died the death," replied the Jew, solemnly. 
               "The death! oh! what new horror are you reciting?" 
               "I speak the simple truth-by Abraham, the simple truth!" 
               "And I?" 
               "You?-your hours are numbered." 
               "Oh! what means this?" she cried. 
               "The very minutes that you have to live are reckoned," said her father, in a low, determined voice. 
               "Oh, father! have you no pity?" pleaded Miriam. 
               "In that room," "thy mother Rachael breathed her last. There shalt thou also expiate thy sin. I have sworn 
               As he spoke he pointed  as she followed the  hand she guessed that 
                   chamber above, but in the rear of the one she was at present in. 
               "How did she die?" 
               "No violence was done her. But ask no questions, schild, thy turn has come." 
               "No, no! I will not be thus killed in cold blood. Help! help!" she shrieked. 
               "You cry in vain," said her father. "These walls ish padded, and the windows have double frames. No soul, even here can hear your cries." 
               "Oh! Heaven help me. 
               "Call not on Heaven; for thy sin's sake it has deserted thee, and has delivered, thee, like Sisera, into my hands." 
               Gazing at her for a moment, the Jew, without changing a muscle of his countenance, exclaimed, "Follow me!" 
               She arose almost mechanically, and followed her father, who crossed the room, and opened a small door in the wall with a key of 
                     peculair
                     peculiar
                   workmanship. 
               Entering this he led the way up a narrow flight of stairs, closely followed by his daughter, who went passively like a lamb to the slaughter. 
               After ascending for some time the Jew stopped, and touching a knob in the wainscoting, which was easily discernible by the light of the small taper he carried in his hand, he threw open a panel in the wainscoating, which afforded an aperture 
                     suffiiciently
                     sufficiently
                   large to admit of the passage of a human body. 
               "Enter," he cried, and making way for her to pass him; but the young girl shrank from the perilous enterprise. At this juncture a gust of wind extinguished the somewhat feeble light the old fence held in his hand. 
               With a curse and an exclamation of disappointment, he descended the stairs to fetch a more trustworthy light than the one he had formerly held. 
               But ere he did so, he said, "Daughter, await my return. Nothing will harm thee." 
               She awaited his return in the close oppressive atmosphere of those old-fashioned stairs, and huge spiders played at hide and seek in her jet black tresses, yet she heeded them not as she stood with her head against the cobwebbed wall awaiting her unnatural father's return. 
               In a short time, which, however, appeared an age to her, he made his appearance. 
               "Didst thou hear anything?" he asked, rather anxiously. 
               "Nothing," was the reply. 
               "Then follow me, and fear nothing." 
               She followed her father, who soon disappeared through the aperture formed by the sliding panel. 
               An extraordinary sight met her eyes as she entered that room. 
               From its appearance it seemed to have been deserted for years. 
               The furniture was covered with thick layers of dust, and the carpet threw up clouds of the same impalpable substance as soon as a footfall descended upon it. 
               The door appeared to be securely fastened, and so begrimed with dust and dirt was the window, that to all intents and purposes of a practical nature, the room was destitute of any ventilating of light-admitting apparatus. 
               Miriam gazed around her in blank amazement. 
               The light her father carried in his hand was sufficient to reveal the decayed and mildewed nature of the apartment. 
               It was evident that those articles of furniture had not been visited for years. 
               She, actuated by a curiosity the motive for which she could not exactly define, advanced towards an aged sofa she perceived in the centre of the room. 
               Upon this she sat down, but almost as quickly sprung up again. 
               What was the cause of her alarm?-what made her rise so suddenly from her position? 
               She sat upon a skeleton! 
               The bones jingled and ground together beneath her pressure. 
               A horrible idea possessed her. 
                
               It was probably her mother's remains! her father had hinted at such a consummation. 
               Oh, Heaven! such a thing was too horrible. She could not stay in such a frightful place. 
               At all hazards she must make her escape. She would appeal to her father's better feelings. 
               She turned to address him, and had prepared a plaintive appeal which no man possessing anything like a heart could have withstood. 
               But what was her astonishment to perceive that her father had left the room. 
               She could not, at first, believe her eyes. 
               The evidence was, however, conclusive. The lamp still remained upon the table. 
               But all traces of the Jew had disappeared. 
               What a horrible situation for a young girl, her nerves already strung to the highest pitch, to be placed in. 
               Alone in a sepulchral-looking chamber! Not a soul within call! At the mercy of a fiendish, cruel, if not mad old man. 
               And worse than all, alone with a skeleton of her erring, but oppressed mother. 
               Truly this young girl's position was horrible beyond conception. 
               But she could escape! 
               She had come up a flight of stairs into the fatal room, and if so, why could she not descend by them? 
               Certainly this was a fair deduction from a reasonable premises. 
               Miriam advanced towards that portion of the wall through which she had recently entered the room which she could only now regard as her mother's grave. 
               But what was her chagrin, surprise, and amazement to discover that all traces of the hidden panel had totally disappeared. 
               In vain she searched the wall from end to end. No signs of the panel rewarded her patient investigation. 
               "This is absurd," cried the poor girl; "I must have been mistaken somehow or other. Let me try again." 
               But still her efforts were utterly fruit less and without result. 
               Miriam, in a paroxysm of fear, rage, and terror, attacked the paper on the walls with her finger nails. 
               Large strips of paper rewarded her exertions in this direction, and that was all. 
               In time she desisted form those childish efforts, and subsided into a quiet, miserable, hopeless state of mind. 
               "Oh! he cannot have left me here to die of starvation," she thought; "he is my father, and some spark of pity must linger in his heart for his offspring. Perhaps he is trying to frighten me. 
               "He will, most likely, come this evening and liberate me, making great fun of my fright. 
               "Oh! yes; I have no doubt he is amusing himself at my expense, and being a little angry at what I have done, he wishes to alarm me a little into the bargain." 
               Ah! What is that on the dusty old table cover, near the lamp? 
               Papers, by the look of them. 
               There can be no great harm in my investigating their contents, I should think. 
               So saying Miriam approached the table and seized a bundle of papers tied with red tape. 
               To slip the tape off did not take her much time. 
               The papers were indorsed outside "Papers belonging to the Leslie Family." 
               Opening the packet, which seemed to have been placed there for her inspection, Miriam perused several letters, which placed her mother's guilt beyond the suspicion of a doubt. 
               Bernard Leslie appeared, according to the signature, to have been the man who had destroyed the old fence's happiness. In addition to the letters were some notes of hand, bills of exchange, and post obit bonds of Bernard Leslie, and one or two sheets descriptive of the history of the family. 
                
               But in these details Miriam took no Interest. 
               It was enough for her to know that her mother was guilty of the crime imputed to her by her father. 
               Her brain felt in a whirl. 
               She was utterly bewildered, and knew not what to do. 
               Throwing herself into an arm-chair, which threw up a perfect cloud of dust as she sat down upon it, she began to ruminate upon her forlorn and desperate position. 
               Her father had evidently deserted her, and she began to realize the meaning of those fearful words, "Thou hast committed an unpardonable sin, and thou shalt die the death." 
               Her father meant, it was clear, to abandon her to starvation. 
               As this thought took possession of her, she almost gave herself up to despair. 
               But as she sat on that faded, moth-eaten, dust-begrimed arm-chair, another and a sweeter reflection came 
                     upou
                     upon
                   her. 
               She had done nothing positively wrong, and why should she not hope for the interposition of Providence in her behalf? 
               She prayed to the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and she did not think that she should be deserted in the hour of her greatest peril and her utmost need. 
               As she was reasoning in this way she became conscious of a strange scent in the apartment. 
               A subtle odour filled the chamber. 
               Denser and denser grew the cloud. 
               Stronger and more subtle seemed the essence. 
               But suddenly a great dread took possession of Miriam. 
               Was not the perfume she was inhaling with such apparent pleasure having an extraordinary effect upon her? 
               Had not an intoxicating feeling taken hold of her and invaded her senses? 
               Oh! what a fiendish refinement of almost superhuman cruelty was this! 
               Oh! for one breath of fresh air, if only one; never had she before known the blessing of the pure air of heaven. 
               Oh! if one little zephyr would float in upon her, and snatch her from her frightful doom. 
               Or the atmosphere of the sewers of fetid and underground London-anything in the world would be preferable to these insinuating fumes. 
               As those thoughts occurred to her, Miriam ran wildly about the room, without any fixed purpose or plan, shrieking wildly and fearfully. 
               She beat upon the walls with her poor hands till they were lacerated, torn, and blood-stained. 
               But all to no purpose; that secret sliding panel defied every attempt at detection. 
               But then there was the door-she would try that. Alas! for it was securely fastened-how did not appear; but it resisted all her attempts to open it. 
               An idea struck her. That door must communicate with some other apartment; she would put her lips to the keyhole, and send shriek upon shriek, to alarm the inmates, if inmates there were any. 
               But to her intense annoyance, she discovered that the keyhole was plugged and stopped up with putty or some such substance. 
               Taking a penknife from her pocket, she hastily scraped away the impeding matter from the orifice. 
               In the midst of this operation her knife broke in half, but she worked on bravely with the remains. 
               At last the keyhole was free from obstruction, and bending down, Miriam sent her fierce lamentations travelling through it. 
               Would they be heard, and if so, would she be rescued form the 
                     devlilsh
                     devilish
                   ingenuity which was encompassing her death? 
               These were the 
                     antieipations
                     anticipations
                   which agitated the breast of the unhappy Miriam. 
               Again and again did those weird, unearthly shrieks, as of a woman in her death-agony, peal with horrible distinctness through the narrow aperture. 
               But no response followed. 
               One more effort for life and liberty! It was the last struggle of her strong and vigorous nature against the soul oppressing effects of the mysterious vapour, which was slowly but surely leading her to her doom. 
               Yet another shriek! more weird, more wild, more unearthly than the preceding ones, rang through the orifice, and with a strange laugh the unfortunate maiden fell heavily on the floor. 
               Ere her senses entirely left her, did she indeed hear a sound, as of friends, coming to her rescue, or was it some fiend mocking her last moments? 
               Pale and ghastly was she as she lay in that dreadful room, her sole companion a hideous skeleton and that in all likelihood her mother's 
               Suddenly a sound, as of some one endeavouring to open the door of the room, was heard, but these glad tidings did not reach the ears of the captive, who was too far gone to notice them. 
               Heavy blows resounded upon the aged panels, 
                     aud
                     and
                   one more vigorous than the rest sent the old rusty lock flying into the apartment. 
               The heroine of the achievment, was no other than Agnes, and the weapon she used was a stout poker, snatched up in a hurry at hearing those terrible shrieks each of which had, to Agnes' astonished ears, sounded like a death-wail. 
               Agnes gazed about her for a moment and then discovered Miriam. To bear her to the light and air was the 
                     woak
                     work
                   of a moment. 
               As this was accomplished, a howl of rage emanated from some mysterious corner, and the subtle vapor began to disappear as strangely as it had arisen. 
               One fact, however, remained. Miriam,  Agnes, was snatched from the  of death! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               Miriam, with a deathlike pallor spread over her countenance, lay upon a sofa in Agnes' apartment. 
               Was she indeed dead, or was it but the semblance of death? Her inanimate form gave great room for the former supposition. 
               Agnes gazed anxiously upon the countenance of the young Jewess, to detect any signs of returning consciousness, but for some time her expectations were disappointed. 
               She had bathed her temples with water, and thrown open the window to allow a little air to penetrate to the sufferer, and meander gently through the tangled masses of her long dishevelled hair. 
               Better would it have been for Agnes had Miriam Moss died then and there. 
               Yes, better had she died upon that sofa, whither she had been carried after her rescue from the fatal embrace of that suffocating and mysterious vapor. 
               But the events of the future were not revealed to Agnes. 
               She had no friendly Cassandra to warn her of approaching evil. 
               Had the contrary been the ease, she would have avoided the society of one who was in heart her deadliest enemy, even as Wyman was her husband's inveterate foe. 
               Agnes was in truth, innocently enough, nourishing a viper in her bosom. 
               A venomous reptile which would 
                     enevitably
                     inevitably
                  , as soon as it was strong enough, fold its spiral coils, and darting upon her, sting her to the heart. 
               But, alas! prescience is not an attribute of frail humanity. 
               Slowly Miriam opened her eyes, but almost instantly again closed them. 
               "Oh, speak, Miriam!" cried Agnes. "Tell me that you live once more." 
               At the sound of a 
                     friondly
                     friendly
                   voice, Miriam roused herself, and with an effort sat up. 
               "Oh, thank Heaven, you are better! I feared the worst." Miriam uttered a long drawn sigh. "What has happened?" continued Agnes. "Something dreadful, I know, must have befallen you." 
               "Indeed, yes," replied Miriam, for the first time opening her lips since her swoon. "My father-oh, it is horrible. I cannot, even now, persuade myself that it is not a hideous, shapeless dream!" After uttering these words she shut her eyes, as if to keep out some frightful vision. 
               "It is all too true, I am afraid," replied Agnes; "but one thing is certain, whatever fate was in store for you, it has providentially been averted, for you are now free and scatheless." 
               "That is true." 
               "There, you see, is the old door I battered open when I heard your dreadful shrieks, which sounded shrilly through the house. Guided by them I found this door, and perceived that some one must be in trouble and in great peril; so I effected an entry as well and quickly as I could." 
               "To you I owe my life," she said. 
               "Talk not of that. It was a fortunate chance, and I rejoice to have been able to come in time." 
               "Let me see that room once more," she exclaimed, "to be sure that I am not the sport of some hallucination, and I shall be satisfied." 
               "Do not excite yourself. You are not yet strong enough. I would wait awhile until you are somewhat recovered." 
               Waving her hand imperiously, she rose to her feet, and walked into the room, followed closely by Agnes. Having entered it, she gazed around her, and her glance first sought the skeleton that lay upon the sofa. 
               "There lie my mother's remains," she cried, with a hysterical sob. "Her fate was indeed a sad one, as my experience can testify. There have her bones bleached 
                     unsequlchred
                     unsepulchred
                   and unattended." 
               "Horrible!" ejaculated Agnes. 
               "Yes, it is horrible, but still more so when the murderer is one's own husband." 
               "Her husband! What mean you?" 
               "My father's fiendish malice and ingenuity slew my mother, and would have slain me, had you not, by the help of Providence, saved me from 
                     destrnction
                     destruction
                  ," she replied, looking at Agnes. 
               "Is such cruelty possible?" asked Agnes, in astonishment. "Such things make one's blood freeze and curdle in one's veins." 
               "Ah! truth is often stranger than the wildest fiction," replied Miriam. 
               "Of what crime was your mother guilty?" inquired Agnes. 
               "In that she loved another than my father." 
               "How know you that?" 
               "I am too sure." 
               "You should have good proof. It is not well to malign the dead; you may do your mother great injustice," said Agnes. 
               "Was not her fate sufficient evidence of her guilt?" replied Miriam, almost fiercely; "if more confirmation were needed, it could be found in that packet of papers lying on the table." 
               Casting her eyes in that direction, Agnes discovered the bundle in question. 
               But she started as if a serpent had imprinted his fangs upon her flesh. "Papers belonging to the Leslie family," she exclaimed. "By what strange concatenation of circumstances am I doomed ever to meet with that name?" 
               "Yes, there are the proofs of my mother's weakness, and my mother's shame," said Miriam. "But come, let us leave this horrid atmosphere, I feel half-suffocated still," and with an exclamation of disgust she left the room. 
               Actuated by an irresistible impulse, Agnes seized the packet of papers, and hastily concealed them in the folds of her dress. Having accomplished this she followed her companion. 
               "This house is no place for me now," exclaimed Miriam. "I shall quit my father's er's roof, and seek shelter beneath that of strangers. My life is not safe." 
               "I feel sincerely for you, Miriam," replied Agnes, kindly. 
               It was strange that no sooner had Miriam Moss fully recovered her senses, than she renewed her determination to destroy the happiness and peace of mind of Agnes. 
               It was now late in the evening, and she calculated that from the fact of Agnes being alone, Marmaduke Wilson had gone out to keep his appointment with the Surrey Wolf, Fly-by-night, for he had, 
                     iwith
                     with
                   unparalleled audacity, declared his 
                     ntention
                     intention
                   of doing so. 
               Of the result of such an interview she felt pretty confident. 
               In a few hours, she argued, Marmaduke Wilson will be in the hands of the police. Once secured; Wyman is not the man I take him for if he allows the bird to escape. 
               Accused as he will be of numerous offences, conviction is inevitable. 
               At present this silly fool, who calls herself his wife, must know nothing of it, or my plans will be foiled. I must lead her to suppose that her affectionate Marmaduke has deserted her, as I predicted the other day he would. She will be loth to believe it, and indignant with me for supposing such a thing; but as day after day glides by, the suspicion will become a certainty, and then she may pine away and die as soon as she likes. 
               It was diabolical thus to plot against the very life of a girl who had a few short hours before saved her life; but when a woman determines to be revenged, she seldom hesitates at the means wherewith to accomplish her end. 
               Miriam now considered herself wronged and injured by Agnes, insomuch as she had enthralled and married Marmaduke Wilson. 
               And as she had been slighted and trifled with by the latter, she resolved to punish both of them. 
               Marmaduke Wilson's forebodings after leaving Bluegatefields were terribly realized; better would it have been for him and his young unsuspecting wife to have slept under the Adelphi arches than to have entered the old fence's house in that retired street near the Foundling Hospital. 
               For misery and misfortune had dogged their footsteps ever since, and was still following fiercely on the trail. 
               "Will you fly with me, Agnes?" asked Miriam, pleadingly. 
               "I cannot leave my husband." 
               "Your husband will follow us, for we can leave word for him." 
               "But he may return to night, and he would wonder at my absence." 
               "Well, you must please yourself," she said, with a look of deep disappointment. "I had reckoned upon your friendship in my hour of trouble." 
               "And so you may," cried Agnes. "Anything that I can do for you, dear Miriam, rely upon it, I will; but I cannot desert my husband." 
               "If he were mine," she said spitefully, "I would not allow him to go out at night; how know you where he goes, or how his time is spent?" 
               This speech threw fuel on Agnes' already roused suspicions. "Surely," she 
                     theught
                     thought
                  , "if other people remark these things, there must be something for me to complain of. Miriam, I think, evidently knows something about Marmaduke, or she would not have said what she did say the other morning. Oh! I am very unhappy!" 
               "Deserted by my father, with the corpse of my mother lying in that room, and with no one to care for me," exclaimed Miriam, "I am indeed friendless!" 
               Touched at these words, which were uttered in a heart-broken manner, Agnes seized her friend's hand, and replied, 
               "I am your friend, if you will only think so. Say, what can I do for you?"
                
                
               "Ah! you do not mean what you say? I want some one to lean upon-some one to comfort me, until my nerves recover the terrible shock they have sustained." 
               "I will do all that to the best of my ability." 
               "You will?" cried Miriam, joyfully "Then let us leave here at once." 
               "Leave here?" responded Agnes; "and wherefore?" 
               "I cannot stay! I fear some fresh attempt on the part of my father to ruin me. Baulked in the execution of his original scheme, he will endeavour to compass my death in some new way. Even now I tremble for my life." 
               "You would have me leave Marmaduke to go with you?" said Agnes. "You place a heavy tax upon our newborn friendship." 
               "Were he my husband," muttered Miriam, as if talking to herself, but yet loud enough to let Agnes hear every word she said,-"were he my husband, I would go away for a day to punish him for his irregular ways. If a man takes to staying out late at night, the best way for a wife to cure him of the habit is to stay away too, and when he finds that two can play at the game, he generally reforms." 
               "What do you say?" asked Agnes. 
               "Oh! nothing. I thought I had a friend, but I find I was mistaken." 
               Taking up her bonnet and shawl, Miriam attired herself, and put away all her trinkets she could get at, as some were locked up in her father's safe, and with a little money in her purse she prepared to depart. 
               "Good-bye!" she said, a little coldly, to Agnes, adding, in a feeling tone, "May Heaven be kinder to you when your evil day comes than you have been to me! Misfortune's clouds may even now be gathering about your head." 
               "Stay, Miriam!" cried Agnes, as Miriam was moving towards the doorway. 
               Miriam stopped, and looked inquiringly at her. 
               "I will go with you. You shall not accuse me of cold-heartedness." 
               "Heaven will bless you!" answered Miriam, pretending to be much moved. 
               Agnes was soon equipped, and, following Miriam, descended the stairs with some caution, lest the old fence should overhear them, and endeavour to dispute their right to leave the house. 
               They reached the landing on the ground floor in safety without having met any one. The solitary servant kept by Mike had hours ago retired to rest. 
               Gently opening the huge nail studded oaken door, these two adventurous girls sallied into the street. 
               "I breathe once more!" exclaimed Miriam, "now that I have left the detestable house of my unnatural parent." 
               It now became a question what they were to do with themselves. 
               Alone and unprotected in our modern Babylon, without knowing where to go, is anything but a nice position for two good-looking young females to be placed in. 
               They walked for some little distance without stopping or conversing. At length, when Miriam considered that they had placed a sufficient distance between themselves and their pursuers, if pursuers there were, she halted to hold a council of war. 
               It was not, as we know, the first time that Agnes had been bewildered in the streets of London. 
               Therefore she was not much alarmed; and Miriam was too overjoyed to be at large once more, to feel any particular anxiety as to her present position. 
               Yet it was necessary to do something. The girls could not sleep in the open air. Miriam proposed that, as it was too late for two women to procure lodgings any where that night, the best thing they could do would be to get asked at some coffee-house, and with that intention they walked towards Tottenham-court-road. 
               The shops were all shut up, but there
                   still many people about, as is always the case in large and frequented thorough-fares. The public houses seemed to be well filled, to judge from the half-open doors. 
               A quiet, genteel-looking coffee shop arrested their attention. 
               "Here!" cried Miriam. "This, I think, will do for us. Let us go in, and ask what their charge is for a night's lodging." 
               They passed underneath the lamp, upon which an inscription was placed informing the public that Mr. Todd was prepared to let good beds. 
               A neatly oil-clothed passage led them to a coffee room. Here a man of the rough and ready order was serving some customers. This was Mr. Todd, who rejoiced in being his own waiter. 
               When he perceived the two girls, he looked inquiringly at them, and waited for them to speak. 
               "What do you charge for beds?" asked Miriam. 
               "Half-a crown," was the surly reply. 
               "Have you two vacant?" 
               "Maybe I have. Who are they for?" 
               "For my 
                     faiend
                     friend
                   and myself," answered Miriam. 
               "Then I don't let 'em, and that's flat," replied Mr. Todd, who, from his manner, certainly appeared to have taken something stronger than coffee during the evening. 
               "You don't let them-why not? Just new you said they were vacant." 
               "I don't choose to let my rooms to a parcel of women who come running about after lodgings at this time of night. That's not me, I can tell you!" said Mr. Todd, with some asperity. 
               "We can pay you what you ask. See here, I have got money," replied Miriam, her face flushing scarlet at his insolent speech, as she drew her purse out of her pocket. 
               "I don't want your money. My house is respectable, and, please God, I'll keep it so," said Mr. Todd, whose meaning was now no longer doubtful. 
               "If I were a man," cried Miriam, her face all aglow, "you would not dare to insult us thus. Never mind, there are, I have no doubt, several places where a civil landlord will be glad to take our money, which is as good as yours any day in the week." 
               "Your money! yes; lightly got, 
                     lighty
                     lightly
                   gone!" cried Mr. Todd. "Out of my house, or I'll help you in going, you shameless things!" 
               The insults were rather more than either could bear. 
               Miriam was determined on revenge; and, seizing a tumbler, with unerring aim she threw it at the insolent coffee house keeper. 
               With such precision was it thrown that it struck the man upon the forehead with violence. 
               The young ladies then instantly disappeared. 
               Determined not to be baffled, however, the wounded man shouted police as hard as he could. 
               Hunted like so many deer, the young ladies ran on until fatigue compelled them to stop. 
               A rude grasp was laid upon the arms of the two girls, who, in custody of the two policemen, were marched off to prison. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               The night was not passed very pleasantly by either of the girls. 
               In the morning they were both placed 
                     ih
                     in
                   the dock for trial. 
               Then the charge was read. 
               The result of the examination was that Agnes was sentenced to fourteen days' hard labor; while Miriam was discharged from custody. 
               The latter now determined to return to her father's house. 
               She entered the house, and carefully closing the door behind her, Miriam went in. 
               The room war empty. 
               Her father was nowhere to be seen. 
               On entering another room a sad sight met her eyes. 
               There lay the lifeless body of her poor father! 
               She rushed wildly out of her father's house. 
               She could not rest-she could not stop. Here we must leave her, and return to Agnes. 
               Soon after the van came up to the court, and the prisoners were led up one by one and placed in separate compartments. 
               She stepped out of the van, and, for the first time in her life, stood in a prison. 
               Unhappy Agnes! She begun now to taste the bitterness of adversity. 
               She had her supper in the cell in which she was conducted. 
               Her days passed, until the time came when the prison opened her gates, and she was liberated. 
               Of course her first object was to see her husband. She thought she would at once return to the house of the old Jew, and fly to the arms of her husband. 
               Agnes had still a little silver left, and calling a cab, she entered it, and ordered the man to drive to the quiet street near the hospital. On arriving there she found the house closed up. 
               What, then, should she do? 
               To become a mother in her present position was a reflection fraught with the greatest danger and most serious inconvenience to her. 
               She was now living with a new found aunt, who would, in all probability, drive her from her door. 
               There was only one alternative, and that was this-to confess that she was a married woman, and throw herself on her aunt's mercy. 
               Agnes' husband had been tried and found guilty, and had been sentenced to be transported for seven years. 
               In vain had the unhappy man tried to find out his wife's whereabouts. Letter upon letter had he written, and, by the aid of his friends, despatched to the old fence's, and to every other spot he could imagine she was likely to have gone to. But all to no purpose. Heartbroken, the poor man submitted to his fate. 
               "I will never rest till I find her. I will do my best to escape from captivity, and then the traitress may look out!" 
               Agnes, in resolving to confess the circumstance of her marriage to her aunt, felt that she had nothing very shameful be acknowledge-she had been beguiled into the union before she knew the antecedents of her husband. 
               Her aunt received her very kindly, and inquired what she could do for her. 
               "Dear aunt, I am much to blame for not informing you before, but I am a married woman!" 
               "Your husband-where is he?" asked the aunt. 
               "He-he is dead!" 
               "Now what else?" 
               "I am about to become a mother!" said Agnes. 
               The aunt at length said-"You have done wrong in not placing confidence in me; but I trust it is not too late to avert some of the evil." 
               "I hope not, dear aunt." 
               "Your husband being dead, you can marry again." 
               Agnes made a gesture of assent. 
               "For the child," continued the aunt-"well it is no use looking difficulties in the face until they arrive!" 
               "Yes-but what am I to understand by that?" asked Agnes. 
               "Do not ask questions, child-it is a bad habit-you must know when the time comes! In the meantime, leave me to consider the position. I have forgiven you-so be easy on that score." 
                
               Agnes bowed, and left the apartment, with her mind relieved. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               The result of her aunt's considering the position, was in a short time given to Agnes. 
               The season was nearly over in London, and there would be nothing extraordinary in her accompanying her niece for a few months to the sea side or to the interior. 
               "Yes, aunt," said Agnes, "I will do anything you wish-anything for quiet!" 
               "Yes-my idea is this-'I know a nice place in Scotland called Blockhaven!" 
               "Why not go down in a steamer, or a yacht?" suggested Agnes. 
               "Ah! a yacht-let me see-who has a yacht? It would do capitally." 
               "Why, Lord Marchmont, to be sure," said Agnes. "He has a 
                     fiine
                     fine
                   yacht, seven or 
                     eigth
                     eight
                   hundred tons burden, I know, because he once told me, and he has repeatedly asked me to come down to the Isle of Wight and sail upon the waters of the Solent with him." 
               "Lord Marchmont!" repeated Miss Lavinia. "To be sure; I totally forgot him. That is a clever idea of yours. It would, I think, be judicious to accept his lordship's offer, and once on board, we will soon induce him to take us on to the coast of Scotland." 
               The next morning a letter fortunately arrived from Lord Marchmont, repeating his invitation to Agnes and her aunt. The letter was dated Southampton, and his lordship begged an immediate reply, as the weather was so charming and delightful, that the Fairy was positively longing to fling her canvas to the breeze. 
               Miss Lavinia looked upon this as a fortunate circumstance, and told Agnes to write by return of post, to say that they would have very great pleasure in accepting his lordship's very kind invitation. 
               Accordingly, the next morning they left town for Southampton, and putting up at the best hotel in the town, inquired for the yacht Fairy. 
               They were told that it was lying at anchor a short distance out. 
               Miss Lavinia then sent a letter on board, inviting Lord Marchmont to dinner that evening. 
               The guest accepted the invitation, and pressed them to come on board the next morning. 
               This they agreed to do, but Agnes said, "I wish you would take us for a long cruise-I am a capital sailor." 
               "Where would you like to go?" he replied. "Shall I take you to Iceland?" 
               "Not quite so far; but I want to go to Aberdeen. I have some friends there, and railway travelling is so tedious." 
               "Yes, it is; but Aberdeen is a long way, and the coast is stormy and dangerous." 
               "Oh! if you are a coward, and distrustful of your vessel or your seamanship, there is an end of the question," said Agnes, laughing rather scornfully. 
               "I am not afraid of anything." he replied, his face reddening at the imputation; "and rather then you should say or think that, I would take you to the coast of Norway, and go down the Maelstrom with you." 
               "No, thank you; I am not tired of my life." 
               "But, seriously speaking, do you really wish to go to Aberdeen?" he asked. 
               "Yes, I do. Do we not, aunt?" 
               Miss Lavinia supported Agnes, and Lord Marchmont replied, "That being the case, I shall be very happy to take you; and as the weather is fine and steady, we will start to morrow, if you like." 
               "By all means," said Agnes. "Let us go at once." 
               The next day Miss Lavinia and her niece were rowed by two sturdy sailors on board the Fairy, where Lord Marchmont and his skipper graciously received them. 
               While standing, telescope in hand, a strange incident befel Agnes. 
                
               As they left the harbor, the Fairy passed a dull, sombre-looking ship, hull down in the water. 
               It seemed she was about to leave her moorings and commence her voyage. 
               The Fairy passed quite near to this strange looking ship. 
               But what made the vessel seem stranger than anything else was, that its decks were crowded with human beings. 
               They were not the crew. Were they passengers? 
               Perhaps so; but their dress was of a peculiar description. 
               Each wore a yellow jacket with a number on the back, and canvas breeches. 
               What could be the meaning of so singular a scene? thought Agnes, but in vain she asked herself the question. 
               They were now close to the ship, and those in the Fairy could distinguish the features of the men leaning, some sadly, some excitedly over the bulwarks. 
               All at once Agnes appeared strangely agitated. 
               "Oh! no, no," she cried; "it cannot, cannot be." 
               With trembling hands she raised the spy-glass to her eye and looked at the vessel. 
               Instantly she stood as if paralyzed, and the glass fell from her hands and struck the deck violently. 
               Erect and motionless, more like a beautiful marble statue than aught of flesh and blood, Agnes stood upon the deck of the Fairy. 
               Her eyes distended and her mouth open, her hands were clenched, and her finger nails penetrated her soft and tender flesh. 
               At the same time a slight commotion was visible amongst those on board the strange vessel. 
               It appeared as if a man, who was numbered 401, with his eyes glaring like a tiger's with a demoniacal expression upon his pale and somewhat attenuated countenance, was endeavouring with all his might to precipitate himself bodily into the sea. 
               One thing struck Agnes' attention on board the yacht was a small lion cub. 
               "I wonder," she said, addressing Lord Marchmont, "if it is afraid of the dog?" 
               "Well, no, I should think not; but now I think of it, it has never been confronted with a dog before, and it may possibly look upon it as an enemy." 
               All at once, Tiny dashed forward to where the cub was sitting on its haunches. By this manoeuvre it escaped from the clutches of Lord Marchmont, but only to fall into a greater danger. 
               It was escaping out of the frying-pan into the fire. 
               The cub looked at the dog for a moment, then, with a slight spring, gracefully and elegantly made, he was by its side. 
               The dog seemed fascinated and unable to move, as the eye of the cub was fixed upon it. 
               A sort of mesmeric influence was at work, which it was apparently impossible for the poor creature to withstand. 
               Haidee, after the secondary pause we have mentioned, raised his paw, which in an instant descended with crushing violence on the dog's skull. 
               Immediately the blow was given, the head became a shapeless mass. 
               Tiny rolled over on its side inanimate; and the cub, fixing his teeth in the neck of the carcase, began, with every demonstration of delight, to suck the blood of his victim. 
               "That is too bad!" said his Lordship. 
               Seizing a sort of marlinespike that lay on the deck, he advanced towards the beast, and hit it a blow on the head, saying. "Down, Haidee-down!" as he had been accustomed to formerly, when he wished it to go down to its kennel. 
               Haidee, however, would not obey. Quitting its prey, it gave vent to a roar that made its hearers tremble; for, though not so formidable as the roaring of the monarch of the forest, yet there was no mistaking its import. 
               It evidently intended mischief. 
               Lord Marchmont retreated a step or two. 
               Haidee followed him, glaring and roaring at intervals. 
               Again Lord Marchmont dealt the animal a violent blow, which would inevitably have sent it to the infernal regions had not its skull been of very considerable thickness. 
               Agnes stood an alarmed spectator. 
               A third blow from Lord Marchmont's weapon kept the cub at bay, and a fourth sent him howling towards Agnes, not with the intention of doing her any harm, but with the idea of seeking some refuge from the furious blows that fell upon its devoted head. 
               Agnes, however, totally mistook its meaning. She thought it was about to make an attack upon her. 
               Already she felt, in anticipation, its fangs imprinted on her flesh, and she shuddered at the picture. 
               She stepped upon a seat in order to get out of its way, but Haidee made for the exact spot, most likely wishing to seek her protection. 
               But Agnes, with a scream of terror, ran towards the side of the vessel and hastily threw herself overboard. 
               She preferred a watery death to being torn to pieces by a wild beast. 
               The treacherous waves opened their arms to receive her, and she sank into their bosom. 
               She did not remain long under water, for her dress and her crinoline served as a life-buoy. 
               The unhappy girl regretted her panic, and wished herself on board again. 
               But regrets were of no avail. She had rushed upon her fate, 
                     aud
                     and
                   death was staring her in the face. 
               Her clothes were becoming saturated with salt water. 
               In this moment of extreme peril she thought of Marmaduke, and wished that his strong arm was at hand to support her. 
               Vain wish! vain hope! 
               Shutting her eyes, Agnes gave herself up to what she deemed was inevitable, and prepared herself, in no very admirable frame of mind, for the death that awaited her. 
               She felt herself gradually sinking; she gasped for breath, and in vain endeavored to prevent the salt water from entering her mouth and choking her. 
               Just as she gave herself up for lost, and was commending her soul into the hands of Heaven, a strong arm caught her by the waist, and supported her sinking frame as her senses were about to leave her. 
               This timely rescue was effected by Lord Marchmont, who, with a gallantry peculiar to himself, had only allowed himself time to throw off his heavier garments, before he jumped into the water to save Agnes from drowning. 
               Lord Marchmont supported his now listless burden until the yacht's boat was lowered. 
               When this was accomplished it was rowed towards him, and they were both taken on board. 
               By the application of proper restoratives Agnes soon recovered her senses sufficiently to thank her preserver for his generous devotion in risking his own life to save hers. 
               But he answered her that she was under no obligation to him; he would, he said, have done the same thing for any one. 
               Miss Lavinia, if the truth were known, was really rejoiced at the accident. 
               In her opinion it brought her 
                     neice
                     niece
                   and Lord Marchmont into closer relations. 
               Now, she said to herself, he ha a claim upon her gratitude, and we always take more interest in a person when we have done them a service. 
                
               Agnes was, in reality, very grateful to Lore Marchmont for saving her life, and she showed it in her manner, much to his lordship's delight and gratification. 
               They all arrived at the journey's end, and getting into a fly, they drove to the largest hotel, and ordered dinner. 
               After dinner the wine and dessert were put upon the table. 
               "I hope you may find this hotel comfortable," said Mr. Long. 
               "Well, to expect that would require a stretch of credulity on my part which I really cannot say that I possess," answered Miss Lavinia, with a smile. 
               "You know," said Agnes, "aunt detests second rate hotels." 
               Ultimately it was decided that they should remain at the hotel until they had supplied their numerous wants. 
               Agnes asked her how she ever came to find ont so lone and retired a place? She replied that her uncle, who was now dead, had a son, who lived a wild life. At the age of nineteen he made a walking tour through Scotland. One night, being in the neighborhood of Blockhaven, he pushed on rather quickly, as he intended to get a bed, and stay there till morning; but as he neared the village some ruffians rushed upon him and nearly murdered him, robbing him of all he possessed. When he recovered his consciousness he found himself in a cottage, where he had been carefully tended by the inmates. But his leg was broken, and he had sustained many injuries, which the village doctor would necessitate his remaining in bed for some little time. This boy was Miss Lavinia's favorite, and he knew it. Accordingly he wrote her a letter, telling her the forlorn and lamentable position he was in; saying how he was wounded, friendless, and without money, in a strange country; and with the thoughtlessness and impetuosity of youth begging her to come down to Scotland and nurse him. This she did. "And now, my dear," she concluded, "you know all about it, although, until your little affair cropped up, I had almost forgotten it, for it must be more than ten years ago." 
               "And what became of the poor boy?" asked Agnes, interested, she knew not why. 
               "That I cannot tell you. He went to college for a year or so, but while there his father died, and as he was hopelessly in debt and frightfully extravagant, he was obliged to leave, and then, I believe, he became a betting man and blackleg." 
               "How shocking!" said Agnes. 
               "Yes, it was very sad but he had shame enough left to know it, for he has never been near me since he left college in disgrace, although he knew well enough where to find me at any time if he wanted me. Poor Marmaduke!" 
               "Marmaduke!" cried Agnes, her pulse stopping, and gasping for breath. 
               "Yes, Marmaduke was his name. But what ails you, child; are you not well?" 
               "How silly of me to be so agitated," said Agnes to herself directly afterwards. "And yet it is strange. He said he was a Leslie. There is something I do not understand. All these mysteries and perplexities quite bewilder my woman's brain. It is, indeed, marvellous how I got mixed up with this extraordinary family of Leslie." 
               Miss Lavinia travelled by railway from Aberdeen to Blockhaven, and made an arrangement at the latter place with the landlord of the Haddo Arms, to board and lodge herself and her niece, whom she represented as a married woman, whose husband was at present away on business, but who was expected to join them shortly. 
               Agnes's condition became more critical every day, and Miss Lavinia at last hired a pony chaise, as Agnes could not bear the fatigue of walking. 
               In this they still took their long excursions into the country. 
               They would start in the morning, taking a cold collation with them, and having ing dined in some quiet, pretty spot, they would arrive at their inn just as the shades of night were descending upon and enveloping the village. 
               During one of those excursions an adventure befell teem. 
               They started, as usual, after breakfast, and Agnes drove out in a new direction, which was one that they had not explored before, taking what appeared to be an almost disused road, or if used at all, only for agricultural purposes. They pursued it for some distance, until they entered a wild and hilly country. A few pine trees grew here and there upon the ungrateful soil. 
               Now they descended a valley, and looked with awe upon the grand old hills frowning down upon them. 
               And anon they would, by some winding, devious path, ascend the steep hills, and gaze from their summits upon the vale below. 
               The hazy ocean, dotted here and there with the white, glittering canvas of 
                     come
                     some
                   coasting lugger, or darkened dy the fuliginous vapour of a passing steamboat, was perceptible in the distance when standing upon an eminence. 
               Suddenly they came upon a sort of recess in the side of the hill they were ascending. It offered a protection from the heat of the sun's rays. 
               Agnes proposed that they should dine there. 
               Her aunt made no objection, and, alighting, Agnes explored the spot. 
               She declared it answered their purpose very well indeed; and Miss Lavinia proceeded to unload the provisions, both 
                     edidle
                     edible
                   and potable. 
               After they had finished their repast, they reclined upon their plaids, and, taking some books from the carriage, began to read. 
               Suddenly Agnes roused herself from a delicious reverie, for she heard a sound which filled her with dismay. 
               Their pony had entangled its feet in the reins, and, in endeavoring to extricate itself, it had left the beaten cross of the road, and approached the hill-side, which was rather steep. 
               Here, in his struggles to free himself, he had overturned the chaise, and that instantly began to roll down the declivity, of necessity dragging the pony with it. 
               The pony was stone dead. 
               Agnes, running to the edge of the road, gazed down the declivity, and saw the poor thing rolling from stone to stone, and from heather-bush to heather-bush, startling the birds and the leverets from their lairs. 
               Her cries brought her aunt to the spot, and she was as much astonished and alarmed as Agnes. 
               "What shall we do?" she exclaimed. "Here we are miles and miles from home; and you, in your delicate condition, can never walk so far. I think I could find the way, but I could never let you attempt to walk so far." 
               "Well, aunt, we must do something. Shall we go down the hill, and see if the poor pony is alive?" 
               "Oh! it is folly to think of such a thing for a moment. The pony must be dead Look what a distance it is-you can hardly see his body at the bottom-it looks quite a speck." 
               "Let us, then, pack up these things," said Agnes, "and descend the side. It is no use stopping here." 
               "Very well," said Miss Lavinia, with the resignation of a martyr, and a sigh which said plainly enough, "See what I put up with for your sake, and be grateful." 
               They packed up their remaining provisions as well as they could, and threw the plaids round their shoulders; and then they descended the hill by the road which had assisted them to ascend it. 
               When they had gone a few hundred yards, without either one or the other uttering a word, Agnes suddenly exclaimed. "Oh! look there, aunt!" 
                
               "Where, child?-what is it?" queried Miss Lavinia. 
               "Why, do you not see that smoke curling up the hillside a little below where we are standing?" 
               Miss Lavinia strained her eyes, and at last perceived what her niece alluded to. 
               A small stream of white smoke issued, as it were, from the very bosom of the earth. 
               No hut, no cottage, no shanty, no highland shieling was there from which it could emanate. 
               It was like an eruption from the side of a volcanic mountain. 
               Agnes half expected that a stream of lava would presently spring out of the earth and envelop her and her aunt, so mysterious did this circumstance appear to her. 
               "Oh! it is a cottage of some sort, I suppose," said Miss Lavinia. 
               "No, aunt-it is not. How can it be a cottage? It comes out of the ground itself." 
               "Well, I confess I don't understand it, dear," said Miss Lavinia; "but I do hope that it is nothing dangerous or supernatural. They talk in Scotland about wraiths and ghosts and goblins, and goodness knows what." 
               "Oh! don't talk like that, aunt; I am frightened enough already," replied Agnes. 
               "So am I. Have you the brandy-flask, or have I? I declare I feel so faint I don't know what to do." 
               Agnes replied that her aunt had the liquor, and that estimable old lady took a pull at the flask. In fact, candor compels us to relate that she took a very deep pull, so much so that her breath went and came in short gasps, and her face was red with the exertion. 
               It had, however, a reassuring effect up on her, for she became more courageous than she had been a few minutes before. 
               "Oh! what shall we do?" asked Agnes, for whom the thin, misty column of smoke appeared to possess a strangely fascinating interest. 
               "Do, child?" replied her aunt, boldly-"do? Why, go and see what it is." 
               "Shall we?" 
               "Yes, who's afraid?-I'm not.', 
               "Very well, you go, dear aunt, and I will stand here and await your return." 
               Miss Lavinia hesitated as the danger of the expedition flashed across her mind; she rather shrank from fulfilling her half-expressed promise. 
               In fact, her courage was fast oozing out of her fingers' ends. 
               "But it might blow up, whatever it is," she said, in a trembling voice. 
               "I thought you said you were not afraid, aunt," said Agnes, with a sarcastic smile. 
               "No more I am, and you know it. You ought not to stand there and taunt me. Why don't you go yourself?-there is nothing to be alarmed at." 
               "I don't know that. I confess I am terribly afraid, and yet I don't like to go away without ascertaining what it is," said Agnes. 
               Miss Lavinia appeared, a second time, to be attacked with a sudden faintness, for she drew the brandy flask from her pocket, and turning her back to Agnes slily applied it to her lips. 
               As formerly, it was some time before it came away again. When it did it appeared to be considerably lightened of its contents. 
               "Ah!" said Miss Lavinia, smacking her lips, as she replaced the friendly flask in her pocket. 
               "Did you speak, aunt?" asked Agnes. 
               "I was merely thinking, my dear, that the air of the Scotch hills is very refreshing-very refreshing indeed, I may say," replied her aunt. 
               The thin column of smoke still continued to ascend spirally, for hardly a breath of air was stirring. 
               Steadily Miss Lavinia walked on without turning round to look at Agnes, whose eyes were riveted upon her every motion. 
               She neared it rapidly. 
               Stepping carefully over the patches of intervening heather she was soon within a yard of it. 
               When what was Agnes's horror and consternation to see her aunt disappear! 
               Yes, Miss Lavinia vanished in the most wonderful manner from her sight. 
               Vanished all at once, as if by magic, leaving no trace behind her. 
               Agnes thought that she heard a faint scream, and then another, and then a series of screams, arising as it were from the solid earth. 
               Still the thin column of vapor wound unconcernedly upwards. 
               And Agnes stood rooted to the spot, perfectly mystified. 
               A few minutes ago her aunt had stood by her and talked amicably with her. 
               And now where was she? 
               In vain she asked herself, over and over again, the sadly perplexing question. 
               All she could say was, that she had vanished-disappeared-gone from her sight like a flash of lightning. 
               It was very mysterious. 
               It was very wonderful. 
               Agnes thought her senses were leaving her. 
               It was more than she could bear, and with a shrill, piercing shriek, she fell to the earth insensible. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               Agnes had no sooner succumbed to the horror with which her situation inspired her, than the explanation of the apparent mystery was brought to light. 
               Stepping up as it were from the ground itself-rising from its solid surface-two brawny Highlanders stood upon the heather, close by where the smoke continued to ascend. 
               They were fine sturdy fellows to look at, dressed in the highland costume, the kilt and the tartan. 
               The Highlanders seized Agnes's inanimate body and carried it to the place from whence they had emerged. 
               This was an opening in the earth only perceptible when you were close upon it. There were steps cut in the soil, which made a sort of rude staircase. 
               Descending this for some seconds, they touched the bottom, and going a little distance through a sort of semi-darkness to which they seemed accustomed, they laid Agnes upon a bed of dry heather, and then stood talking together. 
               A fire was burning at the extreme end of this singular habitation, and some strange looking machinery was standing by it. A woman was revealed by the light of the fire; she was apparently tending the furnace, or whatever it was. 
               Presently the men advanced towards her, and she entered with great zest into their conversation. Miss Lavinia was sitting on the ground with her hands bound behind her back, looking very disconsolate and miserable, but still breathing defiance through her flashing eyes. 
               The fact was, she had advanced without looking before her, so intent was she upon watching the column of smoke. 
               And before she knew where she was she had fallen into the subterranean apartment, through the aperture we have already described. 
               Miss Lavinia had, during her incarceration, come to her own conclusions about this cave of Adullam-this underground dwelling. 
               And when Agnes asked her where she where she was, she replied- 
               "These people, child, keep an illicit still, and we have been unfortunate enough to fall into their hands, and yet, perhaps, it is lucky after all, for what could we have done, lost on the hills, as we were?" 
               "That is true," replied Agnes. "I suppose these people will take us back again?" 
               "Doubtless they will do anything for money, and I will offer to pay them well for it." 
                
               Miss Lavinia turned to Charlie, who was standing near her, and said, "We have lost our way, my good man, and although we are much obliged to you for sheltering us here in your house, it is absolutely imperative that we should return home to night." 
               The highlander grinned, and appeared to be much amused at this style of address. 
               "Weel, me leddy, and what then?" he said. 
               "If you can get us a conveyance, we will pay you well for it." 
               "Ye ken fu' weel yersel' that we keepit a bit still here." 
               "Yes," replied Miss Lavinia; "I have, as you imagine, had sufficient penetration to guess the fact." 
               "And ye will na tell the justice, me leddy?" said Charlie. 
               "No; I will tell no one-why should I? Your private occupation is nothing to me." 
               "Aweel, ye wadna like to sleep wi' the tod and the black cock o' the muir?" he asked. 
               "No; I cannot say I should like to do that particularly." 
               "Then you must stop here till morning." 
               Charlie explained in his own 
                     peculair
                     peculiar
                   dialect that it was too late for him to think of seeking a conveyance that afternoon, but that he would do so the next day. 
               He promised that he would do all he could to make them comfortable. 
               What could Miss Lavinia do? 
               She was in the power of these men, and in addition to that, there was a great deal of sense and justice in what Charlie said. 
               The two women laid Agnes upon a bed made of heather and plaids, but the poor girl seemed to be suddenly taken so ill that she could scarcely speak. 
               All she did was to cry and moan. 
               Miss Lavinia and Meg sat up with her all night. 
               The next morning what Miss Lavinia had feared took place, and as day dawned Agnes found herself a mother. 
               For many days she lay ill and weak in her strange abode, carefully tended by her aunt and the Scotch woman, Meg, who constituted herself nurse to the "dairn." 
               A new difficulty now arose in Miss Lavinia's mind-what should she do with the child? 
               Agnes could never return to London the acknowledged mother of a baby boy. 
               Miss Lavinia, therefore, in order to save Agnes from what she considered fatal consequences, resolved upon a deed of horror! 
               Agnes was in so weak a state as to have been almost unconscious for some time. 
               Accordingly she would believe anything that was told. 
               With this idea, Miss Lavinia made a confidante of Meg, who, on receiving a liberal sum of money which Miss Lavinia had about her, and receiving a promise of more, acquiesced in the plan that was submitted to her, and, without hesitation, delivered the 
                     bady
                     baby
                   into the ruthless hands of its enemy. 
               One night, when all was still, Miss Lavinia, with the child in her arms, passed up the primitive staircase and emerged upon the moor. 
               The guilty woman-guilty, that is, of a contemplated crime-paused a moment and shrank back. 
               But she comforted herself with the reflection that there was no one to watch her in such a remote and desolate region. 
               Onward she went, at a quick pace, with her unconscious victim asleep in her arms. 
               When she had gone what she considered a sufficient distance she halted. 
               Laying the child down upon the heather, she looked at it for a moment-she knew not why. 
               The stars shed a faint light, but moon there was none. 
               She could just see the outline of the bundle of plaids that circled the child. 
                
               A feeling of pity stole into her heart, and she almost relented of her cruel purpose. 
               But when she thought of her ambitious designs, and the future she contemplated for Agnes, her heart was steeled. 
               She smothered all her better feelings, and resolved to let the innocent perish where it lay. 
               "I will do it no violence," she said to herself; "it shall simply die a natural death. 
               "So no one can say that I have stained my hands with blood. 
               "Besides, I do what I do not for myself so much, but for my niece." 
               And turning round she deliberately walked away. 
               She had not gone far, however, before she heard a tiny wail issuing from the hapless infant. 
               Putting her fingers in her ears she ran blindly forward to escape the accusing cry. 
               But another voice more powerful and louder said something which rang in her ears more shrilly. 
               This was the voice of conscience, and it said murderess. 
               Yes, she was, to all intents and purposes, a murderess, and from that day to the day of her death, she had, although she knew it not, aroused an implacable tormentor who would never let her rest. 
               It was the embodiment of the worm that never dies. 
               The realization of the fire which is never quenched. 
               Unhappy woman! 
               On she ran stumbling now over a bush of heather, and anon setting her foot in the hole of some animal; until out of breath, torn and bleeding, she reached the den of the illicit distillers. 
               She found the entrance without much difficulty, and going into her apartments with the greatest caution, met Meg, her ally, who, seeing the perturbation she was in, tried to calm her, and gave her a dose of whiskey, which was so powerful' and so many degrees over proof, that it had the effect of sending her fast asleep. 
               Meg then, with many a careful footstep, issued from the room, and thence from the cave itself. 
               Then, like a bloodhound following up a trail, she wandered about the moor in all directions. 
               At last the object of her solicitude was apparent. 
               She was looking for the child that she had betrayed to Miss Lavinia Leslie. 
               She found it; guided more by its cries than by her own sagacity. 
               Having found it, she set off at a rapid pace in a totally different direction than the one she came. 
               The pace she went at seemed quite marvellous for a woman of her age; for in about an hour and a half she had travelled about ten miles. 
               The country she traversed was of the same wild, desolate, almost uninhabited description that we have previously described. 
               At last she stopped at a humble looking shanty, and knocked loudly at the door. 
               The summons was answered by a woman, who seemed more sleepy than polite. 
               But when she saw who her visitor was, she evinced every 
                     sympton
                     symptom
                   of delight. 
               Meg whispered a few words in a low tone. 
               The other replied. 
               And in a short time Agnes's child was transferred to the arms of the motherly-looking woman, who appeared to be a friend of Meg's. 
               Meg then set out on the backward trail and with equal rapidity reached the cave 
               This she re-entered with all quiet and secrecy, and not a soul would have imagined that she had accomplished the errand of mercy which she had just brought to so satisfactory a conclusion. 
               In a few days Agnes was sufficiently recovered to be able to return to Blockhaven. 
               When she asked for her child, Miss Lavinia and the Scotch woman told her that it had died a few hours after birth. 
               And she, poor, silly, simple child, knowing no better, believed the inventions that were told her. 
               Miss Lavinia rewarded the Highland distillers of whiskey very handsomely, and did not forget her friend Meg. 
               After some weeks Agnes pronounced herself strong enough to travel, and, with her aunt, returned to town. 
               Once more in Hill street, and numerous modes of spending time were resorted to-such as parties, theatres, and what not-which had the effect, in some measure of shutting out the horrible adventures that had lately befallen them. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               Amongst the gaieties of London life Agnes Leslie found relief from the memories of the past. 
               When whirling along in the giddy waltz, to enlivening music, she was, in a certain way, happy. The drama afforded her solace, and concerts gave her relief, and in time she came to forget that she had ever been Agnes Wilson. 
               Not so Miss Lavinia-who could never forget the terrible night in the Highlands when, with heartless cruelty, she had exposed a tender infant to the mercy of the blast and the caprice of the elements. Sometimes she would wake in the night with a terrible shriek, fancying that a legion of infants, armed with sharp, piercing weapons, were about to stab her to the heart, and deprive her of her miserable existence. 
               She was far from happy. She had sown the seeds, and was now beginning to reap the harvest of crime. 
               'Tis a crop which never fails the industrious husbandman. It will always bring in three or four-fold in return for the smallest sprinkling of seed. 
               But Miss Lavinia Leslie comforted herself with the assurance that she had been acting in the interests of her niece, and that reward would be soon forthcoming. 
               Gold! bright, glittering gold! 
               Gold with which to purchase every happiness, and, in her old age, to smoothe her path down to the grave. 
               Sinister thoughts would occasionally tell her this was a delusion, but she spurned such ideas from her mind, and lived, as is often the case, in a fool's paradise, 
               Lord Marchmont was again in town, and, as before, became a constant visitor in Hill street. His attentions to Agnes were so marked that no one but a blind man could have mistaken them. 
               Miss Lavinia smiled secretly at this, and often held secret converse with her niece about it. 
               Lord Marchmont was a good-looking man, and one whom any woman might be proud to call her own; and even if Agnes could feel no real, actual love for him, she might respect and look up to him; for he was the pink of politeness and the soul of honor. 
               Love for her, unhappy woman, was a dream of the past, a phantom that rose into existence only to mock her. 
               Yet she had her tender moments. What woman has not? 
               One day, while Agnes and her aunt were at the sea-shore, Lord Marchmont approached Agnes and said, 
               "Can it be possible, Miss Leslie, that you have never perceived that I entertain a feeling for you which is something more than mere friendship?" 
               Agnes cast her eyes upon the ground and blushed. 
               What was further said we leave the reader to imagine. 
               After the occurrence of the above Agnes and her aunt were sitting alone. 
               "What of Lord Marchmont?" asked her aunt. 
               "He has proposed to me." 
               "Proposed?" 
                
               "Yes, he made me an offer yesterday in the gardens, and I am to give him an answer to-morrow morning." 
               "What do you intend doing?" 
               "What shall I do?" 
               "You ask for my guidance?" 
               "I do. I put myself in your hands." 
               "Very well," replied her aunt; "in that case, accept him; you cannot do wrong. Your brother and myself will take care that he makes you a good settlement." 
               "It is agreed, then, that I accept him?" 
               "Certainly. And we shall soon see you a blushing bride," said Miss Lavinia, with a smile of satisfaction. 
               Had not Agnes's heart become very hard indeed, these words would have brought the tears to her eyes; but she was getting worldly, and she did not feel anything which recalled Marmaduke Wilson and her former happy life, brief though it was. Such are the effects of the lessons of the world-which are hard to learn, but of great use to those who have to fight with the world itself. 
               After breakfast the next morning Lord Marchmont, with his heart in his mouth as it were, called upon Agnes Leslie, and now, was he to have her or not? That was the inquiry which he repeatedly addressed to himself. He thought that her compliance with his suit would be too much happiness. He was ushered into the drawing-room occupied by them at their hotel. Agnes was well and effectively dressed, and looked more charming than ever, at least his love-stricken lordship thought so. 
               Miss Lavinia was reading the paper as he entered. Agnes was engaged in arranging some specimens of sea-wood in an album. 
               "Really, Lord Marchmont," she replied, with a coquettish smile, "you have given me so little time." 
               Lord Marchmont looked imploringly at her. 
               "And it is such an important step to take." 
               "Did you not mention it to your aunt" 
               "Yes, I did." 
               "And her reply was-Oh! for Heaven's sake let me know the worst at once." 
               "She left it entirely to me." 
               "Thank God!" burst from the lips of the enamoured nobleman. 
               "She said that I must follow the dictates of my own heart." 
               "And those are-" 
               "Why ask me?" 
               "I offer you my hand, Miss Leslie-Agnes; will you accept it?" 
               Lord Marchmont, like a bold gambler, staked all upon the issue. 
               "Accept you?" thought Agnes to herself; "why, of course I will." But she made no reply, and only hung down her head in a pretty feminine manner. 
               Lord Marchmont sprang forward, and seizing her hand in his, exclaimed, "Say yes, darling; say you will be mine." 
               Agnes faintly murmured the little monosyllable, and then hid her head upon his manly breast. 
               In a few minutes, which appeared but seconds to his lordship, a very audible noise was made outside the door. 
               "Oh! leave me," cried Agnes; "here is my aunt." 
               Lord Marchmont took a chair, and sat by her side. 
               Miss Lavinia entered the room, and advancing towards them, exclaimed- 
               "You must pardon an old woman, you know, for intruding upon your secrets; but am I to congratulate you?" 
               "My dear madam," said Lord Marchment, "you cannot congratulate me too much-I am the happiest of men." 
               "I am charmed to hear it, my lord. It is a great weight off my mind, I can assure you, to think that my dear Agnes is settled at last, and in so satisfactory a manner." 
               And the old hypocrite smiled benignantly, while two crocodile tears stood in her antiquated eyes. 
                
               Putting up her hands, she exclaimed, in a theatrical tone of voice, "Bless you, my children! bless you!" and ran from the room, as if overpowered with emotion. 
               It was arranged afterwards by Miss Lavinia that the marriage should be celebrated in six weeks. 
               Lord Marchmont settled the handsome sum of seven thousand a-year upon his future wife, and, in addition to that, made her almost every day very handsome presents of jewellery, so that all parties were very well satisfied. 
               But what did that matter to her? Her husband would pay every thing for her, and that sum would be amply sufficient for own private and pressing wants. 
               The day appointed for the marriage drew rapidly near, and Lord Marchmont was unremitting in his attentions; and when the actual time arrived, he seemed transported to the seventh heaven. And he told Agnes that in possessing her he would attain the pinnacle of his happiness. 
               They were married in great state and with much pomp, and Agnes Leslie, alias Wilson, became a bigamist. 
               Little did Lord Marchmont guess this when he fondly called her his own. His own, indeed! She was the wife of another, and that other was even now moving heaven and earth to effect a means of hunting her down, for what he considered her treachery to him. 
               Truly, Lord Marchmont had plunged deeply into the sea of trouble when he married Agnes Leslie. But she had now achieved her object, and was now Lady Marchmont. 
               A cloud, however, was to come between them, hidden in whose dark recesses was a fiend which would soon destroy the little fleeting and transitory happiness their united efforts had sufficed to conjure up. This fiend was jealousy-jealousy, which is at all times the quickest and best destroyer of domestic happiness that Satan and the powers of darkness can find to work with. 
               Amongst the circle of acquaintances with which Lord and Lady Marchmont had surrounded themselves was a certain French count-good-looking for a Frenchman, and who possessed that indescribable charm of manner that every French gentleman has in so eminent a degree. He was dark, as a matter of course; he wore moustaches of a 
                     pordigious
                     prodigious
                   length, like the King of Italy: and his coal-black eye had such a penetrating power, that it could pierce through you; and, to tell the truth, the count's great point was his extraordinary eyes. When he looked at you, he seemed to fascinate you in the most remarkable and inexplicable manner. 
               He had long resided in foreign parts. He had lived for years in Arabia, penetrating its arid plains, and living amongst the strange tribes that inhabit that little known region. There he had picked up curious secrets. In Persia he had made himself acquainted with the lore of the magi. 
               Paracelsus was not a more profound scholar in all that pertained to the mysterious than himself; in a word, he was a disciple of Mesmer, and a follower of Joseph Balsamo, Count de Caliogstro He seldom displayed his wonderful powers, but when he did, every one admitted that he was a proficient in the occult art. When questioned as to how he acquired it, he replied that he had studied it long and earnestly. It was to a certain extent like ventriloquism-only one man here and there excelled in practising it; but others would be able to do the same thing, were they to work hard at it for days and weeks and years-never being conquered by difficulties or disappointments. 
               Picture, then, a tall dark man with black piercing eyes, a consummate gentleman, curt in his manner at times, owing to a sort of abstraction over which he had little or no control, but possessing a 
                  
                     strangly
                     strangely
                   insinuating and fascinating manner. 
               Such was the Count Val de Grace, a constant guest at Lord and Lady Marchmont's. 
               The count paid Agnes great attention; at times his lordship thought rather more than politeness called for or propriety sanctioned. But he contented himself with watching them, without mentioning his suspicion to any one, or even hinting to his lovely wife that he suspected her of allowing any familiarity which, as his bride, she had no right to permit. 
               One day it happened that Lord Marchmont, who was a colonel in some militia regiment, had to go away from town for a few days, in order to attend to the training of the men who were called out. He embraced his wife, and told her that he should not be absent long, and that if he was gone more than two days she was to follow him. Agnes promised to do so, and they parted with every demonstration of regret and affection. 
               Lord Marchmont started early in the morning, and in the course of an hour or no Count Val de Grace paid her ladyship a morning call. 
               Agues was attired in a morning wrapper, and was reclining luxuriously in an arm-chair of Parisian manufacture. She seemed pleased at the count's visit, for he was always an agreeable companion, and during her husband's absence she would be able to pass a few hours most pleasantly in his society. 
               "Good morning, count," she said. "You are an early visitor." 
               "Not too early, I trust?" 
               "Oh, no! I did not mean that." 
               "You are kind to say so." 
               "My husband," continued Agnes, "has gone into the country for a day or two; 
                     aud
                     and
                   I am all alone, as you perceive." 
               Count Val de Grace smiled. 
               Agnes had often heard people talk of the count's extraordinary powers, and she had herself felt fascinated by his gaze on various occasions. But she had wished for some time past to have occular evidence of his possessing so mysterious and so singular a gift as that of mesmerism. Now, she thought, would be a good time for him to display his talent. Accordingly she exclaimed- 
               "By the way, count, your friends say that you are in league with very naughty people." 
               "What do you mean, Lady Marchmont?" he replied, fixing a searching glance upon her, which thrilled through her. 
               "I mean that you are able to do 
                     extarordinary
                     extraordinary
                   things." 
               "Do you think so?" 
               "I hardly know what to think." 
               The count smiled. 
               "The fact is," continued Agnes, "I want to be convinced. I am open to conviction, although I have never had much faith in what is called mesmerism." 
               The count smiled again, this time sarcastically. 
               "You want to have an illustration of that little known science; is it not so?" 
               "It is." 
               "I shall be glad to oblige you." 
               "Oh!-thank you; how kind of you," exclaimed Agnes, much pleased at the prospect before her. 
               "But, in the first place," said Val de Grace, "what do you want to see?" 
               "Ah! that I do not know. I must leave it all to you. It is unknown ground to me." 
               The count smiled a third time, this time a little bitterly. 
               "Yes, it is so," he cried. "The people will not take the trouble to investigate a new discovery, but if they cannot at once understand it, they put it down to quackery and empiricism, and the clever inventor is a martyr to his discovery." 
               Agnes made no comment upon this speech, which was made with much feeling. 
                
               "Would you believe in the truth of mesmerism, my lady," said the count, "were I to call a person out of the street-a chance passer-by-and question him as to his former history, dragging everything out of him at the point of the bayonet, as it were?" 
               Agnes bowed assent. 
               "Or, suppose I were to throw your ladyship into a trance, and whilst you were in the mesmeric sleep, to extract from you every event of consequence that had ever befallen you, what would you say?" 
               "Say! Why, that you were a dangerous as well as a mysterious man," replied Agnes, much alarmed. 
               "Calm your fears, Lady Marchmont. If you possess secrets, they shall remain so for me." 
               Agnes almost 
                     whished
                     wished
                   that she had never asked this strange man to exhibit his powers before her. 
               "Well; shall we try the first man who happens to pass by?" asked Val de Grace 
               "I have no objection. 
               "None?" 
               "None at all. You may proceed as you like, always provided that your experiments are not made at my expense." 
               "At yours?" 
               "Yes, at mine." 
               "How can you suppose, for a moment, that I would be guilty of so ungentlemanly an action? When I spoke just now, it was only for the sake of illustration, putting an extreme case." 
               "I believe you, Count." 
               "In order to convince you, Lady Marchmont, that I am about to exhibit no jugglery-" 
               "Oh, how foolish you are to make such objections." 
               "Here comes a travelling tinker-I'll try my power on him." 
               The Count Val de Grace never once took his eyes off his victim, who at last moved towards the door of Lord-Marchmont's mansion-slowly at the first, but afterwards with alacrity. 
               Agnes all this time was gazing at the man with the utmost consternation depicted on her pallid countenance. 
               Who could he be? 
               How could a man in the garb of a travelling tinker effect the mind or influence the fortunes of the proud and wealthy Lady Marchmont? 
               She was much terrified! 
               She was greatly alarmed! 
               She evidently wished the count would release the man from the strange thraldom that he exercised over him. 
               This the count would not do. 
               And she was powerless to compel him. 
               This was the situation when the man knocked at the door of the mansion. 
               The count himself went into the passage to admit him. 
               Agnes threw herself hopelessly into a chair, and waited the sequel of this strange adventure with the utmost impatience, though so quiet was she externally, that you would have deemed her passively patient. 
               As the count reached the door of the mansion, he found the travelling tinker descending the steps. 
               By taking his eyes off him, the spell had been broken. 
               But the count did not intend to let him escape so easily. 
               "My man!" he exclaimed. 
               The tinker took no notice of him. 
               Count Val de Grace again repeated his summons in a more imperious tone, while his features were convulsed with rage. 
               This time the man apparently could not resist the influence that was at work to compel him to yield his will to that of another. Turning sharply round with a short cry, he retraced his steps, and at last stood in the doorway. 
               The count kept his eyes fixed upon him, and beckoned him onwards. 
               He followed without making any resistance, although, at times, short cries, more like the whelping of a dog in pain than anything else, broke from him. He followed the Count into the morning room where Agnes was sitting. 
               The count motioned him to a seat. 
               The man, in obedience to the tacit command, seated himself. 
               Then Count Val de Grace approached him, and made several rapid passes over his face with his hands. While doing so, his features became strangely distorted, and he seemed to be animated by the wildest passion. 
               After the first few passes, the man's aspect changed. 
               He appeared to suffer acutely. 
               What little volition he had deserted him, and he was certainly at the count's mercy. 
               The count did not desist in his efforts. 
               Yes, the man whom the Count Val de Grace had so strangely introduced into the house was no other than her once reputed father. 
               No other than Jabez Clarke, coke and potato merchant, in Clarke-market. 
               No other than Jabez Clarke, the murderer of her unfortunate mother. 
               What a singular chance, what an extraordinary incident in her chequered career! 
               Agnes was much alarmed at the occurrence. 
               If Jabez recognised her, he might do her much harm. 
               He could denounce her as the murderess of her own mother, for as we have already stated that was the report which had got about-propagated, in the first instance, by Jabez Clarke himself. And then Agnes knew, to her cost, that Jabez was a man who had neither the fear of God or man before his eyes. 
               One who was capable of committing every act of villany for gold, no matter what, as long as he was paid for it; and the higher the pay, the more atrocious the crime. He did bravoism on a graduating or sliding scale, and she now knew that he was a ruffian of the first water. 
               There was, however, one chance, and that was that time and various other incidents, would have so altered her, that he would be very sagacious if he were to recognise her. 
               As for him, she could have singled him out any day from among ten thousand. 
               His scowling brow, his hardy look, his scrubby, stubby beard, his bleared eyes, his thick lips, his demoniacal expression of countenance, all put together, gave him a pre-eminence in ugliness and repulsiveness, that once seen was never forgotten. 
               Agnes, however, turned from these reflections to watch the progress of the count. He had, it seemed, brought his subject into a proper state of mind, and he was now ready to operate upon him. The count turned a little way round and asked Agnes to come near to the scene of action, Agnes complied with this request, and took a chair by the side of the count. Val de Grace then said- 
               "I am now about to extract all this man's early history from him. In point of fact, I will, if his face does not mislead me, supply you with materials for a three volume novel." 
               Agnes had little doubt of this herself but she made no reply. 
               "Now, my man," exclaimed the count, "what is your name?" 
               "Jabez Clarke." 
               "How did you pass your early years?" 
               Jabez appeared to writhe violently at his question with the power which held him in its powerful thrall, but the Count Val de Grace perceiving this, made several rapid passes, and with a cry of anguish the man resigned himself to his fate, and replied- 
               "In thieving what I could lay my hands on." 
               "Well, what next?" 
               "I got into a gentleman's service-' 
               "And got kicked out again, very quickly, I suppose?" put in the count 
                
               "No." 
               "No! That was a wonder." 
               "The gentleman, Squire Leslie that was, he had a little business on hand he wanted settled quietly-" 
               "Oh!" said Val de Grace. 
               "And he comes to me and gives me the job-" 
               "Gave you the job, did he?" 
               "Yes, he did; and as he was pretty liberal with the shiners, I did it for him-" 
               "No doubt of that," said the count, between his teeth; "well, what piece of villany was it?" 
               "No villany. He had got a young woman in the family-way, and he wanted for to get her off his hands, kid and all-" 
               "Did you murder them?" inquired the count. 
               "Not I. I married the woman and retired to town, where I started a coke and tater business to get a living, for the squire's money didn't last long; I know how to make the cash fly when I can collar it, and a tarnation bad living I did get out of that ere coke, and them there taters, to be sure." 
               "Well, what next?" 
               "I ain't going to tell you no more," replied Jabez, sullenly. 
               "Oh! we will see about that," said Count Val de Grace, who instantly recommenced the rapid passes which had proved so efficacious in a former instance. These had the effect he desired to achieve. Indeed, he seemed to be applying something to his victim which resembled chloroform. When the dose had partially evaporated, he gave the patient another. Jabez Clarke uttered several low moans, and threw his arms about as if he meditated some violence, but the mesmeric influence was too powerful for him, and he soon succumbed to its irresistible power. 
               "What became of the child you mentioned?" asked the count, relentlessly pursuing his inquiries. 
               "The child, oh! that lived, and that child's my little game now," replied Jabez, with a cunning leer in his face. 
               "Well, go on with your story," said Val de Grace. 
               "Where was I? oh, coke and taters, yes. Well, after a bit I gave my old 'ooman, Squire Leslie's as was, a out on the side on her head, which sent her to kingdom come; and the child, which her name was Hughes. tooked it off, slick away from her hum, and so I said as how she had done the bit of murder or manslaughtering, or whatever the lawyer folks call it, and then there was a hue and cry after her, but they none of 'em wornt clever enough to cotch her-" 
               "Oh! indeed!" said the count. 
               "Have you not enough out of him, count?" exclaimed Agnes, who had listened to all this with great interest. 
               "I think he may as well finish his story, but it shall be as your ladyship pleases," rejoined the count. 
               "Very well," answered Agnes. "There does not appear to be much more of it, so let us, by all means, hear it, if you wish it, count." 
               "Not at all," replied Val de Grace; "I bow to your ladyship's wishes." 
               "In that case, count, pray proceed," said Agnes, who felt bound in politeness to make that reply. 
               "Go on," cried Val de Grace to Jabez Clarke, as if he were talking to a dog. 
               "But I'll cotch her," continued Jabez; "if I don't I'll eat my old hat. I have a fancy as how she's better orf now than she was afore, and if there's any money to be had out of her, why I'll have it. If I don't I wish I may die." 
               "What became of your potato shop." demanded Count Val de Grace. 
               "I got into a bit of a hobble with some customers of mine," replied Jabez, "about the weights and measures. 
               Count Val de Grace listened to this as if he took no interest whatever in it. Nor did he. He was simply displaying his skill as a mesmerist to Agnes, who was very much impressed by it. She knew that every word Jabez uttered was true to the letter, and she trembled when she thought that such an abandoned wretch as that was on her track, for she knew that if he could once find her she would know no peace. She would have to spend a fortune in buying him off, and even then she would not be safe from his rapacity, as she would always be in his power. 
               "Now are you satisfied?" asked the count. 
               "I am more than satisfied, I am convinced," said Agnes, "that you are infinitely more clever than you are reported to be, and I am very much obliged to you for the trouble you have taken." 
               "Trouble!" said Val de Grace. "Oh! that is nothing; anything done for you, my dear Lady Marchmont, is a pleasure; it could never be considered a trouble." 
               "You flatter me, count." 
               "I! On my word, no." 
               "Well, let it pass," said Agnes. "But with regard to this man; had you not better get him out of the house in the way in which you brought him in? He might talk about it in the neighborhood, or he might come here and demand money; or he might be troublesome in some way." 
               "I will answer for it," replied Count Val de Grace, "that when he recovers his senses he will know nothing about it-nothing whatever. He will be as innocent as a child of all that has occurred in your house this morning, Lady Marchmont." 
               "Indeed, I am glad to hear it." 
               "I shall," he continued, "take him out of the house quietly, and he will experience no ill effects from the treatment he has received from me, except a little weakness." 
               Jabez Clarke's head had sunk upon his shoulder, and he appeared to be in a deep sleep. 
               The count touched him on the shoulder. 
               Jabez leaped to his feet, and his eyes rolled about fearfully. 
               A few passes from the count quieted him, and the chain of mesmerism was again around him more closely than ever. 
               "Ask him," said Agnes, "if he has any clue to his supposed daughter, Agnes. I am quite interested in the man's story." 
               The count put the question. 
               Jabez shook his head. 
               "Speak, man!" cried Val de Grace, in terrible accents. 
               This time the unhappy ex-coke and potatoe merchant replied in the negative. 
               "You lie," cried the count, passionately. 
               Jabez hung down his head, and whimpered like a child. 
               Val de Crace grew furious, and his hands flew about with the rapidity of lightning. 
               "Now dare to refuse to answer!" he exclaimed, defiantly. 
               Jabez looked up and said, "Have some pity on me." 
               "Answer my question," cried the count. 
               "I will, I will!" shrieked Jabez, who seemed to suffer acutely. 
               "Well, proceed." 
               "I don't know nothin' pertickler, but I fancy I see her one day in a carriage. I won't swear to her, but it was a fancy of nine, and I've stuck to it ever since, and that's all." 
               "There! are you satisfied?" exclaimed Count Val de Grace. 
               "Perfectly," said Agnes, "but I hardly think you could make a novel out of what he has told you." 
               "I don't know that. His story has its romantic side," replied the count. 
               Rising from his chair the Count fixed his eyes upon Jabez, and walking towards the door, motioned him to follow. Jabez did so, and, as the count held the front door open, he passed out and walked down the steps, as if in a trance, following the count, who led the way. When they reached the street, the count made a few swift passes with his hands, and then running quickly up the steps, entered the house and shut the door behind him. 
               In a moment Val de Grace rejoined Agnes, and they both watched Jabez from behind a blind. 
               
                  He gazed about him for a minute or two, as if awakening from a long trance, and every now and then he shivered and trembled like a drunken man, or one who has entered upon that stage of drunkenness called delirium tremens. Then he gazed round at the different windows as it trying to recollect something. 
               Ultimately he beat his brow with his hand and seizing his cart, walked rapidly up the street. 
               Agnes followed him with his eyes, and remarked with some little apprehension that he looked at the name of the street and appeared to be making a mental note of it.
                
               
                  Presently, however, he was out of sight, and she left the window. 
               "Can you do this with anybody, count?" she inquired. 
               "With anybody? yes," replied Val de Grace. 
               "I trust, however, you will never experiment upon me." 
               "Lady Marchmont," he said, "I promised you once before that you were safe with me. I now repeat that promise." 
               Agnes smiled, and the count left. As he quitted the house he muttered to himself- 
               She is a lovely creature. Would I could make her my own." 
               As he uttered these words a sinister expression stole over his countenance, which boded no good to Agnes. 
               Agnes, however, was charmed with the count's skill and fascinating manners. 
               "He is quite a ladies' man," she said to herself. "I have taken quite a fancy to him." 
               The episode that had just occurred in which the rascally Jabez Clarke had figured so much, only troubled her for a time. 
               As she was driving in the park that afternoon she heard some bells upon which some men were ringing changes. After a while the changes ceased, and the bells played a pretty little air. It was the "Lass o' Gowrie," and the bells played a chime gave form and expression to the words," But now she's Lady Gowrie," Agnes's thoughts were, "Come what may, I can say with those distant chimes whose music floats faintly towards me on the wings of the wind, But now I'm Lady Marchmont." 
               And the chimes solaced her as their dulcet times were wafted along by the breeze, until they fell softly on her appreciating ears. But she little guessed that she had more to fear from Val de Grace than from Jabez Clarke. 
               Val de Grace wandered from place to place seeking rest and finding it not. 
               Now he was in England. He had found some excitement in mesmerism; and whenever he thought of Fatima expiring at his feet in the garden of Zel-zel, he returned to his scientific pursuits with greater zest and increased eagerness. Perhaps the memory of the unhappy Fatima had faded from his mind, for men are naturally inconstant. I will not undertake to find a reason for his 
                     couduct
                     conduct
                  ; but he fell very much in love with Agnes. The more he knew her, the more vivid and passionate his love became. With him, to long for a thing was to do all he could to satisfy his inclination. He thought for some time how he could achieve his purpose. 
               Although he brooded over the matter or many days and nights, he had not as yet discovered any infallible means of accomplishing his object. But after his adventure with the knife-grinding tinker an idea struck him. It was this: if he could by means of his mesmeric powers, compromise Agnes in some peculiar manner she would most likely consent to leave her husband and go abroad with him. 
               Count Val de Grace would have made Agnes the partner of his existence. 
               He had been too long solitary, and after a time men long for woman's society. There is a natural craving for it in a man's breast, and he is hardly deserving of the name of man who does not give it full scope. 
               Count Val de Grace had shunned female society for some time. In fact ever since his dearly-loved Fatima's death. But Agnes had awakened some of his old feelings in his breast. 
               With the volatile disposition inherent in all the children of Gaul, he argued that he ought to forget Fatima. She had died through no fault of his own, and why should his existence be henceforth a blank? 
               Certainly Agnes was another man's wife, but he thought nothing of that. That would have been no obstacle in France, where such things occur every day. 
               He liked her, and he flattered himself he was not wholly indifferent to her. Even if he was he would strive to overcome her repugnance. 
               He considered, however, that his best way would be to bring his talents into requisition, and without committing any actual harm, to compromise her to such an extent, that if her husband was a witness to the scene he intended to create, he could not do anything else but drive her from his threshold with ignominy and disgrace. Then of course, she would accept his advances. So he argued. 
               In order to put his plan into execution, he called upon Agnes the day after the occurrences related in the last chapter. He found her at home, and asked her to come out for a drive in his mail-phaeton, which was standing at the door. Agnes thought there was no harm in her acceding to his request, and anticipating from his society, she agreed to go. 
               Count Val de Grace knew he would be perceived by a great many people who would instantly recognise Agnes, and when Lord Marchmont returned to town he would not fail to hear of it. 
               It would be a suspicious circumstance which would tell against Agnes, and, of course, in favour of his plans. He thought if Agnes was seen that evening in an extraordinary position by the servants in her household, that would be better than if Lord Marchmont himself was a direct witness. For the count knew that husbands sometimes are dangerous animals to meddle with, and that a bullet, or sometimes a couple of inches of cold steel, now and then fall to the lot of those who endeavour to break up families and to destroy domestic relations. 
               One thing, however, even his mesmeric experience did not reveal to him, and that was that Lord Marchmont returned to town earlier than he had expected, and instead of going straight home he took a turn in the park, thinking that very likely Agnes would be there. 
               He saw her there. But when he saw in whose society she was he did not discover himself, but hung in the background watching them; and he determined to watch all day, and all night too, if necessary. 
               Agnes asked Count Val de Grace to dine with her that evening. As may be supposed he readily accepted the invitation, and was at her house at the appointed hour. 
               After dinner Agnes complained of feeling unwell. This was owing to the magnetic influence that the count exerted over her. He did it purposely, and was glad to see it work so well. 
               She felt so sleepy, she said, that the count must excuse her if she retired to rest. She hoped he would stay and finish his wine and smoke a cigar, and she trusted she would be better company nest time he did her the honor of visiting her. 
               The honor, indeed! What a prostitution of the word. 
                
               Count Val de Grace bowed, opened the door, let her ladyship out, and then lighted a cigar. He continued smoking till eleven o'clock. The servants all went to bed except the hall porter. The count was well known, and they thought nothing of his staying so late. The butler before going to rest had asked him if he wanted anything. The reply was in the negative. The count was not a great drinker. 
               As the clock struck eleven, Count Val de Grace commenced his incantations. He had at dinner established an influence over Agnes, so that she was at his beck and call at any moment. He cast his arms about, and he threw his body into all sorts of contortions, in order to increase the power and volume of the magnetic chain he had created between Agnes and himself. 
               His exertions were successful. 
               Presently a footfall was heard descending the stairs. 
               Then a hand was laid upon the handle of the door, and Agnes in her nightdress entered the room. 
               Count Val de Grace gazed at her with eyes of admiration. 
               She walked to the centre of the room, and there stood like a somnambulist. 
               She was evidently unconscious of the action. 
               She knew not what she did. 
               The count was so pleased with the success of his plans, that he did not move. 
               He kept her by his art standing like a vestal virgin before him, as he gloated on her charms. 
               At this juncture, so critical for the innocent Agnes, the door opened, and Lord Marchmont entered the room. 
               He held a sword in his hand, and walked deliberately up to the count, with the intention of passing the weapon through his body. 
               But Val de Grace, strange to say, uttered a cry and fell to the floor insensible 
               A small stream of blood issued from his mouth, and Lord Marchmont concluded that he had broken a blood vessel, and left him to his fate. 
               He then turned to his wife, and the expression of his face was terrible to behold. 
               Agnes stood like a beautiful statue, but only for a moment. 
               Directly the count fell to the ground insensible or dead, the spell which bound her to him was broken. 
               She opened her eyes. 
               She looked round in amazement. 
               Where was she? 
               How did she come there? 
               She rubbed her eyes with the back of her hand, to see if she was awake or not. 
               The whole thing was an inexplicable mystery to her. 
               She had some time ago, as she thought, gone to sleep in her own bedroom, the door of which she had locked, as was her custom. And now, where did she find herself? In the dining room of her house. Her husband standing over what seemed to be the corpse of the Count Val de Grace. 
               Her husband, with a drawn sword in his hand! 
               Her husband, with flashing eyes and looks of fiery indignation! 
               She could not make it out. 
               Her vague ideas, however, were destined soon to be dissipated in rather a rude manner. 
               Lord Marchmont turned to her, and exclaimed, in the bitterest tones of concentrated irony, with which passion of the most hideous kind was strangely commingled- 
               "Madam, your paramour is dead." 
               As he pronounced the last word, he spurned the body of the count with his foot, as if to show his contempt for so worthless a piece of defunct humanity. 
               As her husband made this speech, a new light dawned upon Agnes. 
               It was evident to her that the count had brought her from her bed to the dining room by means of his almost magic art. And that Marchmont had returned unexpectedly, which enabled him to be upon the scene at so inopportune a moment. 
               Truly appearances were against her. 
               Truly, although in the sight of Heaven she was as innocent as an unconscious child, yet in the sight of man the suspicion against her was very grave. 
               Agnes had been confounded at the scene. 
               She had been awakened out of her sleep, and as all these strange incidents crowded upon her senses at once, it was no wonder that the poor girl became confused. 
               So much confused was she that she did not attempt to exculpate herself with her incensed husband. 
               And he was boiling with rage and excitement. 
               One, the adultered, as he deemed him, had fallen a victim to his just rage; why then, should he spare the other, the adulteress? 
               He grasped his sword nervously, and looked at her savagely. 
               Clad in those white garments, she looked very lovely. 
               But the sight of her marvellous beauty only sufficed to incense Lord Marchmont to a higher degree. 
               "She deserves to die," he muttered. "Yes, she shall die!" And rushing forward, he caught her by the hair, and was about to plunge his weapon into her bosom. 
               She was in a state of frenzy. 
               He had, at that moment, no doubt whatever that he had discovered liaison between his wife and Count Val de Grace. 
               This conviction was strengthened by the fact of his having seen them together that morning in the park. 
               And had an angel from heaven come down to tell him that his wife was innocent of even meditating an offence against his honor, he would scarcely have believed the celestial messenger. 
               It appeared to him that the proofs were too strong to be refused, and as he sat, as it were in brief but terrible judgment upon her, he passed sentence of death upon his charming and innocent wife as little remorse as he would have done upon the most hardened criminal that ever stood in the dock, on the Crown side, at the Old Bailey. 
               But he was blinded with passion. 
               Agnes's life, at that moment, hung in the balance. 
               The point of the relentless sword was pressing against her alabaster skin. 
               A little stain of blood tinged the whiteness of her bosom. 
               With a desperate effort, she summoned up courage enough to say- 
               "Oh! listen to me. I am not guilty. Believe me, I am innocent." 
               Lord Marchmont hesitated. 
               "I am innocent, indeed I are," sobbed Agnes, in an agony of terror. 
               "Would I could believe it!" said his lordship. 
               "I swear it. Before Heaven I swear it. I will explain all." 
               "The thing explains itself," said Lord Marchmont. "No further explanation is wanted." 
               "Oh! spare my life," gasped Agnes, as the dreadful reality of her position forced itself upon her. 
               "I grant you your life, but perhaps you may live to regret ever having asked it at my hands." 
               "Oh! what mean you?" asked Agnes filled with fresh terrors. 
               "You must leave this house instantly it is no longer your home." 
               "Oh! where can I go?-what can I do?" cried Agnes, bursting into an agony of tears. 
               "I care not. You have sinned, and you must bear the fruit of your offence.' 
                
               "I have not. It is not true," interrupted Agnes. 
               "Peace, woman!" cried Lord Marchmont, sternly. 
               He turned his face away from the weeping beauty, and said in a voice colder and sterner than he had hitherto spoken in- 
               "Rise, madame. I give you till tomorrow to make your preparations. But I shall expect that by the hour of ten you will have left my house for ever." 
               Without a word Agnes left the room and sought her own apartment. Then she threw herself upon the bed and wept bitterly. But in the course of an hour or so, she fell off into an uneasy slumber. 
               Lord Marchmont, after her departure, paced the room uneasily. 
               The body of the count was still lying where it had fallen. 
               The pulse had stopped, and to all appearance the count was dead. 
               Lord Marchmont wished to carry the body somewhere, he knew not where. 
               He did not wish it to be found in his house; it would tend to an inquiry-coroner's inquest, perhaps-and that would be extremely unpleasant, and might involve him in serious consequences. 
               He was on the horns of a dilemma. 
               He must either leave it where it was, call up the servants, and state how it all happened; or he must send it to the count's house, saying that he had suddenly fallen down in a fit; or he must take the body somewhere and bury it, or at all events dispose of it so that it would not be discovered. He resolved upon doing the latter. 
               The question then arose, how was he to effect the end he had in view? 
               There was a box, he remembered, in his study, which would answer the purpose very well. It had once been used for holding maps and papers that would not bear doubling up. It was of great length, and not unlike a coffin. 
               If he could force the body of the count into this rude chest, the first great difficulty would be got over. 
               Lord Marchmont went noiselessly to his study, and finding the box he was in quest of, opened it. There were a few papers in it; these he put away in different places. 
               Then he took the box to the dining room and laid it down by the side of the count. 
               Having shut down the lid, the next thing to be done was to get the coffin out of the house and bestow it in some place where neither the prying eyes of man or woman would be likely to discover it. 
               Leaving the box on the floor, Lord Marchmont, with the utmost caution, opened the street door and let himself out. 
               It was a miserable night. The rain came down in perfect sheets of water. 
               Lord Marchmont considered himself very lucky in having such excellent weather in which to carry out his plans. 
               It was past twelve o'clock. 
               His lordship was on the look-out for a cab. 
               He stood in the doorway, not exactly exposing himself to the storm, but keeping the door sufficiently open to be able to hear or see any passing cab. 
               After waiting for half-an hour, his perseverance was rewarded; a four-wheeled cab dragged its slow length along. 
               Lord Marchmont ran into the street and hailed the cab. 
               It stopped and pulled up at the door. Lord Marchmont went into the house, and with great exertion managed to bring out the box, which he, with the assistance of the Jehu, placed upon the top of the cab. 
               Then he returned to the house, and with the utmost gentleness shut the door. 
               "Where to, sir?" asked the man, in a low tone of voice. 
               Lord Marchmont slipped a couple of sovereigns into the man's hand, and said- 
               "Do what I tell you, and you shall have double that amount at the end of our journey." 
               The cabman looked at the gold, then at his fare, then at the long, coffin-shaped deal box, and then at the gold again which he jingled pleasantly together. 
               "I'm your man, capting," he said 
               "Very well, then. Drive towards, Fulham," replied his lordship; "and be as quick as you can." 
               The man jumped on to his seat, and drove with as much rapidity as he could get out of his miserable screw of a horse, in the direction indicated. 
               At last the cabman drew near to the outlying suburb of Fulham. Just as they passed the Gunter Arms, his lordship let down a window, and told the man to drive up a dark lane in the direction of Shepherd's-bush. 
               On one side were nursery gardens, looking black and awful in the darkness, which was only relieved here and there by the faint light shed by some solitary gas lamps placed at intervals along the road. On the other side was a long and gloomy-looking wall of a considerable height. This was the wall of the Brompton Cemetery. 
               Lord Marchmont stopped the vehicle after it had gone some little distance up the lane, and got out, and beckoned the cabman to come down and speak to him. 
               "Now, my man, I'll tell you what I want done, and if it is done successfully there is plenty of money to be had." 
               The man touched his broad-brimmed oilskin hat. 
               "I want," continued Lord Marchmont, "to get that box on the roof of your cab over that wall into the cemetery." 
               "Can't be done, sir," replied the man, looking at the height of the wall. 
               "You think so?" 
               "I do, sir." 
               "If we had a ladder I suppose you would not think it so difficult of accomplishment?" 
               "No, sir, that would alter the case," replied the cabman, wondering what the meaning of the strange proceeding was. 
               "Those are nursery gardens on the right," continued Lord Marchmont; "and I have reason to believe that the men to whom they belong are gathering apples now. In that case, there would be a ladder or two under some of the trees. They would not take the trouble to remove them, perhaps to some distance, only to have to bring them back again the next morning. There is not much light by which to make a search; but still it must be done. I have a small lantern here, which will help us a little." 
               "A lantern, sir!" 
               "Yes; a small dark one." 
               "Ah! that'll do." 
               "Well, put your horse up against the wall." 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "And come with me. I shall want you to help me to carry the ladder when I have found it." 
               "Right you are, sir," replied the cabman. 
               When he had disposed his cab to his liking, he rejoined his lordship, and, with a bow, said "Beg parding, sir." 
               "What is it?" 
               "You won't think me a-going too far, your honor?" 
               "No, no. What is it?" said Lord March mont, impatiently. 
               "I'm to speak up?" 
               "Yes. Be quick." 
               "Well, about the blunt as I'm to 'ave?" 
               "Oh! is that all?" said his lordship, who though for a moment that the man wanted to back out of the whole affair. 
               "That's all, sir." 
               "Very well; here's something to keep you up to the mark." And his lordship took five additional 
                     soverigns
                     sovereigns
                   out of his pocket, and gave them to the man, whose eyes brightened. 
                
               "I'll go through fire and water, sir, for you-as you pays well." 
               "You shall have some more if the thing is done well. The fact is, there is a still-born child in that box." 
               "A child!" cried the cabman, who had suspected something of the sort. 
               "Yes, and I want to put it in the cemetery, out of the way; there is nothing wrong." 
               "Well, as long as it is all on the square, I'm your man." 
               "Oh! you need not be afraid. 
               "You don't look a chap as would do a thing on the cross," said the man, familiarly. 
               Lord Marchmont turned on his lantern, and led the way over some palings. 
               They had not proceeded far before they stumbled on the object of their search. The cabman, who was in advance, suddenly uttered a cry, and fell flat on his face. He had stumbled over a ladder which was resting on its side on the ground, leaning against an apple or pear-tree; it was not easy to tell which in the darkness. 
               Muttering something about "having taken all the bark off his shins," the man rose to his feet, and with Lord Marchmont's assistance, the ladder was conveyed to the roadside, and placed against the wall. It answered its purpose admirably, as it just reached the top. The cabman then took the chains of his cab, which were used for fastening luggage on the roof, and bound them round the box in which the inanimate body of the luckless Val de Grace was confined; then, with some difficulty, they contrived to hoist the coffin on to the top of the wall. Their united efforts succeeded in doing what one would never have achieved alone. Allowing the coffin to rest upon the summit of the wall, they, standing also on the wall, hoisted the ladder up, and let it fall down gently on the other side. With great care they descended, carrying the coffin between them, making as little noise as possible. 
               There were not many graves where they had alighted; and the tombs or vaults were further in the cemetery, towards the centre. 
               After proceeding along a gravel-walk for a little distance, while the rain beat in their faces and almost blinded them, they, by the aid of the lantern, saw what appeared to be the entrance to a vault. 
               Lord Marchmont left the cabman in charge of the coffin, and descended the steps. 
               The door of the vault was shut, but not fastened; a vigorous kick sufficed to send it creaking on its hinges, and a faint odor, as of dead bodies, emanated from the interior. Marchmont recoiled in disgust as the sickening fumes penetrated his nostrils. Then he whistled, and the cabman descended the steps with the coffin. 
               They both entered the vault. 
               The light of the lantern revealed coffins piled one on top of the other in dozens. There did not seem to be any room for even one more. 
               It was evidently a vault which had received its full complement, and the door was left open in the daytime so that the relatives of the deceased might enter this gloomey city of the dead, and gaze on the oaken walls which contained the dust and bones of those who were once dearly beloved by mother, father, sister, brother, wife, or husband. 
               By slightly disarranging the order in which the coffins stood, his lordship contrived to slip his deal box behind a row of coffins; it fell with a dull sound. 
               A groan appeared to emanate from its recesses and then all was still. 
               The cabman trembled a little, but not much; and, in conjunction with his lordship, stood awaiting a repetition of the strange and mysterious noise. But none rewarded their patience. 
               "It must have been fancy," exclaimed Marchmont, who tried to shake off his superstitious terror. "You have your share of courage, my friend," he added, addressing the cabman. 
               "You may say that, sir," replied the man; "I have had my turn at body-snatching before now, and this sort of game is not new to me by any manner o' means." 
               "Oh, indeed," replied Marchmont, who did not know until now that he had been enjoying the society of a resurrectionist. 
               In leaving the vault, they retraced their steps, and walked towards the wall where they had entered the cemetery. 
               What was their consternation when they got there to find that the ladder was nowhere to be seen. 
               Locked up in that horrible grave-yard till daylight appeared! 
               What should they do? 
               They both paused for an answer. 
               "Oh, it cannot have been taken away!" cried his lordship. 
               "Who is there here at this time of night, and such a night as this is, too? Who would do such a thing?" 
               "There are watchmen here," replied the cabman. 
               Going carefully along the ground with his lantern, Lord Marchmont at last, to his great delight, discovered the ladder, which had been blown down by the violence of the gale. 
               To lift it up and erect it again was the work of a moment. Then they soon stood upon the summit of the wall and descended rapidly into the road. 
               They did not trouble themselves to put the ladder back where they found it but tossed it over the palings into the garden. 
               Lord Marchmont then got into the cab, and was rapidly driven back to town. He did not consider it exactly prudent to return to his own house, so he drove to an hotel; where he found accommodation for the remainder of the night. 
               The cabman was liberally rewarded, and Marchmont brought an arduous adventure to a successful termination. 
               But he was intensely miserable! 
               His idol had been dashed to pieces; his Agnes-the woman of his choice, and of his love-had played him false; and what was there worth living for after that? 
               Alas! that he should ever have been credulous enough to have trusted a daughter of Eve. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               Agnes's awakening was anything but a pleasant one. 
               She awoke to grief, to misery, to sorrow! 
               A discarded wife, in vain could she hope for the forgiveness of her husband, to such a pitch was he incensed against her. Ever the victim of circumstances, when would fate be tired of sporting with her. 
               As she started up in bed, her cheek flushed and her face reddened as she recalled the scene of the night before, and remembered the fury of Marchmont. "Perhaps," she thought, "he may forgive me in the morning," but after a little consideration she dismissed so fragile a hope from her mind, for although in a very desperate position, she was still too sensible to cling to straws or snatch at shadows. 
               What should she do? 
               She prepared to leave her rich and fashionable home. 
               "Marchmont," she said to herself, "is doing me an injustice. Some day he will see that such is the case, and then his old passion for me will revive; but as he has chosen to drive me like a dog from his doors, I will not burden him with my presence one moment more than is necessary for me to make my simple preparations." 
               Agnes had a little money; this she placed in a purse and put in her pocket. 
               She left all the jewellery that Marchmont had bought in her jewel-case, retaining taining only a few simple ornaments which she had possessed before she met his lordship. 
               She attired herself in an unassuming black silk dress, and packed up a few articles of wearing apparel which were indispensable. 
               Then she had her portmanteau brought down stairs and placed in a cab, telling the servant she was going out of town for a day or two. 
               She directed the cab to drive to a railway station; but when she had gone part of the way, she told him she had changed her mind, and, in obedience to her instructions, he drove in the direction of Brompton. 
               Here she had not much difficulty in finding a lodging; which, by making a payment in advance, she took without the disagreeableness of giving a reference. 
               But there was that about her which was unmistakeable. She did not look like plain Miss Singleton, as she had called herself. 
               Her marvellous beauty was enhanced by the simplicity of her attire; and there was a commanding air, combined with an inexplicable something, which was strongly indicative of the admired and fashionable Lady Marchmont. 
               Agnes walked some distance, plunged in bitter reflections. 
               She advanced to the open portals; but as she neared them, her eye fell upon an inscription placed upon the lintel. It was to the effect that the public were admitted to walk in the cemetery daily. As she read this, she recoiled a step or two. 
               "A cemetery!" she exclaimed. 
               The door was open, and as the wind beat the rain down upon her she passed through it, and stood on the floor of the charnel house. 
               The light which penetrated this subterranean dwelling for the dead was amply sufficient to show her the multitude of coffins on each side of her. 
               The shower increased its proportions, and developed into a storm. 
               Agnes congratulated herself upon having secured a shelter, such as it was. 
               The silence of the grave is proverbial. Save and except these, and the fierce rushing and groaning of the angry blast, nothing disturbed the monotony of her position. 
               Suddenly she started, as a strange noise fell upon her ear. 
               Resembling the last groan wrung from the blood-stained lips of some mangled wretch condemned to the torture, was this fearful and mysterious sound. 
               For an instant afterwards all was still. 
               With trembling eagerness Agnes waited its repetition. 
               The rain still continued to patter restlessly down upon the steps outside. 
               The frogs croaked and jumped about, as if pleased at the prospect of a little wet and slush to waddle about in. 
               A second time came that awful and soul-sickening sound. 
               Agnes's flesh crept, and her hair stiffened. 
               Yet could she not move. 
               There, in one corner of the vault, a terrible conflict seemed to be going on. 
               Heavy blows were rained upon some hard substance. 
               It was as the agony of a strong man, upon whom the terrors of death had descended. 
               Then hoarse cries were uttered, and the struggles in the corner of the vault were frightful. 
               A pile of coffins rocked to and fro. 
               Agnes would have given the world to have fainted and have become insensible. 
               There, with one foot advanced from a strangely-shaped coffin; there, with a face upon which was depicted the most acute curiosity; there, with an arm extended as if to feel its way; there, with a lacklustre eye fixed upon herself; there, in that gloomy cavern, was the Count Val de Grace! 
                
               Agnes was astounded-she thought herself the dupe of some extraordinary delusion. She was alarmed, terrified, frightened out of her senses. 
               She stared at the apparition till her eyes ached, and then she reeled against the wall of the vault. She could stand it no longer; and, with a piercing shriek she fell upon the damp floor insensible. 
               When Agnes awoke from her lethargy, she found herself in an apartment which was altogether strange to her. 
               She endeavoured to find out the mystery connected with it, but in vain. 
               She had been entrapped into a position giving cause for great suspicion, by the acts and machinations of Count Val de Grace, the mesmerist. 
               She had been thus discovered by her husband, and he had dismissed her from his home and from his bed with curses. 
               Then the scene in the cemetery flashed upon her, and she recalled the terrific apparition which had so alarmed her, and ultimately caused her to lose her senses. 
               What had ensued after that she 
                     conld
                     could
                   not tell-she could only conjecture. What she thought was simply this- 
               She had seen Count Val de Grace fall down dead, as she thought, at her husband's feet. 
               She conjectured, and rightly, that when her husband found himself alone with the dead body, he considered it necessary to dispose of it in some way or other. 
               She was well acquainted with the audacity of his disposition. 
               What more likely than that he should convey the corpse to some place where it would not be easily discovered. 
               This reasoning of Agnes was very clever and ingenious, but what puzzled her most was to discover where she at present was, and how she had come there. 
               She ran to the two windows which the room possessed, and gazed out. 
               She saw nothing. A dead wall rose straight up before her. 
               The apartment had evidently been well chosen. 
               At last Agnes began to get terribly anxious, she even felt alarmed. 
               Was she a prisoner in that richly furnished chamber? 
               She advanced to the door, and tried to turn its ivory handle, but it resisted all her efforts. 
               Agnes stood still, while the beads of perspiration started to her forehead. 
               What could she think? 
               Only that she was in the power of some enemy, and as she came to this conclusion she could conceive no one more likely to treat her in this way than Count Val de Grace. She shuddered as this suspicion entered her mind. To be in the power of that mysterious and unscrupulous nobleman was, indeed, dreadful. 
               As the terrible and overwhelming conviction forced itself upon her, no wonder that she cowered down in a corner of the room, and covered her face with her hands. 
               What could she hope? 
               Absolutely nothing. Count Val de Grace was not a man either to feel or to show pity. He had declared that he loved her, and he had endeavoured, on a former occasion, to force his hateful caresses upon her. The count was perhaps even now watching her from some curiously contrived loop-hole or crevice in the wall-even now gloating over her misery-watching, with undisguised satisfaction, the uncontrollable tears as they flowed in torrents from her red and swollen eyes. 
               Would he not now be eager for revenge? 
               Most likely. He had only escaped the death he merited at the hands of Lord Marchmont by a clever subterfuge-a charlatan's trick, a juggler's device. 
               But, after a while, Agnes controlled her grief, and dried her tears. She would never, she swore to herself, willingly consent to the desires of the count, and if he attempted violence-if he dared to try to dishonor her-he should fall by her hand, or she herself would never more look upon the light of day. 
                
               When she made this resolution she felt happier, and more able to meet the dangers that she felt were environing her. 
               With a cry she started up. A few rays of moonlight penetrated the room and lay pale and motionless upon the carpet. By the aid of those Agnes perceived a dark figure retreating through the dressing room. 
               She watched it for a moment, and at last it appeared to have vanished through the wall; for although she strained her eyes for some time, she saw it no more. 
               A few hours after daybreak a knock same on the exterior of the door. In as resolute a voice as she could command, Agnes said- 
               "Come in." 
               The door then opened, and a gentleman entered. It was no other than Count Val de Grace. 
               The count bowed very low, and hoped that her ladyship had passed the night well. 
               Agnes smiled disdainfully. 
               "Well, count, if you wish to show me any kindness-" 
               "I do, believe me." 
               "If so then order your carriage, and send me home." 
               "I cannot so readily part with so fair a prize," he answered. 
               "What!" cried Agnes, "am I to conjecture that I am to be detained here against my will?" 
               The count shrugged his shoulders. 
               "Speak!" cried Agnes, in a still more excited tone of voice. 
               "You know how dear you are to me. I have told you how much I love you," said Count Val de Grace. 
               "Until lately I regarded you as a man of honor," said Agnes, pleadingly. 
               "Honor!" exclaimed the count; "who would not throw honor to the winds, and character to perdition, to procure you, lovely Agnes?" 
               "Leave me, oh! leave me," said Agnes. "Why have I lived to listen to such insults?" 
               "You refuse to hear me?" said the count, savagely. 
               "I do." 
               "Then will I find a way to tame your proud spirit, and to make you adore the very name of Val de Grace." 
               "I laugh at your threats," said Agnes, darting past him with the quickness of a deer, and endeavouring to gain the staircase. 
               But the count was too quick for her. He seized her in his arms, and bore her shrieking to a chair, in which he placed her. 
               He then left her for a time, saying as he went- 
               "I shall return ere long to receive your answer. Be mine, and you shall be happy; refuse, and Heaven help you." 
               After his concluding remark, Count Val de Grace rudely and abruptly left the apartment. 
               Marmaduke Wilson had been transported beyond the seas. 
               Agnes knew that he was a felon, and she had very naturally refused to consider herself a felon's bride. 
               And Agnes had committed her only fault in marrying Lord Marchmont when her first husband was alive. 
               A piece of broken glass would be a dangerous weapon in her desperate hands. 
               As this idea occured to her she walked to the window, and drove her fist through a pane of glass. 
               Seizing the most pointed and dagger-like piece from amongst the jagged bits that lay in a heap upon the ground, she concealed it in the folds of her dress, and felt that she was prepared to encounter Count Val de Grace, always provided that he did not put his devilish arts in execution against her. 
               Hardly had she hidden away the strange weapon she had so cleverly extemporized than the door again opened and the count a second time made his appearance. 
               As he entered the room Agnes exclaimed- 
                
               "Once for all, Count Val de Grace, will you let me out of this prison?" 
               The count replied with a smile on his well-cut lips- 
               "Candour compels me, my dear Lady Marchmont, to declare that it is utterly out of my power to do anything of the sort." 
               "This is your determination?" 
               "Do not be alarmed," said the count; "no harm shall befall you." 
               Agnes smiled incredulously. 
               "You smile," he said. "Why will you not believe and trust me?" 
               "Trust you!" 
                     caied
                     cried
                   Agnes. "As soon would I stand beneath a tree, and trust to the mercy of the lightning." 
               All at once the recollection of the piece of glass which, when she had broken the window, she had concealed in the bosom of her dress, flashed across her mind. With a desperate effort, she seized it firmly in her hand, and wrapped a fold of her dress around one end of it. 
               With the rapidity of lightning, like some heroine of romance, she sprang forward and seized the count by the throat. 
               Then, using the bit of broken glass like a dagger, she dealt him blows with it at random. 
               With such fury was she animated, that she did not desist from her work of vengeance until the strange weapon she had extemporized broke in her hand, and the pieces fell, covered with blood, upon the carpet, which was 
                     obsorbing
                     absorbing
                   some of the some sanguinary fluid. 
               The count was motionless as a corpse. Agnes rose. 
               The door the count had entered by was, of course, unlocked, as he had not thought it necessary to fasten it after him. Passing through this, she found herself in a corridor, along which she hurried. No staircase, however, appeared, and when she reached the end of the corridor she found herself confronted with a door. 
               This she opened, and found herself in a garden. 
               However, she was free, and she congratulated herself upon her escape. 
               Turning a corner, Agnes suddenly came upon Charlotte Saunders. 
               It was so long since Agnes had seen Charlotte Saunders, that she was almost oblivious of her existence. 
               Charlotte stopped in a street and opening the door of a house ushered Agnes into some plainly furnished rooms on the ground floor. 
               "Now make yourself at home," she exclaimed, giving her an arm-chair to sit in. 
               Charlotte Saunders struck a match, and stooping down, lighted the fire, which was placed all ready for ignition in the grate. 
               "Now, Agnes," cried Charlotte, "'fire away." 
               "On the contrary, I want you to begin." 
               "Me?" 
               "When I left you I met a man who married me; he was nothing much. He was a simple artisan, but we got on very well together, until he met another woman, whom apparently, he seemed to like better, and, in the end, he ran away with her, and left me." 
               "What was her name?" 
               "Miriam Moss." 
               "Miriam Moss?" repeated Charlotte, quickly. 
               "Yes. Is she a friend of yours?" 
               "Not exactly," replied Charlotte, ironically. 
               "Oh, she is not. How do you know her then, may I ask?" said Agnes, who waited anxiously for a reply. 
               "Never mind how I know her," said Charlotte; "if you want to see her, and you will come with me, I'll point her out to you this evening, and then you can draw your own conclusions." 
               "Oh, certainly," answered Agnes. 
               She could not help feeling that there was something wrong about Charlotte Saunders-what that something was, though, she could not say with any precision cision. She particularly wanted to see Miriam Moss, in order that she might overwhelm her with reproaches for her infamous conduct; and Charlotte had said that she was acquainted with some one who bore that name. It was an uncommon name, yet the chance that it was the same was slender. 
               Agnes resolved to follow the chance up, small as it was. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               Charlotte Saunders soon conducted Agnes to the top of the broad thorough fare known as the Haymarket. 
               They walked some distance up the Haymarket, and then crossed over, and entered a small street leading to Leicester-square. 
               On the right hand side of this street appeared several open doors, which invited entrance. 
               Into one of these houses Charlotte went; Agnes followed her. 
               Going to the end of the room, Agnes sat down with her new friend to await supper. 
               It was not long coming. 
               Charlotte laughed and chattered with great volubility. 
               In about half-an-hour the room was full; men and woman flowed in streams, and when one departed, another quickly made his or her appearance, and filled the vacant place. 
               Suddenly, Charlotte clutched Agnes's arm, and exclaimed, "You wished to see Miriam Moss, did you not?" 
               'I did.' 
               "Well, now you have found her, what do you want with her?" 
               "You shall see!" cried Agnes, rising. 
               "What would you do?" cried Charlotte Saunders, seizing Agnes by the sleeve of her dress. 
               "Leave go, will you?" said Agnes. who was fearfully excited by the wine, and by the sight of the woman who had worked her so much harm. 
               "No, I will not leave go." 
               "You shall, I say," said Agnes, dashing her friend's hand away from her dress by a blow of her fist. 
               Agnes walked across the room, and confronted Miriam Moss. 
               "My stars!" cried the captain, as he watched the proceedings of Agnes, with some curiosity. 
               "Never mind her; have some wine?" said Charlotte, addressing the captain. "I was expecting you." 
               "All right," said the captain. 
               "You seem to take a great interest in that woman!" exclaimed Charlotte. 
               "My stars!" said the captain, taking his eyes away from Agnes, and fixing them full upon Charlotte. 
               Miriam Moss took no notice' whatever of Agnes; she did not appear to recognize her at all. 
               "Miriam Moss!" said Agnes, slowly in a hissing tone, for she spoke between her teeth. 
               Miriam turned round, but although the voice appeared to be familiar to her, she failed to recognise Agnes. 
               "Know you? No; and don't want to. What do you speak to me for?" 
               Agnes looked calmly at her for a brief space, and then said in a penetrating tone- 
               "I am Agnes Wilson!" 
               As Miriam heard this she turned pale. 
               "Agnes Wilson!" she repeated, catching her breath. 
               "Yes, traitress; and at last I have found you." 
               Miriam appeared to have lost her former insolent air for the time being, and made no reply. 
               "I always vowed that if ever I did meet you, Miriam Moss," said Agnes, "I would exact a terrible vengeance," 
               Miriam trembled a little. 
               "The day has arrived, and now you stand before me. I know you to be the wretch to whose infernal machinations I
                   may date all my misfortunes. You poured the insidious poison into my ears-you endeavoured to turn my affection away from my husband-you threw suspicion upon his good and generous heart. Do you hear me, 
                     Miaiam
                     Miriam
                   Moss? you did all this, and you yet live to triumph in your villany, and why? Heaven does for its own wise purposes know. You succeeded in your plots-Heaven curse the hour in which you did so-but so far you have triumphed over me. But one thing you can never obliterate, Miriam Moss, and that is, that man Marmaduke Wilson loved me. Yes; he was my lawfully wedded husband. And if he is away from me now, I can say that I have been blest with the love and affection which you have pined for in vain-yes and may pine for to your dying day.' 
               When Miriam saw the eyes of some o her friends fixed on her, she with an effort recovered her presence of mind, and, with a scornful laugh, replied- 
               "Well, if I did get your thief of a husband away from you, I have not got him now. If you want to join him, you had better go to Australia, or perhaps the Government will provide you with a passage, as it did him, free gratis for nothing-all at the Queen's expense." 
               "You dare to talk to me like that!" cried Agnes, her whole frame quivering with passion. 
               The counter stood before her, and was studded here and there with bottles; but to get possession of one she would have been compelled to pass by Miriam, who would have unquestionably frustrated her too obvious intention. 
               A waiter, however, happened to be passing by with a tray, upon which was a bottle of soda-water. 
               Agnes seized this; and, before any one could divine her purpose, she rushed towards Miriam, and struck her a crushing blow on the face. 
               The unhappy woman could not scream, for the blow took effect upon her nose and mouth. 
               With such force had Agnes struck her that her good looks were gone for ever 
               All her front teeth were broken, and her lips was frightfully cut. Her nose had also suffered to a dreadful extent; the cartilage was broken, and the bone smashed. 
               With a wild hysterical cry, Miriam fell down insensible. 
               Agnes was standing aghast at the effects of her violence. 
               Everybody was partially paralysed at the strange scene. 
               Suddenly she heard the voice of the captain saying, "Row, row." 
               And in a moment the whole room was in darkness. 
               Directly afterwards Charlotte Saunders's voice sounded in her ears. 
               "This way! this way!" she said "Quick! follow me!" 
               Agnes laid hold of her friend's hand and followed her at a quick pace into the passage. 
               The street-door was open. 
               Darting through this, panting with exertion, Charlotte, Agnes, and the captain stood in the street. 
               "Cab!" shouted the captain, to one standing close by. 
               The man jumped down from his box; and the trio got in. 
               "Drive to the London Docks!" cried the captain. "Quick!-off you go!" 
               The man required no further bidding; and they were quickly rolling over the stones. 
               "Do you think I have hurt Miriam Moss much?" said Agnes, who had rather vague ideas as to the punishment she had inflicted upon the perfidious Jewess. 
               "Hurt her, my dear child?" cried Charlotte. 
               "Yes. You know what I mean." 
               "If you mean have you disfigured he for life, I answer yes. 
               "Good God! You don't say so?" 
                
               Miriam Moss had, in due time, recovered from her dangerous illness. 
               Brought up to no trade, she had always lived at home in idleness, and now, at her age, to be told to get her bread was equivalent to being driven on the streets to obtain a livelihood. 
               She knew that it was the bread of shame, and that the first mouthful of food bought by such means would choke her. 
               Yet what was she to do? 
               There were only a few courses open to her. 
               She could either work at some trade, commit suicide, lie down at starve, or accept the fearful alternative we have alluded to. 
               The first day she was brave enough The second she was sorely tried and tempted; and on the third she was so ravenously hungry from her long starvation and abstinence from food, that she gave way to the cravings of nature, and fell-fell! to rise no more! 
               Agnes's revenge was indeed complete and faultless. She could not wish for more-she had wounded her enemy in her most sensitive part; for she had destroyed her loveliness and her beauty-that beauty and loveliness by whose means she had hitherto gained a miserable and shameful existence-but still an existence; and now what was to become of her? 
               It was, indeed, a shocking question. But let us draw a veil over the sufferings of Miriam Moss, victim of a woman's vengeance. 
               A short time after, the wretched Miriam committed suicide. 
               Agnes had for a long time escaped her step-father Jabez Clarke, but one day while she was walking with a dwarf friend of Wilson's, Stubbles, she caught sight of the bloated features she knew only too well. 
               All of a sudden the man saw Agnes, his eves scintillated with pleasure, his flat nostrils distended, his mouth opened; he recognized her in a flash of lightning as, it were. 
               "Why, strike me blind!" he cried. 
               "What is it?" asked one of his friends. 
               "It's my darter." 
               The man advanced to Agnes, who shrank back with her hands before her eyes, as if to shut out some dreadful vision. 
               "My dear, how are you? how are they all at home? Sorry to part with you, eh?" he exclaimed. 
               "Oh! go away, go away." 
               "You've got to come along of me." 
               "Oh, no, no." 
               "But I say yes." 
               "I would rather die," cried Agnes. 
               Jabez Clarke went up close to her and said, in a sibilant whisper- 
               "If you don't come along of me, I'll give you in charge for murdering of your mother." 
               "Oh, God!" cried Agnes, wringing her hands; "what shall I do?" 
               "Come with me, and don't be a fool," said Jabez. 
               He took hold of her arm, and dragged her out of the public-house. 
               The dwarf stole away upon tiptoe, emerged into the street, and walking along, was soon lost in the distance. 
               At last Jabez stopped before an ironbound door, opened it with a key, and thrust her in. 
               In one corner lay a 
                     quanity
                     quantity
                   of potatoes; in another some bunches of parsnips and carrots. 
               It was Jabez Clarke's storehouse. 
               The walls were bare and damp; the floor was the plain earth, without brick or tile. 
               In the wall facing the door was a large iron staple. Affixed to this was a chain of great weight and size. At the end of it was an iron girdle, which, from the look of it appeared to open and shut like a dog-collar, and was fastened by a key. 
                
               "Do you see that, my lady?" cried Jabez Clarke. 
               "Yes, I see it," she replied, as her heart beat quick. 
               "Well, that's for you." 
               "You can't be in earnest." 
               "Can't I? We'll see. Come on!" 
               He seized Agnes rudely, brutally by the wrist. 
               Taking a key from his waistcoat-pocket, he unlocked the girdle, and clasped it round Agnes's waist. 
               Then he relocked it. 
               There was a considerable collection of moisture in one part of the roof or ceiling and this dripped down in drops, which followed one another in quick succession-probably two seconds elapsed between each one. 
               Jabez Clarke looked at this fixedly for some time as if it had not arrested his attention before. 
               At last he said, in a satisfied tone- 
               "That will do. Yes, that'll do stunnin." 
               "That dress is a good 'un, though; it'll lumber. You'd better take it off." 
               Agnes, chained to the wall as she was, felt like a tigress at bay. 
               "It is mine, and I shall not let you have it." 
               "Won't you? Don't say that." 
               Advancing towards her, he attempted to unfasten her 
                     daess
                     dress
                  ; but she flew at him scratching his face, making deep long furrows, and using her nails with great dexterity. 
               Then he again endeavored to unfasten her dress with his coarse hands, and this time successfully. 
               She was too faint and ill to resist his brutal attack. 
               When he had undone all the fastenings he drew the dress over her head, and folded it up into a neat, small parcel, saying- 
               "You'll be warm enough as you are. You wouldn't mind a father taking your gown to pawn? I'll bring you the ticket What's this? some money in the pocket. 
               Putting the money in his pocket and the dress under his arm, mopped his bleeding face with his 
                     handkerchif
                     handkerchief
                  , cook a whiff at his pipe, and then said- 
               "Where ha' you been all this time?" 
               "What's that to you?" 
               "A great deal." 
               "You may kill me," said Agnes. 
               "I don't want to do that." 
               "I don't care for you a bit. You killed my mother, and you may kill me! It is only what I may expect." 
               "I'll put you to a better use than killing of you," replied Jabez Clarke. 
               "You'll never get a farthing through my instrumenentality," said Agnes, resolutely. 
               "Don't be too sure." 
               Agnes, in her great rage, spit at him. 
               He scowled at her, and getting up went out of the dungeon. 
               "Thank Heaven, he is gone?" said Agnes, sinking to the ground, and leaning against the wall. 
               Jabez Clarke was not long absent; when he returned, he bore a small iron bedstead in his arms, such as you buy in Tottenham-court-road for eight and six-pence; upon it was a paillasse. 
               "My arguments have had some weight with him; he is growing merciful," said Agnes, to herself. 
               But she little divined the intentions of the bad-hearted and relentless ruffian before her. 
               He placed the bedstead in the middle of the room, then he moved it towards Agnes. At last he got it into the position he wished to. 
               Sitting down on the paillasse, which he placed on the bedstead, he exclaimed, looking at Agues furiously- 
               "There's more ways nor one of getting secrets out of people, and if fair means don't succeed, there's nothing like trying foul ones." 
               "What are your intentions?" 
               "You'll see time enough." 
               "Oh, tell me! 
                
               "Not I. You'll find out time enough, I say." 
               Agnes grew alarmed. 
               "Would you murder me?" 
               "No, it wouldn't suit my book. A woman alive's worth more than one dead." 
               "Oh, kill me at once, and put me out of my misery! I am tired of living," sa d Agnes, despondingly. 
               "Certainly not. If you wish to die it is all the more reason why I should make you live. Come here!" 
               Agnes refused to move. 
               Seeing this he undid the chain. 
               Then, taking her in his brawny arms, he lifted her on to the iron bedstead. 
               He laid her flat on her back. Then he drew a coil of rope out of his pocket, and proceeded to bind her to the bedstead. 
               He succeeded in doing this in spite of her struggles, her cries; and her resistance. He fastened her so that she could not move. 
               He particularly bound her head in such a way that she could not stir it, either to the right or to the left. 
               Then he looked up at the ceiling and watched the course of the drops of water we have before alluded to. By moving the bedstead a little more towards the wall, he brought Agnes's face directly under the drip, drip of the water. 
               A drop fell with a splash upon her cheek. 
               Jabez Clarke moved the bedstead again, and the drop splashed upon her forehead; another movement, and it fell in the very centre. 
               He watched the falling drops narrowly, critically for a time, and seemed to be perfect y satisfied. 
               Going to his corner, he filled his pipe again, sat down on a heap of potatoes and smoked contentedly. 
               He watched Agnes with the eyes of a lynx. 
               Agnes did not know it, but the crafty brute, with his low fiendish cunning had invented a torture worthy of the Inquisition. 
               At first the patting of the drops of water upon her forehead tickled her; then it ran into her eyes, and down her neck; but that was nothing. 
               After a time, the water seemed to grow heavier, and to fall with greater volume and force. 
               It made her head ache. 
               She writhed uneasily upon her rude couch, but she was unable to extricate herself from the horrible position in which she was. 
               The water continued to fall with a monotonous splash upon the same spot on her forehead. 
               At last it was like a drop of lead falling on her. 
               Her head ached and throbbed. 
               The torture was becoming unbearable. 
               Jabez Clarke looked on with gratified malice, and not one ray of pity penetrated his heart for the unhappy condition of this victim. 
               The torture grew unbearable, Agnes uttered low moans of pain. 
               It was music to Jabez to hear them. 
               "I'll make her speak," he muttered; "or I'll know the reason why." 
               The low moans increased to loud exclamations. 
               Then she gave utterance to piercing, sickening, soul-penetrating shrieks, but they fell like blunted arrows against Jabez Clarke's breast. 
               And still the steady pat, pat of the dropping water was audible amidst the lamentations of the girl, and the heavy breathing of the man. 
               Drip, drip. 
               Patter, patter. 
               It was driving her stark, staring, raving mad. 
               Human nature, flesh and blood could not bear that maddening, everlasting throb, throb, thirty times in every minute. 
               The skin was already becoming sore and excoriated. 
               Agnes shrieked. 
               Jabez watched her sufferings, and the water fell as monotonously as ever. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               The moments that passed while Agnes was in the power of Jabez Clarke were terrible ones indeed. 
               That cruel, relentless man did not appear to have the slightest pity. He did not seem to feel for her sufferings an atom of that sympathy that any one, not hardened in an extraordinary manner, would naturally entertain for any one tormented as she was being. 
               Strapped securely to that plain iron-bedstead, what could she do? She was unable to move-unable to stir hand or foot. 
               If she could have moved her head a little-a very little bit on one side, she would have given worlds to purchase the privilege. The torture consisted in the drop of water falling continuously upon the same spot. 
               If the drops had been distributed equally over her face, it would merely have caused her a little inconvenience, and that is all. 
               She would have felt wet and uncomfortable; but the maddening pain would have been spared her. 
               At last the torture became so dreadful, that every drop of water which fell upon her poor defenseless forehead, felt like molten lead sinking deep into her brain. 
               Jabez Clark sat upon the mass of vegetables in the corner, smoking carelessly. 
               She turned her swollen blood-shot eye balls towards him with such a piteous gaze, that the archfiend himself would have entertained some commiseration for her, had he been in Jabez Clarke's place After he had satisfied his curiosity, the man gave the bedstead a careless kick, which made it slide a little to the left of him. This sufficed to remove Agnes from the place where the drop of water continually fell. 
               Words of thankfulness rose to Agnes's lips. All her resentment faded away; she could at that moment entertain nothing but gratitude towards the man who, although the author and originator of all her sufferings, had, at the last moment, taken compassion upon her, and liberated her. 
               Jabez looked at her savagely, and exclaimed in a gruff voice- 
               "None o' your thanks, young woman; you ain't got nothing to thank me for." 
               "Oh, yes, I have." 
               "Well, some dogs-curs I oughter say-will lick the hand as whacks 'em. 
               "I do thank you for releasing me from that torture," said Agnes. 
               Jabez smiled. 
               "I could not have borne it much 
                     longey
                     longer
                  ." 
               "Warn't it nice?" he exclaimed, with a sardonic grin. 
               Agnes shuddered. 
               "Would you like some more on it?" 
               "Oh, no, no!" 
               "It don't cost nothin', it be the cheapest amusement as I knows on." 
               "Oh, don't; please don't," said Agnes. 
               "It be fine fun," he continued. 
               Agnes said nothing. 
               Presently he looked up again, and said to Agnes- 
               "I'll lay summat now as you would like to know what my little game is wi' you." 
               "I know." 
               "You do?" 
               "Yes, I think so." 
               "What is it, then?" 
               "You want to get money out of me," said Agnes, timidly. 
               "Right you are," he replied, rubbing his hands together. 
               "But I haven't got any," she pleaded. 
               "Ain't got none?" he repeated, with as air of incredulity 
                
               "I give you my word of honor," said Agnes, "that what I tell you is the truth. 
               "Your word of honer? What's it worth?" 
               "You can rely upon it." 
               "Look 'ere," suddenly exclaimed Jabez. 
               "What is it?" 
               "You see that water a dripping?" 
               "Yes, yes." 
               "You'll be under it again uncommon quick, if so be as you don't answer my questions." 
               "Speak," said Agnes; "I will answer your questions truly." 
               "That's right-that is; that's the way a daughter should answer a father." 
               "You are not my father," cried Agnes, indignantly. 
               "Aint I? Well, it don't matter-you're nothing to be proud on, so we wont quarrel over it." 
               Agnes with difficulty repressed the angry response which was rising to her lips. 
               "What ha' you been a doing on since I last had the pleasure of meeting wi' you?" asked Jabez quietly, accompanying his query with a searching glance at the helpless girl before him. 
               "I can't answer you," she replied, timidly, but resolutely. 
               "You'll have another taste of that water dodge of mine. It's as good as the ghost invention. 
               "Oh, do not torture me any more," almost gasped Agnes, in an agony of apprehension; "have some pity upon me. Remember that if you are not my father, my mother was your wife. Think of that, and of how she died." 
               "Curse you!" cried Jabez Clarke, rising to his feet, "you'll throw that in my teeth, will you?" 
               "I meant nothing." 
               "Then keep your tongue between your teeth in future, or it'll be the worse for you." 
               "Oh, spare me!" cried Agnes. 
               "I'd kill you with pleasure, curse you! I allers hated you," he replied. Come now, answer my questions, will you?" 
               "I cannot; I do not feel justified in doing so." 
               "You won't speak?" 
               "I am resolved. You may kill me; a little more of that terrible torture will soon do so, but you cannot make me speak." 
               "It will not kill you," said he, with cruel emphasis, but I can tell you what it will do." 
               "Oh, what is that?" 
               "It will make you a drivelling idiot for the rest of your existence." 
               "Do your worst!" said Agnes, in desperation; "Heaven may have mercy upon me, if you have none; and I will pray it to release me from my sufferings." 
               "You may pray," he cried with a loud blasphemous laugh, but you won't get much by praying." 
               "You cannot tell that." 
               "I've got you 'ere," he hissed between his teeth. "No one knows of it; no one can help you. There's no getting out of this den now-a-days; so you needn't think it. 
               "You're a long time making up your mind, said Clarke, impatiently. 
               "It is made up." 
               "What will you do?" 
               "I will trust in Providence." 
               Jabez Clarke took up the light, unlocked the door, and passing out, locked it on the outside. 
               Soon his heavy footsteps were heard growing fainter and fainter in the distance. 
               It was something to be relieved of the monster's presence. 
               She was confined to the bedstead; he had not taken the trouble to untie her. Her position was most uncomfortable-most desperate. 
               The rest of the day passed wearily for the captive. 
               A harsh sound struck upon her ears. Immediately afterwards a draught of cool air fanned her flushed and fevered face. 
               Looking upward she perceived that a hole appeared to have been made in the ceiling or dome of the vault. 
               A shadow fell upon the opening, and a voice exclaimed- 
               "Mrs. Wilson!" 
               Agnes started. 
               She recognized the voice-it belonged to the dwarf. 
               "Yes," she replied, in a voice soft and low from exhaustion. 
               "All right," said Stubbles, cheerily. 
               A rope fell into the vault. It touched the floor. 
               Not very much time elapsed before the dwarf made use of it, and descended. 
               Feeling in his pocket, Stubbles produced a taper and a box of matches. The chamber was soon illuminated. When his eyes got accustomed to the light, he gazed around him and saw Agnes extended upon the iron bedstead as if she had been a corpse. 
               Opening a knife, he lost no time in cutting the cord and liberating Agnes, or Mrs. Wilson, as he had called her, and she sat up. 
               Agnes was too weak to rise at first, but the dwarf, ever ready with an expedient, administered a stimulant to her, and she sat up. 
               "Thanks to you," replied Agnes, "I am free." 
               The dwarf led the way along the passage which brought them to a flight of steps. This conducted them to the open air, and Agnes breathed freely, for she was out of the power of Jabez Clarke, and she was happy, although she had, as the saying is, all the world before her once more. This had occurred to her so often that she did not feel so much alarmed as she would have done some years ago. 
               Agnes thought of Charlotte, and determined to seek her aid and counsel. 
               Charlotte urged Agnes to tell her history. 
               After Charlotte mixed Agnes a stiff glass of brandy-and-water, Agnes sipped a little of it, and said- 
               "I have been married twice, Charlotte. My first husband, Marmaduke Wilson, was transported through Miriam Moss." 
               "The wretch!" cried Charlotte. 
               "After that I married Lord Marchmont." 
               "Really?" ejaculated Charlotte, as if she did not more than half believe her. 
               Charlotte led the way through the folding doors into her bedroom: 
               Both the girls were toe tired to undress themselves, so they laid down on the bed in their things, just pulling some of the bed-clothes over them to keep them warm. Soon they were sleeping soundly. 
               Stubbles contrived to make himself tolerably comfortable on the hearthrug before the kitchen fire. 
               Without putting on her bonnet, Maria went out at the area door, which she left, as she called it, on the latch, and walked along the street. 
               Scarcely had she disappeared round the corner, than two men, who had been watching the house, emerged from a doorway on the opposite side of the street, and crossing over, they descended the area steps, lifted the latch, pushed the door open, and stood in the kitchen. 
               The two men advanced towards his unconscious body. They regarded it inquisitively for an instant; then one said to the other, "That's him." 
               This was soon accomplished, and Stubbles was a prisoner. 
               A rough shake aroused him. He sprang to his feet, and glared fiercely around him. He caught sight of the two men who had so cleverly captured him; and no wonder, for he was confronted with Inspector Wyman and the Finsbury Fox. They knew him well, and he also knew them. 
                
               The two policemen satisfied themselves by a careful scrutiny of the place that Stubbles was alone. 
               They had seen Agnes, accompanied by the dwarf, enter the house. 
               Agnes had come to a sudden resolution. 
               Putting her mouth down to Charlotte's ear, she whispered, in a slow but distinct tone- 
               "Send the dwarf to Lord Marchmont, and tell him that I am in the power of Count Val de Grace." 
               Although Charlotte was very much surprised and confused at everything she saw, she heard this, and was sufficiently awake to understand it. 
               "Send the dwarf to Lord Marchmont, and say that I am in the power of Count Val de Grace." 
               Agnes had not time to say more before Wyman seized her rudely by the arm, and compelled her to stand by his side on the floor. 
               "You are my prisoner," replied Wyman. 
               It was clear that if she wished to help Agnes in any way she could only do so by following her instruction to the letter. 
               Taking the candle she went to the kitchen. 
               The dwarf was still sitting there, with his hands handcuffed. 
               "They have got her," said Charlotte. 
               "I know it," he replied, laconically. 
               "But she said I was to tell you to go to Lord Marchmont, and let him know that she was in the 
                     powes
                     power
                   of Count Val de Grace." 
               "It shall be done, but first-" 
               "What?" 
               "Give me a file to remove these things." 
               He held up his hands, and showed the handcuffs. 
               Maria brought him one. 
               The dwarf no sooner felt himself liberated then he thanked Maria, and left the house. 
               It was raining when the dwarf halted before Lord Marchmont's house. 
               He looked up at the palatial residence of Lord Marchmont. 
               "Is Lord Marchmont within?" said the dwarf. 
               "What's your message?" 
               "Only this," replied the dwarf, and he wrote on a 
                     peice
                     piece
                   of paper- 
               "Agnes is in the power of Count Val de Grace! She is in need of succor." 
               Giving this to the footman, the latter took it in to Lord Marchmont. 
               The footman went away, and his lordship read and re-read the scrap of paper. 
               Ordering his carriage, he drove to the Count's residence. 
               "I come," said he to the Count, "to demand my wife. 
               "She is not here," returned the Count. 
               "I don't believe you," said Lord Marchmont. 
               This can only be wiped out with your blood," replied the count. 
               "Then we will decide it on the spot," said Lord Marchmont. 
               "I have pistols here," said the count. 
               "Lead on," said his lordship, folding his arms; "the sooner one of us ceases to exist the better." 
               "Precisely my view of the case," replied Val de Grace, cheerfully. "Come, my lord, follow me." 
               They now descended to the armoury above. They selected their weapons; a revolver containing six chambers, which he loaded; a sword of the finest temper, the best steel, and the most perfect workmanship. 
               Lord Marchmont made an inclination of the head, and the two noblemen began to strip themselves of their clothing; at last they stood in nothing but their shirts and their drawers. 
               "Come, sir," exclaimed the count, "let us to business!" 
               "I am at your service," was the reply 'Lead on." 
               The count needed no 
                     furthur
                     further
                   adjuration He stood with the handle of the door in his hand. 
                
               It was a terrible moment for both of these men; but more terrible to the count than to the English peer. 
               "Are you ready?" asked the count, in a voice which, in spite of his determined look, trembled a little. 
               Lord Marchmont noted the tremulous accents of the count; but his own voice was not one whit firmer when he replied, "I am." 
               The count closed the door, a little, then keeping his eye fixed intently upon his antagonist, who had raised his pistol, and levelled it dead at the forehead of his adversary. 
               Lord Marchmont endeavored, as far as was in his power, to concentrate the focus upon his adversary's forehead. He wished his ball to enter his brain, and so end the duel at once. 
               The door closed a little more; until only a small space remained for the light from the passage to enter by. 
               Suddenly the count slammed to the door with the greatest quickness. 
               They were in the dark. 
               Lord Marchmont was taken by surprise. 
               The count had cunningly counted upon this being the case. He had cleverly consumed at least five minutes in partially closing the door; and his adversary supposed that he would take his time about the remainder. 
               Keeping the pistol levelled, too, tired Lord Marchmont's arm a great deal; but, nevertheless, directly the door was slammed to, he fired. The shot went crashing through the door, flattening itself against the wall of the passage, whose hard exterior was opposed to its further progress. 
               A little round hole, through which a faint ray of light entered, was revealed; but so small was the hole, and so faint the ray of light, that it was not of any advantage to either of the duellers. 
               It sufficed, to show Lord Marchmont that he had, somehow or other, missed the count. 
               That nobleman had, with instinctive cunning, dropped flat upon his face on the ground directly he had shut the door. 
               He calculated with great reason that Lord Marchmont would not think of lowering his pistol, and he was right in his conjecture. 
               Winning the toss had not benefited his lordship in the slightest degree. 
               He had wasted a shot, and he had tired his arm; and, in addition to these two evils, he had put himself in a passion at his ill success. 
               Suddenly it struck him as only prudent to move a little on one side. 
               It was lucky he did so, for the next moment a ball whizzed past his ear and struck against the wall. 
               The flash of the pistol revealed the count's whereabouts to a certain extent, and Lord Marchmont immediately let fly another shot. 
               No cry of pain, no sound, resulted to indicate that he had been successful. 
               The fact was, the count had cleverly contrived to lie on the ground, but when he fired he had raised his arm as high as he could, and the flash coming from a certain distance from the floor, Lord Marchmont had been deluded into the belief that he should inevitably hit the count if he fired in the direction from which the flash had emanated. 
               A moment before they had fired shot and shot; now the advantage was in favor of the count. 
               He had one more deadly missile in his possession than had his adversary. 
               Both, of course, had denuded themselves of their boots, so that II they walked with great caution their movements would be inaudible. The only thing which would in the slightest degree betray the position of one to the other would be the breathing. 
               Lord Marchmont endeavored to walk round to where he thought the count was. 
               His plan was to stand still after he had gone a little distance and then sea if the count moved. 
               He did so. 
               Walking with the utmost carefulness, he skirted the wall, reached the corner, which he distinguished by its angular formation, advanced two paces more, and stood still. 
               Not a sound broke the horrible stillness that reigned in that room, soon to become the chamber of death; the scene of a murder, or perhaps of a double tragedy. 
               Lord Marchmont could not help his breath coming thick and fast, the agitation of the moment would otherwise have choked him. 
               The imprudence of not checking his sensations, at any cost, was, however, too soon apparent. 
               There was a flash of light close to him almost, a report, then a sharp, stinging sensation in his left arm. 
               Some hot fluid trickling down his shirt sleeve next aroused his attention, and he knew that he was wounded. 
               Before he had time to think, another shot thundered in his ear, but this time the bullet missed him. 
               Dropping on his hands and knees, Lord Marchmont crawled noiselessly away. 
               When he thought himself out of danger, he rose to his feet, and listened. 
               The drip, drip of his blood upon the floor only too well betrayed his position to the count. 
               A fourth shot left his opponent's revolver, but by some chance flew harmlessly past his lordship, who saw that unless he could stay the effusion of blood which betrayed his locality only too well to the count, he would be slaughtered in a very short time. 
               He moved again, and continued to walk round slowly, so as to mislead the count in case he fired again. 
               While moving he tore a piece of his shirt off, and wrapped it round his arm tightly, tying it as well as he was able in the darkness. 
               This had the effect of stopping the hmorrhage. 
               When the count heard the ripping noise made by the linen, he fired his fifth shot, but owing to Lord Marchmont's moving about, the shot did not hit him. 
               The count had drawn first blood, and he hoped that, as his lordship had not returned his last three shots, he had wounded him in some vital part. 
               This made him bolder than he otherwise would have been. 
               Lord Marchmont had decidedly the advantage in one respect, and that was that he had only fired two shots, whereas Val de Grace had fired five. 
               His lordship determined to hazard a shot on the first opportunity. 
               He was aroused by hearing a noise like the rustling of a piece of silk close to him. It came apparently from the right of him. It struck him immediately that it must be the count coming in search of him. He listened. He levelled his revolver, and held himself in readiness. 
               He heard it. Then he fired. A loud cry of pain rewarded this effort. 
               In that exclamation the count acknowledged himself hit. 
               Lord Marchmont had sense enough to leave the wall directly he had fired, and to go into the middle of the room. He saved his life by his forethought and decision, for the next moment a bullet struck the wall with great force. His lordship congratulated himself upon his narrow escape, and wondered where he had wounded the count. 
               The drip, drip of blood now proceeded from the unfortunate Frenchman, who had fired his last shot, and was now in a manner at his antagonist's mercy-at least, Lord Marchmont thought so. He little knew, as the sequel proved, the almost unlimited resources of Count Val de Grace. 
               It is true that he had fired his last shot, and that three chambers of his opponent's revolver were charged; but he still possessed his sword, and were that to fail him, his two-edged knife would no doubt stand him in good stead. 
               Lord Marchmont's wounded arm pained him a good deal, but as it was his left arm he did not care about it. He looked upon it as an insignificant scratch. 
               Certainly the limb might be of use to him in the event of his coming to close quarters with the count. 
                
               The count must have been losing blood very rapidly, for the monotonous drip continued. 
               The minutes went by once more; but very slowly-so slowly that their tardiness was painful. 
               In moments of great danger one's wits are sometimes preternaturally sharpened. 
               It was so with his lordship. 
               Lord Marchmont, in order to gain an advantage, laid down upon his back, with his head to the window, his feet towards the door, so that if Val de Grace pursued him he would inevitably trip himself up over the prostrate body, and fall down upon the floor. 
               Having taken up this position, Lord Marchmont waited impatiently for the result. 
               The count's wound did not bleed so quickly as it had done. 
               Time flew away; ten 
                     minues
                     minutes
                   had elapsed, when Lord Marchmont thought that he heard something. He held his pistol ready for the first chance. From the tremulous creaking of the boards there was no doubt that the count was approaching. This was Lord Marchmont's opportunity; he watched eagerly for it. It was not likely to slip through his fingers when it did come. It came sooner than he had expected. 
               The count stumbled over the body of Lord Marchmont, and fell upon the floor. 
               The peer was on his feet in an instant and his two barrels were discharged in quick succession at what he supposed to be the count's carcase. He would have leant over him and have made sure of his foe's death, but he remembered that the count still had one barrel which had not been discharged, and instead of killing anyone, he might have been killed himself. 
               It was this dread which held him back, and made him fire more at random. 
               The count, directly after the discharge of Lord Marchmont's remaining two barrels, let fly the only one he had left, and the duellists were equal again; although it was impossible to tell without light and inspection who was the most severely wounded. 
               The count's last shot went wide of its mark, and Lord Marchmont was unscathed. With a cry of triumph he threw away his still smoking, but now useless, pistol, and transferred his sword from his left to his right hand Then he rushed forward to where the count ought to have been lying, in order to continue this duel in the dark with the deadly toledo. 
               A struggle of the fiercest and most desperate character now commenced. 
               They were both equally armed. 
               Thrust after thrust was blindly dealt in the darkness. 
               But the efforts of the two maddened men grew feeble and yet more feeble. 
               Lord Marchmont gathered himself up for a final and decisive blow, when his foot slipped, and he fell into a puddle of hot and steaming blood. He expected the death-stroke, and yet it came not. 
               Lord Marchmont determined to rise to his feet and see how things really were; if the count was dead or mortally wounded, then he had conquered. 
               Lord Marchmont opened the door, and passing along the passage way reached a room. Upon one of the sofas the count was lying. He opened his eyes-they were becoming glassy. When he recognized Lord Marchmont he smiled sadly and shook his head. 
               "You are not dying?" said Lord Marchmont. 
               "I have not many minutes to live." 
               His eyes closed as he spoke. The death-rattle rumbled in his throat, and he was dead. 
               Thus expired Count Val de Grace, the most determined enemy that Agnes had yet had to encounter. 
               His thoughts flow at once to Agnes. How was he to get to her? He imagined that she was in the house, but he had no positive proof that such was the case. At last he found her. 
               Lord Marchmont bent tenderly her. 
               He kissed the unconscious girl rously. 
               She must have slept very lightly, the act awoke her. 
                
               "My darling, my long lost darling!" exclaimed Lord Marchmont. 
               "You here," she said, assuming an air of injured innocence and insulted virtue. 
               "Yes, Agnes, I am here. I received your message. I only want your assurance to perfect and complete my belief in your innocence. Say that my suspicions were groundless. Tell me that you are guiltless of any thought or intention to wrong me, and I will at once forgive you." 
               "Oh! how could you ever doubt me?" she said, bursting into tears. "I have ever been true to you." 
               He was by her side in an instant. 
               "I believe you. As God is my witness, I believe you," cried Lord Marchmont. 
               The sound of his voice recalled her to herself. 
               "Thank you for that," she said, raising his hand to her lips. 
               "This is not the place, my sweet pet," resumed Lord Marchmont, "for conversation. Let us leave it at once." 
               "Oh! yes, yes." 
               Hailing the first cab, Lord Marchmont ordered the man to drive to his residence, and, in a short time, Agnes was once more under the friendly shelter of his lordship's roof-tree. 
               It was a moot point with the journalists and reporters whether the count had been assassinated, whether he had committed suicide, or whether he had been killed in a duel. Each theory found its partisans. 
               Agnes soon recovered her happy spirits. She felt herself safe. She was once more happy. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               Marmaduke Wilson returned. He found Stubbles, and together they started for the vault in which Jabez Clark had confined Agnes. 
               "Chance threw your wife in his way; he confined her in this dungeon and tortured her in the most brutal manner, with the view of extorting money." 
               The dwarf, in a few words, told him in what the ill-treatment consisted. 
               The dwarf then caused Jabez to lie down on his back upon the bed. When he had done so, he bound him down so he could not move. He fixed his head the same way in which Jabez had fixed Agnes. The dwarf next felt in his waistcoat pocket, and produced a small phial. He drew a cork from the bottle and placed it on the table. It was labelled "Nitric Acid." 
               "The Lord help me," murmured Jabez. 
               Marmaduke was a silent spectator. He must suffer and endure the penalty his misdeeds have brought upon him. 
               The dwarf seated himself upon Jabez Clark's chest. He placed his finger upon his eye. Jabez was unable to move. Then with his finger and thumb he seized the lid and opened it. Raising the bottle of nitric acid, the dwarf allowed a drop of the burning fluid to fall upon the pupil. An agonised scream convulsed his frame. In an instant the skin of the eye contracted. His sufferings were intense. The eye was eaten up and became honeycombed. The sight was gone forever! 
               The dwarf now turned his attention to the other eye which he treated in the same way. 
               "Is it over?" asked Marmaduke. "Yes," replied the dwarf. "I have had my revenge. He will not very soon trouble any one again." 
               When Jabez came too from the swoon in which this pain had caused, he sprang to his feet. His persecutor had gone but he was in the dark. 
               "Oh, blind! Anything but this." 
               The once strong man moaned feebly, like some poor stricken wretch brought to the verge of the grave. To him in the future all was sealed-no sun, no flowers, no smiling landscapes to gladden his eyes. 
               It is by soliciting the arms of the charitable that he lives. 
               Marmaduke learned that Agnes supposing that he had died had married well. He did not disturb her, but sought his relatives and again married He made an excellent husband. Stubbles continued with him. 
               Miss Lavinia Leslie was disturbed one day by Scotch Meg, from Block-haven. She supposed she wanted some money. 
               "Take this. You would not have come all the way from Scotland for nothing." 
               Taking the purse with the utmost composure Meg put it in her pocket without looking at it. Its weight satisfied her, and said with a satisfied smile- 
               "Pure bairn!" 
               "Why do you harp on that string?" cried Miss Lavinia, angrily. "You have obtained what you want, now go." 
               "Not yet my leddy." 
               "Dare to trifle with me, and-" 
               "And what, my leddy?" 
               "Say on." 
               "The bairn lives!" said Meg, with the air of a person who is making an important announcement. 
               "Lives! you lie!" cried Miss Lavinia. 
               "Nae, my leddy, I never lie!" 
               "You do, I say!" 
               "Nae, nae; you thought you killed the bairn, but I saved it." 
               "You! How did you do that?" 
               "I did it." 
               "But how? tell me how?" 
               Meg thus abjured, gave Miss Lavinia the history of the whole transaction and told her how she had saved the child, and taken it to a friend's house. 
               Miss Lavinia's astonishment was intense. She could scarcely credit the good news that she was not after all a murderess. 
               "Where is the child now?" was Miss Lavinia's next question. 
               "In a cab, as you ca' your coaches, at the bottom of the street." 
               "Run and fetch it!" cried Miss Lavinia, eagerly. 
               Meg needed no further bidding. She left the house; shortly returning with a handsome boy in her arms. He could just walk, and contrived to lisp a few words of Scotch. His hair was light and curly, his cheeks red and rosy, and, altogether, he was a picture of health and good bringing up. 
               Miss Lavinia took the boy from Meg. It was a great load off her mind. She could not make too great a fuss for the good old Scotch woman, and nothing was too great for her to do for her. 
               It was arranged between Lavinia and Meg that when the child was restored to Agnes than they should say that the child was supposed dead. 
               Great was Agnes' joy in having restored to her care her child. She adopted it in the family and Lord Marchmont took great delight with it. It completed the bliss of Agnes. She asked no more With the great love of her husband she was happy. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
