
    ----CITATION----
        Falconbridge, (1818-1854). Marie Lessaire, or, The Ballet-girl's Love .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6999
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Marie Lessaire, or, The ballet-girl's love 
            
               MARIE LESSAIRE;
O1, TIlE

BA&amp;LET-GIRtL'S. LOVE.'.

BY   FALCONflRTDGEkFK?1!1
LSUO X01 'LIKE IN PRAIUI1I LLND,11 tLIFEl OF DAN MA1BL111RTO.1 ET.
NEW YOR~K:
WILLIAM SKE~jLY, PUBLISIIBE,
1o. 2x80 Greenwich Street.

'  ' '  / y          ,                             '/ '
'       r

z         .
'
F         " ,
.     ,
1;
. vi
'
a
', ,'
t
Rd
(^
3 . .
f   J. }
r    es"
C

i
'
'i

r
s
H
vk                                                      " s.


/,;

:1

MARIE LESSAIRE.

CHAPTER I.

Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1854,
By U. B. PEARsoN,
in the Clerk's Office of the district Court of the United States for the
Dititof Ohio.

THE P0oo ARTIST AND HIS FAMILY - TiE DRAMA o LIFE' A MAN IN iHS, ?IME
FLAYs MANY PARTS -- VICIsSITL'Rns OF, LIFE, AND ITS MANY CIAZGtS oF SCENE +
THIE R IEEAISAL, AND ENGAGEMENT.
"Aba! vish me one joy!    Five, sev-an, ten tousand great pla-
sair, Madame Lessaire-vish Marie mosh -ten .tousand great joy I
Mother ! mother! I have done with my rehearsal, I pleased the
maitre de ballet, I pleased the ballet, 1-"
"Marie please zu maitre de ballet; zo lea ier of z  orchestra lie i'y
bravo bravoo ! the young Mademoiselles salute her upon de lips, ze
ballet corps crowd very mosh roun and salute her two, five, fourteen
temps! Ev-air body cry bravo !"
And the poor.old Frenchman, in the exuberance of his enthusidm,
at the dawn of promise of his airy-like daughter, or at the success of
her final rehearsal as an artiste in the ballet of the Metropolitan The-
ater, made sundry gyrations and )erformed various pirouettes over the
floor of the limited area of his humble apartment. Marie threw her
tiny, sylph-like figure into the arms of her mother, unable to express
in more audible language than the quick anl intonating throbs of her
pure heart, the deep emotions of the moment.
The present, perhaps, will serve to give an outline of the artiste
and his interesting family. Monsieur Lessaire owed his birth to the
small dot on the sea which has secured a tart uichle in geographical
history, from having produced the greatestof all recorded' martial
heroes-need we name-Corsica. Early cast forth into the vortex of
human hopes and struggles for subsistence,' Lessaire, from thie scllion
'occupation of a smuggler's "loblolly boy,"-found his way into the
great world condensed-Paris--and soon atter, into the studio of an
artiste in images and fresco ornaments. This pleased the boy far
E~
t-,
~I6

/

* .   '

,; 7

S           a   . -        _
7

-w

l    y       r
a+                        _
{
'        1    l

q ,g
.jT


MARIE LESSAIRE.

11

MF1E LESSATRE.

better than the nautical duties of a junior drudge in contraband specula
tions, and he clung to it with a will and genius that so won upon the
confidence and regard of his master, thl upon his death he resigned
his shop and trade to Lessaire ; so tha at twenty the orsican boy
foundhiimself master of a little, happy independence as well as a
large shareholder in the heart an  * ~rity of the present Mad. Les-
saire, then the petite amour of a dozen of the young bouryeose of
her neighborhood, as well as the pct of her father, a gray veteran of
the orchestra of pme of the principal theaters of the French capital.
Young Lessaire won his prize;; the image-maker presently tinud
around him different and dearer works of art and nature than thoe
molded in clay and plaster. Lessaire loved music. For years he had
nourished this little penchant, until the exciteiuent of business and love
affairs, and the ardent dreams of matrimony, had all softened down
into fixed realities of domestic tranquillity and comfort, and then burst
a     forth this latent inspiration for music, like long pent-up volcanic fires,
slowing how strongly struggles our instinctive passions, which some
slight but fortuitous circumstance in the drama of life'gives vent,
and the pure flame becomes the bright star of our lucky future, or
the ignie fate of a perverse pilgrimage from the cradle to the
grave.
At thirty, Lessaire assumed the place of honor and profit on the
right lde of the leader of the orchestra, so-long held by Madame Les.
saire's father, who now, too old to fill a wind instrument or draw his
favorite bow, retired,.rejoicing in the proficiency lie had imparted to
his son-in-law, continuing to be his preceptor, as well as skill his lisp.
ing grandchildren in the earlier branches of his art, to the end of his
days, and then leaving his blessings, and little worldly store, the old
man was quietly laid in his toIib, and the well-love, long-worn vio-
lin of the grand ire, became tdevee  e   loomtefhe inage
maker and his family.         ve~~dhi-om6           h  na~
Gustave, Lessaire's eldest child, was, by consci'ption, enlisted in
Napoleon's grand arimy, at fifteen, a musician and a soldier. The
blow fell heavy upon Mad. Lessaire.  Gustave was their only son,
their first born, and a  most promising pupil in iusic and sculp-
ture; his father's fondest hopes were centered in tie boy, whale to the
mother he was heart, soul, and life itself. Few mothers do or Can
love like Frenchwomen, and as sue saw the boy depart in the train of
the greatest of warriors-while the clang of arms, the braying of trum
pets, and the loud viuas of the excited Citizens, told how enrapturing
the scene was to them-she wept as a fond mother, and saw, in the
obscure future, carnage and peril more distinct and apparent than the
ephetiier'al glories ef victory and triumnphant return.
Marie, the tiny duplicate of the uiiisician's wife in her blooming
hour, was left them ; the bright-eyed, little ringlet-deckedf creature
partaking more of heaven and its purity than mortal construction,

was left the angel of goodness and hope ; the bright star of their
heart an I home.
Timu passed ; the shock of.contending armies, the drain of blood
nd tranre of France, by Napoleon, at last threw gloom anwi sorrow
ver the Frenci capital. Hearths made desolate, and the forced levies
f fathers, brothers, and sons, to fill up the gaps of columns made
v id by ball and bayonet, disease, fatigue, and capture, hushed the
u ual merry ium, the gay, dashing, anl vivaciousness of the capital
men fled, or were carried off; families were desecrated or broken up
places of amusement were deserted or closed, and Lessaii'e saw naught
but da"k clouds of adversity arising in his future. Discharged ti*
the orchestra, the army or emigration was the choice; he could not
leave France, and his son away fighting her battles ; he could not
endure the idea of being separated from his little but precious family.
IIapily, to settle a point so full of importance to them, news reached
the'musician.that the son, in consequence of a wound received in an
engagement, would be discharged and return home. This infornma-
tion came to Lessaire in an unquestionable shape, and accompa-
nied also by a verbal injunction for the father to quit France as soon
as practicable. Fly to America, paid the son's message, at once ; the
Em peror will not leave an able-bodied citizen alive or unenlistel, if
this war continues; fly to America, with mother and Marie, my dear,
dear little sister, and I will follow-be sure of that, as soon as my
condition will permit.
The musician an his family prepared and left France with heavy
hearts' it was sa 1 to go, but death to stay. They left France. and
their 'kolized Gustave behind, never to be re-united in hope and hap.
piiess again.
Lai iig in th  great metropolis bf the South, New Orleans, es
"aire .ound'no dimcult in purmg erployinePt,hfoi his riu iea tal-
ents soonsmade money and friends ir him; and, as long as their hope
was green, 1for the daily expectation of clasping their dear Gustave to
_t       their arms, they were happy-the new world and its cares kept aloof
thoughts. or home, France, earlier friends, and kindred ties  But,
when weeks were succeeded by months,, and months settled into
two long years, the green bays of hope began' to fade and wither,
and unconsciously the parents wrote it down upon the privatetablet
of their hearts-our son is gone-dead, dead,, dead-gone forever
from us.
.      Marie was all, all left them  to bind them to life, its hopes ap4
cares; Marie, the young, the beautiful, so like heaven that she well
merited their adorative devotions. She was daughter, son, France,
home, every thing; the less heavy became the sorrows of renen-
brance for the lost son, the stronger and lighter became their hope,
joy, happiness, an'1 love for the daughter, whose budding lovelines
of person but equaled the qualities of her y.outhtul heart and gemius-

'i

e

I

("7

i
fi  i
,
tTyh
',
' ,
J
3
b
r
4
; j5',

4
P
r
f
Y
F
a


19

MARIE LESSAIRE.

At nine, she became proficient in music; the danse had no less attrac.
tions for her youthful. fancy, and she cultivated this art with such a
fervor that at ten years of age she was considered not only a 1irtuoeo
in music, but belle of the bah des assembl.'es Nouvelle d'Or-leans.
At this time, Mons. Lessaire had been in America five years; his
talents aided by bon fortune, had enabled him to realize-in cornece-
tion with his little savings, patrimony, etc., brought from home-a
very snug competence fhr future arlvents. Iope and fortune now
began again to revive the hopes of the expatriated family ; the sunshine
f. Jtappoiss began to cast its broad rays of refulgent light down upon
their patti ol life.            ~ai onuo
Experience teaches the most indifferent observer of life's changes,
that human happiness and repose hangs by a very delicate thread : the
slightest flaw severs it; and from high hopes and bright fortune, we
fall into the pits of' despair, or writhe with poverty, until death closes
the eventful drama.
Oh ! how sorrowfully did the musician and his family realize this
uncertainty of earthly promises and expectations, for in one unlucky hour
Mons. Lessaire fonnd the entire bulk of his little fortune swept from
him by a financial crisis that spread over the country some years ago.
The blow was heavy and terrible enough, but another followed ; le
was prostrated by the epidemic of the country, yellow fever, while his
wife and lovely daughter were soon also fast bOund in the fetters of
the same deadly disease. Friends, acquaintances, they had plenty, but
as all were alike more or less steeped in the same dire pecuniary calam-
ity, and physical scourge of the climate. the bonds of friendship, regard
for talents, genius, and station, were either so greatly relaxed or neu-
tralized as to leave each to struggle in his oten miisfortune, single-
handed, as best he might. The poor musician survived both the loss
of his fortune an-l health, but the stronghold of the mind ,was so
inroaded, the physical capacities so shattered, that the capable and
fortunate preceptor of the most popular musical academy in the south-
ern ,metropolis, of a few weeks previous, 101111(1 himself scarcely able
to fill the duties of lea thing the orchestra of a very indifferent-theater.
To men of mind, aI pecuniary prostration is nothing, compared to
loss of caste by deientation, or loss of capacity for their usual and
loved pursuits. This so agonized Mons. Lessaire that he deternminied
to leave the second scene of his prosperity and happiness, for new and
diverting ones, that time migut the more readiy deface or enveil his
afflictions. Paris of the new continent, New York, became his mark,
and after the restoration of his health, and that of Mad. Lessaire and
Marie, and , an affectionate fimitwell to such few friends as really
remained to them, they sailed thither.
Many youthful hearts beat sorrowinl when "ad'eu " was pronounced
by the charming little angel friend, Marie ; and she, though  flying al
that childish delight attendant upon jaunt and travel, breathed deeply

M~ARIE L ESSA1RE.

13

and sadly as the companions of hen sunny hours 'and merry sports,
pleasures and pastimes, hovered around, and each presented some
petite b jouterie or amulette as a simple offering of real, hearts to be
indly remembered.
There was one, a dark-eyed, elegantly-featured boy, who stood pen-
sively aloof as his young friends gathered about the deparimg idol of
their little coterie, waiting for a parting word from one whom it was
evident he, of all the rest, was most loth to desire, yet anxious to have.
The youthful "queen of hearts " turned to the boy, and withi a side
glce so coyish and penetratingthat his gage was fairly inverted,
iegcwhile a glow of real bashfulness overspread his well-defiled features,
-    she said:yo
"Oh, Georgy, you there? Well, adieu; bless you, bless you all,
all-we shall meet again."
" I-I hope we shall, often, Marie," replied the stammering boy,
as lie still held the tiny rosy fngers of his little goddess. "I've
a present, Marie," he continued, "'t is not much,. but pray accept it,
and-"
"Keep it, keep it, dear Georgy, for your sake, I will ;" and as she
said this, the little belle gave the still confused boy a hearty shake of
the hand, accepted his enveloped packet, saluted her lovely little
female friends, bade them twenty times over adieu, and the scene closed.
The calamities that had so desolated hearths and fortunes n the
southern metropolis, had dealt no lighter with the great nort ern ei-
porium. Mons. Lessaire found New York ny thing but ,li El'Do-
rado to him. A brief engagement in a musical school tei mated
with a serious siege of illness ; a stranger in a strange land minnahis
situation deplorable enough. They had sold such and all of t 'r
worldly effects as were disposable, prior to, leaving .the South; ;e
proceeds of these disposals, in sickness and without the mean f
replenishment, soon drained the last sous from their purse, and at the
end of the first year, Moris. Lessaire and his family were on the verge
of hopeless misery and poverty. What to do, whither to turn, the
poor musician knew   not. In a stroll through one of the many
crowded thoroughfares of the great city of wealth and poverty, vice,
rr -      virtue, despair-hungry, sad, and weary, the poor musician encoun-
tered an old and familiar face; they rush together, they clasp each
other warm and cordially by the hand. The familiar face belonged to
an old musical friend, with whom Lessaire had drawn the bow in the
orchestras of Paris, and the meeting was one of great joy to Mons.
;        Lessaire. Reasonably so, for it led to immediate personal assistance;
the brother musician accompanied Lessaire to his obscure abode, and
soon relieved it of the pecuniary depression hanging over the fallen
fortunes of the little and interesting family.
. "Be happy, and cheer' up, mon chere," .said the ben vivant music
clan ; patting the lovely Marie upon the cheek, and kissing her little

rI

I'
I
I

L

/

n                           '


J
9
T    r
b

tAEtlE LESSAIIE.

1$

hand ; he turned to Madame and bade her be of good heart ; "better
things in store for you."
"Care killed tle cat, mon bon amie!  Get you some refreshments
Lessaire, and then go with me, I will introduce you to the leader of
the orchestra at the theater; he is an Englishman, but a good fellow;
we want artistes for the new ballet; you shall do well. That is right,
look lively, mon bon komme; now come along; idieu, Madame ; au
revoir, Mademoiselle Marie; come, Monsieur."
And with a much lighter heart and foot, Mons. Lessaire followed
Mignard, his loquacious and good-hearted friend, to the  theater;
where a brief interview with a musical director was sufficient to pro-,
cure a situation, the best lie could command in the shattered state of
his health,.and more affected spirit of ambition that characterized his
early essays in the art. 'The situation was subordinate, and pay inca-
ger, but he felt eager to be employed, and the desire to resist the
attacks of squalid poverty, and give cheerfulness to his fireside, nerved
him to the task. And once more their little home assumed an air of
comfort and vivacity. Marie was now a well grown girl, light and
agile as the antelope, graceful and beautiful as a fairy; the few who
saw her could but love and reirember her. Cut off from the gy
scenes  and merry companions of lr late southern home, poor girl,
she passed her time but drearily enough, at best. But, inheriting all
the naivette and vivacious temperament peculiar to Parisians, she did
not sour her face or mind with mortifying chagrin because of her pov-
erty. No, the dear girl made the best of her sombre fortune ; she
merrily fingered their old piano, companion of all their meanderings;
sang to her mother~the merry airs of la belle France, and their sun-
shiny days; tired of this, the father at home, he would draw the bow,
and the sylph-like girl practiced and improved her dance, little
dreaming, however, at the time, that her perfection in this graceful
art of motion would make her as great a pet with the public of the
theater as she had ever been in the grand balls of New Orleans.
Marie frequently attended her father to the morning rehearsals, so
that in the course of a few months she becanie familiar and quite a
favored visitor to the attaches of the establishment. One great artiste
in the ballet had visited the country with such immense success, that
negotiations had been opened between the manager of the Metropo-
litan Theater and another of the most famed danseuse in Europe.
She was on the eve of coming over; her maitre de ballet and others
of her attaches were already rehearsing and preparing for her debut.
Mons. and Mad. Lessaire were prod of their daughter's proficiency
in dancing, though it never occurred to them to allow Marie to dance
in the ballet. Necessity, the famed mother of so much invention,'
suggested to Mons., and lie to Mad. Lessaire, the probable profitable-
ness likely to result from Marie engaging in the cope de ballet of the
great danseuse about to visit the country. A little meditation resolved

them to enlist their child in the ballet corps at once ; and interview was
held with the maitre de ballet, a few rehearsals were given, and the
already great proficiency in the art, elegance and grace of the young
Parisian, at once claimed.for her the first position, in the ballet corps.
This was an advent of great and unexpected joy to the poor musician;
and when at last, after many rehearsals of his daughter's, the maitre
de ballet cane to Lessaire, shook his hand, complimented his child,
assigned her her position with a salary of twenty dollars per week,
he was almost wild with joy, and ran home with Marie under his arm,
at a pace that fairly astonished the loungers in the streets.

1
i'
+"_
1
s"
3 "
i
}
(
f       t
" { 33
S ..
G
r
y
1
5        r
I f
F       +    }
i
a            t
i
t
r
,           !

'4

CH APTER II.
tui TarALS AND MOPTIcICAfONS- oF POVERTY-THE COOsULTATION-.ANOTUER CHUB
ACTER APP'EAIiS--A LANDLORD'S PHILOSOPHY-DESPAIR--THE LUCKY PRESENT'--
A/SCENE WITH POLICE IN IT-A FRIEND IN NEED CVRIOUBLY DEVELOPED.
The joy of Mons. Lessaire scarce knew bounds; he embraced and
kissed fJarie, lie embraced his wife, and shouted in the accents of his
buoyant spirits.
"We shall now be happy, we shall now be able to live in ze com-
fort once more, again. Marie will be ze good angel to bring 'us
happy-ness."
Mad. Lessaire was more thoughtful of the practical. Marie had
gone on with her rehearsals, it is true, without either of their arriving
at any definite idea of the result, or, in case of her success, what
would be necessary to prepare, in way of wardrobe, and the etceteras
of a ballet dancer's equipment. It was to be thought of now.
"Marie must have ze grand bal costume, ze satin slippaire, z
bouquet, and great wreath of Paris flower. Ah! mon Dieu, vat sail
we door him?$ "
"We have not a dollar in the world," said Mad. Lessaire, in a very
~ desponding tone.
"That is true, very true," responded Mons. IL., as he paced the
poorly furnished and dingy apartment. "But I will see the manager,
I Will tell him  our pov-air-tee, he will advance Marie the sum fos
wardrobe; we shall see."
" Who is that.? 'Run, Marie, and see who knocks."
"Oh! it is our friend,, mother, Mons; Mignard ;.bon soir,.Messiour,
come in."

I
L.

LARIE LES8AIRtL

J i
J1

i

i


1O

MARIE LESSAIRE.

MARIE LESSAIRE.

"Aba ! ha! my little queen, it is you; pardon me, Marie, I wish
you great, great joy; the engagement will set you all right. Mons.
,M arie will make a great 'it, she will succeed, she will he very
popular, and she will make much money for you all, my good friends,"
exclaimed Mignard.                              Y           ,
"But we have misfortune," said Madame lessaire.
Misfortune !. How is that?" inquired the jolly musician.
"Alas! we have not a sous, Monsieur, to purchase dresses for
Marie's debut."
"That is bad," pondered the musician, "that is bad, I did not think
of that. Alas ! I am poor too, I have not enough money in the world
to buy her shoes!"
"What shall we do? ° what shall we do?" despondingly echoed the
father; "we shall have no money, no friends."    a
"keep good heart now, mon here amoie," replied Mignard- "I
will tell you what to do; apply at the office, the manager will advance
at least one week's salary, that will do to begin,'you see."
"I have thought of him," responded Lessaire ; " to-night we will
see him, if os-e-bil."
"Do so, Monsieur; but keep good heart; Mademoiselle shall yet
have her grand costume de ballet, and, with, the assistance .of very
little ornament, she will be the little fairy belle of the grand dan$e.
Mad-      is expected to arrive to-night or to-morrow from Europe,
and the ballets will begin at once
.Oh! I 'n so anxious 1o begin," said Marie, " that I care not how
plain or little my dress may be."'
"That's right, my little angel, keep good heart; the maitre de bal-
let, the musicians, every body, safs you are sure of the grand success -
keep up good courage and all is well."
And the man of hope and jollity, who, poor fellow, received but a
nominal sum for his services? had nothing t,' spare his friends, left
them as abruptly as lie had visited them.
Ie had scarcely gone from-the house, when, without knock or " by
our leave, quite a diflferen) personage entered. Ie was the land-
lord ofthe premises ; rent was due him ; the vicissitudes of human
nature was onesithing, and money making was another. Like count-
less thousands of one-idea people, old Prog, the landlord, could see
no reason why people were poor, moneyless, and unable to pay rent,
at least !
"We can 't keep property for those who do n't pay up their rent;-
my maxim is, pay your rent if you cheat the undei-taker. While
you live you must have a house to live in, you know; if you die, why
a-a-there 's somebody bound to put you' away, do n't you see ?¢" said
the old Shylock.
" I now comprehend, Monsieur. - I have no money, sair, not one
sous; I have ze great misfortune," replied the musician.

" Come, come, Monsher, it is no use for you to go into a long rig-
marole about Voum' mistortunes ; itf listened to people's nmistortunes,
I'd come out at the little cud of the horn. 'Taint the way I got my
money and property. There 's that gal of yours, what does she del
Bhe's big enough to earn something, an 1 oauht n't t  b3 i le.
My poUr child will soon be employed ; alas ! I once hoped my
children iould nev-air come to want. pov-air-tee, or be obliged to seek
employment among the stran-gairs, but it must be so now," said Mons.
Lessaire, inma tone of sorrow.
" Of course she should go to work," responded (old Prog; " none
of you should be idle when your rent is (ime ; it is n't law or gospel.
The first duty of a Christian is to pay his rent, punctually and taith.
fully ; there is no earthly sin so bad as cheating a landlord, and if ]
had the making of the ten conmminaniments, I would make'cmi eleven-
the last should be-whosoever swi lieth his landlord, by rung o
at night and leaving a month's or week's rent due, shall be damms
straight; yes, I wouldl" and to clinch the determination, 01(1 Prog
brought'his heavy gold-headed cane down upon the floor, with such a
rap that the corls of the piano vibrated.
"Yes and there you've got a pianer, too ; pretty note, can't pay
your rent. elhi ?Gota pianer ail can't pay your rent I Go sell the
thing. carry it down to auction and sell it. set your gal to work, pay
me imy rent by the end of the week, or I'll finda way to get it pretty
soon," si(1 the renimorseless love' of gold.
" Monsieur," said Madame Lessaire, " we are, through much mis-
fortune, very pool' ; our daughter has just obtained an engagement at
the Theater ; we have just debated how we ever can furnish oun
daughter with dresses for her )el'o'mmmanee."
" Ohm, ho, going on the stage, eli? Does she sing, dance, or play
the pianer, or what does she do ? "
" Marie does all three, Monsieur," replied Madame.
"Well, I come to look at her, she looks like a smart gal enough
how oldis she ? " asked old Prog.
In her thirteenth year, Monsieur."
" Pretty good siz dgal; come here, sis, let me look at you."
Manners and courtesy are born in the French. Marie, though
accosted in a rude and uncivil manner, approached the old ruffian with
gaiety and good humor.
" Nice little gal enough ; so you are going on the stage, e?"
X Yes, sir," modestly replied'Marie.
" What part are you going to take in the theater?"
"1 am to dance in the ballet. sir."
"Dance in the bully, eh? Well, I suppose you will get better wages
than working in a shop or doing house-work, and dancing is more fun
than work for the young ; it used to be to ime" '
"It is very fatiguing, sir," responded Marie.

!i

f

Lt

i
i
i
r
a
R
f i
i
t'
t

{ it
i}
fFrF       i
SFq}      ;
-r
i       [1
s      d


I

MARIE LESSA1IRE.
"Oh, yes, every thing becomes fatiguing and hard when it is called
work; how much will you get a week for dancing?"
Twenty dollars, sir; I believe my father said so."
# Yes, mmy child, that is it," answered the father.
"Twen-ty dol-lars a week !" echoed old Prog, "why, God bless
te, you'll get rich at that."
Marie and her parents were forced into a smile, when the mother
reptil'd,
" The salary, Monsieur, will come very timely for us; it is not much,
after my daughter's expenses are paid out of it, but she-will get better
said presently.
"Well, I do 'at .know what you call good wages, or how you can
mpnage to spend so much money, but I know I could make a decent,
fortune on twenty dollars a week in the course of a few years. You
lnght to live cheap, be saving and close ; lay out no money in nick.
nacks, gew-gaws, or toru-foolery; save your money and pay your
ent punctually, and you hl get along easy enough, and lay by money."
"Well," lie continued,   when do you expect to pay the rent?"
"Alas! Monsieur, we do not know. Our daughter will commence
er engagement next week, but we are now in great trouble."
4' Great, trouble I Why, what's the matter now ? "inquired Prog.
"We have not the means of getting our daughter the necessary
resses for her  ppearance on the stage ; we know not what we
shall do, it will cost us twenty-five or forty dollars to procure dresses."
"That's bad business, that's a fact ; but if you stir around yoy 'It
aake it out somehow, I suppose; I'll wait a few days longer,hen
L'Ii send my son after the rent, and do n't you fool me; have your rent
heady, and you'll find me your friend.".
Valuable friendship this, fold sinner and gold seeker. It is the same
Ieihgion, however, pervading human society every where; some may
rot so boldly or unblushingly acknowledge their motive for friendly
sessions, but at the bottom of the well the keen observer will, find
aic truth of the matter. Self-interest, after all is said and done, is the
main-spring of the human mind and heart. The statesman, soldier,
and artist, like the farmer, mechanic, an] maiden, if you will, with
patriots, philosophers, tnd preachers, all have a mission to perform ;
that mission's propulsive power is self-interest, more or less developed
&amp;o the eye of the observer.                       e
Cares and ills of life seldom come singly ; the poor artist, on the
eve of distraction at his perverse. fortunes, becomes a little elated at
the tiny star of hope arising in the dark horizon of his fate, in the
shape of his darling child. But this little hope is depressed with
obstacles that naught but money can move ; of that he has none, and
even when feeling his way along through the dim vista of life's pass-
age, he mects a relentless ghoul, who, insteal of fanning and fostering
the worthy motive of the poor musician's heart and mind, by patronage

MARiE LESSA'RE.
and soothing words, he drives hope and energy nearly from his cast-
down soul, and with the cold and careless apathy of a man bent
upon his own pecuniary salvation, adds to the load of a suffering
fellow creature,. in place of lending him friendly advice and, encour-
agement. Prisons and penal codes are all numerous for punishment
of vice; there are also sympathizing societies for condoling with the
vicious and condemned, but none seem to care for the struggling,
hard-faring, and brave-fighting, virtuous poor, who, alone, single-
handed, heroically breast the manifold temptations and pangs of pov-
city in the grand battle of life. If they triumph, they are scarel4
recognized, and~ no wise exalted; if they fall, the common hand
andl tongue are turned with the deadly venom of a viper against them.
In a mood of dark and gloomy thought, the poor muisician sought
his way to the theater ; the manager was absst, and his .subordinate
infiomed Mons. Lessaire that they never adyhnced salaries. lie spoke
to the maitre de ballet; that person declined, as he stated he had no
instructions or means to prepare the principals of the ballet with
wardrobe, which was costly, and always provided. at the expense.of
the danseuse.
"What shall I do?" sighed the poor Frenchman, as he sat in the
orchestra. "Marie must appear ; it will lead to ze grand advantage.
She must appear, but how?  how can we procure ze costume, I do
not know, ah, I do not know ; we shall hope for somezing better."
The night was cold,-cheerless, and dark; by a handfhl of coals
burning in the contracted grate of their very obscure apartment, sat
Mad. Lessaire and her daughter - Marie's head reclining on the lap
of the mother, who was beguiling the heavy hours of absence of the
husband and father, by tales, stories, and reminiscences of their natal
ipme-la belle France.
"She sleeps, dear soul," at length said Mad. L. "Poor child, that
we should ever live to hope for better days through thy providence and
'abor ; but heaved bless poor dear. Marie, no sacrifice or tatigue of
dine would be too heavy or toilsome for thy good heart to make foir
papa or mama."
Mother," said, Marie, without changing her position, "dear
another, I have just been thinking
"have you not been sleeping, dear child I"
"No, dear mother, I've been thinking how we shall manage our
little trouble; I have some jewels, some presents made me, you knows
by our friends of New Orleans; there is that handsome bracelet pre-
sented by George Pinckney, we all think it set with diamonds; it the
stones be real diamonds, then it is valuable, dear mother, and we can
surely sell it for enough to buy all that I require for my debut, au
after nights."
Malaie Lessaire remained thoughtful a few moments, but soon
eplied--
2              9

1'1

11
A ,

;
#
3
t.
r

;

!,
'


-R
f

so

"Dear Marie, we must not rob you of your presents from yoni
yoang and dear frier.s, though we come to beggary and want."
it ;s my free ,:., dear mother; I love it, it is dear to me, it is
beautiful, but poor dear lather must not. be so cast down and fretted
as he is; he has no means, 1 have ; here it is, dear mother ; it has
been praised and valued by mansi,'; I love it for memory's sake, but I
part with it freely. IHa! there comes my father; not a word, mother,
until he has spoken ; I will surprise poor, dear, dear father."
Marie flew to open the door for her lather, and wet and' cold as he
was with rain and piercing air, she embraced him, and then took his
od violin case toput it away in its accustomed place.
"Ah, good, good child, mon chere Marie ; it is too bad, it is too
bad, that fortupe serves me so,. now, at this time."
"Never mind, dear papa, never mind, all is well ; I will soon make
you happv; content and happy. I will, dear papa."
" o you would, my child, but it is too much sacrifice for you ; no,
no, you shall not: 1 will work fing-air to ze bone,'I will throw way my
violin, I will go to ozzar vork, I will no longer let my fmi-i-lee suf-
stir what they have."  And the poor-old musician wept, striking a
chord as sensitive in the breast 01' his wife and daughter, as they par-
took of his grief. But he rallied.
"Nev-air uind. I will not despair ; there is a little som-sing in
my neairt, whicnm teems me evai' so plain, Monsieur, keep good heart,
Xl wi oc weni azain, once more. I will hope. But I have made no
arran-ge-ment with tho manager ; the maitre de ballet lte do nothing;
I know not what we shall do, Marie, for ze costume."
But I do, dear pupa, I di,," said the joyous-hearted little fairy.
" Marie win sei ner presents, hem' jewels," interrupted the mother.
No, nevarr!" exclaimed the musician, with (nergy.  " I will
[lever roe ily emMiil or'her Jgouterie for our support, for my wants.
No, Iotiiib  win ~axe tier (10 that."
"'lucy ne 11ie. ear papa," responded the child, "it is my free
will ; see, here is a oracelet, I want it not ; it is, perhaps, valuable;
I will sell it, purchase iimv dresses for iny appearance, amid soon be able
to iiia~iie as oret a.; ort 'ur .Ute misery and misfortune,
"Weil, Marie is a  'ood gir, a sensible one ; I think we shall fi:id
it best to disuose of whrt we do not want, to help us over our 1'resent
nec,Lie   I, salm 10a, .. " 1lusband,"she continued, "here is your
little supper: -et it. dice" 'p, al to-morrow morning go to the jew-
tier, anu see wma' wIecan 'et for Marie's trinket."
-" \ emy ae1, veiy wei ; if we must we must, 'but I am sorry it has
nie to this," said Molis. L.
Next iimorimnr. tried poor mn'sician sought the jeweler ; the man eyed
ion5. L. cusetv ; mns snaoby genteel exterior gave risd to some
suspiciuvsi.
"Is this your property ?" lie asked.

MARIE LESSAIRE.

21

"My prop-air-tee?  No, Monsieur, it is not mine."
"how did you come by it, then?" returned the jeweler.
"It was a present, Monsieur, a present from a friend."
"Ohio! yes, I see; wait one moment.- John," said he, scribbling
-   few lines on a card, and handing it to his clerk, "take this to Mr.
Brown, and tell him those things are ready(!)" The clerk took the
hint and started, while the jeweler beguiled the few minutes that
passed, in examining the bracelet, and praising its very handsome
appearance. But what was Mons. L.'s surprise when the clerk
entered with a rough, rude looking man, who addressed'the jeweler.
" Is this-the feller?"
"Yes; here he offers a bracelet for sale, which is worth a hundred
dollars, and can not give any satisfactory account how it came in his
possession!."
"Mon Dieu! what is this you shall mean, elm ?"
"Come along with me, old feller;" said the officer, rudely grasping
the poor musician, and endeavoring to drag him from the shop. He
would liste to no explanation, but took Mons. L., accompanied by
the jeweler, to the police office, where the poor Frenchman was so
nervous and agitated as to be scarcely able to give the explanation
necessary for his release; but which lie finally did in such a touching
and simple manner as to greatly win upon.'the good feelings of the
jeweler, who, after Mons. L.'s discharge from custody, insisted on
his return to the store, and told him that he would not buy the brace-
let, but in consideration of the apparent distresses of his family
would advance him fifty dollars on it; place it in his show case, and
keep it for a year or more, that Mons. L, might redeem it, should he
ever be able or desirous of doing so. Mons. L. poured fortlh a torrent
of thanks, accepted the money, shook the jeweler fraternally by'the
hand, aid imade his way home with a lighter heart and brighter smite
than had cheered his lonely way for a long, long time. The poor
musician's adventure of the morning drew smiles and tears from his
wife and daughter; but now they were once more afloat, hope onc,
more her cheering smiles supplied the homu of the danseuse.

MARIE LESSAIRE.

s f
£      r
4
R
1
9
a
t
6-
i
t
Y s
Y
r
ks          .r s
k
-
i
}{2.
i
f

ti
b
)
(4(
1
{


MARIE LESSAIRE.
CHAPTER III.
'IBE RAKES PROGRESS--FATHER AND SON--AN EVERY-DAY SCENE 0I A GREAT METROP-
OLIS-HTHE ARTISTS STUIO-ANOTHER LIF SCENE-A NiEVOUS MAN AND A
MAN 0f NERVE--THE FINISHED PORTRAIT, AND no0w iT WAS DONE.
"There is no use in talking about it, old man, I tell you I must
have a hundred dollars to-night, or damn me."
"Well, well, let it go, if I must I must; but, hark you, sir, you
will bring your father's gray hairs to a premature grave ; you'll bring
disgrace and shame to your family; you'11 ruin and rob me, and-
and-oo to the devil at last, you scoundrel, you."
" Well, dad, there are plenty of our relatives there and on the
road. If I go to purgatory, you can console yourself that I'nrot the
first of the lamiy that went in that direction."
You lie, you-you scamp, there 's not one of your father's or
mother's kith or kin that ever conducted themselves in such an out.
rageous, rascally, spendthrift manner' as you have, sir."
No ! well. then the, world cursedly libels the memory of our
ancestors, dad, for there 'a a devilish sharp rumor that your old dad
and two of your brothers saved themselves a formal introduction to
JackKetch, by taking an Atlantic trip to America, once upon a
time."
"'What'a that ? you infernal scoundrel ! "
"Oh, only   little smuggling, dad, somehow or other mixed up
with a suspicitm of piracy! You see 1 'in quite posted up, old boy,
in the genealogy of the family!"
Old Josiah Prog -- for it was he and his interesting eldest 'son,
Josiah Prog, Jr., engaged in the above discussion--grew livid in the
face; he l)aced the apartment, nervous with rage; he would have
smote his rakish, dissolute son with a look, could he have conimanded
such a basilisk virtue ; but, after walking, snorting, and snufiing him-
self somewhat free of his gall ; during which tiine young Prog sat
twirling his watch seals, enchantingly cool, around his fingers ; he
approached a large, old-fashioned secretary, seated himself, and began
to overhaul various memorandums, bills, etc.
"Joe Prog, listen to me," said the old miserly creature.
"Upon one condition," answered the hopeful. "No sermons."
"ou '11 not hear many more from me, 1 promise you."
"Amen," replied the son. "Now go ahead, for I 've engagements
this morning, and no time to lose."
" Engagements ! yes, engagements to rob your poor old gray-haired
parent of his hard, honestly earned dollars, to squander on gambler$

MARIE LESSAIRE.
and narlots; them 's the engagements and contracts you are daily
making and fulfilling."
"Cut it short, cut it short, old man, come to business-no more of
our fictions, philosophy, and puritanical groans ; you know me and
I [ know you."
"I wish to God I could contradict that," moaned the father.
"The possibility would be cursedly agreeable to me; I've thought
so a thousand times, dad ; but go on, let us settle this little business
matter first; then talk of abstract matters and things afterward."
"Joe Prog, you're a villain," muttered the old man, as he fum-
bled around aiong his papers. -
" Thank'you," replied the son, "it's hereditary, old fellow."
"Joe Prog," continued the father, without seeming to notice the
reply of the son.
"Sir," answered Joe.
"I 'ye not ten dollars in the world."P
"Come, old man, do n't forget you own a pew in St. Pauls, and
occupy it with a sabbatical regularity that astonishes. your oldest
acquaintances; that won't do."
"You villain, do you want to contradict your father ?",
"My dear sir," said the son, in a mock respectful manner, "not for
the continental universe !"
"Then, I tell you, I've not ten dollars in the world. Do you hear
that?"
"Yes, I hear that ; and I know you have not ten dollars in that old
rat trap before you-your world. Where your heart and soul is
nourished and fed, that is your world, peopled by bundles and pack-
ages of writs, deeds, bonds, mortgages, bills, and contracts, greasy,
filthy parchments, and various accounts against me, as well as others ;
not ten dollars there? why, I could grab ten thousand there, in the
dark'" said the son.
" I've plenty of -bills here, Joe, to collect," rejoined the father,
"plenty of bills. If you'll throw off that finery, put on plain busi-
ness apparel, look like, and act like, a resolute business man, that
people's whines and lies could not shake, I'd--I'd give you a hundred
dollars to go out this afternoon and collect me five or six hundre i
dollars to meet bills to-morrow ; now there's a chance, Joe, to turn
an honest penny; earn money first, then the joy and satisfaction of
spending it is doubled!"
"ha ! ha ! why, curse me, dad, if I do n't think it gives you more
real pain to spend your hard earnings than I to get a chance in helping
you alono- with it. That cock won't fight, dad."          ,,
"Joe frog, do n't you ever intend to be steady, sober, and serious?"
"My dear, venerable father, did you ever see a steadier, more seri-
ous, and sober man of three and twenty, than the young gentleman
now press ut?"

42

f
,4    ,
't' .
R
f
G
4  .
'    r ,
A
C    j_
Is
_  -c
"I

F
i
.
5 '
i'_
Y'

°   r
;G ,' }
.


MARIE LESSAIRE.

24                  MARIE  ESSATRE.

"how long would you be so, if I put a hundred dollars in your nd I
that s the question."
"The profundity of the interrogative, dad, requires a little too much
mathematical investigation for my present stock of leisure time; there-
fore, let us postpone the subject to a more convenient season ; give me
fifty dollars down, and I'll take your iiote for another difty, payable in
ten days, and hang me if I bother you again -"--
"For a day or two, I suppose," interrupted the old man.
"No, not for a whole week, for l'm going out of town to-morrow
morning, and will be gone six days sure. Come, fork gut; do n't be
so cussedly peevish and stingy, dad; you know that I'in the only one
of the family that does draw on your purse; there is Bill and 'Ned,
so busy with their law and physics, they hav'nt time to spend a dollar
if they knew how; there's the girls, too, married off out of the way;
and little Nance, too young to require capital; so you see  dvil-
ishl palpable the fact is, that I 'in entitled to a large per cci t. on our
income, merely to keep np the dignity of the house of Prog  It's a
cussed poor family, says Shakspeare, or somebody else, that can't keep
up one gentleman.",
"Blast Shakspeare, and his play-acting nonsense ; if he had been
an honest, upright, industrious young man, and paid as much atten-
tion to the honest pursuits of his father-wool-growing and farming-
he 'd been able to iave left more substantial proofs of his genius than
a bundle of play-acting nonsense for people to throw their money
away on now-a-days."
"Pounds, shilhinos, and pence, el, dad I Large landed property,
and a dozen curmudgeon heirs, the whole stock, root, and branch of
which would have been scattered and forgotten a hundred years ago.
Do n't venture, dad, in this enlightened age, to speak of the genius
and works of the great bard with any expressions but those of venera-
tion and eulogy, for the light of his mind will burn the brighter with
each succeeding generation. But this has nothing to do with our little
business transaction. What say you to the fifty down, and note for
the balance at ten days ? "
"Can't do it, you've drained me dry. I've paid your bills, time
and again ; I 've kept you up in your, folly and extravagance as long
as I can stand it, and I 'in obliged to stop off your supplies, at lasts
and try the virtue of force, when all my good counsel, prayers, and
entreaties have failed."
"So you are going to shut down on me, el? Well, I told you
what I would do, and I'll do it; you see that?"  Isere the profligate
son drew forth from his breast pocket a small and beautifully-wrought
pistol; drawing back the hammer of the lock, he stepped out into theT
middle of the floor and deliberately placed the muzzle of the deadly
weapon to his forehead-" Speak quick, give me the money, or have
a coroner's inquest in your house !"

i
{ -
i
i
x  S  y   F
,
s
i
q
I
1    s
*  '
F'
.  Y '=.
y
fi
}
'
.R
F     gg
_' 't , E
4
r

"Stop, stop, rash boy.; would you -"
" Blow out my brain'o upon the spot, rather than live a Oeggar."
Put-put up that terrible weapon, for God's sake. here, here,
take all, ruin your father, beggar your family." Quite overcoimie with
terror' and emotion, the old man threw himself upon the open front
of his secretary, and gave vent to his excited feelings in a gush of
tears, while the spoiled, petted, and dissipated son leisurely replaced
his weapon in his pocket, and stepping trwar,1, placed his hanl
upon the old man's shoulder; he slowly raised his head, their eyes met
Joe Prog, did I ever think to live to experience such a scene as
this ?" said the father.
"Can 't regret it more than I do, dad."
" Look af your brothers and sisters ! was ever one of them guilty
of such total depravity? such, such a-entire want of regard for the
felings and credit of their parent ? Joe Prog, it 's well your poor,
dear iiother is dead and in her grave ; you'd break her heart all to
pie es"
Da1, the hundred dollars."
" I tell you I've no money in the house ; her, are bills, go col
lect them, over five hundred dollars, all due."
" Ilan I them over; let me see who the devil they are on, or' what,
they art all about. Rents, eli ? Worth about ten per cent. ; require
more cursing'and swearing and bully-ragging to collect, than the whiols
anonnt is worth. D-n me, I'll try them, right off; but mind, old
man, I must have a hun lied dollars to-day, no fail, oi'you'Il rue it."
S Au1 hark you-I hoje, if there's a spark of honesty in your
iiifernal skin, you 'Ii not collect and keep the whole amount; it you
do, mark me, you may beg, rot, die, and-and be-hanged, before
I'd ever countenance you again. Now mark that," said the old man,
with passion.
But Jo Prog was out and gone before the concluding sentence
smote upon his heedle'ss ear.
Joe's first step was to sto)p in at the room of an artistic friend, who
kept a bachelor's hall and studio on a thii'd floor of one of the many
large and densely populated buildings on Broadway, between the Astor
Ilouse and Grand street. To the artist, Joe reported his failure to,
draw any real finds for an emergency they were mutually involved in;
which was no more nor less than living so fir beyond their current
means-indulging in the various luxuries, follies, and vices of a great
metropolis like New York-and so beset by duns and officers of the'
municipal government, as to make it highly necessary for their preseut
comflort and convenience, to ste) out of town, if only for a fortlighl3t.
for in that space of time the most wonderful matters, greatest excite-
ment, immense lion, or hideous transaction, dies, fades out, or is par-
tially forgotten in the strong and onward current of life and lunman
dealings in that great, great city.

S

.
i ,
1
s
t,
¢,
_,
I

j
F
i             4
S

E
a..
,
F.  , .


xi
Ir
s.
14:

MARIE LESSAIRE.

"That is d-d bad," seid the artist, "if I stay hre four hours longer
I shall be arrested for swindling; eve;y trap I've got here will be
seized and taken away. There Is a portrait I was to have finished for
a southern merchant; he has already more than paid me for it;. I was
to have finished it yesterday ; but, curse me if I can work when 1 am
80 pestered for funds."
"And not a blessed daub will you make, Fred, while there's a shot
in your locker, eli, old boy ? " observed Joe Prog.
"You 're about half right, Proggy, my boy ; but what are we to do?
By heavens ! it won't do to stay here ; we must change the scene,
even for a week. There has been a dozpn calls for you here to-day-
bootmakers, hatters, tailors, stable-keepe-s, restaurateurs, etc., etc., too
tedious to mention. D-n me, Joe, I've got an idea-let 's go on a
whaling cruise, that's the ticket."
"Come, come, Freddy,' my boy, do n't go off half cocked. Yes,
es, that's a pretty good double shuffle, and might make you a favorite
n the greasy forecastle of a blubber-hunter ; the idea is vulgar, though,
too cursed low for fellows of our address and love of the arts and
Sciences."
"Well, I'll hang up my fiddle, only you propose something more
musical. how are we to raise the wind? Why the blazes did n't
you draw it strong on the old man-storm his old fortress of money-
bags, and bring him to his bearings?"
"Did n't I? ,IIa! ha! you had better believe it. I drew it mild
at first, but pitched in the sentimental afterward, strong-swore I'd
blow out my brains   "
"Did you? Well, that was a safe threat, Joe. Then what ?"
"Then-I fetched him."
"Did lie really fork for the twentieth time?"
Swore he had n't a red cent ! "
"Of course he did. Well ?"
"I told hiu it would n't do, I must have the tin."
"And finally he    "
."Gave me a batch of bills to collect, and here they are."
"Let me see-why, here's one good, I know, $150-three month's
rent. What's this? another of $100. Why, d-n it, Joe, you scamp,
you got me in a cold sweat for nothing; we 're made. Hurrah ! Yes,
here's another,. $50; all three are on good, paying men; $25, $33,
$17, $12. O, curse these small dribs on poor carmen or washer-
women.   ff, off, and collect the three first; I'll lock up until you return.
Give three light raps on the door ; I'll have our baggage ready for a
start, and we 'l give our creditors and lady loves a holiday. Come,
Joey stir your stumps, my boy, no time to be lost."
Well, hold on, I must change my togs ; I must look business like,
as the old man says ; I must Jouk as unlike, and act as unlike a gen-
tleman as possible, upon a dunning tour. Your coat, Fred, that's it;

MARIE LESSAIRE.2
now your cap, so; with this big stick, and the air of a h1- ,ayma,
1 guess I'll fetch 'em. Booh hoo, hem ! sir, good morn;.g; small bif
against you; quarter's rent, $150-hard pushed for frnds--that's n
fact-notes to take up to-morrow-"
"Do n't you wish they may catch you at it ? "
"That's the air, elh, Fred ? "
"0, you dc it up brown ; quite the air and grae&amp;of a collector cS
the rents ; but hurry oflf and be sure to be back between twelve and
one at the farthest, for if I should be visited this morning by Jule's
father, big brothers, or their legal adviser, or that hot-headed southern-
er, whose mug, you see there, is no sample of ' humility and mild
behavior,' as the.man in the play says, I 'm booked for the season : a
suit of apartments in 'Eldridge street,' or the Egyptian Halls. Talk-
ing of the play, I'm devilish sorry business calls us out of town so sud-
denly, Joey, we shall miss a great treat. Simpson has announced
Fanny Ellsler to-morrow night, at the Park ; the town's in a furore;
but 0, curse luxuriesI fly quick, begone, and let's know the result,"
said the imlpatient artist, opening the door for Joe Prog's egress.
"I'm gone," had scarcely left Joe's lips, as he glided down stairs,
and before the artist could close his door again, a tall, handsome, keen-
eyed, dark visaged stranger faced the painter.
" Good morning, sir," said the stra-nger.
"Damnation," muttered the artist.
"Well, have you got my portrait ready for framing and boxing?"
"I 'in sorry to say, I have not, sir."
"Well, sir, why not? I'm sure I've been liberal and patient, have
I not?"
"Entirely so, sir," returned the artist.
"Then, sir," angrily responded the stranger; "you have acted un-
gentlemanly. You are either a lazy, indolent fellow; or disposed to
swindle me'."
"Sir!" answered the artist, stepping suddenly forward to the
stranger.
" Where's' the portrait ?" resumed the stranger, without noticing
the belligerent attitude of the artist. "AAh, here it is ; not a touch upon
it since my last visit. Now, sir, as I have paid you in full for it, your
own price, and you have assured me that an hour's work more would
complete it, I will sit down here and see it finished at once."
And for this purpose,'the stranger, with the self-possession of a de-
termined man, took off his hat and gloves, placed his cane on the
table, and sat the nearly finished portrait upon the easel of the painter.
The coolness of this movement quite staggered the artist.
"Why',curse your impudence!" lie at length exclaimed ; "what or
who do you take me for? One of your servants-a plantation negro,
or what?"
"You are r devilish clever painter, my young friend," responded

26

K'1


ft
Z*:
S
t
I
E

28

the stranger, "a man of genius and talc it tr your art ; but rather toc
and of the ephemeral gayeties and pleasures of your big town, here.
You are indolent and extravagant, sir, and finally will break down,
trun off, or go to the penitentiary. Now, sir, tall to, finish my portrait
in your very best style, and while you are at it I will give you a small
dose of very whohesome advice."
"D-n you and your advice ; this is my own room, sir ; if you
do n't leave it soon on your own text, you '1 -require carrying out.
Curse you, I never was so grossly insulted before. Go, sir!~" angrily
ai(l the artist.
I'll give you just five minutes to begin upon that portrait," calmly
exnswered the stranger, drawing trth an eleg itly wrought an l jew-
eled watch, and placidly gazing upon its thee, "just five minutes."
The entirely cool and self-possessed manner of the southerner intinii-
datd the painter; time was flying ; other equally, and even wprse
drea led visitors might drop in. Foreseeing serious trouble with the
southerner, if the portrait was not finished, the artist knocked under.
Sir, the fhct is, I 'm expecting visitors."
Well, well, let them come."
"But I do n't want them to come-bores, duns and curses of various
uinds."
o yes,.I understand ; very well. There now, the9door is locked,
here 's the key, push that screen between us and the, door, so. Now
silence, and go to work."
Mechanically, the painte; very unwillingly took up his pallet and
brushes, and applied the finishing touches skillfully to the canvas, and
is ihe did so, the stranger sat by himi, whisperingly eulogizing the art
and artist in a polished flow of language, that bespoke him a moan of
education and travel, and quite won the favorable feelings of the
painter, with whom the time passed so rapidly, and while he became
so eigrosse(l in his work, that h heard riot the various knocks and
eflforts to enter at his door. Uut the portrait wis now finished to the
entire satisfaction of the stranger, who desired the artist to send it
iunme(iately to the fl'ante maker, on Broadway. Bu Fred informed
Lis patron that his peculiar position at that 'moment precluded tlle
possbility of venturing into the open street at noon-day, and advised
the stranger to send a servant or porter upon the instant and get his
painting out of his besieged apartment.
" Well, sir," observed the stranger, " this is a miserable state of
afkiirs for a young iman el your talents.; you ought to be heartily
ashamed of it."
I am quite ashamed of it, and hope to do better one of these daysji e
the painter repllied.
ihm  n take amy advice, my young friend, flr hell, they say, is paved
th good intentions, so don't  ostpone the turning over of a new
leaf, until time book is worn out;, .1 shall be at  hlftel tbr  a week,

/ ')9

MARIE LESSA1RE.

vet, if you will come down some evening during that time, and call
for me, I may not only point you out a location, but put you in a way
to make a tortune and reputable name. here you will not accomplish
either. There, sir," said the stranger, dropping an eagle into the hand
of the painter, "we are friends yet; industry and prudence, you see,
nave their sure reward ; I will send directly for the painting, and be
nappy to advise you in your future welfare. Good morning."
"JHang inc if that ain't a romantic affhir," said the artist, tossing
the golden coin around in his palm, " well, that's a gentleman; a
thorough man of the world. Here I have been upon the very eve of
knocking out his brains, in rage, and now, perhaps, I will find liita
the best friend in the worn . heavens 1 what a piecof work is man,
what a riddle is life! " anc thus soliloquizing upon  he curious and
strange events of the morn ng, we drop the curtain upon the painter's
studio, to follow another a id important thread of our story.
CHAPTER R IV.
MoRE PicTruEs OF SOCIAL LIPE - Tiiu HOME OF' THE BELLE OF TuE BALLET - Ax
AeaurT AED DANGEROUS ToSTOa -- A LUCKLEsS MoNEY HUNTER.
"Like an angel you look, my dear child. Look at her, mother
does it not set elegant ? Does it not fit beautiful I"
"Alh, yes, dear child, any thing becomes her," said Mad. Lessaire.
Yes," she continued, "Marie, my dear, you must hurry, child, it is
nearly your rehearsal hour; it will not do for you to be a moment
after the time this morning. Mad. Ellsler will be there herself, and
I want you, Marie, to do your best to please her. Aht! there comes
k     your pa with your flowers."
"Ah! ha! bon jour. Madam Mignard, I have just meet Monsieur,
as he was going to ze rehearsal; I tank you very much kindly for
your visit dis morning. here, Marie, kiss your papa; sweet child,
she look like ze angel of ze sky, alh, Madam ! "
" So I have just told her mother, sir," replied the musician's wife,
who had lately become intimate with the Lessaire family.
"Well, we got not five seven minutes to spend ; here are ze flowers,
ze bouquet artificial, ze wreaths; ah, ha! zy look so; fresh and so
sweet, ze perfume smell in ze room. Now 'look, Madams, to Marie,
beautiful, beautiful I"

7=

a

MARIE E1SGAl~f 1,

s

t
r
S'


t
i-
a"

04

MARIE LESSAIRE.

MARIE LESSAIRE.
Jnst as the enthusiastic Frenchman had placed the wreath upon thc
head and skirt of the fairy-like girl's dress, without knock or tap, i
upon'the delighted and picturesque group came Prog.
"Hallo! beg your pardon," he stammered, as he saw the position.
of affairs, "however, don't be alarmed."
" Saire ! " said the indignant musician, stepping forward to Joe
Prog, Jr., who stood still, holding by the knob of the door. "What
is your bis-e-ness wis me; you come sans ceremonie into my house,
saire ? "
"O; nothing, nothing in particular, sir," responded the imperturbable.
"Nossing in particular ! Then, saire, open ze door once more
again, and leave my house directly, right away ! "
"I beg your pardon, ladies ; pardon me, miss, as I see you are.pre-
paring for a ball, but I've a little pressing matter of business with
you, sir, (to Mons. L.) or I should not, perhaps, have broken in so
abruptly upon your privacy."
" Saire, I no care what ze bis-e-ness be, ze matter tossing ; a geb-
tleman will nevair forget his manners, no time, nevair; no, saire.
Marie, my dear, you sall go up stairs, Madams do ze same ; we go to
ze rehearsal right away. Now, saire," turning to young Prog, "your.
bis-e-ness wis me?".
"That will explain," said Joe, handing Mons. L. a bill.
"Ah, ha! yes, you are ze son of'ze landlord, I suppose."
* The same ; I'm a little pressed for funds to-day, Monsieur, or I
would not have called on you for this little balance, which I hope,
however, will not trouble you to settle off."
"Au, mon Dieu ! I wish it was pos-e-bel, but, saire, I have not five
dollar in ze world; I have just spend .ze last dollar for dress for my
daughter."
"That was your daughter, eh?  Going to a-ball ? "
"Ah, no, Monsieur, my poor child no go to ze ball, nevair no more
for ze amusement; she engaged at ze theater."
"0 ho! in the new ballet, perhaps, ehI ?"
" Oui, she make her debut wiz Madame Ellsler, to-morrow night."
." That's a fine little girl, looks beautiful; her face ought to make
her fortune," said Prog, Jr. "I'in sorry, however, that beauty and
talent is so poorly rewarded now-a-days. I feel sensible of the fact in
my own case (!) that talent and virtue are but feebly encouraged ; yet
all that I can do for you or your daughter, I will do cheerfully," said
the false-hearted, false-faced reprobate. " D-n me, she's as beauti-
ful as an angel, (said he, aside,) I must see her again. Has your
daughter had tuition in dancing? has she had practice sufficient to
give her a position in the ballet of Mad. Ellsler ? "
"0 yes, Monsieur, my daughter is considered ze most elegant and
accomplished professor of ze dcnse; she lead ze ballet to-morrow
night.

f r

f a  i  it
=  u        3
t t
s
w  S   _
i
iii'i
f  Fs
R
E1
V-
Ld   -   _  {
i
1
s'
t-
i

1

"Indeed! well, so she ought, A i! here she comes," said Prog,
Jr., touching his ha, "as you are busy, or about to attend youN
rehearsal, (y heavens, she 's a little divinity!) I '11-I 11 call again,
Mr. Lessaire, for that small bill.".,adlrd'
"If you please, Monsieur; Mad. Lessaire, this is our andor'
son; Mad. Mignard, Mons. a -a-d
" Prog, Josiah Prog, Jr., ladies ; at your service, he responded
"A, yes, Prog, that is him; Monsieur, my daughter."
"Happy of your acquaintance, my dear," said Prog, Jr., bowing
very gracefully to the little danseuse, whose most evil hour of life was
this of forming an acquaintance with so abandoned and heartless a
rake and spendthrift; but she responded with grace, and while
adjusting her hat to accompany her father to the theater, Joe Prog
took his leave.
"I 'in blessed," said Joe, upon reaching the street, "if I haven't
made a fine morning's work of it, any how ; started out on a dunning
tour, four or five hundred dollars' worth of bills in my pocket, and not
a red cent collected! D-n me, if I've any faculty for, collecting
rents, that's evident. One's not in town, another s short to-day,
another 's coming up to-morrow, a fourth 's down with the rheumatism
and out of work, and the last turns up a gray old Frenchman, with a
daughter pretty enough to give a fellow the horrors. But hold on, let
me see, I've got one more screw loose; yes, here's another ticket,-
thirty-three dollars on a baker. Egad I guess he's a trump ; who
ever knew a baker out of the dough!  Here's at him, any way."
-      Down toward West Broadway Joe turned his steps in quest of the
needful; what his further philosophical reflections may have been,
we must forego, in order to note the doings behind the curtain of what
was the first metropolitan theater, of the present century, in America.


to F
-Fs
j1
a

MARIE LESSAIRE.

CHAPTER       V.
1     F' :7? HE QUEEN AND BELLF OF THE BALLET- JREAT C0MMC ION---A LADY'!!
a E    o ICE A' THAT--YOUTu AND BEAUTY, ITS SNARES AND ITEMPTATIONS.
re was an uncommon bustle behind the curtain ; a grand throng-
mg :' tL wings, and crowding of the green room; a great buzzing
of '..ices ; whisking about of skirts, an 1 frisking of coat-tails. A
east number of. polished brass and stringed musical instruments,
mixed up with a plentitu'ile of long hair, inustachoes, and white, elon-
gated and bony, hands abounded in the orchestra. Every body; from
the poni pous stage-manager down to the call boy,.seemed running ovcr
with vitality, and redolent of starch, soap, and perfumery.  The
emaciated ballet girls, and jaded, dissipated, and overtasked and ill-
paid actors, all seemed imbued vith a strong dose of animation and
cleanliness. Such a buzz, bustle, and excitement, had not possibly
been seen beneath the dome of this only real temple of the Muses, on
the western continent, since the debut of the great George Frederick
Cooke, or the still greater Edmund Kean. But wherefore? Was
another and yet greater iumpersonator of the brilliant conceptions of a
Shakspeare, Kotzebue, Schiller, Byron, or a Paine, to appear and con-
test tme palms, or eclipse the radiant glory and genius of the Cookes,
Keans, Booths, Coopers, and Forests ? Oh,, no! public taste was
sated with tragic lore and histrionic impersonations ; the poetry of
motion, the gracefuliness of fetimale lineament, the rosy lip, the laugh-
mg.eye, and pearly }teeth of voluptuous beauty, was now the popular
vagary ; and with a fihlry and will that few can easily forget, the public
f5bllowed and patronized the new card, Fanny Ellsler-doubtless one
of the most exciting of all recorded artistes, on the light futastic toe,
of the age.
Ellsler was a splendid woman ; as such, nothing short of a charmed
life could have preserved her spotless reputation ; surrounded, caressed,
besieged, stormed, and bewildered as she was, as any mortal would
be, by the flattery, han lation, and cunningness of art, wealth, and
power. Of her morality and virtue, it becomes us not to discuss ; the
greatest of human butchers, the most notorious of peace-destroyers
and umrderers, oft become invested with the most astonishing claims
upon hutmian symcpathy' and labdation ; but too often, alas ! time poor
frail woman, whose misguided head, or impulsive heart, leads to folly
an] error, becomes a target at which the vilest may level their shafts.
The manage'--ia the way, a staid and stately stage aristocrat--.
uptn this especial occasion was present, as eager and amx.ous as his
subordimate and friends, to see tile pet of kings, favored of u rrors,

Qb)

j1Ft
6
_  4
I

I,

:MARIE LESSAIRE.-.                     3
the delightress of European thousans-frai nis ant patrons of the
SupeIb grande ballet. Madamt Ellsler, attended by her chaperon-
an individual who has long since become a noted literary an 1 diplo-
matic amateur-entered the precincts almost male sacred to the muse
and genius of histrionic art and literature. No rehearsal was ever
mote actractive ; never before was professional curiosity iore greatly
piqued tO watch, notice, and note each movement of a renowned
artitej and all alike, from the lowest menial to the first in command
of th  metropolitan theater, were received and treated with that
urbaniy an i innate courtesy, which not only lpays a generous inter-
est at all times, but is a commodity so easily dispensed, and of such
a productive quality, that it is worth the stu ly and toil of years to
attain as a mere accomplishment. Ellsler, glorious, voluptuous Ells-
ler, who can or will, of thy age and time, forget thee!i Peifection of
God's mold of womtankin, whose poetic turmn anl ethereal move-
ments but reminded mortals of paradise, an begot in us thoughts-
more strange than true-that angel's visits to this mundane sphere,
were few and tar between !
No striking peculiarity of dress, but a suavity of her address, soon
 won, from the attaches and gazing outsiders, a friendly recognizance
and admiring homage, most telling an I essential to the welfare and
peace of a reigning star, of whatever firmament-political, social,
civic, military, or artistic.  And with a grace well becoming the
queen of the ballet, she arranged the personal and programme of
rehearsal.
Oiur petite belle, Marie, of course, from the position she sustained,
if not Iroum a personelle, a striking trait, however, that persons tar less
observant of beauty or merited attraction, than dramatic people aro
generally, soen caught the eye of the queen of the ballet.
g" America?  No l Zat eye, hair, con-ten-ance. No, not America?"
said the danseuse, patronizingly.
"No, Madame," a swered the modest girl," I was born in France-"
" Paris, I know, yd4? "
"Paris, Madame," Marie replied.
"You dance, h i? Yes, I know you dance well! "
"So they tell me, Madame," Marie modestly responded.
"Yeni well, I know you dance well, I see by zat figure and by zat
eye, pretty little Mademoiselle ; you dance before, in zis te-a-tair ?
r   te's ? "                  -
"No, Madame, never. I shall make my debut with you."
"Aim! veri well. Zen I give you all ze as-sis-tanee, advice, I know
how. Sweet child, kiss me, so;~now de maitre Ic ballet, attei-ze-on
evair-body-ze or-ches-trai begin--coimmenee."
And the grand rehearsal of the grand Ellsler began, with such an
eclat as seldom, if ever, on this side of time Atlantic, occurred in a
temple of the dramatic muses, by daylight.


(

rj d J

34

MARIE LESSAIRE.

"By Jove, that's a beautiful little creature you nave there Simp-
son," said one of the privileged bores, a wealthy lounger, a class who,
by somehook or crool, generally manage to get the lazy side of a
m tropoitan manage , "she s a sylph in lightness and figure a very
"Think so?" was the cool and careless response of the manager.
"Egad ! I d&amp;," answered the lounger. "Byth      aStso
who is she ; an importation of Ellsler' r sBtthe way, Siupsont
upon here in town ?b", o                  metng you have hit
"My dear sir, I have not the slightest idea who the little creature
ist or where she came from; I seldom know, or have any thing to do
with the business of the house, and hence I have little or no knowl-"
edge of theaminor arrangements of it. But I must ask Barry who
that little beauty is.";ar
The stage manager-by the wa    ne of the most perfect gentlemen
of his time and profession-was qhite as remote as the proprietor from
the genealogy or whence-coming of the youthful queen of the ballet
u  l th w e -hadfom a careless and unimpressive report,.mixed
p   .wit something about a poor French musician' -daughter whose
early indication of poetic motion, had induced the parents to 'ut her
upon thestage; the judiciousness of which, a man of such staid and
fatherly affections and strict probity of character as the stage manager
has exhibited, did not permit of cogently arguing.
, te managers, directors, and even the ordinary attaches
of a metropolitan temple of the muses, become so habituated to
change of scene and person of the mimic stage of life, that, like
the shop-tender who serves all customers coining in from time to time,
the senses of the eye are only leveled speculatively, at each new comer,
and o that any rare mental or personal development soon fails to
attract especial observation, save as to professional sense of appli-
cation; so, perhaps, our perfect little gem of beauty, naivette, and
artless simplicity, Marie, might have passed her novitiate quite
cerneom professional criticism, as far as her private history was con-
ccane, behd tot ot er and less stoical but more vicious disposed visit-
ants behind the curtain, taken her case into their hands, and some out
of pure (!) regard for her morals, (!) and others with still stronger regard
for her pecuniary welfare, (!) began advances toward their object of
cour abod'   a   attentions. But atthe first rehearsal, Ellsler, of -
course, absorbed all the marked attentions coeval with her great fame
and personal formidableness, in way-of extreme womanly grace and
beauty. Her rehearsal ended and night came.
One blaze of glorious enthusiasm  attended the debut of the dan-
sezrse. The house was crowded to sufication, and audience entirely
enthusiastic, and ouryouthful heroine not only shared bouquets and other
favors with the ballet queen, but at the end of the piece received io
the hands of the great artiste,  a diamond ringofgr~aeat elbg a cc and cost.

35

MAM]E LESSAIRE

" You do ell Mauemoise lle you danse like uneO s) imdc verite.
une bnon petite ile; I make you present ; so, that is a valuale token
efrom the young prince, he love me when I venr mosh resemble you;
so old," said Elisler, placing her jeweled hand upon the head of
Marie. "I tell you more com-ple-nan1s again, some time; we soon
now be better acquaint, elm i"
"I hope so, Madame."
Yes, we will. What, eh, your name be?
"tMarie, Madame.".
:Marie! Al-; yes, beautiful; kiss me, so; now adieu," and the
still gauze and flower-attired winner of hearts, dismissed herself in
miniature, Marie, the belle of the ballet corps, to hastily change her
costume for the reception of a swarm of flattery venders, sycophants,
and critique mongers of the press, who ever hang upon the skits of
men, women, matters, and things capable of affording them an ear or
gracious smile fr their slavery, office, reward, or a line of fulsome
twaddle for their loving and irksome attentions.
Marie became the object of very especial attention to one of the
last named class of literary privateers, a dapper man of great volu-
bility of languageand whose insinuating address, plentitude of gay
appayeo and   eal scholastic attainments that rendered him a ery
acessary desideratum to the journal to which he was attached, and
as a scandal monger, hunter of the horrible, puff and critique manu
facturer he for a series of years, stood ht the very head and front of
Shis profession. Flapps was forty, full; he may have been ten years
older. but a firm and assiduous disciplinarian of the toilet corps, and
occupying a position favorable to the elongation of life, or personal
freshness at least, he had indulged in all luxuries conducive to self-
enjoyment, without running any of those risks so fatal to the purses
and reputation of men and women less acquainted with the more
extended and intricate paths, ups and downs of cavalier life in a gay
metropolis.
mepos was emphatically a trump, such a philosopher and man of
the world as you may not have the good fortune to find and study,
often, in the course of one lifetime. It was his weakness, as lie often
said, to love lovely women; and it was no less his pride to recount
the  anyand chequered scenes of his love-doings, if rumor was not
beyond all uestioni a foul-mouthed hag, Flapps had more than once
went so far as to commit matrimony, and unpropitiously, perhaps, for
the seasons of his connubial bliss, according to all accounts, were of
short duration. The only real mystery about the man was his origin,
or lodgingplace. Never, even in hicups, when men are, above all
other times and moods, most inclined to tell all they think and know,
was Flapps known to refer once to his nativity or his nightly resting
mlace. Lmay be, that, like the western woodsman, he had changed
hisspots, manners, and modes of life so often and hurriedly, that it
-3

I'.

fY        '
{
YYY             1
t-
it       9   k
b      -,
l-
t      r
t * _as
t
f
}   3      _
i.     s
i
t F #Y
i-
Pt
y~ytt   -
y:      t
-          YYFF ."+  "
it
1
4 f}
i
y
i


.11
pjt

MARIE LESSAIRE.
was beyond his entire comprehension to tell,.if he was ever so much dis
posed, the place of his birth ; an:l as to his abode, that was an extreme
domestic luxury not recognized among the newspaporial reporting
corps of his or even the present day. Flapps hal been over hie field so
repeatedly, that love-making, effecting acquaintances with persons, sub-
jects, or localities, was a science in whichhlie was as aufaUt as discuss.
mng the mnoits of a dinner at Delmoniec's. a new piece, new face, or
voice at the opera ; a science of rare utility to mere imixirig with the
gay and varied world, saving,.as it does, a monstrous amount of trifling
diplomacy; by annihilating time an I space between us and objects to
be ol)tained.  Flapps made himself thoroughly and immediately
acquainted with Monsieu Lessaire and his daughter, and 'under assur-
ance of rendering them most cminent service through the p owveI'flt
columns of his journal, which was not quite so clear to the under-
standing of the poor musician as it might have been, it was, never-
theless, sufficient to cement a familiar acquaintanceship, and even give
Flapps the entree of Marie's humble and virtuous home. Marie's
success was all that could please her parents and elate her childish
pride and vanity-the most fatal of all passions of girlhood, or the
-maturer years of woman. They are passions that make children
women in their own conceits-wonen, irresistible, as they think, weak
as straws before the wiles and loose machinations of lascivious man.
And in this dangerous hour, Marie was destinedd to suffer a great
deprivation, in the illness of her father, whose shattered constitution
and (lomuestic affliction had finally terminated in paralysis ; and at the
close of the splendid Ellsler season, Monsieur Lessaire, with his favor-
ite violin under one arm, and his dear daughter tucked close to the
other, left the theater, never to renew his exertions or witness again
the varied scenes and delighted throngs within their artistic walls,
The engagement and presents bestowed upon the petite belle of the
ballet, who had with each succeeding night gathered strength, confi-
deuce, and multiplied admirers, brought the im mediate pecuniary
affairs of the musician's family to a mmore comfortable position ; but
even this result bore severely upon the mind of the sensitive father,
adding still another nail to his coffin, which, m the course of a few
more weeks, lie was (oomed to fill. The departure of the ballet queen
for new fields-of triumph, closed Marie's engagement at; the theater,
though offered munificent inducements by Ellsler .to accoim)any her
upon her tour over the country, the present position' of the poor girl
precluded the .possibility of accepting. A ml1 without visible means
of further subsistence, Marie was necessitated to forego the splendid
temptations of her favored patron, to-stand the guardian angel $f an
expiring parent's bedside.
It was an inclement night, twixt the close of a long and dreary
writer and the oper ing of a.deightful spring, the sands of time rmusi-
cian's life ran low -. A physician to 'whomi they had made application

MARIE LESSAIRE
to attend the dying husband and father, hartbreluctantly come before
nighttall, hurriedly left a prescription, and observed that the patient
would either be beyond medical aid or so improved by the morning,
as to obviate the necessity of calling again upon him that night; a
declaration Dr. Swab was very anxious they should distinctly compre-
hend, as he repeated it several times over, and then buttoning his coat
about him, and putting on his hat and gloves, he bade the lonely and
sad family good night (!) and withdrew.
CHAPTER VI.
LIFE AS IT IS IN A METROPOLISy VITH THE GAUZE TORN ASIDE--THE WHIST PARTY
DISTURBED BY TIE CALLS OP hUMANiTY-A NEW CHARACTER APPEARS-A GENTLE.
MAN AND A SCHOLAR-CITY " Lcrous "-A FIGHT AND THE RESULT.
The night was stormy and dark ; the high blazing fires of the luxu-
rious parlors of the physician were certainly cozy enough to make one
forget the sympathy due from man to man. And as Dr. Swab leaned
back in his capacious easy chair, engaged in a social game of whist with.
a ti select friends of the family, the ring of his office door bell grated
harshly upon his ear. And when he heard the name of " Lessair,"
as the Milesian servant announced it, it smote still more harshly ; an
angry scowl crossed the countenance of the city physician.
"Who is it with the message ?" said Dr. Swab.
" A little ghurl, I b'lave,'sur," answered the servant.
"0, hang it, that's that fiddler's girl. Tell her the doctor is
engaged, and can't attend to-night; they must wait till morning, or
find somebody else," slowly muttered the physician, as he dismissed
the servant aid placed the card upon the table in continuation of the
game.
"Doctor," said a studious looking young man *ho sat at the card
table, a witness of the game, "as you are busy, suppose I attend the
call ; to the best of my ability, I will do so ith promptness and
pleasure."
"well, Conrad, you may if you wish; you young men ought to
dive right into the thickest of 'the 'puddle' at once, while ambition
lasts, and practice of that kind is desirable," replied the physician to
his student.

r
4
Z
I A

({

\ /

(
1


x     t #
Y
f
y  i r~  r
y  F
t
r$
s
r- -
is
$ k
1
S
f it
/ x
1        '
BT
4
a s   ,,
S   t
r     r 4f
z
t
'f 1
v J 4
t
i s
_     q   t
t
f
F
f
{i

38

r

But, mercy, Conrad ! it storms," responded the physician's lady.
a prim and haughty dame, whose feelings-to a woman, in whom we
look for all the tender and merciful sentiments of human nature, but
in whom, as is too often the case, were engulfed in her infatuated
notions of pecuniary elevation in the pecuniary world. '" Doctor,
who is it that desires attendance? Is it any of your regular practice ? "
"No, dear, it is a French fiddler, who sent for me a few days ago,
and having some leisure moments, I have dropped in to see him occa-
sionally. I saw him this afternoon, and left a prescription-Oh! excuse
me," he observed to one of the whist party, "my play ; so, I left a
prescription. He will liardly-ah, yes, yes, your trick, sir ; you and
your partner are getting all the honors, Mrs. L.-he will hardly live
over the night," he continued. "I told them-my play-he would
be better, or not require further attendance to-night, at all events,"
said the physician.
"Then, Conrad, I would not go," responded the haughty dame.
"1 have chosen my profession, Mrs. Swab," said the young man,
"with a full knowledge of its requirements ; and I hope that no instance
may occur in which Ishall falter to attend to its call promptly, while
or when duty ever summons me."     't
"0, very well, sir, go; heaven sakes ! I've no particular interest in
the matter," responded the piqued dame, "go, if you wish-there! you
have more of the honors, Mrs. L." She continued with her game of
cards, giving the strongest proofs in reason for the total lack of inter
est she had in the call of humanity.
"These young men," continued Doctor Swab, shuffling his cards,
"are always full of sentiment and'industry, when in their novitiate;
I remember it was the same way with me-my play, sir, if you
please-when I first put on my medical boots; it was but to call, and
I was off like a lamp-lighter; working for nothing and finding my-
self; attending-my trick, ahi we'11 get a share of the honors now-
running up alleys, into attics, and down cellars, attending poor crea-,
tures with not a copper to buZ bread or medicine-Oh, oh ! Mrs. J.
you are picking up; but now i'11 catch you."
"It must have been a great bore," said one of the gents.
"Shoeking, horrible," responded another.
" It was," said the doctor._
" And do such people have the assurance to call on you yet, doc-
tor ? " asked one of the ladies.
"Frequently, madam, ,frequently," replied the doctor; " ah ! I'll
have you yet, Mrs. M. So."
"1 think it bespeaks great impudence in such a class of persons,
any how, to expect respectable physicians to waste their precious time
in such practice," observed an elderly, sanctimonious gentleman
gold "specs," and whose very expression bespoke that he neve
indulged in even homeopathic doses'of the milk of human kindness,

MARIE LESSAIRE.

a.

a no doubt often laid the flattering unction to his soul, that those
whose honest poverty made lowly, would be obliged to take a second-
class car to the realms of eternal bliss, when their life mission was
o'er, while he and his (in the eyes of all truly noble men) ofnsive ilk,
7        forsooth, were to be accommodated on the road to peace with gilt and
cushioned carriages of the most modern churchly improvement and
construction. God be praised, for such are only human fallacies.
And so the " homily " of this recherche entertainment progressed,
the further noticing of which we forbear, though of an every-day
occurrence, too nauseating for t.he attention of an enlightened
reader.
Conrad Vinton was a young and ardent student of medicine, studying
under Dr. Swab, a noted physician, whom long and profitable prac-
tice had naturally enough rendered callous and cold to the calls of
sympathy alone ; and we wish that the mere accumulation of wealth
could qualify his very apparent apathy for. human suffering ; but this
was not so ; the natural principles of his heart were bad, and his
position was one no alculated to contract the hardness of his heart
.  or the evil of his pasions, as the private diary of innumerable physi-
cians might prove, i offered to the common eye.
" Coiime, my little friend," said Conrad, as he encountered the
musician's child at the door, "come, I'll go with you; is your father
very ill ?"
"_Yes, sir, he is dying, I fear, sir. Mother is alone, and would not
that I should disturb the doctor, but I-I could not see my father die,
if the doctor could save him," said the girl.
"Well, well, do n't cry, my young friend; here, get close to me,
it is hailing and raining, the umbrella will shelter us both. Is it far ?"
" Not far, sir," sobbed Marie,
" Why, what an angel-like face the girl has! " said the student to
himself, as they came to a crossing, and the bright light of the lamps
shone upon them. " By the gods! -I never saw the like before."
" how old are you, my dear ?" he continued to Marie.
"I am near my fifteenth year, sir," she replied.
" Hello ! There's a go ! " echoed a gruff, rowdy voice, close to
the student and Marie, as they rounded a corner near to her obscure
dwelling.
" There's a go ; fifteen ! Did ye hear that, Bill ?  Been hazing
around these corners these last 'fifteen years!" the ruffian voice con-
tinued, apparently addressing a fellow rowdy at his side.
Conrad cast a glance over his shoulder at the two ruffians, while
Marie, conscious that she was under the protection of a gentleman,
clung to his arm as they hurried forward.
" btop, you infernal villains ! " said the student, as he turned upon
the advancing ruffians, " stop, or i'1l be the death of one of you upon
the spot! What do you follow us for?"

p.

A

MARIE LESSAIRE.

°a

K


~i
f,,
i=
I
r I {

MARIE LESSAIRE.

~iARTE LESSARI.

"0, come, my covy, do n't yer tear yerself, we know that gal,.old
feller, we do                                         gal"
"Look a here, Mary;-yer got a regler flat, eh?3" says the second
approaching within a few feet of Marie and her protector
" You scoundrels, stand back ! What !\do you intend to stop our
progress? Go on, or, by heaven, I '1l do you mortal injury," said the
excited student.
"0, yer will, will yer ?" answered one of the ruffians; "well
we'11 see about that," he continued, aiming a blow with a piece of
lead, attached to a buckskin cord known in the classic parlance of
the city as a slung-shot, a silent, desperate weapon, of most shocking
formidableness, carried, and used, in New York to a fearful extent
upon the victims of petty thieves and rowdies.
Conrad anticipated the blow by guarding it off with his closed um-
brella, which he dropped the same moment, and with a small scalpel,
the only weapon he chanced to have upon his person at the time, he
smote the villain a blow that laid open his brawny arm from the
shoulder to the elbow, as dexterously as ever surgeon dissected the
same part of a subject.
"Murder!" shouted the, ruffian, falling down upon the slippery
pave.
Has he stabbed yer ?" brawledhis confederate.
"Yes, he has cut me all ter pieces; call the per-less, Bill, call the
per-less!"
And while the ruffians exercised their cowardly lungs for the pres-
ence of those officers of the night, never found when really wanted,
and whose presence was rendered quite unnecessary by the courage of
the student, Conrad hurried forward with the girl; but their steps
were arrested by the "now up and ready " watchman of the night,
who, despite all remonstrances and assurances to the contrary, seized
the student and the poor girl, and hurried them to the station-house.

41

CHAPTER     VII.
AN NFOTUATE "CORNER "-A GETLEMAN IN DIFFICUTIESOE FROG, JR., EET
'            _ A DANGEROUS ACQUAINTANCE-THIEY HlAVE A LITTLE EXCITING CONVERSATION, AND
THEN ADJOURN TO THE TOMBS-A- GREAT BLUNDER--THE SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES
THEREOF--A MEETING QUITE- UNEXPECTED-A Yous LAWxYER' FIRST CLIENT-
TUE RELEASE-OATH OF REVENGE.
We now return to young Joe Prog and his friend, Fred Crome, the
artist. Joe succeeded in realizing some dough of the baker, and then
straight bent his steps to Broadway-his friend's domicil and stud'ie
but as he turned a corner rather suddenly, he fell slap into the hands
F.    of a gentleman who had been on the anxious look-out for Master Joe
for some days.
"Oho  Grab, how are you? " said Joe, recognizing a familiar pev
sonage with a grin and smile akin to that a burglar might enforce
upon his ugly face, at the moment of finding himself arrested in his
occupation by a determined watchman, with a revolver in each fists
"how are you, old boy, devilish cool morning ; let's step down int
Florence's here, and take a nipper, chI?' /
"IHavn't got time, Mister Prog," was the rather dry response of
officer Grab. "Mister Prog; got a little demand agin you, I'd like it
attended to this morning," he surlily continued.
"Stuck, by G-    1" said the troubled young man, sotto voce.
"Demand ! what is it?     Who's get any demand against me
said Joe.
"Well, 'taint for me to tell the natur of the writ ; been in my hands
some da s, but as I could n't find you, 1 was jist going down to couid
this x rnin' to return the writ."
"'Vel, just my infernal luck; it's too bad ; turfed that blasted co
r in the very nick of time to meet this fellow. Too bad, I swear;
said Joe, muttering to himself.
"Grab, I'm  a case, I suppose," said he to the officer, "but I 'n
devilish dry, let 's step down and get a drink, any how, and then --"
Can't do it, Mister Prog; busy morning' with' me; got fou
arrests to make by three o'clock. Got to seize an old 'omern's goods
and chattels for rent ; got to atrest a cabman for takin' a young 'oiner
to a bad house 'stead of takin' her home ; and then i've got to watch a
feller suspected of running away to-day without giving a young
'omern proper satisfaction as he promised, in a marriage scrape. O
you see I'In busy, sir."
"Wdl, Grab,~my boy, I won   ersist, as I see you busy, but as I
was out on a piece of disagreeaU business myself, this morning, 1

5

4          .    S
y aig
x II
y     x)
Ste[    4
i.
i     _
"    i

t1   #;


Y
{
i,.
t  
f'
3
s

I changed hat and coat, etc., with a friend, a few locks above here
and you'll just be good enough to step in along with me and I'll--"
"Can 't do it, sir," answered the dogged officer.
"Come, now, old fellow, don't be too d-  severe, all of a sudden,
f have not been murdering, committing a burglary or forgery. Grab,
you know I've always been liberal to you."
"Oh, pooty well,'for matter of that; that scrape you had with the
landlord of 'The Iawksnest,' with that party of rowdies, like to have
been a dear job for me; somebody found out I let you off for a con-
sideration; I got reprimanded and come mighty nigh losing my place,
so I guess we 'll call it about square. Come, I'in in a hurry."
"I must call on my friend and change my clothes."
"You can 't do it; come on, sir," said the officer, with a very per-
emptoiy touch of Joe Frog, Jr.'s, arm.
"Grab, I must have my clothes changed, and by G  I will ! "
"Oh, now, look here, Mister, you needn't come any of that business
with me. Now, sir, come along or I'll give you a shame face and a
few pulls in the bargain."   r
"Grab, you shall repent this," said Joe, making up his mind to the
fiet, that Broadway was not a very desirable place for a genteel young
gentleman to have a muss with an officer of police. "I know you
well, and PIl show you up for this!" he continued..
"Wery well, we'll see about that, my covey, but you better not
threaten me, just now; I know you, and before I let you go, I'll give
you a histe !'You and I know one another pooty well," said the
officer.
"I know you're'a d- rascal," said Joe, as they hurried across the
park, "that I know, and if half your acts were made public, you would
be tarred and feathered and get'a permanent office in Sing-Sing."
"And let inc whisper in your ear, my gentleman," slid the officer,
with a demoniacal grin, "if it was not for your rich father and a few
of us accommodatin' police, you'd been on the 'Island' long ago !
You know me, now hush up." And in dogged silence the twain kept
On their way to the far-famed Tombs.
Joe Frog, Jr., was not so much surprised as chagrined, to find, upon
confronting the magistrate, that a charge of outright swindling was
preferred against him. He had bought furniture to a large amount,
r become responsible for it, in behalf of one of his lady loves ; he
had vouched for his standing, income, etc.; the time of payment was
up and gone over; the furniture had been taken to parts unknown;
Joe Frog, Jr.'s, standing in community was found to be very shaky,
.id his income extorted from a miserly father, who now repudiated
Joe's liabilities in toto, and spoke very cavalierly of him to boot. Joe
found himself in an excessively tight place ; his first thought was to get
mot, of course; the first step was to send for a friend, to hunt bail or
goit.

MARI1 LESSATIE.                   43
The, patient Grab was still in sight. Joe beckoned several times,
however, before the, dogged officer attended his telegraphic despatch,
"What a' you want?" says Grab.
"Look, you, old fellow, we can't make anything by being at log-
gerh ea:ls; I want you to do a little business for me."
"hamn't got time; got an arrest to make right off; that fellow I was
to watch is gittin rea ly to make tracks, and I'in after him as soon as
the ju lge signs your writ 'delivered,'" answered Grab.
"But d-'it, I'll pay you for it; it won't take you but fifteen
minutes! "
"Well, what do you want ? "
"I wish you to go to No.-, Broadway, -    floor; you'll find
on the first floor a painter's sign ; knock three times lightly, and give
the gentleman that opens the door this note.'
Grab, although a long practiced policeman, not given to let on his.
concern about things, smiled a cunning smile, and he read the name
on the note to be delivered, and by way. of a small matter of profes-
sional diplomacy, lie seemed to think he would hardly have time to
attend to it. The Spanish dollar Joe put into his hand scarcely moved
him, but as Joe made it two, Grab said he would try to go at once
and after a fhw minutes' private conversation with a brother policee,
both very merry about something, Grab left, and Joe, to kill time for
the vacant hour between him and the 'bail' he hoped -for, accepted a
seat in the ante-room of the judges and perused the papers.
But less than an hour brought forth a surprise to Joe Frog, Jr. It
was no less than the appearance of his friend Fred, accompanied b
Grab, who, seeing Jo's surprise, said, with a sarcastic leer, "
thought I'd just bring your friend along with me, as he's got a
little business here, too, this morning, I thought we'd kill two bird,
with one stone, you know !"
" D-n you! " said Joe Prog, through his clenched teeth, as the
proof of his own stupidity and the officer's slyness, which doe of
course called treachery, flashed upon his mind.
"Sir!" said the artist, addressing his friend, in a very dignified
and severe manner, "am I indebted to you foa my appearance here?
" AiU! " responded Joe.
" Aye ! you!"
"Why, Fred, I trust you don 't believe me capable of such rascality
as that of entrapping a companion and friend?"
"What is this before my eyes? How came this officer to my very
door, with a signal of entrance unknown to any but you ? "  ,
"Well, I can explain it, sir, but if you prefer it, the officer Can do
it; he understands it better than I do."
"I shall demand an explanation of you, sir; for the present I con-
eider you fiofriend of mine, and I have every reason to believe you
a false ficed as well as false hearted-"

MARIE LESSAIRE.

42

' ,
: .-
#
.,
-, _-
, ;
L
_
«
3   .

ti
_s }I
4 t

:
.


rt
1
I_

MARIE -LESSAIRE.

MARiE LESSAIRE.

Come, come, you gentlemen must keep quiet there," said thc
clerk, putting his head into the ante-room, interrupting the angry
speech of the artist.
"If you.see proper," responded Joe Prog, Jr., " you may entertain
aiy opinions you see fit; but if you utter anything derogatory to my
character as a gentleman, and a generous one to you, sir, I shall resent
it personally ! "
"Come, come, now, you fellers keep quiet in here," observed Grab,
inter)osingly.
"Scoundrelly act, d-n him! " muttered the artist, as he paced to
and fro in the little apartment.
"You lie, sirw! "vas Joe's echo.
" A int you going to stop this?" said Grab.
Foreseeing a suiunnary denouement to their present differences, the
belligerents continued their dispute in savage looks, low hints and
inuendoes, which were soon settled by Frederick Crome being called
firth to attend a suit brought against him at the instance of a surly
looking elderly man in behalf of his daughter, a rather prepossessing
young lady, in full dress of silks, and cheap, gaudy jewelry and a
deep, rich brocade veil. Plea-breach of promise, seduction, etc., a
serious matter for the artist, when backed up to him, as it was, by a
sturdy old father, a lately retired, rich, illiterate, honest and savage
butcher- 
The artist waived an examination and demanded the amount of bail
required for his appearance. Two thousand dollars was named as the
sum. And while he attends to the adjustment of that quite important
matter, we return to Joe Prog, Jr., who afer awhile prevailed on
Grab to carry a note to his brother, an incipient limb of the law. The
young lawyer came, not at all surprised to find a client in the person
of his brother ; and it was arranged, finally, after running over the
whole list of Joe's friends and acquaintances, all of whom, more or
less, had suffemed in some way or other by the reckless rake and
spendthrift, to try "the old man" again. Joe was very dubious of the
result, but 1)o better alternative seemed to offer, so the effort was made,
and, as Joe expected, a flat refusal on the part of the father to become
responsible to the amount of a dollar, for any more of his son's profli-
gacies or their consequences, accompanied by a charge  collecting a
large sum of money that day and keeping it.
Joe railed and stormed till he was carried to an  ner room of the
Tnmhs, by the officers, but finally becoming  Wified. lie stated the
faces of his collecting tour to his brother, c marged his father with
atrociQus attempts to crush him, and swore  ost deep and deadly
revenge.
"here, Will," said he to his brother, "I iave thirty dollars, lend
me or borrow me twenty more'; I'll give,-you the address of a man
who makes a business of bailing prisoners. My baiHis one thousand

15

41

. A

4-   4  ,

dollars; give him fifty dollars, and he will do the rest. Go, Will; for
God's sake do not let me stay here an hour longer than you can pre-
vent; go, that is a good fellow."
"I hope," said the brother, "you will let this be the last of your
nonsense, Joe, and a thorough warning."
"Well, no preaching now; I venture to say it will be a warning to
one heartless, miserlycurse, at all events," answered Joe, as his
brother departed on his disagreeable but professional errand.
" Anything.going on very rich this morning?" inquired an already
partly described gentleman, putting his face close to the record upon
which the clerk of the-court was inscribing the events of the day.
"No, nothing very special," answered that functionary,; "we have
had a few cases that promise pretty well, I think."
" Ah, what are they? " responded the reporter.
"Oh, one of our city bloods has been furnishing a palace up town
for one of his mistresses; she's broke up, run off with the furniture,
and he's not exactly as able as he let on to be to fork up for the goods
and chattels, so they arrest him for swindling."
"has there been a hearing ? " asked the excited reporter."
," No, he waives an examination and is going to enter it up for trial."
"What is the other case ?" says the reporter.
"Oh, that is going to be rich ; you know Fred Cromeo?"
"What is Fred uphere for ?" responded the reporter.
"Breach of promise, seduction, bastardy, and all that," said the
smiling clerk.
"No!" you don't tell me that in candor?"
" Fact, sir ; old Brown's daughter, Julia, you know her ; used to cut
such a figure at the Taminany balls last winter?"
"The deuce you say!" responded the reported. "Yes, P know her;
kind of had a notion once to piclkher up myself. The old man'a
wealthy !
"Yes, but Jule has always been considered a hard case," replied
the philosophic clerk to his equally platonic friend, the reporter ; and
while they discussed this and other equally interesting matters of law
and gossip, the 'bail man' enters with young Frog, the lawyer in
chrysalis; they enter Joe's apartment,; a few minutes pass, and
the two brothers and bail man enter the private room of the magis-
trate or judge, and presently Joe Frog, Jr,, and his brother reappear
and are about to leave the court room .
"IBallo! Joey, my boy, is that you ! "says the reporter.
"Alit Flapps,.my old fellow, how do you do?  Mr. Flapps, my
brother ; William, Mr. Flapps, assistant editor, etc., of the 'News of
the Age."
After a mutual recognition, the parties left, the court room for a
neighboring hotel, where such an explanation as Joe Frog, Jr., sad
proper to make, touching his little affair at the Tombs, was given to

JI,
k

a2
f
k   '
1
t     "i               !"
g        r
}
ar               r
+z
w
1
d
f
a3
5
u
r
t
F   -
i        H

'


1
:
_t
_
t
A'
£
"
.     3
t  % f
[   . r

MARIE [ESSAIRE.

Flapps, with an injunction to make no note of it in his paper ; all c;
which being understood, the parties touched their glasses, drank, a~
parted, Flapps in quest of news items, and Joe Prog, Jr., with h±
heart full of bitterness against his father, started with his brother, wit
a scheme in his head to revenge himself on his miserly parent.

- CHAPTER     VIII..
MATRIMONIAL FACILITIES IN "UPPER TEN" CIRCLES-TEMPER UPPERMOST-FINALE OF
AN INTERESTING WHIST PARTY-A SUDDEN "CALL" FROM AN UNUSUAL PATIENT--
SCENE IN 'A STATION-HOUSE-CIRCUMSTANCES MkTERIALLY ALTER CASES.
U               "What now? in the sulks again ? "
"In the 'sulks,' yes, well, I may be in the sulks; very good for yon
to say 'sulks.' You know what 's the matter, sir, well enough," said
the half sobbing, snuffing, snapping wife.
"Look you, now, Margaret," replied Dr. Swabs, as he closed the
center doors of the large and luxuriantly furnished apartment, "don 't
let us repeat the dose of yesterday morning; I'm heartily sick of it;
for God's sake let us go to bed in peace."
".Go to bed, go, if you wish ; I want no bed to-night; I-I-I've seen
enough to keep me, awake for a month."   An application of fines
needle-work and cambric, to absorb this imaginary flow of tears, ftc-
lowed this piece of elocution, ort the part of the jealous wife; bu.
perceiving that her husband was turning a deaf ear to her piercin-
.            eloquence by turning over the leaves of his daily diary, which a
accompanied by a slight effort at whistling, "She wore a wreath o!
roses," Mrs. Swabs fired up again.
"If a man will conduct himself in such-such a-a--in such
shameless manner in the very-very presenceof his wife and fassji
what will lie do when he is away from home 1"
"Come, Maggy, don 't make a fool of yourself; you are too !'
advanced in life, and-"
"Yes, I know you think, sir, I'm getting quite too old, and-.
"And ought to be ashamed of such girlish freaks," continued .:
still placid husband, without noticing the interruption.
"Yes, sir, I understand your meaning well ; I yn' too old for y
That impudent hussy, Miss Japonica, would suit you a great aca
better, sir; I take your meaning, I understand your fine cowplimnen,
and nice politeness to her," said-the enraged wife.

MARIE LESSAIRE.

47

"Why bless me," answered the Doctor, " you were as tull of
compliments to the young lady, while she was present, as you could
possibly be!"
. "Was I-I was, eh ? Well, if I was, it was buj to keep the atten-
tion of the company from your close and persisting familiarities with the
impudent jade ! That is what Idic it for, you wretch."
"Mag Swabs," said the Doctor, I do not wish to quarrel to-night;
don 't irritate me ; let us retire and not give the servants another ex-
hibition of the miseries of private life."
"That Mrs. Rush, too, she's another of your especial favorites,"
continued the wife, without paying a   attention to the amicable
demonstrations of her husband-" I kn w her ;sly, insidious hussy,
her poor, good natured, easy, sleepy husband don't know half of her
pranks. Let her come into my house again, I'll-I'll-"
" You '11 what? receive her as you do all your friends and acquaint-
ances, with smiles and sickening profusion of politeness, and then-"
"Then what, you wretch, what ?"
-4 Then when they leave, make yourself contemptible in the eyes and
ears of your family and servants, by calling those friends and visitors
every thing that's vile and ridiculous," said the Doctor, pacing the
apartments and munching "dessert" that still remained in voluptuous
profusion upon the silver dishes and baskets at the side of the tables,
as the whist party had left it.
"'Tis false, sir, you never heard me speak disrespectful of any of
     my friends or my acquaintances, Dr. Swabs, in your guilty, wretched,
heartless life!" echoed Mrs. Swabs, tremulous with passion, shaking
her finger and stamping her foot in front of her husband.
'iGo away," he quietly responded; "go to bed ; the symptoms will
be more favorable in the morning ; you are in a great fever now."
"Sir, I know you; you think you can keep your heartless actions
all quiet and secret, don 't you ; but I can fathom you, I can."
, "Keep quiet if you will," suddenly interposed the Doctor, as a vio-
lent pull at the bell indicated a call.
"  would 'nt wonder now if that was some message from that impu-
dent hussy, Japonica; let on that you were wanted to attend a patient,
 and get you to call on her and finish your night's courtship-and com-
plhmnentings," persisted the termagant.
"D--n you, if I must use the epithet, which I mean from the bot-
tom of myheart, too, will you be done ? " in a low and guttural tone
interposed the Doctor.
"Sir, there's a gintleman in the off-is would spake wid yee's," were
the words following the servant's tap upon the parlor door. The Doctor
attended the visitor in his front office, while Mirs. Swabs called in the
4    servant to interrogate him.
"Thomas, who's that after the Doctor ?"

L -

I

46


r
~1

48.                     MARIE LESSAIRE.
"Sure mam, an' I don't know 'em; I'd be very sorry to have the
laste acquaintance in the world wid 'em, maim."
" Why, who is he?"
"He's a man wid an ugly bit of a stick, mam, a dirty big coat;
he's one of the polees, mum."
"A policeman? What on earth is he here for ?"
"Margaret, dear," said Dr. Swabs,,entering the parlor as the servant
glided out, "I am going to the station-house ; I fear Conrad has got
into a serious difficulty."
" Conrad! My God, what's the matter; has that girl-?"
" I.don 't know the particulars ; the French girl is with him," said
the Doctor, hurrying on his coat and gloves.
"There! I knew it! I told him not to go ; that hussy has-"
"Well, good night, there, kiss me; now go to bed, Maggy, dear, I'll
be back, directly,".and saluting his mollified wife, the physician made
hasty steps to the door.
"Francis, take good care of yourself, dear, do," called the wife.
"I will, love," responded the husband, as the servant closed 'the
door behind him'and the policeman ; and thus fortuitous circumstances
closed a scene of domestic treason, which, allowed to proceed, would
have doubtless ended in a night's sobs and sighs on the one part, and
inward bitterness, which leads but to the ossification of all tender and
respectful sentiments that should characterize the daily intercoune be-
tween man and wife, on the other.
"Where is the ydung gentleman ?" said Dr. Swabs, addressing
several policemen gathered about the stove in the station-house.
"lie 's all tight enough," responded they.
"Where 's the captain of the watch, or who presides here ?" asked
the Doctor.
"There he comes," responded one of the policemen.
" Ahl! Doctor, how are you? rather a damp, cold -night," said a
very burly anl nowise pleasing or temperate-looking personage,
coming forward from a side room and extending his huge paw in
a friendly manner.
"Very," the Doctor replied, touching gingerly with his ungloved
hand the tips of the captain's fingers ; "I learn you have arrested, and
have here a young gentleman by the name of Vinton?"
"Yes, a young feller of that name is here," answered the captain.
"lHe cut up such skollops," he continued, "and went on 'o that we
had to put him in a cell; he wanted to see you; so I told one of the
men they might go if they liked, but I had my doubts about the fuller's
knowing you, Doctor.",
"I should like to see-him; what's lie here for ?"_
" Smith, go fetch him up. Well, you see, Doctor, the young feller's
been out on a spree ; I suppose, got in with one of the night-walking
gals, and -"-

"?
.
' ,{{
~-7
s         t~
A
A
r4
rt',
' SL
j.W

- MARIE LESSAIRE.                     49
" 'ou lie! you malicious, bloated old sot ! "exclaimed Conrad 'Yin-
ton, as lie came forward from a rear doors in custody of a policeman.
"Come, you d-d thieving-looking highbinder, don't begin again,"
roared the burly captain, "or I'll fix your flint for you."
"Conrad, be quiet; remember where you are," said the Doctor.
"I am perfectly conscious, sir, of the vile den I'm in, but don't feel
disposed to suffer the insult as well as the injustice and tyranny of these
worse than thieves, burglars and ruffians," said the excited student.
"If you say ten words more, you infernal cuss, you, I'll hand and
foot cuff you, and put you in the cells for a week !" again bellowed
the wrathy captain.
"'Conrad, allow me to speak," said Dr. Swabs.
"Certainly, sir ; you'll please excuse my excited and rather dis-
respectful manner, Doctor, in your presence, for when you know the
cause, you will not wonder at the eflct, sir."
"Now, sir," said the Doctor, addressing the captain, "may I beg
leave to know the charge preferred against this young gentleman $ "
"Well, the rascal has been stabbing a young man. It appears ho
was going along from the theater with a strum pet, (Conrad rose to his
feet, choking with indignation, but Dr. S abs raised his hand and shook
his head, which had the effect of allaying the student's temper, and the
captain proceeded,) she recognized a young man passing them, aimd
spoke to him; the young man stopped, an altercation followed, and
my gentleman ie, being about half slewed, pulls out his ugly knife,
(holding up the calpel,) and rips away at the young.feller; my mcen
were on thespot in a moment, of course, (!) and nabs my jockey and
the gal too, and here they are."
"Allow me to observe, sir," said Dr. Swabs, "that I can vouch for
the incorrectness of a material portion of your charge. This young
man is a gentleman,,a student under rime; lives in my house ; left there
to attend a patient of mine, about ten o'clock, this or  rather last evening.
The patient's daughter, an honest little French girl, came for me, and
left my house with Mr. Vinton, to return to her father, who lies dan-
gerously ill, and it seems to me, sir, that it's a great shame to have
d arrested her and brought her here, whatever may hare been done in
the heat of the moment with the young man."
"Dr. Swabs," responded the captain, adjusting his soiled shirt collar
-    and scarf and at the same time giving a very official grunt, "I presume
I know my duty; and, sir, I am far from doing anything not consistent
with my duty ; it often occurs, even with those well tried and dis-
creet (!) men, that they are mistaken and make mistakes, which, sir, I
am very ready and willing to make right. Brown, go lit that young
gal go home," said this, modern Fallstafl, abruptly, c sing his caucus
speech, and addressing one of his men, and the moment the door by
which tire captain of the watch lad entered was opened by the oflicEM
oit rushed Marie.n                               b

I;

a
t
g 3
6 i
j
mot.
v  i              ,

I
U

'-
S
F¢F   7
S_ ,

t


x
¢
3-
_
"
--
-
a
t
f
'
'      f,
y
i

MMhsE LESSATRE

51

MARIE LESSAIRE.
50
"0! my God ! my God ! Doctor, Doctor, save me!" screamed the
belle of the ballet, as she threw herself in the arms of Doctor Swabs.
" Don 't be alarmed, my girl," said the Doctor , as he loosed her
hands from his damp coat, "don't be alarmed."
"0 Doctor, Doctor, take me home; do, dear, good, kind Doctor,
take me home ; take me from these fearful, horrid men ! "
"I will, my dear ; don 't be alarmed."
"My father, my father, my poor, dear father is dying ! " sobbed the
half-distracted girl.
"You ought to have told us the truth at first," said the captain,
fidgeting about, doubtless feeling quite uneasy.
" Truth ? to you, sir, nothing is truth ; you were possessed of ,all
that was  true, by me, as soon as we entered here," Conrad responded.
"I don 't want your slack, sir-I 'in addressing the young girl."
" I-I told you all, sir," sobbed Marie, "1-4 begged, I prayed, I-I
did every thing to prevai- upon you to send me home, sir; but-but
you used the most horrid language, the most shocking talk I-I ever
heard. 0! take me from this Doctor, do, dor" almost screamed the
. poor girl.                    -r
"I will, my dear, immediately. Sir," said the Doctor to the cap-
tain, "I will sign a bond or pledge my word for that gentleman's
appearance in the morning at ten o'clock, and you will oblige me to
let him accompany me."
" Well, Doctor, I'll take your word for his appearance ; be sure he
appears at ten, and he may leave," answered the captain.
":I pledge my word to that efict, sir. Come, Conrad. My dear,
take my arm and let us hurry to your father's. Conrad, you go im-
mediately home, and apprise Mrs. Swabs of this afiir; come, Miss,"
and the parties left the purlieus of vice and misery.

CHAPTER IX.
TIE DEATH OIAMBER--SORROWFUL PANTOMIME-A HEROINE OF ROMANTIC REALITY-THE
DOCTOR EVINCES A DISPOsITION TO MERIT THE SUSPICIOUS INUENDOES OF HIS LADY-
THE TABLEAU-RULING PASSIONS STRONG IN DEATH.
"hi-i-s-h !" said a voice meeting Marie and the Doctor, at the door
of her parents' humble home.
"Is lie dead ?" were the first words of Marie, uttered in a low, soft,
searching tone, "is he dead ? "
"No, Marie," answered Mad. Mignard, for it was she, "but where,
child, have you been? Your mother is wild about you."
"0! Mad. Mignard, my heart is breaking. I've-"
"Be quiet, Miss; not a word of the-matter just now," said the
Doctor, as he perceived Mad. Lessaire, haggard and death-like, ap-
proaching from the little rear chamber.
"My daughter," exclaimed Mad. L.
"Mother! mother! -dear mother!" echoed the poor girl, dashing
aside her cold wet hat and shawl, and throwing her exhausted body
into.the-arms of her parent.
"fHow is the patient ?" inquired the Doctor, placing his hpt and
cane upon the piano, to divert attention from the afiecting scene
between Marie and her mother.
"Very low, sir," answered Mad. M. "He sleeps now, she con-
tinued, and my husband has gone out to procure some fruit for him,
which he desired. He has been much concerned at missing his
r  daughter."
"Marie," uttered a faint husky voice from the inner chamber.
" A! he has waked; will you walk in, Doctor ?" and as Mad. M.
led the way, followed by the Doctor, Marie rushed by them, but was
restrained by Dr. Swabs, who, holding her by the arm, whispered in
her ear, "Wait, my dear, a sudden-ehock to your father will produce
his immediate death: Let your mother and her friend pass in ; seat
yourself so that your father may see you, but keep silent."
But as they entered the dingy room, the dying musician cast his
sunken eyes around the group, and, seeing his dear child, he gave vent
to an exclamation of joy, and quite overcome with the effort, he -lay
some seconds motionless. Marie clasped her hands, and anxiously
leaning forward, her eyes fixed upon her parent's rigid face, while her
mother, bending over the bed, stood in the dread anticipation of the
physician's announcement of her husband's release from the shackles
of mortality.
4'

't
,
' ,
,
'

/  i  +t
Y " Ft
1if
E         Tt
;f; ''}
'
F
'
{ i
3 !
sS  J
f
}    f
4         _
r    1
pC

,f

.
-        '
,: ,
.;
;
k
-
i  y
N
f{F  Y
F   p. '
LEs }
t
T      '     _
Y

,.
{
r
?
,,
,
1';
r
y'
1 k
w ,  '
)
'
11 i
t ,12
6 J
1
a
}
((
4"
3
s'
r
x
i
n
6
x
a
s
9
'    k
i
S
i}K
i
- ",
2

{ i
X
T
5
r
s

4


4
'I
t
"
f j)
A 1'

MARIE LESSAIRE.

"Tie is quite low, very weak," said Dr. Swabs, feeling the almost
pulseless wrist of the musician ; "but he will rally; do not disturb hin:
or make any unnecessary noise. You had better retire to rest, Miss,
said he to 'Marie, "you require sleep very much. It is now not far
from morning; -;take rest ; your mother and this lady will attend your
father, who will be no worse for some hours, at least ; retire ; that's a
good girl."!
"Willyou remain, dear loctor ? " answered the little belle, grasping
the arm of Doctor Swabs, pon whom she now looked as the guardian
of her father's life.
"A short time, but will "eturn again in the morning."
"Mother, you shall rest, I will sit with my father."
"No, no, dear child, I am used to it; go you to bed ; do go; 'God
bless my daughter, bon nuit," said Mad. L., embracing and kissing
the polished, ivorylike, aid now cold features of her child.
"Bon nuit, mon here, ckere mere. Mad. Mignard, Doctor, good
night," and with a coup de grace that had never failed upon 'the
boards' of the Metropolitan play-house, to bring a-quick response from
the audience, the sad and pale sylphide glided to: rest, in a tastefully
arranged little chamber over their equally limited parlor.
Dr. Swabs briefly stated to the mother and  jad. M., in the most
modified form, the cause of the detention of Marie ; in fact, however
little-he had been surprised, had he known the conduct of the chief of
the police station and his subordinates, lie was quite ignorant of the
worst feature, nor will it be productive of the remotest good or even
passing interest to the reader to hear the recital of the impious lan-
guage and foul besotted conduct of that, potentate, to his shivering,
terrified, and pure prisoner. As lie is dead, and gone to his final
hearing , " it may be hoped he has been more mercifully dealt with
than his mortal acts would give us reasonable cause to expect, and
that his office has since beei filled by others more imbued with-hu
manity, temperance, mental capacity and common,justice. We barely
venture to hope so.
The physician was cut short in a very interesting tete-a-tete with
Mad. Mignard, upon music, the drama, ballet, etc., by the return of
Mons.   ignard, our bon vivant acquaintance of the orchestra, whc
had gone 'n quest of, and obtained quite a supply of fruits and con-
fections th t the dying brother musician had requested.
Mad. Mignard was a woman of forty, rather embonpoint, to be
sure, but more sufficiently so to appear the more voluptuously striking
in some men's views; her dark, full eyes and profusion of raven
tresses, with lips and teeth of considerable poetic richness and favor,
made her a woman, once seen not easily forgotten, even by the coldest
observer of female'charms. With manners and habits, even the mod-
erate circumstances of-her present life had not impaired ; she was
lady-like, truly Parisian, winning, graceful, kind and generous. le.

[1;

52

(,

MARIE LESSAIRE
H                                                534
history was one of romance itself: her parents weie wealthy ; she
was a native of St. Domingo; when the bloody insurrection of that
island took place, Mad. M. was a child of five years old. Rescued
and saved by a sea captain, though her parents were slaughtered, she
was taken to England, where some ten years of her life was passed.
Discovering, by accident, the whereabouts of an aunt, a wealthy widow,
'a few leagues from Marseilles, she set out in a ship, commanded by
her preserver and protector-in whose family she had so long resided-
the St. Domingo captain. During a, long calm at sea, they were
beset and boarded by Algerine Corsairs, plundered, vessel scuttled,
officers and most of the crew murdered, and herself and a few other
passengers carried away to an island inhabited or retained by these
marauders of the sea. From this place chance set her free. An
armed vessel of the Danish navy, by accident, touched at the island,
at a time when most of the pirates were at sea; those remaining not
choosing to betray their murderous calling, quietly submitted to the
departure of Marguerite and her three friends, an Englishman, his
wire, and an old French gentleman, formerly an officer i the French
army. Two months on board of the Danish war ship so wrought
upon the heart of the young commander, who spoke both English and
French with the utmost fluency, that he tendered, the voluptuous brut
nette a cabin passage for life, half of his berth, and an equal claim
.  upon his heart, hand and purse. He was not to be rejected. Young,
brave, high in command and noble in person, she yielded, the next
port she arrived -at, and they were duly married ;, and shortly after-
wards the vessel reached home; the lady still importunate to visit
4       rai ce, set out thither, with ier husband, and they had scarcely
reached Marseilles, when the Danish captain was taken. ill and died.
Marguerite was a widow---a young, beautiful, dashing widow. Find-
ing her wealthy relation, she took up her abode with her, and soon
after, attracting the attention of a gay young Parisian at Marseilles,
upon business connected with the house of his father, a rich banker in
the French capitol, a short courtship, and they were married. The aunt
died and left Marguerite a handsome dower. Her husband in course of
a few years taking to his cups and bottles, gaming and other vices of the
capitol, soon squandered all their moneys and estates, and in a fit of.
horrors committed suicide one morning by an early plunge into the
muddy and deep Seine. Yet young and handsome, without encum-
brances, poor and no resources, it required of her but a short miedita-
tion to accept the protection of a rich musical directeur of an opera
house that she had frequented. This liason lasted. much longer than
the good treatment of the old roue warranted, but Marguerite had no
choice; she lived, endured and hoped on. The directeur loved her-
was proud of her; she was his idol, and when the fit was on, he lavished
upon her all, that money and voluptuous taste could well obtain in the
gay city.- But he was brutal and fretful, and the finale was, that a

,
i
F
s
,
f
,

4
y
3
i
r
{
F
"       f
i    {

a
,
.'?
',- ;,
:'
F
C'
?r',

I J


t ),
,'
'
'
.e   ,
-'1
s
;;
.
:
z  %
-   '

MARIE LESSAiRES

young musician, frequently visiting the house upon business with the
directeur, caught her eye; her heart was vacant., and the young Froneh-
man, with twenty francs in his pocket, and the beautiful woman under
his arm, made a very sudden appearance, one day, in London. Mar-
guerite and the young musician, Mignard, lived in happy independ-
ence in the great'city, for three years,.when with a prospect of bettering
his fortune, Mons. Mignard and Marguerite sailed for the new world.
Such a woman, with a man of Doctor Swabs' temperament, as set
forth and accredited by his lady, could'not fail to receive from. him
more than a passing notice; therefore not the least strange to say, the
physician remained with his humble patient much longer than he had
previously purposed.
A sudden knock at the door aroused the little conversational party
at the sick musician's bedside. Conrad Vinton and Doctor Swabs'
servant were at the door in the Doctor's gig ; there were calls for the
Doctor at home, and Conrad, more than. anxious to supply his pre.
ceptor's place, in this instance, though attended as it was in the onset
by the very serious difficulties of the night, signified his willingness to
remain.
"Oh ! no necessity of that, sir ; the patient is easy ; he requires
\ Rothing but quiet," skid Dr. Swabs ; "you might as well return with
\m, Conrad ; the man will need nothing but what his friends here can
give him; he may last until noon or sunset to-morrow ; then, if attend-
ance be required, we can be called."
"I would as lief remain, sir," responded the student, as he gazed
at the sinking features of Mons. Lessaire.
"Oh I do remain with us until daylight, at least," beseechingly said
Mad. L.
"Well, be it as you please," the Doctor replied, and in a half whis-
per he reminded Conrad that they were to be at the police office at ,
nine, A. M.
"I will be punctual, sir, to the appointment," observed the student,
divesting himself of his cloak and gloves, while the Doctor, accompa-
nied by Mad. Mignard, stepped towards the front door; they halted
for a moment in the little hall, a few indistinct words were exchanged,.
and the Doctor passed out into his gig and rolled off towards home,
muttering-in the folds of his ample coat, "Charming woman t Curse
that sticking plaster~of a fellow, with his innocent face and draughts
of sentimental nonsense ; just the very dolt that some women fancy ;
however, I'll see her again."  Reaching his house, Dr. Swabs ran
over the "calls" made during his absence, sorted out such as he
deemed most necessary to see at once, rubbed out the others, jumped
into his gig again and began his morning rounds.
The faint streaks of day were beginning to pencil their varied colored
and irregular angles upon the eastern heavens; the chamber in which
death was about to hold court and set his seals, was still; the worn

:.
y
.
1
a
;;
'' N
f -1

out wife of the dying dan had thrown her face upon a small work-
stand before her, and was enjoying that brief respite the dormant and
' overtasked brain permits the wretched in the gloomiest hours of exist-
ence. Mignard and his wife had just left by the acquiescence of the
student, and he alone now kept the quiet vigil; a rustling movement
of tlge bed-clothes disturbed Conrad from the contemplation of a hand-
somely executed crayon sketch ofthe "Belle of the ballet," by a young
artist of the theater, and which hung over the fire-place. Conrad
turned his face towards the bed ; the old musician was sitting upright,
his eyes glassy, sunken, and almost terrible to look upon. Ife glanced
at the young man a searching stare, then gazed around the room,
which the nearly burnt-out lamp, and yet feeble light of early morn,
rendered the recognition of minor objects very problematical; for a
moment the dying man's eyes rested upon his dozing wife, a sigh.
escaped him, and he then continued his gaze, which at length fixed
upon a corner near the chamber door; and almost unconscionably the
gaze of the student followed the eye-wanderings of the old man until.
he perceived a box, a black oblong box, in the corner. The musician-
perceivig the student had seen the object of his search, essayed to
speak, but the effort failed him, and he could only give his hand and
head a significant beck and nod towards the black box, which Conrad
interpreting it noiselessly, discovered .and took from it an old and
much worn violin.                )
" Ah ! ha! ye-yes, zat is him, give-give-me," articulated the
old man with a dying effort.
Mad. Lessaire awoke; she rubbed her eyes, and in wonder gazed at
the scene before her. The student still held the old violin and bow in
his hands. Mad. L. was the first to interrupt this curious pantomime-
rushing to her husband, she cried-
"Non Dieu! Mon Dieu! Father! Husband!"
"Ahu! give me, gi-give me-violin; go call Marie, quick, run
right a--a-a vay I-I'm called for-for ze rehearsal, Marie, be-hin,
Ma-" and with a nervous grasp of the violin from the hands ci the
student, as he stood speechless over the bed, the poor old man gave the
bow one twitch across the instrument, "the bridge" of the violinturne.l
over with a clash and snap, the musician fell back upon his pillow.
dead!
The scene going forward below s irs had awakened Marie; she
descended in haste and entered the chamber of death just in time to
hear the last broken syllable uttered by her parent; and in the next
moment the soul of the musician had winged its Way to attend the
_1 ' rehearsals of immortals, while the daughter's inanimate form, after a
piercing shriek, lay stretched upon his cold, cold clay.  *  *

S   -
t
4
i
3

x-

t1

'"

I
r
4
It
+
'          j
. ,
,
1
,
ti
s
s
5
'       '
ii
1
A
A,                               [              '
' ''
',            e
'
{               {{I
S              i
1
I
6                                 i
i

t
?
i
f
,,1     ,

4

0'
MARtIE LESJAlRE.

:t
:
4"
ate
]
.g
nSy
;,x
GzF
_ 

+
'f
.
'


VI,'
f
4
L;
i         J
F     t
f        YYY
YZ    f
'4 e +
z .f '
X     .
e3
Y
t
F
Ff    ,
t
t j.
C
i
Ff1
c     #
t
{{ J                    t
s t " t
F
t
f
j
t     t
t
k f
y      1
' t
l  .
E     F    J
J   ,

50                      MARIE LESSAIRE,
CHAPTER RX,
PHILOSOPHY AND PHYSI--A SENTIMENTAL STUDENT AND A CASE-HARDENED DOCTOR-A
RIDE TO THE STION-HOUSE-A STREET SCENE--AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE TURNS UP-
THE AVENGER FOILED-TE ARREST-TIIE RECOGNITION-TIIE ROUE IN THE House
OF MOURNING.
"Well, Conrad, I've been waiting for you. Why, you look quite
fagged out. how is the old fiddler?"
" Dead," solemnly responded the student.
"I supposed he would go off this morning," continued Dr. Swabs.
"Well, now we must go and attend to that infernal police afihir; this
comes, my dear sir, of your excessive desire for attending all 'calls.'
I' always know, sir, when and where a call is absolutely necessary,
or where one will at least pay best ; for, after all, of course, it is a
business matter purely, and physicians can not profit in trading and
trafficking in sympathy ; though we necessarily must manufacture and
keep on hand a decent supply,-to use as circumstances may warrant,
yet that must not interfere with our book-keeping or settling of ac-
counts," said the learned and experienced practitioner.
"I hope I may never, through mere professional practice, take that
view of our profession," answered Conrad. "I look upon the pro-
fession of physic, sir, as the noblest study of man; when backed by
skill, courage, and humanity, the office is sacred, and in which the
man, in fulfilling his duties faithfully and humanely, becomes allied to
ministering immortals themselves! "
"Yes, yes, all very well," said Dr. Swabs, putting on his overcoat
and preparing for their drive to the police station ; I've been all over
that ground, asyou must know, but it wou t pay, sir, for the pains and
labor of lifeaig college, the long, long hours of study, the expenditures
in way of f  ad awards to professorships,-and the patient boring
re endur. 41ng, waiting, waiting for pay ing practice. IIowever.
you must .       e, and I can not blame you Conrad, for being
iiidustiiisY among those willing to allow young practitioners to learn."
rIshilknjver, sir,/experiment upon even the humble," said the
student,"hta'litte nettled at the Doctor's remarks. "I trust I may
always have the approving consciousness of practicing only when and
where the patient's especial good sienw to call for my attention and
exertions, and never enter into tie depths of mere theoretical practice,
under the dangerous plea of benefiting science at the expense and
misery of a fellow-creature, at my mercy, through the providence of
God."_

r l
a
R
,q
.
. st
, 7
j k
.
}

MARIE LESSAIRE.
Excellent, i' faith. You'd have made a better divine, I thiik
M r Jear sir, than a physician," responded Doctor Swabs, as he ad
his hilosophizing student stepped into the gig and drove off to the
poiae office. "But you will be traveling over all that tender-heartea
mor hty before vou nett your first thousand dollar fee, my dear sir?
"May be so," said the student solemnly; then proceeding, he Qb
" served, "Doctor, I trust it may not be my fate to witness ('any such
scenes like that I witnessed this morning."
"What, at the old Frenchman's ? "
.s      "Yes, s ir."
"Did they go on so much   I suppose the old fellow died rattier
quietly; he was too low to  ake much ado himself."
"In all your practice, sir, continued the student, I doubt it a c e
so really touching and iuipi'cssive ever cane, to your direct know-
ledge."
" Oh ! bless you, yes, Hiundreds of them," answered the Doctor.
"Why, sir, I have been present at the leath of over jive hundid,
persons, under all manner of circumstances, causes, and effects;csk e
closing scenes of patients beyond my skill, I used to endeavor }o
avoid, but I got over that; nd like these fellows here at the stati-.
house, one finally gets o taniliar with human misery and sueim
tears and wailings, that we fail to be impressed w*ith, any .plase 9.
physical evil or inental sorrow. But here we are. to answer for 3; r
anatomical demonstration upon , the live subject last might; yopr
version of the story, by the way, Conrad, I have not yet learned."
And the student, in the interim of the appearance of the captain of
the watch, related the ihcts of the case;. at the conclusion of wliigh,
that worthy came in, and saluting Dr. Swabs very courteously, '-i.
formed hu that the, person who had .been stabbed by his stuidet
turned out to be a notorious rowdy of the city; and, having a previgqu
matter to settle with the police court, had not again made his appear-
ance, so the case wa~s closed, or would be, upon the young man paying
certain fees.
To this Conrad demurred; but, after a brief and exciting debate,
in which the student spoke his mind right freely to the 'captain,' Dr.
Swabs convinced his pupil, that in no place could,Slhakspeare's wards
better apply, under any and all circumstances, tian to a watch-ie
of a ponce court of a great city-"Discretion is the better part of valor"
Reluctantly the student drew'forth his purse and paid the fee, and left
the.scene of his first act in the drama of lit iin a nietroplis.
As'the Doctor and Conrad drove down town, a large mob of p
ions attracted their attention at the' corner of one of the principal
tribntaries of Broadway, and they stopped the vehicle for a moment
ato learn the nature of&amp; the difficulty.J.
S"A. !'said Dr: Sxabs, "I kiow that yung man ; he is the, sqn
of one of my wealthiest and most abominable hoggish patrons. Let mi

.
'''
'  e
:
_

F
e
f
F
r
i
s
c
w
k         1
f


$8                     MARIE LESSAIRE.
Alight; hold the reins, Conrad, sit still," and the physician stepped
:rom the vehicle just in time to witness a savage blow from the hand
p1 a man, who, from cause presently explained, dealt it.
"lie is killed!" shouted one.
" Who is he?" echoed others.
"I am the man,! "said the person who struck the prostrate victim,
"I am the marn; if he is not dead, I have work yet to do."
"Seize the assassin! secure him! "
"Where's the police?" cried the gathering mob, which just then
yielding to the pressure and authority of two stalwart officers of justice,
fell back, while the assailant, without resistance, suffered himself to be
arrested.
"Gentlemen," said the prisoner, "I willingly surrender to justice;
and why I have committed this act, I ought to offer to the witnesses
of it some reasonable cause. Less than a year ago, that scoundrel
fed this city, a fugitive from justice, a forger and a villain; .he swin-
died his father and robbed me of my wife ! I have traced him from  '
lace to place, from north to south ; my cause was more eager than /
justice, an eye more keen than that of Argus. I met him here; ;
demanded reparation as a man; he denied me; I-then gave him just-
e, retributive justice ! Am I right ? "
" Good for him! hooraw !" shouted the mob, as the officers led the;
prisoner off towards the Tombs. But they had not proceeded far be.
re one officer was deemed quite sufficient to lead the prisoner to jail,
while the other retraced his steps to pay a little attention to the sup-
posed assassinated man.
Dr. Swabs had the injured man conveyed into a store, and by such
medies as the case then required, brought the man to consciousness.
e gazed around among the spectators who had rushed into the store,
and dropping his head the moment he met the well-known connte-
rance of the physician--
' Dr. Swabs," he said in a feeble and surprised tone.
' Mr. Frog, is it possible?" the Doctor exclaimed.
"Then he comes under my care," said the policeman.
"Who are you, i? "responded Joe Prog, Jr., arising from his torpor-
"Oh, an old fritd, look at me; seen
" I know you; curse and d-n you," .said the surviv"g, but still
nervous and weak profligate.. "Doctor, please have me removed from
this," he continued.
"'My carriage is at the door," replied the Doctor.
"lie goes with me, sir," said the officer ; he is a fugitiveifrom just-
ice. I have a warrant for his arrest in my pocket."
;' For what ? " asked Joe Frog, Jr., raising himself by aid of the
physician, and taking a chair.
"For forgery !" answered the officer; forgery upon your father,
aid then clearing out."

MARIE LESSAIRE.

59

.
.-
:. ;t,
Y' yi
'¢
' tt_
E    (
. °   f
}
f

"It is hardly necessary to explain that matter here, in the midst
of a mob," said the Doctor ; "but, sir, that affair has all been settled
I think."
"yes, it has, long ago," answered Joe Frog.
"Well, I've got no orders to act, further than to keep a look-out for
you,"the officer replied. "You 've always been a customer of mine
Mister Prog, you know, and I'1l use you as well as I can, ; but here'
a warrant for your arrest; I've had it some time ; so you must gg'
with me."
Joe Prog finding it useless to resist or dally with his old and intimate
acquaintance Grab, yielded the point, only requesting Dr. Swabs to
accompany them to the police office. A carriage was sent for, in
which the officer, Joe Frog, and the Doctor started for the Tombs,
Conrad following in the Doctor's gig. The case was soon settled;
Josiah Frog, Jr., was held to bail in the sum of two thousand dollars,
to appear and answer a charge of forgery, preferred by Josiah Prog,
Sr. Dr. Swabs at once offered himself and was accepted as bonds-
man; and the magnificently attired, moustached, and imperialed roue
was again at large, scarcely the worse from the blow he had received
from a heavy mace, with which his assailant had leveled him, but
a few minutes before, upon the side walk of the most fashionable
irottoir.
"Josey," said Dr. Swabs, as soon as the matter was disposed of,
"have you seen any 6f the family? how long have you been in the
city?"
"Five days," answered Joe;- "I was afraid to show myself, Doe.,
the d-d hounds were after me; I knew the afihir of mine and the
old man's was all hushed up, but there are other scrapes I got into,
and curse them, at last I determined to dress and come out of my hole
in broad daylight, and it was my cursed luck to put myself right in
the way of the very wretches I should have avoided. Its my luck."
"Well, you get into the gig with my student, Mr. Vinton, Mr.
Frog," said the Doctor, introducing Joe as he pushed him into the
vehicle with Conrad. "Now, Mr. Vinton, please drive directly home;
I hate a call to make close by. I have news and a long talk with
you, Mr. Frog ; Mr. Vinton will show you to a room; take rest and
wait until I return."
Joe Frog asked the privilege of driving, the vehicle, lie being a
little anxious, for the present, to escape further street emeutes, bya
choosing the less public and crowded avenues of the city, and, in doing
so, he passed directly by the door of a dv|lling Conrad was so anxious"
to revisit as to touch the reins and stop the horse.
"I wish to alight here for a few moments, sir-wait a moment; if
you lease."
"Why! yes, bless me a- I know this place," said Joe.
"Are you acquainted hero?" Conrad inquired.

{Y
A
4
f
1

_I
-t

A
4-         r
I"


j      3
i      g
r
'B
33
j
z:
s
F'
i-
E
3
Ytp

MARIE LESSAIRE.

"Yes; my father~owys the property; I-a-a-'ve been here. A
of l Frenchman and hi family-aye, and the swee'est little sylph of a
daughter I ever saw," said Joe to hianself. " Certainly 1'11 go in
with you."  Securing the horse, they went into the hall.
"Be quiet as possaoe, sir, the poor man is dead," said Conrad.
d' Ph -l you say,'? said Joe Frog.
" Ilish-e-e!'" echoed the student--" they are performing the last sad
rites of clothing the dead ; I lar we have coie at an unseasonable 
tune-let us retire."
"Stay, Doctor, 0 I at. glad you 'are bere," exclaimed Marie, as she
rushed forward and caught Conrad's arm-"stay."
"By the Lord, she 's lovelier than ever ! " musingly uttered Joe
Prog, as he stood back.
" Mr. Frog, Miss Mari," said the student, presenting Joe.
Al, yes, we are acquainted, I believe ; Mr. Prog has visited na
before," answered Marie.
"Yes, Miss Marie, but you are grown so beautiful and-"
A low but such a sorrowful look as the belle of the ballet gave the
profligate, forestalling his heartless compliment, and recurring to the
pressing mattrs then on the mind of the po r girl. caused Joe to.
take the seat presented by the student and become silent.

CIIAPTER XI.
bos Poo, JR.,'AND TILE PHYSICIAN HAVE A PRIVATE CONSULTATION-THE DOCTOR PULLS
A MaFRIMONIAL WIRE TO AN ENDLF S PUirPosE-THE ROUE HAS A STORY TO TELL,
AND ENDS 1is ROMANTIC NARRATION WITU-A MORAL.
"0 yes, of course they raised a beautiful hubbub when they found
I was gone," said Joe Pro  Jr., as he and. Dr. Swabs sat in the pri-
vate office, after Joe and  onrad had got home from Lessaire's.
But curse them, Doc., did they think I was foolish enough to go
to.the expense of shooting myself, or take a cheap and vulgar way to
kingdom-come by a deep ive into the Iun ison ?
"I assure you, Josey," replie. the Doctor, "they were in great
anxiety about you. William, your brother, said you had acted very
strange, and1 left him very uncereimtoniously, and would not wonder if
7pur mortified feelings, at your appearance in the police office, and

MARIE LJSSATRi?.

61

the refusal of your father to countenance or assist you, had driven you
to some desperate act. The friends of the family were called together
-your sisters were in hysterics-I was called for and consulted."
"Well, what did you think abou; the matter, Doc I "
"I ventured to say, that knowing your temperament from infancy
up,'Josey, I had no fears of your undertaking personal violence upon
r   yourself."
"Exactly, when so many were taking the labor of that upon them-
selves," said Joe.
"So I thought, and hence I was fully prepared for the shock some
of your Imily were $o astounded at, when they learned that you had
made so free with the banking privilege of your father."
"And the old man ?"
"0, you may fancy how he went on ; got perfectly furious, swore
roundly that he would have youi pursued, arrested and punished to the
full extent of the lav. IIa! ha! I laughed in my sleeve at the ideal'
said the Doctor, "for although; Josey, I knew you were beyond grace
long ago, yet I was well aware the family pride would be obliged to
keep any of its members from public disgrace, however great you
might tax them."
"Doctor Swabs," said Joe, touching the knee of that personage, "1
am qute sensible of the many acts of indiscretion and folly I have
committed ; and were I standing upon the scaffold to-morrow, I would
charge the whole account of my folly, and crime, should I ever com-
mit any, to my father ! "
"Josey, Josey," interposed the Doctor, shaking his learned head.
" I mean it, , and I need .not 'go far for proof of the fact, when one
who knows him so long and well as you do, is present," continued the
now quite serious rake.
"1 know the old gentleman has-his faults, certainly, Josey, but yob
must always manage to keep up the respect and dignity of your family,
sir.
"Even if I lie through thick and thin:to do'it, ch ?"
The Doctor gave his head an affirmative shake.
bThat I have done, Doc., for years. I have lied to cover the old
man's meanness ;, I have sworii to very doubtful matters to save hint
a dollar. I have tried to study and practice-by his ,own +persuasion
-4l:-the mean and dishonest points 'of his own ebaracter until
ie keiled: f it; and. disgusted at his ingratitude, Pharisaicalness and
fiiserable meanness, by heavens, I wonder how I ever stopped .this
side of the penitentiary!"
- IIai! ha' Jodey, you di riot stop far short 16f it, when you forged
iand presented that draft upon your father's banl ers for solarge a sum'
"Beg your pardon, sir, I did not!present it, nor could any proof
ciave been brought forward to fasten the forgery.upon me ; and more-
13       over, there are some doubts wheth( r there was a forgeryicommitted-

t
4
_
t    '9
t
I
i t
i

k'

'       .
.
x
+' = f   i
t  -
.
h      ,
k
k
J
3
x
_     ."i
r
_   _
t

1

.


[1

r
f
F
r
t

MARIE LESSAIRE.

old Joe Prog himself has been caught in some very dirty transactions,
let me tell you," said the son.
"Come, come, sir, don't talk so; I have called you here for th6
purpose of having a talk in reason, and proposing a reconciliation
between you and your family."
"Doctor, I don't care that for them!" said Joe, snapping his fingers.
"They have treated me contemptuously, for three years past, and now
I hurl it back to them with full interest; above their petty favors, I
despise them. As to the old man, I hate him; shall avoid and hate
him as the deadliest enemy I have, as long as he lives."
"All folly, my dear sir; you must keep a civil tongue in your head ;
you must use a little diplomacy; there is a fee pending, you know,
well worth attending to; you are young, and will presently see the
error of your way."
"0, fudge, Doc., come, no preaching; if we are to have much more
argument, let it be on some agreeable matter, and just let me twitch
the bell and order up a bottle of your Otard, my old boy."
"Of course, if you wish it," said the Doctor, agitating the tassel.
"But let us be serious ; I hope to see you settled, sir, married to one
of the many respectable, talented and eligible young ladies I could
name to you, master Joe."
"Yes," thought Joe, "old fellow, you have two or three of your
own tribe in the matrimonial shambles, hence the milk in the cocoa
nut!"
And Joe was right. The Doctor, not so much despairing of young
Prog's reformation, as he felt anxious for the handsome settlement of
one or three Miss Swabs, thought it fortuitous that he had fallen in
with the young man, even through the curious circumstances under
which they met, and therefore endeavored to bring around certain
delicate matters, as scientifically as possible ; all to no purpose, how-
ever, for Joe Prog, Jr., had a story to tell, which quite upset all the
family plans Dr. Swabs had then fomenting in his brain.
"Doctor," said Joe, filling a glass with the fluid the servant had
uncorked and placed upon the table-" You can step out for the
present," he observed to the servant. "Doctor, I'm going to tell you
a secret ; fill your glass-my respects ;" the Doctor touched glasses---
"I'm married!"
"Pshaw! you married?" echoed the Doctor with unpleasant surprise.
"I am married to the handsomest lady you have seen for a season,
I guarantee."
"Young and beautiful, eh ?"
"Well, no, not so devilish young, that's a fact ; but then, Doctor,
my boy, she's got the rocks, loads of them!"
"Why, you 've made quick work of it-where and how did this
affair come about?" inquired the Doctor, drawing his chair close to
Prog, Jr., and who being an old amateur in intrigues and their excit

62

t
c
$

MARIE LESSAIRE.
Yng intricacies, felt a sort of desire to learn the particulars of the young
roue's present case.
"I'll tell you, Doc.," said Joe, filling and turning off another glass
of the physician's elixir vitae, and I do it in the strictest confidence,
sir."
"Certainly, sir," responded the Doctor.
''When I heard of the old man's determination to abandon me to my
fate, situated as I was that morning, and his charge, also, of swindling
him out-of moneys I had not collected, I swore I'd do him violence-
I felt like, and should most certainly have gone to his house and coin-
mitted murder!" 
The physician shuddered at the thought.
"But as caution suggested the propriety of arranging means to
escape the penalty of such an act, I found it necessary to call upon a
lady, with whom I had left, some time previous, a portion of my bag-
gage ; this woman was a sharper of the keenest description ; she was
married to a sea captain, and to abbreviate the matter, there was an
intimacy between us."
"Yes, yes, I understand, sir," observed the Doctor.
"She, discovering my intentions, foreseeing the probable danger of
such an affair, threw out hints that led me to adopt a wiser, and a far
more pleasant; plan to revenge myself on the heartless miser. A check
was forged for $3,000; a splendidly habited lady in a magnificent
coach drove up to - Bank ; the check was presented and cashed,
and that night a certain lady and gentleman might have been seen at
Barnum's Hotel, in Baltimore, resting for a few hours en route south."
" Josey, Josey, you are-I mean you have been, a bad boy, very
bad boy," said the deeply interested Doctor, pouring out a glass of
Otard. "Well, you were going off south ?2'
"The lady and gentleman I mentioned, were," responded the cau-
tious narrator, ""while certain parties, in this city, were kicking upa
pretty dust, about certain sudden and mysterious disappearances. But
old Prog, I 'll venture to swear upon a'mountain of books, was wish-
jng in his heart that I had cut my throat, or stowed myself away in
the river. Curse him! but never mind. The lady and gentleman
traveled as far as Charleston, where the lady, chancing to see, at the
hotel, a gentleman with a plentitude of gilt buttons about his clothes,
and for whom she entertained an old and strong attachment, she forth-
with placed her baggage and precious person under guard of this naval
gentleman-shook hands with her late compagnon d' voyage, he plac-
ing fifty eagles and a purse in her pocket, and bidding each other good-
by, parted in the most friendly manner. The young gentleman then
proceeded on his way to New Orleans, where he took up private lodg-
ings for the winter, and laid off in perfect lavender, watching the next
turn of fortune's wheel. My respects, Doc.," said Prog, draining an.
other bumper. "Well, sir, my lodgings (Prog having got over a bar.

.    ,
;            -
_  .
,
, ,
.  r
i   F  rk
E-   L
r.   l
s    {  c

S   1     r,
t
t                '"
z
1
d1
t
4
i
]J
}    t
t   ti
l
1
2


f4                      MR1 L E   AIRED.
assumed his identity) were directly opposite the mansion of oie of the
oldest, richest families of that city-French, of course. The children
of the old branch, had all received their education,.and spent their
younger days in Paris. They had an elegant garden ; I frequently.
admired the flowers, as I leaned over the garden wall-an intimacy,
grew up between one of the sons and myself; and finally I was a guest
in the mansion. The eldest daughter was a widow, with one son, a
boy of some eighteen or twenty years of age, he at college, anJ one
daughter just married: Madame -    owned two of the finest plan-
tations on the river; counted her bankable funds and jewels by
thousands; she was pretty, and as much disposed to dabble in love
affairs or matrimony as I was. We made ourselves very agreeable to
each other; my funds ran low. I was not the man to be mealy-mouthed
to a friend ; I explained the state of my pecuniary affairs, assured her
I had expectations, and both wealthy and respectable friends in the
east. That was virgin truth, you know..
"Decidedly," responded the physician, deeper than ever interested
in the romance of the profligate's story.
"'Well, sir, I struck while the iron was hot, though I pretended no
great anxiety about the matter myself, which of course always makes
the opposite party more pertimacionls. The upshot of it was, that the
widow and I came to terms. I had kept the run of my affairs in New
York through the agency of a friend, and learning that the coast was
clear, as far as old Joe Prog and I were concerned, he having with-
drawn the charge of forgery, and stopped, as I supposed, all legai
action against rme, I swore allegiance to Madame --- ; she packed up
her jewels, filled our purses, and sans cerenonie, we took an evening
departure for parts unknown to her friends, and here we are."
"'Von my soul, yoh have a 'romantic turn' truly, Josey. And
pray, where is Mrs. Prog ? "
"For the present, I took private and obscure lodgings, as it was
probable that Mrs. P's friends might take it into their heads to follow
us and bore us with impertinent questions ; and some of my old un-
settled accounts might also turn up; but in spite of my care, you see
I have had a row already 1"
"Joe, the furious gentleman who assailed you was-"
"Captain O - , husband of' the literary lady who did the financiering
for the young gentleman whose traveling expedition, etc., I have just
related. Curse the fellow, I never had much intimacy with him, and I
am at a loss to account for his tracing and recognizing me so readily."
"Aye, and as he has doubtless entered bai for his appearance to
answer for the assault upon you, he is at large again, and may prove
a dangerous acquaintance. lie struck you a very severe blow, but
fortunately, nothing save a slight abrasion of the skin remains; so be
guarded," said the physician.
"I will; I ventured out to-day, sufficiently disguised, I thought, by

MARIE LESSATRE.        *
dress, etc.; however, if Captain 0--,or any other enemy meets inc
again, 1'l be perfeCtl y ready to receive'them. I warrant."
" The affhir with vour ftither I will see cleared up," said Dr. Swabs,
. "and I a-ivise you,'by all teans, Josey, to have a reconciliation with
your finnily ; introduce your lady to them, settle down, forget olc
follies and'beget no new ones."
"For the present, Doe.. let us waive all the mortifying crooks and
turns of-dry morality. While there is vitality in my horl,, I will live.
I've seen the entire (letails of human affairs; 'I thoroughly understand,
as I think, man and woman: and I know it is an easy virtue to preach;
but so tedious and laborious to practice, that devilish fvew, even for
the golden premiums held forth, care to enter the lists ; that's true
gospel, is it not ?"
"Ah, Josey, my boy, I fear you are a sorry reasoner," said the
physician, taking to himself a portion of the force of the rake's
remarks; but do as you see proper: take my advice in its true light
and let me know when we are to have a glimpse of Mrs. Prog, Jr?"
"Doe., we are and ever have been friends; you have always stood
by me, and afforded aid and good advice; for that I thank you, and
shall be happy to give you a call with my box of diamonds, so'soon
as the state of affairs will permit ; so good-'by for the present." Waiv-
ing the invitation to dine, Joe Prog, Jr., lft the private door of the
physician's dwelling and started for his lodgings.
-C0HA PT ER XII.
STHE BELLE OF TiHE BALLET AND) HERL "HOST OF ADMIREERS'-THTE RouEo ANT) THE STUDENT'.
TllE INFLLEscIs AND DANGEas OF BAT) COMPANY-viRTUE, A VIEWED BY 'I.AINS
T"E BALLET GIRL PREP'ARES FOR A PROFESSIONAL TOLR UNDER Eva..AUSPicEs-JoR
REOG INTRODUCES TEE ELtrHANT-THE .BEGINNING OF A MAD CAREER.
The home of the ballet dancer was yet damp with the teai's of sor-
row for the departed parent. The funds and resources of Marie and
her mother were exhausted; and the pangs of poverty, doubled with
other griefs and misfortunes, rendered their situation sad indeed. Mr.
Flapps, a frequent visitor of the little faiizily, had been their principal
adviser, and partially arriang~ed an engagement at one of the minor
theaters for Marieto appear in dances between the pieces, but the con-
sideration was so trivial as to quite discourage the young artiste. Joo
Prog had also now and then dropped in, after the visit lie and Conrad
Vinton had made together ; and materially aided Mad. Lessaire, upon

r
t
e
+t
f
i
t
{     pn
l
d
d
rp
t
,
.;
~             t
i
(i
'
°a
1
f           G
pS
1
t
J
S
n    3
i
e          }
Li
t
(f
f
}
;
S
F     -
e
S
ti
'
I
{           I
F           i'

1e1


MARIELESSAIfE.

66

one occasion, by making her a present, or canceling, as an act of court.
esy. as he declared, of rent due old Prog, when in fact Joe had drawn
on his own purse, sent the money to his father, got the receipt and
destroyed it.
Conrad Vinton was the only one of the several male visitors of the
ballet girl's home whose motives were not questionable. He, yet a
stranger to the arts, duplicity, and licentiousness of the thousands of
young men moving in what is called genteel society in a city, looked
upon the sorrows and adverse fortunes of the poor girl and her mother
with manly sympathy and respect, while her youth and personal
charms inspired in him other feelings, sudden as they were strong.
Dr. Swabs had frequently bantered the student in reference to his
adventure in the watch-house with a ballet dancer, but he little
dreamed that Conrad would be so deeply smitten with the heroine of
theaffhir as to continue his calls at the residence of the late French-
man, now that his professional services were no longer a matter of
necessity or practical benefit. Conrad Vinton was the son and only
male heir of a wealthy Genessee farmer; and offered a most desirable
applicant, should he so incline, for taking one of the Doctor's daugh-
ters off his hands, and become responsible for her future conduct, bed
and board. And the Doctor not unfrequently drilled Mrs. Swabs in
the matrimonial manual of bringing together, pairing off; and mating
of young couples, just whether they felt interested in the performance
or not. But as Conrad and Mrs. S, were not upon the very best gen-
eral understanding with each other, not much was effected by her
diplomacy, and therefore the Doctor left it to time, his very accom-
plished daughter Amelia, to whoiii Mr. Vinton had shown a marked
preference, and the taste of the student.
Conrad Vinton had come to New York city and taken up his board
with his popular preceptor, imbued with a most ardent zeal to study
his profession, and not all the temptations, glitterings and seductive
affairs of every day life in that gay metropolis had yet shaken his pur-
pose, after nearly a two years' probation. lie kept little or no com-
pany, knew but few persons in the city,. and passed most of his time
in study and with the Doctor's family and friends visiting the house.
One false step, however, leads-to many, or a fall so grievious, as oft
renders recovery almost hopeless. The good impulses of his heart led
the student to continue his visits to Marie, but above the necessity of
seeking, as Joe. Frog and thousands of others have, a matrimonial
alliance from pecuniary policy, he was ,not so circumspect in his
movements, and therefore rather welcomed the attachment he found
gathermg i his bosom for the poor and humble, yet beautiful belle of
the ballet. '
Marie, as yet, had never indulged in an ardent love dream; she
looked upon the visits of Conrad Vinton as those of others, through
sympathy or friendly regard for her mother; and even in that light

M1E LESSATRE                     67
had the timid student rather endeavored to make his visits appear;
but his acquaintance with Joe Prog, Jr., was destined to pervert the
even tenor of his way, and materially affect the destiny of the poor
ballet girl. To a depraved heart and mind like Prog's, woman's
virtue, purity of character, or firmness under temptation, was all
moonshine. To him a beautiful woman was a gilded butterfly, which
would yield a transitory divertisement to pursue; her poverty or mis-
fortunes were weak points of the citadel of her honor, through which
practiced scoundrels like himself could the more easily storm the for-
tress and carry off the prize.
Mario had caught Prog's eye ; he had made his estimate as to the
mode and cost of gaining his object, with all the mathematical cer-
tainty of the spider that spreads its net to entrap the unwary insect
coming within its reach. Flapps was a man young Frog could soon
dispose of, through the powerful agency of his now inflated purse.
The young actor, who had shown a strong and growing attachment
for the belle of the ballet, could be given over to the care of Flapps-
a puff and a supper would silence him; but Conrad Vinton-
" That sheep-faced student of Swabs', he will be a bore ; but I must
manage him. He has partly consented to accompany me, one of these
evenings, on a tour around the city, and egad, I must put him through
a course of vegetation before he. has got too fast a hold upon the
sylphide's imagination. D--n me, that's the way; as old Bill Shak-
speare observes, "dull not device by coldness or delay." Young
Sawbones, I'll show you seraphs and sylphides, who, in your unso-
phisticated optics, will make our little goddess of the fantastic toe
dwindle into the insignificance of a simple dairy maid amid naiads
and graces. Yes, my young Genesseean, you must see the elephant,
and leave all the rest-to me, as his Satanic majesty will prudently
observe when old Joe Prog closes his earthly accounts."
Thus soliloquized the libertine, as he adjusted his toilet for an evening
from home, having began his career anew among the vile of old and new
associates; leaving the rash woman who had risked a'second marriage,
at forty, with a random adventurer, and a confirmed vagabond or
villain at that, to spend her evenings alone in the domicil of strangers,
while he squandered her gold upon the tables of the fashionable halls
in the neighborhood of the Astor, and in the palaces of lascivious
pleasure, so numerous and recherche in the same vicinity ; and where
amid the glitter of coin, garnish of jewelry, expensive and gay apparel,
sumptuous and costly furniture, wines, etc., misery and vice hold
their bitterest tribunals; where souls are damned, and female grace
and beauty are hourly offered up sacrifices to the lascivious passions
and tempting gold of all sorts and orders of men.
"A letter from Ellsler, eh ? Well, Madame Lessaire, if Elisler
offers a fair remuneration, I thinks it advisable for your daughter
Marie to join her without delay."

Ii
li

11
7s


MARIE LESSAIRE.
68
"AhI, sir, it is a long and expensive journey," responded Madame
L. to Joy Prog, that evening as he 'dropped in,'to meet Conrad Vin-
ton, and she anl her daughter had just been perusing a letter frokn
Mad. Ellsler, offering Marie a traveling engagement during her stay
in the. country, if Marie would imiiiedately join her in one of th
western cities.
"I should cci tainly be pleased to go," said Marie, "much pleased;:-
indeed, for I am quite weary of this lazy life I 'in leading, and I must
look to my own exertions now, for the support of mother and myself."
"Spoken like a girl of spirit," said Joe Prog, who was pleased to
see a ready avenue about to offer itself for the furtherance of his vile'
purposes. ," It must be horrible for one of your age, temperament
and professional talent, living so retired and bereft of all pastiiiie and
amusement. I would accept of this engagement at once."
"The expenses of our journey there, will present, I fear, my daugh-
ter's acceptance of this engagement," said the widow.
"Would you, Madam, propose accompanying your daughter ? "
"1 certainly think it almost impossible for my daughter to go alone."
"She has numerous acquaintances in the ballet of Ellsler, has she
gnot ? "
"Oh, yes, mother, I know them," responded Marie, "they were all
kind, very kind to me, sir."
"Well, the di;tanze is not so very great," the rake continued, "the
expenses of your daughter will be light; I will cheerfully loan you
the amount, Madam; I am also acquainted with a ha ly going to Oin-
cinnati in a (lay or two; she will be pleased, I know, to have the
company of Miss Marie. Ellsler will make a short tour and be here
again by the close of the year, and your expenses could be saved by
your remaining at home."
"I think, dear mother, Mr. Prog's propositions are worthy of your
acquiescence," said Marie. "I have no fear of traveling alone, but if
the lady Mr. Prog mentions accompanies me to Cincinnati,.1 shall
then meet Madame Ellsler, and be almost at home; I shall be much
pleased, dear mother, to go."
Joe Prog so plied his persuasive eloquence, and offered such tempt.
ing facilities for the parting of the mother and her child, that the mat-
ter was finally arranged, and the mother reconciled to trust hei' daugh-
ter to the evil counsel of the most depraved of imen.
The ceremony had scarcely been completed when Conrad Vinton,
according to appointment, called in, and after a brief delay, he left
again with Joe Prog, Jr., to get his first glance at the undertow of
Iew York public and private Efe

MARIE IESSAIRE

CHAPTER XIII.
rmR AND ITS CHANGES-A MIDSHIPMAN IN PURSUIT OP A FAIRY-STRANGE COINOIDENCS
THE STORY OF A BRACELET-ON SOUNHiNGs-OLD CHARACTERS-SINGULAR Diso
ERY--THE BRACELET AGAIN-ANXIOUS INQUIRIES, ETC.
"I would give something handsome to find Mons. Lessaire, to-day,
that I would," said a tall and rather handsome young man, dressed in
a midshipman's attire, as he walked up and down the floor of one of
the city hotels of Gotham.
"ha, ha! George, I think there must be something more than your
devotion to musical instructions, or friendship for old Frenchmen,"
echoed the midshipman's companion, a somewhat older man, and a
grade or-two his superior, perhaps, in the service.
"Come, d-n it now, Pinckney, my boy, out with it; you 've talked
of this Lessaire so much since we cleared Pensacola for the north, that
I've got interested in your pursuit ; isn 't there a female figurehead or
two in the old Frenchman's mess that have cast anchor somnewhe'e
about your heart's soundings? "
"To make a clear breast of it, Frank, there is."
"Of course."                                       -
" Lessaire had but one'child in Orleans, the prettiest-"
"ha, ha! the old story; now comes the romance of the matter !I
"hang romance ! I tell you, sir, Marie, the French musician's
daughter, was-"
"TThe loveliest creature you ever saw afloat ? "
. "My mere opinion would not make her so, Frank; she was con-
sidered the petite belle of Orleans,-everywhere. She was a girl of
uncommon talent, too."
"Was, ehi? played everything in the musical line, I suppose, from
boatswain's whistle to the bagpipes."
"She was a sylphide in fornm-"
"Come now, d-n it, don't crowd her-under."
"'Listen-she danced like a sprite ; she sang and accompanied her
self upon the piano in the most elegant manner, and as to her ace-
by the Lord; she was the most bewitching little brumiette you" ever
dreamed of!"
"Well, no doubt, George, she wvas a perfect angel, and I don't
wonder at your wishing to keep in her wake. ldwever, your chance,
in a city like this, to find such a waif, will be very doubtful."
"1 'In afraid so. Thbey left Orleans in very indifferent pecuniary cir-
cumstances, I learned afterwards: tl hold man had-been well off:-got

,q
y' i
,
,
( (tS{;
"it
i'
,
i
C
Y  l
S. l
t
^
2
.
i.
l  E
Ott
r
t
a'.
"
3
,
, ,
;,
"
a
0
x
,j
L
i
S
Y


MARIE LESSAIRE.

TO

swindled, was proud, and not being able to keep up his head there, came
here, taught music for awhile, and finally seems to have disappeared."
"Perhaps the old fellow returned to France ? "
"It naybe so. I'll give a $10 bill, Frank, to get any clue of them."
"Oh   keep a good heart, my boy, you '11 stumble over them yet,
somewhere, I'll'bet a thousand on it. There is a divinity that shapes
our course, you know ; your divinity in petticoats will run athwart
your bows, one of these days, just when you are not on the look-out
for such a prize."
"Not improbable. But come, I'm going to take a walk, will you
go along?"
"Yes, I may as well go out and see the fashion and beauty of the
town. It's about muster time with them on Broadway."
And the two middies stepped out and began their stroll.
"By the by, I met Lieut. T--  this morning," said Frank.
"Did you? how does the old fellow look, Frank ? "
"Fine as silk ! ha, ha! he's a rare old cruiser ; he was telling me a
devilish good yarn about an adventure he had last night at one of their
fashionable establishments here in town; something about an affair
of intrigue-of one of the hotel keepers-voluptuous woman-traced
to a certain palace up town-husband and band of rowdy friends rushed
in-T- --- was there, several gay parties about-T--.- says he held a
pistol in one hand and a door-knob in the other, expecting a regular
engagement, but managed to slip his cables and scud before the action
became general. Talking about beauties, T--- says he saw a nymph
there last night that has set the young fellows of this town all agog.
He says she really looks more like a marble statue, of the most elegant
conceivable loveliness, than a human being'  I promised to go with
him to-night, take a bottle of their wine, and have a stare at this
courtezan enchantress. Will you go along, George ? "
"No, I b:.lieve not. I have some calls to make this evening.' My
brother and his wife are stopping at the American; I must go and see
them. Just stop in here a moment, I want to get some jewelry for
the girls at home," said one of two youngsters, as they stepped into a
large retail jewelry establishment near the great trottoir, Broadway.
In glancing over the show cases of the jeweler, George Pinckney,
now a midshipman in the U. S. Navy, and on his first visit to the
great metropolis, saw an article that attracted his attention.
"Sir, I wish you would allow inc to look at that bracelet," said the
midshipman, pointing out the article.
"This?" answered the jeweler, producing the box on which the
bracelet lay; "I do not care about selling it, however," he remarked.
"What have you there, George ?" asked his friend ; "anything
rare?"
"Good God, what a coincidence ! " abstractedly muttered the mid-
shipman."

I:,

[fA1lE LEStIAIIE.

"Eh? what have you found there, l'inckney ?"
"Where did you obtain this, sir--excuse me, if you please, but
how came this article in your possession ? " continued George, without
noticing his friend's inquiry.
"Well, sir, very strangely," said the jeweler. "Not so strange, to
be sure, either, as I am buying and selling jewelry daily ; but there
was a little circumstance connected with this bracelet which is not
common in my way."
The two officers stared the jeweler in the face-George Pinckney in
anxious silence, to know the detail of the circumstance, and his friend
in mute wonder as to what it was all about.
rA year or two ago," continued the jeweler, "one bleak morning, a
"Yes ! " eagerly echoed George.
"A Frenchman came into my store and wished me to buy this
bracelet."
"Well ?"
"'Well,.I looked at the article and saw, at a glance, that ij was
valuable ; it contained one diamond-O, it 's not there now; I removed
Oit, an'l set a 'Cape May' in its place," said the jeweler, noticing the
midshipman's scrutiny of the bracelet he still hel in his hand.
Go on,, if you please," said George.
"The diamond was very fine and'large, and was surrounded by a
cluster of smaller ones, the whole not worth les3 than three hundred
w                            t       etars.n
"A great deal more money, sir," responded George ; "but go on."
"Did this ever belong to you, sir? "
.    "No matter, sir, proceed; I '11 answer you presently."
"Well, I was suspicious that it was stolen,, and sent out one of my
clerks, got an officer and arrested the old Frenchman, and went with
him to the police office. There the old fellow gave us such an account
of the matter as was deemed quite satisfactory, and I -retained tie
bracelet, more as a pledge than a purchase, advancing him $50 onit
and promised to keep it for a year, subject to his redemption of it. i
have never seen the old man since," concluded the jeweler.
"What were the circumstances of explanation that induced you to
believe the Frenchman's story in.relation to this bracelet?$ " inquired
George.
"Tie old man stated that this bracelet had been given to his daugh-
ter--"
"Exactly, in New Orleans?"
"Yes, I see you know something about the matter."
" Proceed, if you please ; his name was Lessaire, a teacher of music I
. "Well, yes, that was the name. He was at that time playing thG
violin hi the Park Theater orchestra."
"And his daughter, to whom thissbracelet was given?"

L

.q 1~
f;
1
S ii
Y


MARIE LESSAIRE.

2

"Was about to make her appearance there as a 'ballet dancer; shi
was engaged with Ellsler; I saw her there, in fact ; she was considered
the belle of the ballet corps," continued the jeweler.
"This is quite a coincidence , George," observed his companion; "I
told you you'd find your prize presently."
" Isnit it strange ? " exclaimed the midshipman.
"Well, as I was going to say, the old man's daughter was getting
ready to come out, and they were so poor as to be unable to provide
the necessary dresses for her, so they sold, or rather I took this, and ad-
vanced them sufficient to answer their purpose."
"Did you know where they lived?"
"I believe they lived in Rose street, near Franklin street ; I'm not
sure ; but I know one of the musicians who plays at the Park; he lives
near bfV, and can tell you something about the family, I think. I'll
give you his address."
"Thank you! Now, sir, I wish to observe that I gave this bracelet
to the Frenchman's daughter, in New Orleans. I gave it to her the
day the family left for New York. They were poor then, I believe,
but had lived and moved in good society there. I never could learn
what became of them here, or whether they ever reached here, but I
hope this singular circumstance may lead to my finding them. I wish
to regain this bracelet, sir, with the diamonds you took from it also.
What will you sell it to me for?"
"The diamond I have set in a ring for a gentleman to present to
his mistress, one of our most 'dashing belles of the street ; 1 sold that
for one hundred dollars. It is intrinsically worth double that, and
doubtless worth much more to you, sir."
"It is," said the midshipman, "and I will take it."
Having made this and other purchases, the "middies" leftto specu-
late upon the curious and strange vicissitudes of life, and. George
Pinckney to further trace the raveled end of the clue to the where-
abouts of Marie and her family.
-L

I

MARIE LESSAIRE.

CHAPTER       XIV.
TUE GHOUL AND THE VICTIM-REVERIE--THE BALLET GIRL'S DREAM--" IT WAS  I
BROTHER ! "--THE DETECTED--DISCOMITED--THE ELOPEMENT--THE JEW AND HIS
MONEY BAGS.
"Oh! I think you'll be delighted, my dear child. The journey
and change of scene will be of great advantage to your health, my
dear."
"For that, I am more than anxious that Marie should go, Madam,"
said Mad. Lessaire. "Marie is too young to bear such afflictions as
we have lately endured; it is too much for her."
"You are right, Madam ; you 'are considerate, as a careful mother
should be; you are quite right; awl this trip to the West will be.of
great benefit to her. My nephew, Mr. Frog, feels so anxious about
the young lady's welfare, that he would insist that I should call and
see nu. and let you know when I am ready to go."
"Mr. Prog is very kind," said Marie ; "lie has certainly been very
kind to us ; I trust it may be in our power, some day not fat' distant,
to repay his goodness."
" Oh never mind that, dear child ; he does a good act entirely
regardless of future reward; dear, good soul, your case is'not a solid.
tary one (!) that has enlisted that boy's sympathy," said Mrs Ilarpy.
"lie is very unlike his father, indeed," responded Mad. L.
"Unlike his father ! Goo 1 lord ! he is no more like that old tyrant
and miser than I'in like-like, than I'm like his father," said the old
lady, hard run for a simile of something unlike herself.
" You reside out in the West? 'I think Mr. Prog told us so," said
Marie.
"Yes, yes, dear, I reside out there; I have lived in Louisville, in
the State of Virginny, these ten years," said Mrs. Ilarpy.
"Louisville, did you say, Madam? " asked Marie, noticing the old
lady's geographical errors.
"Yes, my dear, yes-Louisville, State of Virginny."
"Louisville, Madam, is in Kentucky."
"Oh,'yes, blast-oh,' yes, I, a-so it is, you are right, my dear,"
echoed the old one, nearly forgetting the dignity of the part she was
enacting for Joe Prog.
"You, Madam, have traveled that way, and know the route and
means of travel well ?" sail Ma 1. L. inquiringly.
"Oh, yes, I've been over it a dozens times, and I know all the tavern
keepers and stage drivers-- t

q

11
I j i
s 1
r1  t

',    4 t
i
r}
4 r
i
t!
:
a


n

MARIE LESSA\RE.

"Tavern-keepers! stage drivers," echoed Marie and her mother.
" Ah ! excuse me; I, a-, I-mean the hotel-keepers, where we are
le stop on the way, and the-and the baggage men, who take care of_
our baggage ; yes, yes," said the sharp but ignorant old wretch.
"Ah, yes! that is well," answered Mad. Lessaire. "When do you
start, madam ?"
"To-morrow morning, ma'am, I go; I will be here with a carriage,
ist five o'clock in the morning; be all ready, my dear, get every stitch
ready to-night, no fussing about in the morning, but be ready to jump
n and off; that is the way I used to do when I was a gal."
"Well, my daughter will be prepared," said Mad. L. "I feel very loth
have her go so far alone, among strangers, young and inexperienced."
" Young and inexperienced ! ,Why, bless you, ma'am, that face of
ves would take her all over the world safe as a button 1"
"I trust that my daughter has a stronger safeguard for her protec-
tion than her handsome features," the mother replied. "Necessity
eemns to part us; the separation, I hope, will be short, and my prayer
sill ever be with her-that God, in ,his providence for the helpless,
fill guard and protect her from all evil." The widow wept ; her
-eart was full, an:d to suppress her own emotions Marie continued to
biterrogate Mrs. larpy in regard to suclh further particulars as were
acessary in prosecuting their journey.  The preliminaries being
ty settled, the old lady bade them good afternoon, and departed.
' Mother, I do not like that old lady," said Marie, after Mrs.
arpy was gone. "She 's so rough, so very coarse in her manners."
-She is, Marie, a very curious kind of an old lady; but your poor
tearifather and I have often laughed at those rough people who care
'om the upper countries down to New Orleans. The western people
f this country are mostly unpolished-rough in their manner, but
nevertheless of good and honest dispositions. Mrs. Ilarpy may prove
a very agreeable person when you ai'e better acquainted, my child."
"I hope so, dear mother. Now, I shall have but little time to see
say of my few, few friends; but no matter. I will leave tiem my
compliments, and you, dear mother, will deliver the  , ' then hum-
ming a favorite air, she busily and gayly went about p eking up her
wardrobe, &amp;c. As the poor girl sat by the side of a large traveling
ease, handling some of her trinkets, she became sad-tye 'lively air
was hushed, and as her'mother turned from some employment of her
tin-that of manufacturing artificial flowers for the milliner-she
held Marie with her hands clasped over something in her lap,
epon which hefffhce reclined. She was shedding tears. Mad. L.
'was so impressed herself, that she made no effort to break the spell
r several minutes. She at length spoke-..     .
" Marie, my dear-"       -
" Mother, this casket reminds Tue of a dream I had last night. I
aw all my friends in New Orleans, just as I left them the morning

d

I

-  N

MARIE LESSAIRE.
we sailed. Mother, shall we ever see them again ? " said Marie, stir
agitated with heartfelt emotions.
"I trust, Marie, we shall. Should Mad. Elisler go to New Or
leans, I will accompany you; I hope our altered circumstances wiid
n9t shut us out from former friendly relations."
Mother," continued Marie, "I dreamed that.several persons were
seeking us; they were asking every body if they knew us; they sail
they.had been all over America to find us, but though I heard the
inquiring and could see them from the strong place or dungeon wherw-
you and I were fastened up, by some cruel people, I was not allowed
to speak. But, after a time, one person came close to a loop-hold"
where I was looking out-he was a young gentleman in uniform-J
put my lips close to his ear and asked his name; lie wliispere
'George, don 't you recollect me, Marie?  Look.' I looked, and i
was George Pinckney. He held up his hand, mother, and in it I sad
my bracelet !"  As she spoke this last word, overcome with her feet
ings, the ballet girl fell back as pale and lifeless as a statue.
The mother, by well-directed restoratives, soon revived the poor
girl, whose mind, still intent upon her dream, heeded not the varie
exclamations of her parent, but continued-
"lie held up the bracelet, mothmer-I knew it well-but its lustrous,
jewels were gone. Georgy looked sweetly upon me, and'said there ie
another looking for you, see-I followed the direction of his inger
and away oft in the dun distance, I saw thousands of armed men-so~-
diers; it appeared to be a great smoking battle field, and they were
carrying off the wounded ; one litter came near us.; I saw the face
of, the wounded man; it was like my father's; I shrieked, and alt
disappeared but George Pinekney, and lie cried, 'See, Marie, he iS
there again!' I looked, and saw the same face again; it was older
now ; sunburnt, but robust; he was dress in the handsome suit o
an officer of French cavalry, lie appea'  be walking with great
exertion to reach us, but a broad, sto  river intervened, and he
could not cross. It was my brother, m  dear brother ! I knew his
face, it was so like my dear, dear father's.. I called to him, he waived
his cap, and I awoke."
Mutually embracing, the mother and daughter were locked some
minutes in each other's arms in silence..
This tableau of emotion was sundered by a tap at the door. Drying
her tears hurriedly, Madame L. led the now feeble daughter to their
old fashioned lounge, to repose while she attended the visitor. To her'
great surprise, as she opened the door, Mad. Mignard, e rantly attired,
rushed into her arias and gave way to a flood of teais  nd bitter'
lamentations.
"Oh ! Madame, Madame, I am ruined ! I am ruined !"
Marie, hearing the cry of distress, threw off her own grief, rushed
to the little hall and was soon clasped in time arms of her mother's

N

1
t

f
4
i
t
v
h    1  ,
5
t,
t{        A
L
s
I    -
T,
t
t
T}         J
1
If
F
i   t  r
T
S  *      4
U
P'
i
?4
F
-1
.U
c
albt
1


MARiE LESSA1RM
76
friend. Madame Mignard's story was soon told. During her absence
Mignard had occasion to return liome'fbr an instrument, to get which.
he was obliged to force his room door, and upon the floor where Mad.
M. had dropped it, in her haste or negligence, lay a note, appointing
the previous night's meeting between two guilty parties already known
to the reader. Mignard first whistled, then shrugging. his shoulders,
uttered a little Ih'ench and as much English, got his instrument and
returned to the orchestra, hummidg a lively air, from which it was
evident the little laison of his caere ami and her medical friend was
not a matter of so serious a nature as one would, under some circum-
stances, be led to conceive.
Not missing the billet, which she supposed was locked tight and
fast in her dressing-case, Madame, with all the voluble tact of a
woman-especially a false or fallen one.-began to explain the partic-
ulars of her absence from home. The theater being out before she
reached her domicile, Mignard was there first,°smnoking his cigar and
s ping his claret, as composed as a Turk, and a great deal more jolly.
Monsieur, signifying no desire to disbelieve or argue the matter,
Madame considered the affair all right, and they retired in the best
humor. Next morning Monsieur sends Madame on a long imaginary
erran:I to the upper part of the city, and which consumed her time,
until noon. When she returned, a rumor prevailed in the house' that
Monsieur M. and the Jewess had eloped! It proved true enough.
Monsieur gave Madame some of the particulars in a letter he left for
her, alludmngen passant to the doctor's note, which lie enclosed. le
bale her an adieu as pleasant as a parson at grace. The Jew was
the worst discomfited of the several pxrties ; he not only lost Iis-wife,
but what was more touching to his feelings, coin and jewels to the
amount of sonic three or four thousanddollars, seemed to have followed
by the same advent.  damee Mignard and the Jew were for a time
[meonsolable.

MARIE LESSAIRE.

7?

CHAPTER      XV.
TaE VICTIMIZED WIDOW-A RARE SCENE--DUPLICITY AND FIRMNESS--A WAVERING
WOMAN-MORAL PRINCIPLE AND ANIMALS PASsIOss--THE STRUGGLE--TUE TRI.
UMPI--THE LIBERTINE UNMASED-A TABLEAU-THE BELLE OP TUE BALLET IEf
DANGEROUS COMPANY.
"Sir, I am not to be treated in this manner any longer ; if you are a
gentleman, be a man of honor, too, for they are, sir, inseparable. Now,
sir, I ask you to fulfill your word-are we to-be married ? "
"Married ? Why of course we are."
"When, sir?"
"Oh, why, presently-in the course of a few days; as soon as I can
possibly arrange my affairs with my friends, as I told you."
"'Yor have told me a great deal, sir ; I begin to fear you have told
me more, much more than I shall ever see realized, Mr.'Prog."
"Why, good madam, what do you mean? I am astonished at
such language," said Mr. Prog, Jr.,
"Well, sir, I'm serious ; I've strong cause for being, very serious.
you have shown a disposition to treat me very cavalierly; it is the
subject of comment and speculation here in this house; I'in caged
up and left time on time to brood over my follies and your-y ur
utter want of feeling, sir," sobbed the pseudo wife.
"Come, come, now, don 't be angry with me,; you do not-can n
doubt my constancy, Louisa, love !"
"Sir, we are too old to deal in the flimsy words of school-day love=
makings, though not too old or experienced to be foolish ; but now
we must understand each other," said the really fine-looking and lady-
like woman, rising from her seat, drying her tears, and walking the
chamber floor with a determined step--" Now, sir, shll we be mar=
ried to-morrow-shall I be presented thereon to your friends, or shall
we part before it is too late. No hesitation, sir; choose and be prompt,
for I 'm determined if you do not perform the first, the last I will see
executed immediately."
The roue wavered a moment ; it was but a feeble struggle between
the sediments of his departed honor or moral principle, and the giant
force of his innate rascality, in which, of course, the latter quality
triumphed.
"Yes, Louisa, to-morrow evening we will be married-; you shall
not doubt my constancy or honor. (1) Now, my dear, we must set
about our domestic affairs at once. We must have a handsome estab.
lishment, we must furnish it well, and I may as well set about it to
- day.".

r
{
9
'
" + , . _ ,

r                      N

I

k
l
1
1      ~
.
i       y
7
a   1
7
r
l.'{
N
y        t
Y R1 555
i    ,
* '
V
t
t

'
i
4
6"
'
4'
F ,
1
r. ,H t
+
1          ,
!       f,
1 i              i
3 4 ,.
m
r
x
t;
,.
,,,
,            .,
: ;
Y,
i              ' s
+,
1
f4
f
{{n
0               TiTijjR d
g
y f
1               Fri

r.

1'

s


78

MARE LESSAIRE.

"Now you talk rational and satisfactory," said she, " proceed at
once, follow your own taste and judgment in the details, sir, and I will
be satisfied."
"But, my dear, I nust have funds."
"Funds? Why, bless you; man, have I not already placed at your
disposal nearly eight thousand dollars? Certainly that will answer
for the present."
"But, my dear madam, consider our expenses for the past three
months."
"Expenses! heavens, why they could not have been important; I
have lived, I 'm sure, in the plainest possible manner since our arrival
here ! "
"Well, madam, to cut a long argument short, I have not a hundred
dollars in the world ! I admit that I have been foolish, squandered a
portion of the funds I received from you, but if a promise of an amende
be any penance for the past, I will atone in the future. Come, let me
have three thousand, that will answer for the first outlay. Come, now,
don 't be penurious, my dear."
Madam       was wealthy ; in Baltimore she had deposited consid-
erable finds. She retained some ten thousand dollars upon leaving
New Orleans, as ready change. Joe Prog had wheedled her out of the
major part of this and ran through it. She was far from being penu-
rious, but the evident folly of her acquaintance and connection with
a man whose character was becoming hourly more transparent to her,
was now busy at work with her reason, and she wavered 'twixt dan-
gerous poles-honor and impulse, self-respect and misplaced affection.
It was a dangerous game for the libertine and-he lost; for the per-
plexed widow claimed time to reflect before she made any further con-
cession or opened again her coffers. It was in vain that Frog resorted
to loving and endearing persuasions ; art and eloquence all failed, for
the more he sued, the sterner became the widow, until, provoked and
enraged, the roue began upon a higher key.
"1Iadam, I want a draft for three thousand dollars, or by heavens I'll
revoke my promise!"
"Sir, I do not hesitate now to say, that in such case I shall be the
gainer by it," said the widow, still pacing up and down the chamber.
"Do you insist on denying me further resources?"
"I do most positively ." replied the widow, firmly.
"Then, madam," said Prog, rising and advancing menacingly to-
wards his victim, "by G-d ! I will expose you here-everywhere !"
"Do so; base man, do it. I now see, sir, your true character, and
I should wonder if you stop short of the robbery or murder of me!':
"Woman, don't you dare to use such language to me-don 't,. or
by the great gods I 'hi-"
"Stand ofl, sir!"  Don 't advance another step, or you shall ie at .
my feet !" cried the widow, as she drew from her bosom a keen and

4

7/

I

beautiful dirk and threw her fine figure into an attitude or aefence
while her piercing black eyes shone like an adder's upon the dismayed
rake.
The closing scene of this serious matter could not fail to arouse the
occupants of the house. A noise of persons approaching the chamber
was now heard. Frog seated himself, and to the hurried knock upon
the door, he replied, "Come in."
Quite a deputation, headed by the landlord of the house, appeared
in the hall; he, acting as spokesman, desired to know the cause of the
disturbance. Joe informed him that it being of a private nature, he
was not disposed to give an enplanation, but demandino the bill, inti-
mated his intention of leaving the house. The landlorcf and his posse
withdrew, and Joe Frog went to work to pack up his multitude of
baggage. The widow, either feeling unpleasant or unsafe to remain
longer in the room, withdrew to the parlor, merely intimating to her
lately betrothed that she hoped he would not disturb or remove any
portion of her private baggage.
" D-n you," muttered Joe Frog, "you'll not get out of my clutches
so easy as all that-I'll have you."
In haste he packed his luggage, and then as rapidly began to rum-
mage the drawers and travelingeases of the widow. In her writing
case he found a draft on one of her Baltimore bankers for nine thousand
dollars, only lacking her signature, and which draft lie now renem-
bared was drawn up but a few days before for the purpose of pur-
chasing a residence Frog had spoken to her about, but which matter
had been postponed indefinitely.
Au! ha! this will be just the thing!" said Joe'in triumph;" now
for the finish of it."  Drawing out the widow's writing materials and
several papers bearing her autograph, lie signed the draft-it being
made payable to himself-endorsed it, and placed it in  his, pocket-
book.
"For fear of accident," he continued, "my lady, I'll just draw
lightly on your private purse. Locked, eh? Well, as Paddy said to
the mail bags, 'locks upon -leather make hack-knives laugh,'" and
forthwith the unblushing scoundrel revered the leather case containing
some hundreds of gold coins, and selecting five or six hundred dollars,
he placed it in his own baggage, rang the bell, ordered a servant to
go for a carriage and call up the landlord, which being done, Pros
addressed that person:
"Sir, my wife and I have fallen out; she's a bad woman ; every
man best knows his own affairs-we were married in haste, and I have
had plentyof leisure to repent. She is not fit to remain in your house
a moment; I will pay the bill up to date. She will endeavor to stay,
probably; she is not fit to remain in a respectable house, sir, one
hour."
"Then, sir, she shall go; she sha'nt stay," replied the landlord.

[  r9  ,a.  As' k  k

t
5
t  4        7
I
" t
ii fs
A
p"d
i
+        .S
i

'
;
Y
ry
.
4L
I'
i
j'
I
I
If

'I

.
-t.
' .

r9

MARIE [ESSAIRE.

il
tI


MA tR LE SSAITRE

"She is a vile woman, sir-imposed upon me, robbed me, would
have blasted me, sir," continued the scoundrel.
"Well, sir, we all said she was sort of strange; I was suspicious
of her ; she never ventured out in the street: I was very suspicious,"
echoed the landlord, as Prog made his eyes twinkle with the widow's
gold he was paying into his itching palm.a
" Now, sir, we are square."
" Yes, sir, thank you, thank you."
"Not at all, sir; now there is an eagle for the servants, divide it
among them."
"Yes, sir; really it is a great pity so fine, generous a gentleman
should be so deceived, sir; I am very sorry for you; upon my soul.
There's plaguy ugly women in this world-too many of 'em, sir," con-
tinued the generous old brute, as he pinched over his money.
"There is the carriage," said Joe, looking out of the window ; I
am going up to Albany, sir, and will be back again next week, and
stop with you when this woman has left. She may give a terrible
account of me; don't believe m word she utters; every man knows
his own business best ; she's a bad woman."
"She must go, sir; I won 't harbor her here, sir, nor hear a word out
of her."
"Good bye, sir," said the scoundrel, shaking the landlord by the
hand, and then whispering in his ear, "keep my room until I return,
I'll pay well for it! "
The landlord was bought and paid for, and the roue left.
It is hardly necessary to say that the widow was the mark of con-
temptuous sneers end insinuations from  the household, male and
female, from the servants to the master ; but she did not condescend
to notice their brutality, simply ordered a carriage, freely distributed,
from her abundantly filled purse, small change to the gaping servants,.
and to the inquiry of the coach driver as he placed her baggage in
and on the vehicle, where he was to drive to, said, "To the Astor
House!" which still farther confounded the landlord and his posse.
The next evening Marie and her ghoul of a companion were in
Baltimore, whither they were pre-eded by Joe Prog, Jr., in an old
character, but with a new name, and their respective movements will
furnish some deeply interesting incidents for fut.ire chapter.

MARIE LESSAIRE.

81

CHAPTER XYI.
TU MISER IS CALLED FOR--ASSEMBLING OF TIHE DEEPLY INTERESTED-A FAMILY FIoni
FO -TE SroILs-TnE LIBERTINE'S LUCK-DEATH CLAIMS HIS VICTIM-THE WOJNDED
STUIJSNT-FINALE OF A NIGHT.
" I-I must, I suppose, for--forgive him. lie's been a-a rascally
depraved boy; very depraved heartless b-b-boy, though."
"lie is repentant now. I think," said Dr. Swabs.
"Is he repentant, Doctor? lie-lie has been to see-see you, elh ?"
"Yes, he called to see tme as soon as he arrived in the city, some
weeks ago. I saw he was an altered man. I told him it was better
that the family differences were healed, and proposed to be the instru-
ment of a reconciliation between you; lie is an altered man; he's
married, and-"
"Married ! what, our Joe married?" echoed the assembled family
of Prog, present to see the dying scene of their sordid progenitor.
" Yes, your brother is married to a highly respectable-"
" Res1pectable!' they sneeringly echoed--" Some butcher or baker's
daughter, we suppose, he wants to force into the family," said some.
"Some shop-girl or worse, perhaps," said the rest.
"Si-silence,-hang you, all silence," wheezed the old man. " Doc-
Doctor, who has tha--tha--that boy married ?"
"A very respectable lady, I nndersttnd. A lady of New Orleans."
- " O  New Orleans?" echoed the relatives.
"Of wealt" and family," continued the Doctor.
"Oh ! aim !i! if she is wealthy, Josiah has done well," they again
echoed, "A planter's daughteer-a lady of New Orleans, oh !I"
"Well," groaned the old miser, "Joe'has reformed ; chil--children ;
I-I only seek to do justice; I-I have lived long, and, I hope, al-
always discharged-discharged the duty of a-a-a Christian (?) and
a man. I-I must not disinherit an-an erring child. Mr.-Mr.
Summons-sons-sons,-get the attorney-my-my will, in my secre-
tary-the lower drawer, right hand side, give it witness, Doctor. Mr.
Summons, I-,j-I do bequeath my son, Jo-Josiah Prog, in consequence
of his refor-reformation, I do-I do bequeath him thirty thousand
dol-dol-dollars.?' Quite exhausted with the effort, the old nin was
again placed upon his pillow, while the attorney made this codicil to
the will, signed and witnessed by the Doctor and the "spiritual
adviser." A great effort being made during the mean time, by the
room tull of sons, daughters, and their progenies, to shed briny tears,
an effort attended with some difficulty, as time next outburst of feeling

3

Itl

t LLi
k
}
I
'
i
,;{
'

,
,!        "' P';
.
,
a
}
'
i
'
w
'
.                                            -
t ,
..
,t
:
k
t ,
I                                        r
aw.         '               '      K             M      xjj . .s   i

ti                            t

80

Ii
9 1
SI
.t t

k


82

ii4RI1J LESMARE.

showed the c-n-rent of their griefs ran quite away from all sorrow for
the dying parent, inasmuch as a general buzzing, an 1 finally almost a
row, took place among the heirs, in reference to the settling of the old
miser's affairs, ere yet the breath of life was out of his boly. The old
man, hearing this squabble, which the Doctor a (d prelate in vain
essayed to suppress-by dint of great effort, scramb cad up in the bed--.
a ghastly figure of bone and skin-his eyes glassy   d sunken-his
thin lips livid, and the most poignant mortification and care stamped
upon his features.
" In God's name, in--in his holy name, ehil--cildren, wait until
your--four poor old-old father is cold-cold--'cold, before you-you
fight over his body-boly. Doc-Doctor, sen 1 for-for my poor boy,
Joe; send for him. lie-lie would not serve me so."
"I'll send for him," responded the Doctor. But upon a second
thought, it ,occurred to him that he was totally ignorant of young
Prog's whereabouts. however, he dispatched a note to J. Flapps,
Esq., News of the Age office, and that individual was present in a
brief period afterwards.
Flapps entered the chamber just in season to witness a scene more
often occurring than described-a battle of the living for the fit of the
dying. Though accustomed, as he was, to exhibitions of every shade
of crime, folly, misery, and terror, this, to loin, almost appeared new,
horrible, shameful ; he was quite shocked; and would have withdrew
himself; but just at that moment old Frog caught sight of him, and sup-
posing him to be his son, called him to the bed-side-made an effort to
speak, but, discovering his error, again averted his gaze and asked for
"Joe."  Dr. Swabs thought Flapps might surely know young Frog's
place of residence; but that individual informed the physician of MNr. ,
Joe Prog's departure for parts unknown. Flapps, having business on
the pier, as the'line to the South was shoving out that morning, got .a
glimpse of Prog, making his hasty exit; and, from the manner of his
shying and dodging, the reporter guessed Joe was up to some more
of his tricks. The reporter, in a side-whisper, while the spiritual ad
viser was imparting his last consolation to the now rapidly sinking
miser-informed Dr. Swabs that Mr. Conrad Vinton, his student,
was at that time lying dangerously ill, from blo*s and stabs received
in a house of ill-fame, the night previous.
"My God !" ejaculated the Doctor, "I was afraid something had
occurred. Where is he now, Mr. Flapps, have you seen him this
morning?"                                              '
"Yes, sir, and but for me he would have been a 'corpse. IIe was
set upon by two i'ffians, with whom he had some previous 'difficulty
in the street, in reference to that ballet dancer."
"Yes, yes, I remember the circumstance. My God ! I told him to
be careful."

1 !

" Well, I happened to be present, got the police and rescued Vinton,
or they certainly would have murdered him. I then had him taken
to a friend's house, where he now lies; I saw him this morning, and
he requested me to see you as quick as I could do so."
"1 will, I will, as soon as the old fellow here gets over his trouble."
And Flapps beat a retreat just as the last convulsive throes of hath
severed old Prog's life thread, and his soul took its flight- where, is
a matter too doubtful for us to imagine; but his book of life, its cares,
misery, and miserly wretchedness, was closed, and the grand scrabble
took place for his meanly gotten wealth. Dr. Swabs had lost a valu-
able patron, and he left the chamber to proceed to another scene of
liet, cogitating, as tie rode along, the amount of his bills against the
Prog estate, his own peculiar afihirs of the previous evening, and the
curious and never-ending rotary evolutions of life and its changes
generally.
Conrad Vinton, as Flapps had stated, was badly wounded, being
cut, with a dirk, in several places, and his face so bruised and swollen
as to be scarcely recognizable. But, finding him comfortably quar-
tered with a widow lady-a friend of the indefatigable .reporter-
the Doctor advised Conrad to remain there ; he would attend to him,
and give. it out at home that Mr. Vinton had been suddenly called
away to see his friends, etc. Conrad inquired if the Doctor had seen
or heard anything of Mr. Prog, Jr., but the Doctor said he had not.
"Mr. Flapps tells me Mr. Prog has gone South-saw him leaving
town this morning, in a manner that aroused in his mind suspicion
that young Prog was anxious to leave unseen by his friends or ac-
quaintances, and perhaps for some very especial reasons."
"lie 's an unmitigated rascal, sir," said the student.
"I have no doubt but that his character is bad and growing worse,"
replied the Doctor, "but lie is indebted to me for a rare fall of good
fortune this morning; a few good words of mine gained him $30,000."
"Is it possible? Iow did that occur, sir?"
"lis father died about two hours ago; he had intended to cut
Josiah Frog, Jr., off without a dollar, but I assured the old miserly
creature that his son was doing bettei--improving-had married well,
and vould reform. Josey was always the old man's pet, although
latterly, the scamp had treated his father in the most shameful man-
ner; but I felt the necessity of saving something for the wild, dissi-
pated man; he 'll need it before long, I am sure ; and after witnessing
what I did among his brothers and sisters, at the o'd man's 'death
hour, hang me if I think Josey much worse in moral -principle than
any of them! "
" Go: help us, sir," said the very serious student, "I think the state.
of morals here generally is bad, bad, bad."
"They are ; none of us can well boast of the healthy state of our
moral structures. Society is infectious ; it, is not, we find, leaving
6

83

,
!
i
t
j}
fit,
P

6
, ' ' .
s
i
1      f;          F
,
_
,:
;
t
,
;
r
.
t
t
%,
i
I          N
,ryl
i                      ,i
I                   j;
'~7
f 7{ {+ tt
F                    F.
r
'                    ! ,hi
'                     d
Y
Y
t
4',
,               '   t
i
.Y
'
..  ...           ' , m

M.1 fdE LESSATRE

. ,


JI

84

MARIE LESSAIRE.

things undone, but keeping them unknown, that preserves thousands
around us from annihilation."
"I begin to think so, sir," said Conrad, "and it will more than
ever, I trust, strengthen my intention of avoiding an unnecessary
acquaintance with it. Last night. sir, has been a life-time to me.
We fancy an entire familiarity with things around us, by looking at
the surface; last night convinced me, sir, of my gross ignorance of the
real state of society at large, and my perfect ignorance of the great
real undercurrent of' life, in this vast and really abominable city."
"True, social matters are not in a very pleasing or desirable form ;
society ,wants much purging, but we are all alive in the hope of a
healthier state of things," reiterated the Doctor, rising and adjusting
his neckeloth and putting on his gloves to depart.
"Keep quiet and quite still; you will be able to lbe out and take a
short journey in the country, and soon be recovered again"
"I hope so ; please send me, (not by your servant, however,) my
port folio and writing-case, and 1'11 manage to kill time, for a few
days, if that infernal villain's knife does not finally kill me."
- "Did you really recognize the villain who assaulted you ?"
"Oh, yes, sir, quite distinctly; and he knew me. Ile was the same
fellow I gave such a lesson in 'fencing,' while returning with the little
French ballet dancer, one night, you recollect."
"Yes, Mr. Flapps was telling me of the matter, or that connexion
of it. By the way, I understand the little French artiste has quite
enchanted several of you young gentlemen." Conrad smiled.
"But," continued the Doctor, "I fear, Josey hrog, now that he has
in reality gotten such a lift, will be a dangerous competitor for you, as
scarcely credit his assertion of marriage with a wealthy lady of New
Orleans.,                                          ,.
"Lie is doubtless capable of any amount of rascality,t replied the
student; but I hope the fate of that beautiful as innocent creature,
Marie Lessaire, may never be so hopeless as to listen to or fall into
any of the heartless snares of that miscreant. And I promise him,
should he and I ever meet, there will be a serious matter settled
between us," said the student.
"A bad man, but I hope he may improve. Be quiet, Conrad, and
you'II get along nicely enough. Good day."  And Dr. Swabs lel
the unlucky student to his hurts and bitter reflection.

F

MATl E LESSAIRE

85

'
'
r;
r
t
t .
:
5

I-

CHAPTER       XVII.
TOMB PRACTICE-THE FEMALE FORGER AND THE VAMPIRE--A CuNNING WOMAN MORT
THAN A MATCH FOR A PETTIF(IGER-PUTTING THE LAWYER ON THE WRONG SCENT--
THE COUNTERFEITER VISITS HIS ACCOMf LICE-A DANGEROUS ERRAND.
"You had better tell me all, the whole truth of the matter, or I can
do nothing for jou."     r
"I have told the truth," said the woman, doggedly.
"You say you drew the checks, signed them, and then presented
and drew the money yourself?"
"Yes, I have so," she replied.
"But come, come, my good woman, that won't do. You never
drew up tlese checks-there is a man in this business with you. If
you wish me to defend you, let me have hold of all the facts, that I
may the more readily and effectually cover then with doubts and fogs
of legal reasonings and defences."
"I have not yet asked you to defend me," indignantly responded
the woman.
"But you will require defence, madam-able counsel, or you '11
surely go to the penitentiary for a life-time," said the pettifogger, a
sort of vampire,.one of the many'who haunt'the poor wretchesever
morning in the cells of the Tombs, and through working uon the
fears of the innocent, or inciting the hopes of the guilty, ilch or ex-
tract from the wretches, here incarcerated, the last cent-.-watches, fin.
ger rings, pencils, hat, coat, or shirts, and then abandon or hang on to
them as hope of further reward may dictate to their infamous hearts
and calling.
This vampire was catechising the woman arrested the night pre-
vious, through Joe Prog and Flapps, the reporter, the circumstances
of which the reader already comprehends. She was the same person
with wiom Joe Prog made his fight, on a subsequent occasion, to
Charleston; an artful, dangerous and talented woman, emanating from
one of the best families of New Jersey, but now given up to infamy
and crime. The circumstances fastening upon her, and a male accom-
phce, the present charges, were of the most positive character, as far
as the presenting of the'checks, receiving the money, etc., were con
.cerned. The man and money, the most desirable parties for the min-
ions of the law to fasten on, were yet at large, and through the
pettifogger's exercises Upon the woman, certain 'fee and award' seek-
ers hoped to come at the money and the man. Sihe proved more than
a match for the vampire.
S

(U
dl
11
 si

i
1
1    V                  r        ,
-                           1
i
a                  Sri
;
a'
t                  y,
)
i
r
i
"r
d                 t
{       'f
is                   '
,
ft
6
.

N


1'

MARIE LESSAIRE.
"You '11 find it for your benefit to engage counsel at once," said the*
vampire, "and if you give the case in my hands, I'll certainly do you
justice.'"
"I suppose I shall need counsel," said the woman, "but I have no
means to pay the fees."
"No money? why what has become of the money you drew from
the banks?"
"I never drew any," answered the woman, resolutely.
" Psha! nonsense; come, come, you need n't attempt to pull wool
over my.eyes ; you see I'in used to that. Come right, out with the
truth, and money or no money, I'll defend you. Where is your con-
fidant, your man?  Has lie got the money? Won't he come forward
and pay for your defence ? "
The woman viewed the lawyer a moment ; her dark keen eyes told
that her mind was busy ; at length she spoke.
"I hope I can confide in you-you will not deceive me ? "
" Confide ? of course you may. You may trust to my implicit con-
fidence."
"Then I'll tell you all." A devilish smile might have been seen
playing about the corners of the woman's still beautiful eyes.
"Then I'll tell you all, sir; the forger is Josiah Prog, Jr !"
"What ! old Prog's son Joe ?"
" lie is the man; his accomplice is a man named Flapps, the edlitor
of a paper."
"impossible. Why, he, Mr. Flapps, caused your arrest!"
"He did?  Villainous scoundrel ! he did the treacherous part after
his master, Joe Prog,,the cowardly ruffan, struck me down, to pre-
vent me giving then up to justice. I'll have my revenge; curses
light on them."
"Woman, is this true ? "
" You'll find it so. They seduced me to ,their rascally schemes,
pocketed the amount of their forgeries, and thdn refused me a dollar
of the money."
"I'll want your testimony. I'll go and order the instant arrest of
these men. I'll see that you are attended to and borne harmless,
madam."
"Do, if you please, it won't set you back any, my duckey," was
the wretched woman's ribald response, as the pettifogger left the
cell, to fasten his claws upon the victims of the subtle one's false-
hood.
"Yes, go, catch them both, d-n them; they ought both to swing
as high as the moon. I'll be revenged on that cursed coward ; he '1
never strike many more women, I'll'bet, if .I ever get free again. i
hope my dear Ned has made his clear escape, -though I am afraid he
has left no money or friends for me to work with." At this juncture
of her soliloquy, the female counterfeiter saw a couple of demure,

MARIE LESSAIRE.

7

clerical looking gentlemen coming along the opposite corridor with
one of the turnkeys of the prison.
"«My God! he's here !" burst from her lips. Prsently the visitora
passed the fallen woman's door.
That woman's a panel thief and counterfeiter, gentlemen," said
the turnkey, passing on with the nonchalance of a wild beast-exhibiter.
"Ah !indeedI" said one of the gentlemen, loitering in the rear---
a low ha-z-z-$h was muttered as he stuck a small packet through the
grated door to the woman, and then hurried on.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE TRAVELERS-THE VICTIM CAGED-THE LIBERTINE ON THlE TRAIL,-FROG MEETS ~
FRIEND IE WODH LD RATHER HAVE NOT SEEN-A HARROWING DIALOGUE-TE SOeIE
SOCIETY-PLOT AND COUNTRIL--THE DRAFT AND DECEITFUL FRIEND-JOE PRoG
BEAT IN A FRIENDLY WAY.
Marie and her protector (!)-the old woman Harpy--arrived in
Baltimore at the close of the day upon which they left New York,
and instead of stopping at a hotel, as they purposed, Mrs. Harpy
suddenly remembered a friend, an old widow lady, as she said, who
lived in a retired part of the city, and who would be pleased, she
knew, (!) to give them a hospitable welcome.
"She has several very fine young ladies living with her, nieces, and
one daughter, and we 'll be sure to be pleased with them, my dear."
"Just as you think proper, madam," said the unsuspecting girl;
"I would prefer stopping at a private house," she continued, "for I.
have been so little from home that I know I should feel.lost and quite,
awkward at a hotel among so many strangers."
So the old hag called a carriage at the depot, and in a whisper gave
the directions for conveying herself and victim to the "old widow
lady's," in a retired part of the city.
Joe Prog, under his assumed name, had already reached the city,
but too late to present his draft, and being somewhat fatigued with his
ups and downs, travel and excitements of the past twenty-four hours,
went to his room, in one of the "best hotels," and turned in. He
had given the hag all her instructions;. she was to remain in Balti-
more, upon some pretext or other, as long as suited Prog's taste or
convenience. So far as the anticipated and planned ruin of the poor
ballet girl was concerned, Prog felt qute at ease; a great deal, of un-
easiness was at work in his base mind in regard to the draft. To be

/                        r

i
r
l
0
:;
6
k
,
9'
t.
o;
a
y
z
L
f ,

.P
, i
i
t,
i¢
r
t'
,
.


x
c
P
t
3
E
t
,
t'
'

88                     MARIE LE$SAIRE.
foiled in that might not only lead to pecuniary embarrassment, it
course of a short'time, but even personal danger seemed mixed up
with it. Whilk thus cogitating the matter, a knock was heard upon
the door.
" Who's there ? "
"A gentleman. sir, below wishes to see you, sir," said the servant.
"Did he send his card ?"
"No, sir.'
"Or his name or business ?"
"No, sir, neither; he says he must see you to-niglt."
"Tell him the gentleman has retired ; stop, tell him to come up."
While the servant proceeded with Prog's message, he got up and
hastily threw on his morning gown, cap, and slippers, and took an
easy attitude-though in great doubt and some alarm as to the person
and purpose of his visitor at such an hour, but he was soon relieved
by the return of the servant and "the gentleman."  .
Frog started-his lips trembled, and a tremor of alarm danced in
his keen gray eyes as they met the figure at the door. Both paused
ifor a moiient; the stranger-a fine. dressed and finer looking man,
of twenty-eight or thirty, with his hat in his hand, seemed awaiting
Proo's attempt to break the silence.
"Valk in, sir-you may go," said Frog to the servant as lie closed
the door behind the stranger now in the room.
"Joe, my boy, how are you?  Give me your hand; I'm devilish
glad to see you, old fellow ; where did you spring from ? "
"Fred, we parted enemies," said the roue calmly, for he forcibly
felt the ill luck of meeting his old associate, Crome, the artist.
"I know it, but I'm not the man to harbor malice or brood over
revenge."-
"'You insulted me grossly when last we met, without the slightest
provocation."
"Well, d-n it,let that all go to the d-l, forget our folly, and be
as good friends as ever. There, there's my hand ; I did you wrong
by accusing you of putting the hounds on my track ; I know it now,
but let us bury the hatchet at once, for I didn't come and arouse you
here at midnight for nothing ; I have come to shake- hands, have a
bottle of wine, and a long talk over old affairs."
"Not to-night; I am very tired, worried, used up, and must turn
in. Come to-morrow evening, by that time 1'11 be-"
'"Off and gone?" echoed Fred.
"Sir!" said Prog, rising from his chair and assuming an air of in-
dignant surprise that his secret purpose was so easily seen through.
"Oh, come, old fellow, keep. your seat; don't be astonished or
alarmed that I keep the run of you ;'as an old friend, Joe, I feel an
interest in your movements; as a friend, I come to give a little useful
information."

1 .?

it

MARIE LESSAIRE.
"Fred Crome-"
"Beg your pardon; I have dissolved with that firm-Gus-    nus
Danvers, if you please ; gentleman at large, man about town, pro-
prietor of a bank, two fine dogs, a trotting nag of 2.40 capacity, and
a-etc."
" Well, sir, I must inform you," said Prog, trying to insist on b
stiff show, " that I have given up my nonsense, married and-"
" Ha ! ha ! ha ! ho!I ho!I you, Joe Prog I ho ! ho!I preaching! ho?
ho ! ha! ha! Come, come, Joey, let me. order a bottle of wine--
d-n your sermons.
' No, sir."
"Well, old boy, take off your long phiz, put on your togs, and come
go along with me, I'll wake you.
"Gus, if you please-Gus Danvers."
"Well, Gus, 1 beg that you will excuse me; I'm really fatigued-
done out, or 1 would go out'; but if you insist on .it, I'll order .up
something.
"Certainly, never was so dry in all my life; order up a couple.
Yes, two bottles of your sherry, said Crome,, or Gus Danvers, as his
new title ran, to the servant appearing in answer to tlhe bell.
The wine came, was decanted and they drank.
"ha! ha! Joe, by the way, perhaps you sail under new colorsgP
"No, sir," said Joe, emphatically.
"Well, no ,matter, you've been devilish lucky, that's all. Bnt
what I was about to say is, what a beautiful fix we were in
Whe--e-n-n last we parted,'
as the song says. But you ,Slid, sQ did I. I found a friend ; she
did n't allow me to stay there long ; a friend of hers bailed me out,
"   and I lost no0 time in packing my tatters and leaving that village ]
I traveled, heard of you in New Orleans, could 't find you ; .you
kept so devisli dark. I've been in Gothan once or, twice sinee-
kept shaly myself, and finally got into .a little transaction wilh
a treacherous scoundrel in Washington; lie blowed on me ; I got
bagged ; he, curses roast him, he got the booty and left me to my
fate. However, I found another friend, a man of power; I knew.a
family secret of his; I dropped him a line, reminding him of certain
facts, ant my situation ; the result was, that I-I left Washington,
eame here, met some fine fellows, and we a-we started a little amtuse-
ment fir the people, that has .paid well,.although fir a mtion  past
business has been dull, an I the ftct is, Joe, I'n now about brolte, and
as you are flush, I unlerstand-"
"You do?     I can 't see where you got your information. I'm
poor," said .'oe

a
S
F
"  3
3
r
s
t
4f
°C
ti
J  "               .q
11
1.
r,
x               t-
i
,4r^+A  s

t)


0                      MARIE LESSAIRE.
" Poh ! Joey, my old fellow, I've kept the run of you ; that old
French lady was a rare prize. Oh ! don't grin, I know all about it."
" All about what, sir ?" echoed Prog, with nmch concern.
"She thought you an angel-a God-send ! Ha ! ha! she had the
rocks; you made them fly; I used to hear of you, but I hope Joe
Prog is a man of too fine talents to leave York in such a hurry, ,s he
bas, with a little sylph of a ballet girl (Joe started) under one arm,
without a safer anl more rare article in his wallet."
" How in h---ll have you come at these ideas'?"
"Facts, if you please. Well, we have a way, we have, of finding
and keeping up the run of men in our line. I saw a certain old 'un
at the depot, with a certain and very pretty little piece of French wax-
work ; I knew you were about, found out where the old 'un put up,
saw her, she told me you were to be about to-night ; I traced you here,
and you see, how perfect is our system of espionage !"
They again drank, and Prog remaining silent, 'Gus' continued:
" Now, Joe, I want to advise and warn you. In the first place, join
ur 'society,' all real gentlemen; we play for the amusement of the
people, and our pastime. The association is large; extends all over
the Union; none but men of talent, courage, and respectability are
"lowed to enter. The brotherhood is perfect and carried on with per-
fect fidelity ; none allowed to do dangerous things unless in extreme
cases of necessity, and if one gets into a tight place, the association
ttoks after him. Now, Joe, you will find this more safe and more
pleasant than 'going it alone,' my boy."
" how long have you been a member of this party, Fred, beg your
pardon, Gus ? "
"Well, about six months, and I tell you I've learned something, I
have. We know the police; of course, keep the run of them; we
always get scent of affairs before they do; and our plan is to give the
-olice the run of all fellows drifting round on their own hook, doing
sobs around our neighborhood, and then sliding off, by which we fire-
quently get in a snarl. These favors make us capital, f course, with
the police don 't you see?"
"Yes, I understand," Prog .responded, with inwyd thanks for
such valuable information.
"Well, now, Josey, you see you are on a flying tour, levying on
something in our province here, perhaps, and hence, but for me, you
would be cornered."
P'rog took the force of the remark much deeper than even his
- su4btle friend thought of.
"And now, sir," continued the artist, "let me advise you to join
me; iet me know what you are really at, or clear out as quick as God
will let you.
Prog saw the folly of further dissimulation, but determined to keep
t little in the background ; not to say too much, bor he knew full well

C

I

r

Ir

91

that a gambler and a criminal was the last person to standctipon
.worsl, regard feelings or suspicion, or the possessor of a grain of
honor.
Well, Gus Danvers, I'll join your association, upon your asser-
tions of its steadfast honor and fidelity of brotherhood ; I ought not
to doubt you; we are and have been friends; but, before I join you,
to prove, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that every man is a gentle-
man, a man of honor, I'I1 throw out a small 'flyer' to test one of
them. Throw off your clothes, stop with me until morning, we '11
take a private breaktst, and I'll trust you with a little banking busi-
ness; no fraud-, clear and clean transaction ; there is one draft, yob;
see, for $5,000, on~New Orleans; there 's another; there's a certifi-
cate of deposit for $15,000, in New York ; another of $6,00, in
Philadelphia, and here 's a draft on Balthuore for $9,000; I'll trust
you to draw that, Fred-Gus, rather-give you a lift, and after a brief
fly around here with my little pet of the ballet, I'll join your crowd,
gather up my old French lady's deposits in New York, and cut her
acquaintance."
"Agreed ! Oh, there 's no back out in me. You say the thing 'a
safe "
"Perfectly safe. My wife'8 draft," said Prog.
Next morning, the draft was presented by the painter, and it was
cashed, not without some hesitation, however, but it was done, and
the painter, according to agreement, met Prog at a certain cabaret.
But what was Prog's astonishment, whi  he - asked for the funds, to
see Crome count off ha/f and push it to y rd hm, while he coolly
pocketed the other, saying: -
"Now we are square, and the sooner yoi leave this town the better
for you. I know you, Joe Prog; a baser scoundrel does not exist;
that draft I'm certain is a forgery; I swore through thick and thin to
met it cashed, and you may bless my honesty that I gave you t full
laW. Now I 'in off; I shall not stop this side of Europe, and some
day may return a wiser and a butter man. Au reoir, Joey, cut your
stick, and I won't blab, but don 't you hang on long; au re7,oir--ha,
ha! " and the painter disappeared, leaving Prog mute and dumb-
founded with astonishment. Tie found a greater amount of diplioity
and cunning in the artist than he had made ample allowance bor. But
no tune was to be lost; he knew that Madam     would soon miss
her draft, and, forward word to her bankers to look out for forgeries.
lie thought it politic to get the old woman Ilarpy ofl his track, and
carry off the ballet girl under his own protection ; and with thesa.
plans and purposes to put in force, we leave lum for the present.

MARIE LESSA:RE.

'p

r
r
t
v  y
Cj
+   r
t1'q
9
a
,
a
r
.3
P
a*
i
=Y
s?

i
a
E
yg
9
y
3
a

k,
-,t
i
y
,;;
;-,
,,
};
-'
Y
.'


MARhE LESSAHWE.

02

CHAPTER XIX.
THE COURTEZAN PALACE OF MRS. HAZZARD. WITI A BRIEF GLANCE AT IFER LIFE AND His.
TORY--TIlE BELE OF TIlE BAILIT WITHIN THE OUTER CiCLE OF TIlE MAlESTROM O
SIN--A MUSICAL PARTY-lIE CoUrACT-Ta .LiECiiR AND THE ANGEL OF PURITY
The private residence of the "elderly lady and daughters and nieces,"
inr Baltimuore, to which Mrs. Ilarpy took Mai'ie, was in a very respect=
able and retired part of the monumental city ; a den of e'iirie and
licentiousness, under the very shale of the monument to the godlike
Washington. Mrs. Iazzarl, the proprietress of the house. was a
decayed widow of a once wealtl'y and respectable public officer of
Washington City; he having got into bad habits, superinduced, as it
was said, by the evil disposition and practices of his wife, was dis-
charged from office, took to drilik, and died miserable.  After his
death, his wife opened a very select establishnint, in the suburbs of
the capital, for the accommodation of the M. C.'s and other dignitaries
of government to pass their leisure evenings, sip wine, smoke cigars,
lay cards, etc., quietly. 'Some of thIe friends of the flhmily, not liking
the sort of' establishment she was su)p)sel to keep, threatened, coaxed,
and finally induced her to leave for parts unknown, change her 'amine,
an d(lo as she liked. She went to various places North and West,
but being a southern born, no place suited her like Washington ; and
she could not go there without a violation of her pledged word ; and,
bad as she was, she still bel \l that binding; so sime settled in Balti-
more.   Mrs. Ilazzard had seen so many such "comings " as that of
Marie and her base inductor, Mr's. Ilarpy, that beyond the stipulations
of furnishing them apartments, and being wvell paid for them, she took
little or' no pains to discover or Oversee their private purposes, who
or what they were.
As Mrs. JIarpy. according to arrangements with her employer, was
sick the next (lay after he arrival in Baltimore, with Marie, they were,
of course, to remmlain until she re()vem'red. lThmrongh a veIny fomimal intro.
duetion to the three "nieces" of Mrs. Ilazzard Marie was mext morning
shown into the landsomie parl' of the house, where a splendid rosewood
five lhundre(l dollar' specilmn of Chickering's pianos stood beneati a
mirror of oriental elegance and vast cost. Indee(, the general spleior
of the parllors gave Marie an -im npressive notion of' the respe('taitlity
md wealth of Mrs. llarpv's widowed frienid1 amid partly dispelled the
lioume-sick feelings of the breas\fast hour. The nieces, too, were rare
an 1 fascinating young ldies, one abonmt the age- of Ma ie, and in point
of personal b. auty but Ittle inferior to the ballet belle herself.  The

1
i=
w
i
t  t
f
c
e
j d
fk Y
,t.
i-
Y
r
t-
B
6t
c
e
s
(I
L
1
[f'
iy
i
;r
L
z r
r
"s
4
{f${qyy'
s'
f
t,
E;
B  ;

other two were much older, but extremely handsome, ana so. winning
in manners and disposition, that Marie was quite at home with them
in a few hours, and the foundation of her ruin laid before she was
conscious of the slightest proximity to infectious company, or the re-
motest deviation from the paths of rectitude and virtue she had ever
known. Old Mrs. Harpy had introduced the ballet girl as Alice Les-
ter; and time reason she did so. she explained to Marie in this way :
"My dear, when we g' m       lazzard's I '1l introduce you as one
of my nieces, Alice Lest5a  au ng lady Mrs. Ilazzard has heard me
speak of so often, but whom, ame has never seen, and has asked n
fifty times to bring her along with me, some of these days ; so I'1l
pass you off for my niece, he! he! it will be such a dev- such a
good joke, lie! lie! " Marie slightly remonstrated, but gave way to
the oil crone finally, upon her saying she would tell Mrs. Ilazzard it
was all a joke, when they were ready to start on their journey again.
" Do you play upon the piano, Alice ? "said one of the young ladies,
thrown  up the case of the instrument and drawing up the stool.
"Ohyes,I do," said Marie.
Then, of course, all the ladies insisted on her sitting down and
furnishing them with a favorite air, to which the little belleqmickly
responlecl. She played elegantly, and accompanying herself by her
well-modulated and delicate soprano voice, she quite astonished and
delighted the ladiesXll of whom played well, as they Lad been inzg
pressed with their own talents upon the instrument, but feeling now
too timid to perform i presence of such an artiste, as they pronounced
Alice, they insisted on her favoring them with several pieces of the
fashionable music scattered over the piano. Even Mrs. ,Hazzard left
her other occupations to hear the stranger play upon her handsome
and elegantly toned instrument; she was as much enraptured as her,
nieces with Alice's musical abilities, on which she began to speculate
upon the immense advantages to be derived from the possession of
such a gem, to ornament and enhance the attractions of her respectable
seraglio. For this woman was all "fury; " scarce a drop of pure
blood of woman remained in her heart or veins. She had no pity,
and less remorse ; and at the mercy of two such wretches as Mrs.,
llarpy and Mrs. Hazzard, and already the chosen and planned victim
of -a damned libertine, the poor girl's case was desperate-could sihe,
escape their combined snares ?
"Egad, I'll keep her if I can," said Mrs. IIazzard, as she left the
apartmment; "and as there is no telling how long she is to be here, I'll
cast about me at once for means to get her away from old iarpy and
her employer "
That afternoon, the ballet girl passed several hours in the private
room of Mrs. Ilazzard;. the subtle woman found no difficulty in corn
ing to the true state of Marie's real situation, and the old wretch but
laughed in her sleeve at the artless simplicity and ignorance of the

MARIE LESSAIRE.

t
f

93

Y
1tt
i tla
I
k
'}   a
I f     '
IY
t  Fs     ,
I
i x
V
I          '
i
r
9
t r.
i
e
I          -
t           '
4"
.
a
y"    a              f" r ,y
i
-2

' i'
#-
f


94

MARIE LESSAIRE.

t

G2

MARIE LESSAIRE.

95

poor girl, in not knowing or dreaming of the 'situation she was in, o
the company she was among. Mrs. Hazzard's plan was soon formed
She could buy off Mrs. Harpy, and easily frame an excuse to Marie.
for getting her away; which was performed by informing Marie that
her old lady friend was so very ill, that she would be obliged to go tc
the hospital, and thus of course be prevented from accompanying her
any further on her journey. This alarmed Marie; she expressed her
fears of traveling aone ; and Mrs. Ilazzard complicated these draw-
backs, by insisting that it was not only dangerous, but, in fact, foolish
to go so far alone.
" Antl," said she, "I can't advise you to go; the business you are
engaged in is not s'reputable ; and what is worse, it is not profitable,
Miss Lester, as to induce a young lady of your elegant appearance
and great musical talents, to go so far, when you could do so much
better here."
"ere'?" said Marie, "what better can I do here ?"
"Why, my dear child, you are competent to teach music ; you can
have the use of my parlor and my piano, and I know a dozen (so she
aid!) young ladies, who would, be 'glad to have such an opportunity
of taking private lessons in my house, and would pay well."
"Oh! if I could only make a living for myself and mother, madam,
I would be wholly iecomnpensed and satisfied, and would bless you for
your kindness as long as 1 lived !'. and in the enthusiasm of her a-rdent
nature, the poor ballet girl threw herself into the arms of her fiendish
adviser.
That evening, Mrs. Ilarpy, receiving a bonus from Mrs. IUazzard,
and retaining considerable money given to her by Frog, for Marie's
nse, etc., took an evening train for Philadelphia, pleased with the fact
that this was a transaction which had paid her handsomely.
About the hour of her leaving, a note was despatched to a wealthy
old libidinous monster of the city, to call at Mrs. Hazzard's, and the
atrocious old creature came. lie soon learned the nature of the re-
quest for his appearance, and be soon after saw the victim for which
. be was to bid. Under pretence of being an uncle, having some nieces
to teach music-a great taste tid veneration for musical genius and
talent-he was introduced to Miss Lester--the old hag preferring to
stick to HJarpy's soubriquet instead of Marie's real name; and through
there spectable, gentlemanly and fatherly bearing of the debauchee, the
poor girl was bereft of any suspicion, and evinced no reserve of man-
ner apart from that of a simple child, in the presence of an undoubted
friend or relative-yea, a parent, whose age and speech the old roue
indeed personated. The old sinner. (and more's the pity, that every
city and town, aye ! every country is replete with such accursed, de-
praved monstrosities,) left the poor balletgiil with even worse and
more damnable feelings in his heart than when he came. A private
tete-a-tets w' h Mrs. Ilazzard, a doucer of no inconsiderable magnitude

t

placed in her hand, completed the opening of compacts between them;
the sacrifice of a defenseless girl's honor was the stake which they
ratified, and the old lecherous wretch left the p cincts, the den of
vice, in as much glee as though he hal effected  union of holy ties
between youth and hope, or raised a fellow fallen cr ature from crime
and wretchedness, to an elevation of the brightest future. And thus
he meandered and chuckled his way to his own opulent home, where
his own offspring-many of them yet as youthful and innocent as the
poor ballet girl-were joyed to hear his approaching footstep and clasp
his paternal hand ! Great God ! this is a veritable picture of poor,
fickle, and depraved human nature.
Mrs. Ilazzard having left Marie and the old ron9 together, for the
last fifteen minutes of their interview, returned to compliment her
upon the impression she had made upon the "good old gentleman,"
and insisted it was a lucky day that brought Marie to Baltiinore, where
she would yet make her fortune and spend many happy days ; and at
her instance;Marie was importuned to write to her mother the change
of purpose and the bright hopes now offering.
CHAPTER XX.
PROG, THE FORGFR AND FUGITIVE-THE LIBERTINE AND 11I8 VICTIM-THE STRUGGLE FOR
THE PREY-THE LIBERTINE TIuMPHs AND CARRIES OFF TIE PRIZE.
Joe Frog returned to the hotel, and immediately made his arrange-
ments to leave for the South, but he felt himself too deeply humiliated
by one Toss and disappointment to submit to another, even if his per-
sonal safety was at stale. So, forwarding his baggage to a certain
town in  irginia, he started for the established t of Mrs. Hazzard,
about dusk, to see Mrs. Harpy and effect the abduction of Marie.
On his way he chanced to meet a New York acquaintance, who in-
sisted on hanging to Joe, and in spite of every exertion and excuse,
Frog was forced to spend several hours with his friend, and finally
take him to the point of his destination, at which they arrived about
an hour after the departure of the old merchant and broker, whom we
have deserved, feebly, in our last chapter.
Frog was but imperfectly known to Mrs. lazzard, or it ip probable
that he would have been refused, under the new order of things

+.r
J
+         f{
4       J
P  +
1 'r
i
1 +f
1111t,
z
r
.f
k
ftk  +$
4f
l"
4P4
i
I
,

I

i-
4t
{  J
{
y l
X41
jj,1]

3

'
,
t
:
7
a


Ant

,MAfR LESSAIRE

96                                       .
admittance to the house. Bnt Joe and his friend were in, and soon after
Prog made known his position and desire to see 'the little French hal-
let girl, which Mrs. Iazzard was anxious now to prevent. But, beimg
full of distempering draughts and otherwise- desperate, Prog was not
to be denied ; and, in the midst of their  olloquyin Mrs. Ilazzard's
private sitting or business room, in care, certainly unexpected to both,
the Belle of' the Ballet!                             .
Marie was certainly surprised to see Prog there, of whose interference
in her affairs she had no knowledge, fiurthrer than his offering and fur-
nishing the funds for traveling expenses to reach her' patron, Madame
Ellsler, aft I putting her under the care of his aunt, (!) Mrs. ilarpy.
"Mr. Prog," s 1 Marie.
"Yes, Miss Lessaire, I have just arrived in the city ; hearing of the
illness of Mrs. IIarpy, I came immediately on, knowing that you would
be at a loss how to proceed ; and here I am to offer you any assistance
or favor for the prosecuting of your journey."
"I thank you, sir, kindly, very kindly, but I have reason to believe
that I shall do ell by remaining where I am," said Marie.
here? "- &amp;  Prog, in surprise, "impossible !
"It is true, sir," responded Mrs. Iiazzard. " Sie has consented to
remain here, until she hears from her mother, at least."
Marie, do you know where you are ? " said Prog.
"Yes, she does ! " answered Mrs. IIazzard, "but she don't know
you, sir, as well as sire ought ! "
"Look, you," said the somewhat discomfited libertine, in a tone of
deep bitterness, " look, you, mrra(damr, we are not strangers ; I claim
that girl as under my protection-"
"Your protection'! " echoed Mrs. IIazzard, in a derisive tone.
" Yes, my protection ; I can fathom your purpose for keeping her
here, but I'11lisappoint you, you hag ! "
Don't you use such terms in my house, sir, don't you, or by my
life, I'll have you handled severely, you gambling scoundrel !"
" Oh ! Mr. Prog, I tear I am deceived, ruined ! protect me ! " cried
the alarmed girl, clinging to the villain.
"I will, Marie. Don t be alarmed. I came here to snatch you from
this inainrous place" and then in an under tone, as the terrified and
halt' senseless girl clung to his breast, ie whispered to Mrs. Ilazzard-
" do not utter another word against me, or by G---d 1 will annihilate
you-demolish you and your house in three hours! You kpow me-
kee your tongue inyour teeth and you '11 gain b'i it."
Tihe old wretch knew, or had reason to believe, Prog a desperate
profligate, and foreseeing that the entity of such a fellow might pro-
duce a revolution in Irer' premises more dangerous and disastrous
than all she could realize under the must prourrsing circumstances,
by retaining- the girl, she sullenly closed the conversation, having
Prog to fiih his work with Marie, promising a speedy return.

I

(

MAIiIE LESSATRE.

97

;i
Ipp-.
6
ki
i "
f'
k
t
h
f
i
t
ie
4f
at
}C}tt
S
t
E
4
t
P
Y
s
}t
t  T
tote
Sv
x
P

Prog made hay while the sun was shining-he plied his tongue with
such plausible pretexts and such volumes of moral suasions, that in
fifteen minutes time he had convinced his guiltless victim of her inse-
curity and danger in her present situation, an I offered .ris own protect
tion on her journey to the West, and pledging his honor (!) as a
gentleman; to see her safely and inunediately to the point of hez
destination.
A carriage drove to the door; a lady and gentleman passed into it
---the baggage of the lady was placed behind the carriage-.a few
words were exchanged with Mrs. Ilazzar1, and Joe Prog an I lth
Belle of the Ballet, at a late hour at night, rolled away in the still,
dark distance.
-
CHAPTER XXI.                          -
TUE CONFRFS--TUE THrIF CATCHERS-TIHE BARGAIN-A 'RFPOTITER' IN A TIGHT
A'r"-1-TIIE WRONG iANS-TIIE FEMALE FORGER'S EscArE-Tire Puirsrr og
PR0--1 E L1CI OE-TIlE S CC RFU. INQUIIIY--THE MIDSHIPMAN FINDS 115
FIW.NS--THJE FLIGHT OF THE Fox aica AND IllS VICTIM.
"I have him ! I've got the secret out of the woman 1" said the
pettifogger, rushing into the private office of the Chief of the Police,
rubbing his itching palms in great glee.
"I worried it out of her ; we '11 have him in fortr.eight hours."
" Good ! Who is it?" says one of the police.
" Where is lie ?" says the other, juiping up and buttoning his coat
to put right off and nab the prize.
She 's a keen one; never found a sharper piece of rascality in pet-
ticoats in all my experience. But she couldn't dodge inc."
"Well, but d-n it,.out with it,'" said the impatient thief catchers-.
" who is the man-where is ie ? "
" Ah ! that's ny look out, I have ge t him right under my thumb."
" Yes, and while you keep fussing and blowing here, he '1l escape !"
"No he won't-there is two of them."
" Besides-the woman ? "
" Yes. Now let'scone to business. I've got wind of them both ;
we canjg them ftud their booty in three hours. If they tip ?ip hand-
somely, we can'miake sormethring handsome out of this;'if they won't

T, d
5
r
i
s
1
t:
14#d
(5 '
i'
i
7
A  {
i'
,C
t
e
i   ,
1
k 9r
I.ti 1
1     4
t
i    x
i    i
t
i
t ^ . y
E  .
g  y;t
.7 1,R
i
u
r4
1   C    ;
11  ,

I

°           ti      x


MARIE LESSAIRE.

why the reward will pay well. Now, I 'ii tell you what I'll do; I'h
give you the men for one thousand dollars, you take the risks and give
me a third, cash down, the balance in sixty days."
" Oh, oh ; come, come, old fuller, that's drawing it too d-d strong,"
said the policeman ; "you can't come that."
"Do you object? 'Say quick, for I can do the job myself, but I
promised to go in with you, a-nd by G-d I never break my engage-
ments. Out with it-yes, or no ? " said the pettifogger.
"Well, now look a'lere, Craft, you're crowding us ; we are always
willing, you know, to do the fhir thing; we have given you bonuc$,
and you know we 'ye lost by it," replied the policeman ; " butif you
guarantee this a sure thing, if the woman hasn't lied, an1 we can nab
the coves at once, we '11 go in for the arrangement, but we would
rather you would go in with us, and share equal."
"No ; you know it plays the d--l with an attorney to be found in
this sort of business; I'll go the proposition, nothing else ; it will pay
you well, and you can afford it."
"Nutf ced, we '11 go it; give us a receipt for the money, and here it
is. Now, who are the men I"
" Joe Prog and Jerry Flapps."
"What? Joe Frog-Jerry Flapps ? " said the policeman.
".They are the men ; nab 'em at once. No mistake."
"FPhe-e.e-ew !t" whistled the officers.-" Joe Frog 's off-saw him
Gliding out, and said right off there was something in the wind ; and
I saw Flapps puttering around suspiciously when Frog was getting
off," said one of the policemen, with whom our readers are slightly
acquainted-Grab.
"But let 's be stirring," continued Grab, "we '11 snatch Flapps, and
then see after Joe Prog"
"I 'm sorry we have to take Flapps," said the.other, "for he '1i not
stand a compromise, we '11 have to put him through legally, and he's
a fast one and well up to the ropes ; but we '11 take him anyhow."
And the trio dissolved their conference ; the pettifogger in pursuit
of a dinner and a bottle, while Grab and'his fellow thief catcher set
out for, and very speedily arrested, the much astonished Mr. Flapps,
who was busy calculating the gains over a long article he had just
written, detailing the arrest of the forger and peculiar circumstance of
the ease. Flapps began to suspicion a gre  many things, among
which was, that Joe Frog had got him into some snare to screen his
own designs, hence his trying to avoid him also at the steamboat
landing. It was useless to say anything to the officers who arrested
him, and so Flapps accompanied them in moody silence, reserving his
elocution for a -more important place and occasion ; and it was not
peculiar at all that Grab and his fellow policentn construed this
downcast manner in Flapps, as indubitable evidence of his guilt; and
it was quite natural for them to wish him guilty ; such forgery cases

M 't LE LESSATRE

99

are not so common as blackberries, an'I when gentlemen engaged in
that line were brought up to the bull ring, they paid well. At the
police office, the appearance of Flapps in a new part, and that so very
serious, was quite exciting .to the loungers, loafers, officers, reporters,
&amp;c., to whom Flapps was so well known. Of course the reporter
soon learned the secret of his arrest, and at which he laughed heartily,
for he was no longer alarmed at the matter, and lost no time in making
it very evident that the woman had put the officers on the wrong scent,
to gratify two objects-the escape of her confederate, and to berevenged
on um. Flapps, for causing her arrest, and Prog for striking her.
The judge ordered the woman to be brought into court to be examined
on this point, but lo1' and behold, the woman, had vanished I The
dnall parcel she, received from the gentleman passing her cell, had
arguments in it so solid and powerful, as to bribe, corrupt, and grease
her wayyout of the stronghold of the massive prison. Great was the
outcry and immense the wonder, as to how such a thing could 'be
done, but the woman was non e5st inventue!  The law was 'done'
as well as Flapps, the pettifogger, policeman, and the rest next inte-
rested. The result was, Flapps got a speedy discharge from custody,
and, now firmly convinced that he knew the real forger, denounced
Prog at once as the man, and the policemen lost no time in starting
off south.in hot pursuit of the libertine. In Philadelphia, while-scour-
ing the well known haunts of crime and misery, the officers lit upon old
Mrs. Iarpy, just returned foni Baltimore, and through her, Grab and
h is associate got a clue of Joe Prog, and then started again fresh in
his tracks.
Of course Mrs. IIarpy kept dark in regard to her affair with the
ballet girl. Mad. Lessaire, from Mr. Flapps, received the first inti-
mation that ill was surely brewing towards her rest, and there was
hardly ny doubt but that Prog had connived with the old woman he
had represented as his aunt, in the abduction and ruin of Marie. This
was a terrible blow for the poor widow, and in the midst of her
trouble, a message came from the residence of Mad. 'Mignard, to  lesire
her immediate attendance there, Mad. Mignard having, in a fit of hor-
rors, taken a dose of strychnine, and was dying. The poor woman
almost wild with the agonizing intelligence from Flap is, was staggered
for a moment at the next blow, for she loved Mad. Mignard with the
strong' feeling of a sister, and in a briet period she hurried on her bat
and shawl, and started to see the unfortunate, abused, and fhted suicide.
Mad. lM. yet breathed when Mad. Lessaire arrived ; she recognized her
friend, but was unable to speak. Doctor Swabs was present; he hav-
ing been sent for by the residents of the next chamber, who were first
to overhear the cries of the dying woman, and discover her situation.
" She is gone," said Dr. Swabs, as he held her beautiful jeweled
hand in his own, and in deep. unftigned  sorrow, gazed upon the dead
pale brow of the handsome and unfortunate woman. "She is gone;
7

j
d

,'
r
.
1j{3
P 3
g
e'
k

.
k
.
t;
t


V

L

MARIE LESSAIRE.

100

poor, poor creature. She was a good, kind-nearted, magnificent
woman ; God be umerciful to her."  An I the physician, who had seer
hundreds pass from tiuneto etermty without a thought of care orsor-
rowfiulness of such a scene, shed tears.
Mad. Lessaire threw herself upon the lifeless form of her friend, and
wept bitterly ; and all present, the apartment being quite fill of the
inmates of the house, all wept over the unfortunate woman's fate.
A few hours after the demise of her friend, Mad. Lessaire, in a most
unhappy frame of mind, arrived at her own domicil ; a young milliner,
who was boarding with malam, to learn the flower-making business,
informed her that two gentlemen had (ailed and inquired for Mad. Les
saire, upon ver y particular matters, and they ha' started off, and come
again, and not finding her at home, stated they would repeat the call
carLy next morning. They had left noi name ; all the girl could tell in
regard to their identity, was, that they appeared to be military men,
having brass lttons and gold lace on their coats. Marie's dream
flashed upon Mad. Lessaire's mind, and she fell half swooning into the
arms of her attendant ; and overcome with the various transpirations
of the past few hours, sue lay sonic minutes in a state of deathm-like
somnolency.
From this position she was aroused by t knocking at her front door.
It being opened, two gentlemen again presented themselves, and being
shown into time little parlor, the youngest of the gentlemen raising his
cap, asked Mad. Lessaire if she hadI forgotten him! She gazed a
moment, then clasping lis hand, exelaimed--.
"iNo! it is George-George Pinekacy."
"It is, 'Madame ; and I'ye had much difficulty to trace you in this
vast city," young Pimkney replied. having introduced his friend,
that gentleman made himself agreeable to the young milliner, while
George listened to Mai. Lessaire's recital of sorrows and afflictions
since parting with their few frien is in NewsOr'leans. Mad. Lessaire
.muparted to the young muidshipiman her tears of Marie's destruction
in the hands of' the scoundrel whose frw(n(lslujp she had blindly relied
on in the sad hours of' piercing sorrow' and umisfortune. George listened
to the statement with deep concern, and informed Mad. Lessaire that
on the morning of the next (lay, himself and friend started for Wash-
ington, and it would afford himn unbounded pleasure to overtake and
discover Marie, if possible, and mete out to the base man, Prog, the
personal chastisement he deserved, and with tis manly purpose in
view, he hade'the poor widow good Might, and the next day, at an early
hour, he was on his way south.
Joe Prog was now at bay with a full pack hue and cry at his heels.
The French widow, his late pseudo wife, had soon discovered her loss)
and immediately forwarded word to her B3altimore bankers to be on
their guard for the draft, but of course they were a little too late, al.
though they lost no tune mnoursuing the for r and his accomplice,

MARIE LESSAIRE

101

of whom they got scent, and but for Frog's private departure with the
balLet girl, at night, he would have been brought to a very suild'dn
stani. But Ie got the start on his pursuers, and upon reaching a
station, some miles out of Baltimore, the coach was discharged, and
himself and Marie proceeded on to Washington by an early train pass.
ing about the time they reached the station.

F
k_
S
t
't
i
2-'  Q
t
u:
c"
r
s
F
k
t
1.
F"
t
EE4
4
k
f
r
A

J

THE LOST STUDENT-TfE SECRET LOVE AND UNTIMELY DEATh-THE 'REPORTER' BE-
COMES A DOVE, BEARING AN OLIVE-BRANCH TO THE WDOW-TH JOYFUL ADVER-
TISEMENT.
donrad Vinton recovered; an epoch no sooner reached than his pr--
viously formed notions ania intentions of reformation on the follies of the
past, were forgotten in the dream of fiction, purely so, surrounding the
dazzling pen of the splendid establishment to which he was introduced
by Joe .rog. It was but a brief struggle between honor and tenpta-
tion, and the latter proved an overwhelbiing force, in driving the student
into the vortex of folly, extravagance, and finally crime ; for the once
virtuous, highminded and talented student, descended, step by step,
until now, a bloated, depraved outcast, minion of the brothel and
gambling hell of the empire city, unler an assumed name-for with
all his shameful depravity, he had at least that spark of' self or kindred
respect, not to disgrace his family. Conrad passes his hours, doubt-
less, in as much misery as shame. The temptress-she whom God
formed in the most classic mold of purity and loveliness; she for
Wkornnmen were damned, money and treasures squandered, the beau-
tiful, profaned image of the once dear and beloved parents; she who
entranced hearts at a single gaze, who led astray innumerable
youths of hope and bright futures, like Conrad Vinton, died-died
the horrid death of shame and loathsome misery: but a few years ago,
in inmate of tie sick wards of Blackwell's Island, her name and her
peerless beauty were memorandumis of a passing shadow, written in
sand and water-gone, forgotten.
Dr. Swabs grew repentant; he had more need of such an event than
our little history could well spare space to record. lie felt sincerely
for Conrad, but after the liscoveiy made by the studdnt, of his precep-
tor's dereliction, it was vain to turn pious or moral exhoiter, and it

i ;
' r ;
i '
1
1
E
'- i

I ,
.r
{I
I

!t
I

I

CHAPTER XXII.

s


i0

MARIE LESSA;RE.

I

p
} a
Ai
,
i
_
'
'  ,
'
i,
"
k
:
BBB n
Ft
:
x  .

was with the utmost reluctance and pity that the physician saw his
student descend the ladder of shame and destruction. But he was fated,
and to such an excess did a few months bring the young man, that
Dr. Swabs' doors were closed upon him by the physician's lady, and
one heart, true womanly; heart, at least, mourned and grieved for the-
young man's loss-it .was the second daughter of the wealthy and
respectable Dr. Swabs. And though she had never told her tale of
inward love-though scarcely perceptible to the household eye, and
perhaps as little dreamed of by the luckless student himself-the tinily
circle, in a few short months after Conrad Vinton's abandonment to
shame, enumerated one less, the Doctor stood over the corpse of his
once fair daughter, and his own domicil was the scene of wo.
If Flapps brought Mad. Lessaire bad news, it was not solely because
he wished to deal largely in such unwelcome tidings, for upon time day of
George Pinckney's departure for the south, that indefatigable purveyor
of news and general information, rushed into the presence of the weep-
ing widow with great satisfaction gleaming from his eyes, and a news-
paper in his hand, to which he called the unceremonious attention of the
poor widow. It was a New Orleans paper, containing, in French, an
advertisement inquiring for a family named Lessaire, who had emi-
grated from France, some years before, for New Orleans, and other-
wise described the musician and his family, whose whereabouts, if
alive, was desirable to have known to the advertiser, who had recently
arrived in that city from France; signed, Gustave Lessaire.
"Mon dieu! 'Mon dieu! My child!" screamed the now over
joyed mother, falling senseless upon the floor, ere the happy 'reporter'
could exert himself to prevent such a catastrophe.
It was true, to be sure, 'o mountebank had interpreted the dream
of the poor ballet girl, or foretold, for a paltry consideration, the event
which was destined to unite the mother and her long-lost and never
dreamed or mortally hoped for child; but it was true, nevertheless;
there it was, in 'black and white,' and the 'reporter' exultingly flat-
tered himself, that to him it was due, the happy honor of finding
the advertisement, which otherwise never, probably, would have
reached the widow Lessaire's car or eye, and has in a thousand such
cases, the thread being broken; or its meanderings lost on earth, ilb in
'another and a better world' they should be united, the mother and
son, the brother and sister, could never more enjoy that embrace and
union, (lear as the tie of sacred, holy beings ; dear as the heart's purple ey
stream unto time heart, to stagnate which is to stop life, and annihilate
all of its bright hopes and fairy-wove future.
"Oh! how     - thank, a thousand times thank you, sir, for your
kindness! Myj dear, dear boy, I shall see him again !" exclaimed
the widow, as she recognized Flapps, and Miss Caruth, her boarder
and pupil, who raised her from the floor and placed her upon the
sofa.

CII APTER      XXIII.
THE LIBERTINE'S PROGRESS-FATE AND FORTUNE AGAINST HIM--TUE PooR BALLET GInL
MEETS A    FRtIEND IN A s o HOcL--TiE iIAIF'LL  VLLAIs--THE HCAaou SE---T1E
2"[!~;~i'^E NO !GELL-THE TillEF-TAKER6,IN PCRURSUIT--'lIE .BURtGLARY
TmU DEATH OF JOE Pito0.
It was noon when Prog an'l his victim reached the capital.    Des-
pgerate from the aecunliation of dangers aroun  I him, the libertine an I
fuieir la le his arrangeieimeits tfor escape with energy anl speed.  lie
pLe I the poo girl in a hotel, anl iniuediately oI)lceeded to a Ilivery
establishmnlt, nd oreed a cosetrage, to take himself and sister,
as he said, to a certain town in the interior of Virginia. his will
an I lnried mllulanner didlI not escpL)e the notice of one of the plroPrietors
of, the estal lislInelt, who at once dlemanled fifty dloilars for the use
of tile carr a'e, horses an I driver, to be paid down before starting.
Certaulym  ! said Pirog, making an effort to draw out his wallet
wliih, to the utter astonislinnent of the fugitive, was gone! and with
it all the money he supposed hiinself to possess in the world, save a
fe"w pieces of silver coin in lhis Purse.
D  G--d ! I'm ruined ! " exclaimed Prog. "I've been robbed !
My wallet, with several thousands of dollars, has been taken from n my
pocket ! "
has, eh ?" sneeringlv respond led the dubious stable-keeper.
It las ; never m1in. the carriage, I've no means now to pay for
it," sai(d the rally non-p)lussed, cornered profligate, hurriedly leaving
the pre:mises.
I '1l but," saidtlhe keeper of the stable, to one of his subordinates,
.that feler 's about to.'un off, cut his throat, or get in the penitentiary
aore lie 's nmucm oller.. I never see] a tller so cut short in a game as
ne was when I ixed hin to fork over the $50. ha, he could 't get
no carriage an1 Iosses out of this stable to run away with."
Y ou go art1r him,. Dick," he continued, addressing the subo.

:1
I

MA IUal&amp;:. LESSAIRE.
103
"I trus', Mrs. Lessair. , that you may see your son," said the 're
porter.'   As it is r cessary for you to give your Son immediate
notice of your whereabouits, I will be the happy instrument of opening
the communication between you."  Mr. Flapps at once dispatched a
reply to the a Ivertisement, au left the poor widow amid the conflict
imi.; emotions of hope revived fhr her long lost son, and anguish deep,
at the thought of the daigers besetting her thrice dear daughter.

#r
zF
r +
r '
[
r
fZ
a
r
r
s
P^
c
4

(i
(l
2
1l
1
a(
r


104                 , ;E LESSAIRE.

dinate, "and see if the cuss don't go right straight to Lrown's stable
and try it on him. hurry along arter him."
But Joe Prog wanted no homes then. his first determination was
to fly and leave his victim, the poor ballet girl, behind, but his better
feelings drove him to an opposite course. lie was acquainted in
Washington; he knew the way to and arrangement of the various
gambling and courtezan houses. To a well known den of aristocratic
infamy he hurried his steps, was admitted, and made application for
and succeeded in obtaining rooms for "himself and lady;" and made
no secret of lis desperate situation in regard to the expected pursuit,
alleging as the cause, however, that he had fleeced a gentleman out of
several thou tmd dollars in Baltimore by gaming, and the vict m had
sworn to recover it by process of law ; bhece, lie and his woman
wanted concealment for a few days, an I for a round eonsidei'anon, or a
promise of it, the old proprietress agreed to furnish the means at once.
By a servant-tor bhe began to fear he might be arrested at any mo-
nment-Prog sent a note to the hotel, where he had left Marie and her
baggage, desiring her to accompany the servant to their new lodgings,
where they were to remain for the balance of the day, and then to
proceed on their journey. But time unfortunate profligate was doomed
to another disappointment. The prolrietor' of the hotel chanced to
see the servant, a negro gi, and knew her.
What do you want here ? "
"I cum wid a note to a lady in de h9tel, sali."
"Let me see it," said the proprietor. "Alice Lester, elm? he con-
tinued, reading the superscription. Then referrimg to his register, he
discovered the name entered-Mrs. A. Lester. The note had not
been sealed, but the servant had been cautioned not to deliver it to
any one but the lady. The landlord read the note, and suspected
something wrong. IIe called a servant, and ordered time lady to be
requested to step down in the parlor, as a gentleman \vishgd to see her.
My God ! is it possible ?" ejaculated the landlord, as the grace
ful and beautiful girl glided into'his presence.
" This the gentleman who wished to see me ? "
Yes, miss ; it' I am not mistaken. I believe you afre connected with
the stage-did you notdance with Mad. Elisler, at the Park Theater ?"
I did, sir."
May I be allowed to ask you why you are here?"
I see no impropriety in the c question; sir. I am on my way to
Cincinnati, where I expect to join Madame Ellsler, again."
"But you are on the wrong route; are you not aware of it ?"
I am not, sir," said Marie.
"Then, my dear, it is my impression that you are in the hands
of some evil advisers, who, for base purposes, are desirous of leading
you astray."
The poor girl threw herself into a chain' and gave way to tears. The

4'-y
"I .
P
q ,.
t  }
F,
F
g
S
i
t
S
zs
i{
c
i
7
Y
E
i
i-
ti
pGE
A
t
i
F

105

host closed the doors, and exhibited the note from Frog. Ie at once
tol I the belle that the servant bringing the note was attached to a house
of ill-fame in the city, to which the writer of'the note wished, as it ap-
peared, to have her come.. Marie now saw the snare into which
her heartless betrayer was endeavoring to draw her, and she hesitated
not to believe that'the amiable,fatlherly-looking man before her, would
be a protector and a friend, in'whom she could confide. Therefore,
Marie gave the host a plain, unvarnished statement of matters per-
tammug to her engagement, preparation, and so far performed journey.
The host at once saw through the entire schemes of Prog. IIe desired
Marie to remain in his house as long as she wished; lie would have
the libertine attended to if lie ventured there again; and would ap-
prise Madame Lessaire of the aspirations and present safety of her
daughter; and went with the poor girl to his own private apartments,
and introduced her to his thrice amiable lady and family, under-whose
charge the rescued girl was placed.
Frog no v found himself' literally done. lie raved and swore, but
he knew, as far as his victim was concerned, that she was out of his
reach. lie passed a night of horrors, drinking and chafing lie a
fretted hyena. The next day lie slept; awaking about sunset, he
began to reflect as to what course he should adopt for present and
future movements. But the black pall of his depravity and blasted
hopes made all dull, dark, dreadful to him. lie thought of suicide,
then of flight ; he had no hope, but could not yet abandon life,  lie
ordered up a bottle of wine, drank it, then dressed and started out,
under cover of the night, to a famous or notorious gam bling hell, near
the capital. here he met a fiiend1 and several acquaintances. Here
he learned the plan of one of' his friends, a desperado, whoi he had
formed an acquaintance with in New Orleans, to make a raise. Prog
had sunk to such a state of infamy, and become so hardened-callous
to consequences-that nothing appeared too desperate or dangerous,
situated as he then was, to replenish his means and make his escape.
That night a robbery was to be committed; a daring attempt at
burglary. Joe Frog and two others were to do the deed, and Joe
was inducted accordingly. On the outskirts of Washington, near the
I'otomac, there stood an old fashioned mansion, occupied and owned
by a resident of that district. lie was reported to be wealthy, and to
have his money in his house. here it was, that that night, disguised
and blacked, ar'med with implements of burglary and deadly weapons,
Joe Frog and his atrocious companions were to commit violence, and
replenish their famished purses. But the hours of time reckless rake
and felon were numbered ; with a noiseless tick the moments of his
ill-spent life were being doled out.
Grab and his fellow-policeman arrived in Baltimore too late to find
Prog. But, getting on his trail again, away they went to Washington
where they fell in with another officer from the monumental city; an

L

r Y\1


106              ArTE.LESSA RE.

M  hlE LESSA IRE.

the trio went avant cautiously and surely to secure their prey. At the
hotel, where, unfortunately for Prog, he had left Marie, the officers got
their clue to his last stand. Anl to the temple of shame an: dishon r
the police now bent their steps, which they reached a tv inute
after Prog's departure for the gambling hell. The old womin  of
the lhoun s'outly don'e I any such person b -ing there. But it was
an oil story to Grab; he marshaled the way, anl the rest tbllowe.1.
Tie house was ransacked from cellar to roof but the bird had flown !
The officers knew that Irog was not tar oil, SO Grab's companion kept
watch on the premises, while Grab an I the Baltimore iflieer beat
around the city. But Irog hadl passed out of the city, with his nefa
rious companions, to (1o their villanous work.
All was hushed ; the night was favorable to their designs--dark
and inclined to rain-as the three villains stealthily crept over the
rear tince an I gained the top of a shed connected with the mansion.
One of the trio, being a heavy, unwieldy Tian, remained on the ground,
to guard against surprise, while Frog an I the other enteredl the sumai
window from the shed. Prog's confied.erate was a double-dved villain ;
lie hadIserved in the army, been in the pen'1itenitiary, anti 0lood was
on his haus.  lrug was desperate, but not blin i to the consequences
of his villainy, lie tt imelined to pause, even now, upon the very
threshold of lhi first an I last act of erine ant desperation. But it
was too late ; i 'ml a lvance.l so flr that there was no retreating, an I
eo lie went on.  :aining the second floor by this easy'access,the'lit
,lanterntourvey the position of things. They " tgd a large
hall, iomti which opened three doors to a corresponding number of
cliambets. In on. of these &amp;iaiimbers the oil man slept and kept hris
treasures.heoisl ssly the robbers approached the door, and glancing
h     tughhe .ey-hide. by a taper dimly burning within, got 'a partial
view of the interior of the apartment. To their satistetion they thund,
after hiding their tight, the (loot' was not locked, ant they quite noise-
lessy entered--approachedi the bed to secure the old man, that he
might make no outcry-when, to their astonishment, they fund a
huge negro servant coiled up an I snoring. A smile crossed the vil-
lainous blackened thces of the robbers, but it soon passed for quite a
ditfienret expression. As they turned froni the bed, Frog made a slight
noise by stmiubling over an obstruction in his way-the negro awoke,
saw the black men in his room, anI at once jumped from his bed,
gave a yell, andt seized 'ne.. Joe Prog made a bound fr the floor ,
his companion yelling kr nau to kill the negro. But Frog was for
escaping, and in the (lark an]l contusion could not find his way out.
The old main, whom they could have robbed and murdered, probably,
tottered out of his room w ith a lamp and carbie ; and seeing Frog
niaking at him, lie fired-the roue, forger. ant burglar, fell back over
the stirs -deal . The other villain was secured by the stalwart negro,
Rnd the third, outside, nadle his speedy escape.

i.
t
P                                   k
k
' : '  :                               r

i

106

107

C IIAPTER     XXIV.
TILE FINALE OF LIFE SCENES.
The evenng of the (lay upon which Marie hal foun 1frinds at the
hotel, George Pinekney auil his companion arrived in Washington,
and put up at the same place, but the young uilslhipman little dreamued
that the angel of his thoughts was beneath the same roof with him.
Ile hadI been mdter the impression that she anl her betrayer hartaken
a western route, an were so far bevol reach that it would be a thllacy
to attempt overtaking them. But a slight accident revealed the pres-
ence of her he sought. Standing near the register, conversing vith a
fi-en I, he overhead soe young gentlemen reading the names of the
hbte arrivals announced in the hook, and says one:
"Tn,m dil you-hear the story of this girl  " putting his finger on
the nm ifct A. Lester-, ini the register.
.No," answered the companion, " what sort of a story was it ?"
" Well a scanmp came here from the North, yesterday, with a young
irl, with whom tie hal ran of; as I understand it, an I attempted to
ct tier inveigled into old Mrs. -'s brothel ; the landlord here got
win 1 of it, upset the plans of the rascal, and is going to keep the girl
nitt ie gets an opportunity to send her back to her friends. The
scamp turns out to be a firger, and the police re on here after him."
This was enmougt for young Pincknev. lie inneldiately saw.tjfr host,
made huiself known, amd in eOui'Se of .a few nminutcs afterwai ls, he
was in the presence of the little lieie, and so ovecoume was lie by the
force of hiis ardent feelings, that he rushed to tier and clasped her in
his arms !iTheirg meeting was cordial and afflicting, and concluded
by George at once prot~rrig his services in seeing Marie satily back
to ier mother, a imovetmient he encouraged as the most Cxpedienlt, at
ounce. The hosbalso advised Marie to return, so it was concluded
between them. that the poor girl should return to New York next day,
aceeoiipluuiietl by tie young miilshiim~ian.'
. n let' oi- rtinarvcireunistances, sii," said Marie, "I should blush
Sto ihm(5't you agai."
hmyso, Marie ?" Jquired time young man.
" Geogvy do you reminbir t he bracelet you gave inc at parting ? "
"I do. Marie, dietinctly."
" Iromised to keep it as a dear token of a bashful friends But,
G.ou'ay, I paritedl with it."
1 know it l, dear Marie," said the midshipman, grasping her
hmtnn,l '" I know it all. Truth is stranger than fiction. Is it not curi-
ous however, that I should, by the merest accident in the world, stroll
with a frien I into jewel shop, an I find the very same bracelet there
among the bgjouteine of his cas s             "


108

MARIE LE Ss A'I

You id?" exclaimed tle belle.
"TIne, entirely so ; and it was not long ere I learned its history
And tlere began my search for your parents. It was a l ng chases
but I found you at length.
"You have, then, seen my dear mother, siri "
" I have, and regret to say she was almost frantic at t  news sh
received of the dangers besetting you."
911! nothing sblall telnpt me from her side again," exclaimed the
poor girl ; "no toil, care, or privation can be too overtasking for my
endurance by my mother's side."
By daylight next morning, tile news of the attempted robbery of
the old man's mansion spread over the city. The manacled prisoner
and the dead body of Prog were brought to-the city, and thousands
rushed to see them.
"Au! poor devil," said drab, as ht looked upon the cold, lifeles,
and handsome features of the rake, "I always expected lie 'd come tou
a paSS of this kinmd fmally. IIe 's gone, and saves us trouble. Poor
devil, had he known of the windfall lately left him by his old miserly
fatlier, lie 'd kept his hand olt of this (lear job. But he 's gone," con-
tinued the tiief-catel'er, and that ends our business."
That day, George Pinckney and his charge, Grab, and his friends,
returned to the great city, the metropolis of the Western world. The
meeting between the other and daughter was moving to witness.
When the poor girl learned the tidings of her long, long' lost brother,
her joy knew no bounds; she danced, sung, and prattled like a romp-
in' school gi1.r
in the course of a few weeks. Gustave Lessaire, a fine military young
ima, made his appearance to his mother and sister ' they wept, em-
braced and laughed with joy. Tle young soldier's story was soon
told.  lie had been wounded about the time his fatlher left France, and
lay for a long period in the hospital. lie no sOod  recovered than
he was again pressed into service; proved a fortunate soldier; he rode
rapidly in the r/and armie, became colonel of a regiment served
bravely and made money. When lie was about to seek his parents
in the new world, he received intelligence of their deaths, by the furi-
ous malady of New Orleans. Again lie sought the army, and again
lie head of his father in America, and lie determined to seek his fraily
in person ; the result of' this determination, our readers arme acquainted
with. Colonel Lessaire married and settled neai' Mobile. And now,
within a pleasant ride of the Crescent City, amid the orange groves
and China trees of a beautiful mansion, on the sugar plantation of an
ex-hieutenant, George Pinckney, the young and still beautiful Marie.
the belle of the ballet cor s, presides as wite and mother of the young
planter's family. Mad. Lessaire has passed away, living long enough
to see ler children prosperous and happy. And thus, geutle indulgent
readers, we have told our little story.

'. B. PE ARSON'S LIST OF PUBLICATIONS.

!',

ure.
HE YELLOW       FRIGATE'- or, The Two Sisters.
Large Octavo. Tnis is equal In merit to either of the
above celebrated novels,.--.-----......---, price
MARRY OGILVIE ; or, The Blace Dragoons. A tale
ofAhetimes of Charles I      -,...--------------price
THE ADVENTURES OF AN AID-DE-CAMP., By
Capt.JAsns IdRANT,...---------.-.------price
The author of the above work deserves the popularity
which has iade him, perhaps, the most read of living
ioveiists. uistices are hull, of lit0 and action, and
his soldier spirit and turn for adventure carry him su-
cessfully through, with a skill in narrative which even
the author of" Charles O'Malley,'oldom shows.

r

Wilkie Collins' Novels.                          Captain James       Grant's     Novels.
THE DEAD SECRET. Octavo,---------     .-price    50 FRAT K HILTON - or, The Queen's Own. A .ram-
In skillfulness of plot, vividness of portraiture, ex-  panion to" Harry l orrequer." Large Octavo. Paper.
pressiver.ess of style, it has not been exceeded by any                                           price.
novel of the season.'--Courier and Enquirer-            We do not remember having read a work of fiction in
HIDE AND SEEK. Octavo,-----------------price        60 which the interest is so strong and exciting as this; one
We have seldom read a work more tnrillinily wrought almost reads it with " hated breath,' so many and fearful
rut than this. It is a tale that excites by its fearinauin- are the 'nueius, nair-oreaatn shapes, &amp;e. tat attend
cidents, and enchains by its continuous and sustaining  the characters who are prominently introduced.
power, while the vivid portraiture of individual charac-  PHILIP  ROLLO ; or, The Scottish Musqueteers.
ter are worthy of DICKENS or BUJWEn.-HomeJournal.     Large Octavo, 224 pages,.....-..--.--....-....price
AFTER DARK. Octavo,..................price        50   The period and incidents of the tale comprise that por-
One of the best'books of the day.-Daily Times.       tion of history prior toilte glgious advent of the great
Gustavus Adolphus. The hero is a soldier of fortune,
.-who, while fighting the battles of his faith, encounters a
series of adventures, which are happily and naturally
.mit's      b      dW      k          tolbetra ing aft intimate knowledge of military life,
J~. F. Smith's Celebrated Works.                  ,    uecteu
an this    elcidated. This is a book that we can
conscientiously recommend to the lovers of light litera-

50
5n

I

k"
I
i^
A
1

t'RINCE  CHARLES; or, The Young Pretender.            ott
Large Octavo----.-------------.     --price    so
ALICE   ARRAN ; or, One Hundred Years         Ago.-    T
-IR Nprice                      25
RICg   MARKHAM1; or, Smiles and Tears. Large
GILLIAN; or, The Adventures of an Heiress. Large
Octavo,------------------------------- -price    5
HAROLD     TRACY : or, Phases of Life.    Large Oc-
BELLA TRELAWNEY ; or, Time Works Wonders.
Large Octavo,..--------    ----------------price
ChARLES VAVASSEUR ; or, The Outcast Heir.
Large Octavo, paper,--..--------------------....price 5t
hENRY DE LA TOUR; or, The Comrades in Arms.
Large Octavo, paper,....-    -   --................price  60
DICK TARLETON; or,.TheLastof His Race. La         3
II Octav,.. .--------  ---  ------.   ---- price '  25
I            ~~RION~;ARNARD; or, Lessons of Life.Large
Octave,   -------------------------------price      50
FRED GRAHAM; or, Masks and Faces. Large oc-
tavo, 224 pages,-----. ----.-.-----------.-prce    50.
aO   ANTIC    INCIDENT   S INNTHE:LIVES         OF
'}'fE QCTE?. O0 ' },Ny3LAND. By J. 1F. SnT,
Author of "Stanfieid HSal," "Amy Lawrence," "Min-
mte Grey," "Gus Howard," etc. l2iuu, beautiful il.
I tratitns. Extrac o        -, gilt,--.---'--------price  x00
The writer, in giving us the History of these eminent
eromen, has remarkably exemplified the oli adage, that
- ruth is stranger than fiction ;" for no pure romane '
could e-l ee'it in stirring incident, an I the varied vicissi-
ltes of Jove, pleasure, sorrow, and suilering, which form n
Srh o taple of all works offiction. Each sketchs is a com-
plete narrative in itself, possessing all the charms of a
novel with theadditional value and ncrit of historical
truth.
THE VIRGIN QUEEN: or, The Romance of Royalty.
vo,225 pages,.---:---- --------------------price   50
OMAN AND HER mASTER. A Novel, containing
228 octave pages,...--. .....................price 50
FRED VERNON; or, The Victim of Averice. Con'
taning over 325 octavepages,............-...price  75
HARRY ASHTON; or, The 1l'zll and the Way. Beau-
tifully illustrated,..-------------------------price  50
ELLEN DE VERE; or, The Way of the Wilt. Beau-
tifully illustrated,-..-.-- .................-price  50
FRED    ARDEN; or, The Jesuits Revenge. A Novel
containing over 200,octavo g    ,es....-------price  50
MINNIE liREY ; or, Who is the Heir?       Beautifully
illustrated from designs by Gilbert. 215 octave pages.
price    50
GUS HOWARD ; or, How to Win a Wife. With il-
lustrations from designs by Gilbert. 210 octave pages.
price   5t
ROCHESTER; or, The Merry Days of England. II'
lustrated, containng 200 pages.------------rice    5t
TEMPTATION; or, The Unknown Heiress. Large
double column octave, with numerous illustrations.   -
price   50
AMY LAWRENCE          or, The Freemason's Daughter.
Beautifully illustrated. 1 vol., containing 1.0 large
g, closely printed.  Paper-----.----------price  5(
usaNFIELD HALL, A Romantic Historical Novel.
ay the Author of" Amy Lawrence, or the-Freemasons
' Daughter," "Minnie Grey, etc. 2 vols.  This book
contains 432 closely printed large octave pages, and is
illustrated with 16 engravings. Paper.......price $1 oa

6  ' Any Bnok on our List will ha sent to ny address in the rumtod Sim ntir t's-idq. free of pov'age.
ssiG uash Orders to                        IT. 1$ .PEARS? ON, 6: Nassanu Sttreet, New-York.

ft

Novcls by Safi cl lover.
;RY O'          ,"ORE. A  romance. This work is illustra-
Ced, and contains 230 octave pages,..---- pute  50
We need hardly say that this entertaining and very
humorous work is from the versatile pen of Samuel Lov-
er, Esq., whose expressions in describing the scenes and
heroes of his fancy have cracked many a side, and con-
vulsed many a countenance withi laughter.
HANDY AND!. One of the most humorous works
ever written. Illustrated,-..-~.......... price  50
Hatndy Andy speaks for its:.  oClue hearts of all gay,
oIly, and mirth-loving folks. It will, we have no doubt,
be a favorite with the public.
BARNEY O'RIERDON; or, The Adventures of a
Bashful Irishman,.------.------------  ..price  5
IHere is one of the most laughable novels ever written.
The adventures of the hero. Barney. the bashful Irish-
mnan, is one continued string of ludicrous and comical
blunders; hue gets mto all kinds of scrapes, and by his
impudence and native wit extricates himself from the
consequences. if you want a hearty laugh, get this book
and read it.
LEGENDS AND STORIES Of IRELAND ; or, The
Adventures of Paddy Mullewney,----------price    2+
Mr. Liver has hcero rduced his best work of fiction,
which will survive when aIlf the Irish sketches with
whichthe literary world teems, are forgotten.

4

N

4

3

rir  JI

t.!R^RRTt:L12TST3  1." 1 ...-             ..            1*r tlrcc  xtt c  en-r aa r     "veT.."rc -r  JC.*II'   yLT , L                w

I

i

W. I. Maxwells Novels1

50

3

; I

I

THE ADVENTURES OF CAPT, BLAKE. Illus-
trated. 200octavopages,................-price   SO
The adventures of Capt. Blake is a thrilling work. re-
plete with adventure, incident, character and plot of an
exciting description. It will prove one of the most pop-
ular novels of the season.
THE BIVOUAC ; or, The Rival Suitors. With beau-
tiful illustrations. 190octavo pages,..........price  60
This capital bookie of the " Charles O'Malley" school;
full of dashing adventures, love intrigues, brlliiunt
sketches of battle scenes, in which the inspiring, head-,
long charge and terrible defeat are detailed with all the
force of truth.
THE ADVENTURES OF MICI           COSTIGAN; or,
('he Ladder of Gold. By the Author of "Wayside
Pictures," etc. Beautifully Illustrated,......price  A0
Every page teems with bold and startling incident, lit
up with flashes of the most brilliant wit, frequently di-
versified by touches of original anid unctuous humor.


IL   B. PEARSON'        LIS
Days, wth Presages drawn therefrom; List of Fortu-
nate flours; The Art ofF ortune Telling by the Lines
of t1i iand; The Science of foretelling future events
by Motes, Markys, Scars, or other signs on the skin,
showing by their stuatron the indication they give of a
Ierson s disposition, and future lot in life ; Physiogno-
my, or Pro'nostics drawn from the co'or and nature of
the Ilairr of Men and Women, also from their whole as-
semlage offeatures: The Science of Foreteling Events
by Cards, Dice, Dominoes, &amp;c.; The Art of Ftrcti lung
Fu'ure Events by Charms. Spells, and Inpanta'ions. to
lt resorted to at certain seasons of the year, by which
Dreams, Tokens, and other insights. into futurity tiy
I s obtained, but more particularly with regard to
CoUnTSnIP and MARRIAcs; also the MAGNETIC ROD, or
the Science of Foretelling anything in the future by
Dreams.
HOW TO WIN AND HOW T7 WOO; Containing
Rules for the Etiquette of Courtship, with directions
showing how to win the favor orLadies, how to begin
and end a Courtship, and how Love Letters should is
written.............................................123¢
BRIDAL ETIQUETTE; A sensible Guide to the Eti-
quetet e and Observances of tim Marriage Ceiemoni s;
containing complete directions for Bridal -teceptions,
and the necessary Ruies for Bridesmaids, Grooms-
men, sending cards, &amp;c., &amp;c......................12%
HOW TO BEHAVE; or, The Spirit of Etiquette: A
complete Cuide to Polite Society, for Ladies nd Gen-
tlemuen; containing Rules for good behavior at the
dinner title, in the park -. and in the street; with im-
portant hints on ntroauu..on, anti tite art or c.iver-
sation.....................---.------...............12X
HOW TO DRESS WITH TASTE: Containing hints
upon the harmony of colors, the theory of contrast,
the complexion, shipo or height, &amp;c. This little vol-
time firms a most suitable crinpanion for the toilet
table; And every Lady and Gentleman should possess
a copy.
M'ND YOUR STOPS. Punctuation made plain, and
Composition simplified for Readers. Writers and
T kes. ............... ....... . - . .. .. .. -.1 %
Talkers...123
This little bok is wor h ti n times the price asked for
it, ant wrlt to ich accuracy in every thing, from the dic-
tion of ia friendly letter, to the composition of a learned
treatise.
HARD WORDS MADE EASY. Rules for Pronun-
ciation ant Accent; with instructions how to pro-
nounce French, Itnlian. German, Russian, Danish,
Dutch, Swedishi, Norwegian, and other foreign names.
A cpittl work,...................-........price 12%
E rerybody, learned or unlearned, should purchase
this Lttle Brochure-the onl cheap guide to pronuncia-
tion.
O0U RTENEY'S DICTIONARY OF AEBREVIA-
TtONS - Literary, Scientific, Commercial, Ecclesias-
ti:al, Military, Naval, Legal, and Medical,-.....price 12%
A book of reference--3.000 abbreviations-tor the-so-
lntihm of all literary mysteries. By EDWARD S. C. CoUn-
TENEY, Esq. This is a very useful book. Everybody
should get a copy.
BTUNDERS IN BEHAVIOR CORRECTEDsrice 12%
A comzeise code of deportment for both sexes.-  t will
polish and refine either sex, and is Chesterfield .::~rts-
dod."-Home Companion.
FIVE HUNDRED FRENCH PHRASES. Adapted
fir those who aspire to speak and write French cor-
re-tly........ ..      ..     .   ..... pi ice 12X
The phrases here given are selected for their eeueral
isc.ulness, and will greatly assist the le-irner in his
first efforts tio converse in French. Nobody should be
without a copy of this useful book.    .
HOW TO DETECT ADULTERATION IN OUR
DAILY FOOD AND DRINK.........-.price 12%
A complete analysis of the frauds and deceptions prac-
ticed upon articles of-consumption, by storekeepers and
manuac'urers: with full directions to detect genuine
from spurious, by simple and inexpensive means.
THE YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER'S BOOK; or, hor ,
to have a Good Living upon a Smalllincome,....price 12%
HOW TO BE HEALTHY ; Being a complete Guide
to Long Life. By a Retired Physician........price 12%
sfW    'Tn (! PW A   D CONTRIVE CHILDREN'S
S iTHLE$ at        SMALL COST.      With ,amer-
ous explaatory, :ravings...........   j..ice 12%
HOW TO TALK L WD DEBATTh or, Fluenii of
Speech Attasand soitaout the S'aicrfipce of Eleganc t~d
- Besae,............................--------pric'e 12%

Tr OF PUBLICATIONS

HOW    TO MANAGE CHILDREN,-----------price 12%
THE GREAT WIZARD OF THE NORTH'S
HAND-BOOK OF NATURAL MAGIC. Being a
Series of the Newest, Tricks of Deception, arranged for
Amateurs and Lovers of the Art. To which is added
an exposure of the practice made use of by pro'ession-
al Card-players, Blacklegs and Gamblers. Eiglit3 -fiftth
Edition. By Professor J. t. ANDERsoN, the Great
Wb izard of the North....................price 25
.GRK'S EXPOSITION       OF ODD-FELLOW       Hr?.
Including the Secret Signs, Passwords, and Charges
of the Five Degrees, as practiced by the Order in the
United States. i JorN KIRK, ..i Expelled Member
of Manhattan Lodge, No. 36. Illustrated with thirty.
six Engravings,................................priee 15
XiORGAN'R FREEMASONRY_ EXP:MED AND
EXPLAINED. Showing the Origin History, and
Nature of Masonry; its Effects on the Government
and the Chris'ia irReligion; and containing a Key to
all the Degrees ao fLreermasonry ; giving a clear and
correct view of the M-inner of Conferring the Different
Degrees, as practiced in all Lodges throughout tie
Globe,......................------.......price 25

BOXJIN   MADE EASY         or, Tie Complete Manual
of Self-Defense. Clearly Explamed and Illustrated in
a Series of Easy Lessons, with some important Hints
ti Wrestlsrs,............................price 12%
Eugene       Sue's    Celebrited      Novels.
MATILDA; -or, A Young Woman's Adventures. By
EuosE SUE. Two large volumes,.....-.......price 1 00
THE    LOVES OF PARIS. By EUGENE Sue. Illis-
trated with 27 engravings,....  ....   .....price 5'
THE KING OF THE WINDS. A Thrilling Novel.
By EUiENE 8E,........................---price     25
THE FRENCH FORTUNE-TELLER; or, The Mys-
terious Stranger,..:............................price  50
THE WIDOW'S WALK ; or, The M;e'ery of,
Crime. With numerous illustrations. This is one of
H. Sue's ingenious tales of the my steriesof every-day
life in a great city,.............................p-ice 25
THE MYSTERIES OF THE PEOPLE. By EossE
StE, author of "The Mysteries of Paris." etc. I vol.,
paper, containing 194 pages closely printed matter.
price 50
ATAR    GULL; or, The Bridal Eve. By EoeiNE
Sue. Translated by William iHenry Herbert Esl. with
a letter from the author to J. Fenimore Cooper ..price 25
THE    WANDERING        JEW      Translated f'n the
French. by William Henry aierbert, Es i.. 2 rols., 668
close octavo pages,.................... ....price 1 00
THE ADVENTURES OF UEROfflES HAR.-
DY. A Beautiful Novel,.......       .........price  25
HELENE ; or, The Children of Love,............price 2b
G. W. M. Reynolds' Novels,
MARY GLENTWORTH ; or, The Forbidden Mar-
riage,......................................price  50
LIFE IN    LONDON. 2 vols., illustrated with 20 en-
gravings, 450 pages, octavo,.... ..............price 1 00
ELLEN MONROE         2 vois., illustrated with 2O engrav-
ings, 462 pages, octavo,--------.....   ...-price 1 00
ESTHER DE MEDINA. 2 vols., 478 pages, octatvo.
pri;e 1 00
THE REFORMED HIGHWAYMAN. 2 vols.. 500
octave pages.......----..-..................price 1 Oc
THE MYSTERIES OF LONDON. 2 vols., 484 o.ta-
vo pages......--...------------------------...price 1 00
POPE JOP T; or, The Female Pontf. Illustrated,
large octre  . .................... -..----..price 1 5)
THE COTt. i SS OF ARNHEIM ; or, The Magic
Lantern of to World. With numerous beautiful ibrs-
trations, containing 200 large octavo pages,...price  50
ANGELA WILDON; or, The Mysteries of Atendorf
Castle. 2 vols., 440 pages, beautifully illustrated,
price 1 00
THE MYSTERIES OF OLD LONDON; or, The
Days of Hogarth. This is a Thrilling Novel. -ritten
in Mr. Reynolds' best vein. 207 large Svo paves,
price 50

Yo*"Any Book on our List will be seant  s any address in the United States or (awurir, free of postage.
Band Gash Cidseta                            L  BI. PEA    ORSON, 6$ Nassau stitreet New.Yerk

ti

Ii±


                                                      
             
         
       
   
