
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Rosa, the Indian Captive .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6979
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Rosa, the Indian captive 
            I U

4i
G

{
, .
i
3

I'/

,;  ,
t_ '
'    a;.
'f;t  $
_, ^
r; 1)
xi.f
t   i
,, _.
. i.,

r
b
Y
J


RNJDAN CAPTIVE.

0 '-.:    s  fx,  =,.e,.-_  " .,-"

A Story ofthe Last War with Enrland.

NEW YORK:
HLTO&amp; COMPANY,. PUBLSHERS
' NAssAu  STREET

I
I

V

.
?
G
. '
i
4
t   i { (,
FEY
.,    .  ~A
j
,
Y"'ir
]
i'
t
     1
e '  i
1       }
ri+ bb
?   7        !
_, 4g

;-,.
_    -          _
,.  -
s

)'+          ry y

+                                       ° }
,. ..             '  '                  ,sr       r'. r
...f .                                  ,F:
sr

F
vlrHE

,,
'

,.
,


THE FAST YOUNG .LADY.

THE FOLLOWING POPULAR AND FAST SELLING NOVELS
ARE NOW READY, AND MAY BE HAD OF ANY
BOOKSELLER OR NEWS-AGENT.
cts.                               ets.
The Parricides - - -  ----25 Chancy Bray        - -              25
Rose Seymour - - - - - -        25 Magdalena, the Outcast.  - -
Mermet Ben -------------25 Agnes, The Beautiful Miliner. - 25
Clara St. John - - - - - -     25 The Lady The'if. - - - - -       25
Netty Bride and Poor ofNew-York.25 Child of the Sun. - - - - - 25
Fanny, The Belle of Central Park. 25 Red Ralph. - - - -  - - -  25
The Bootmaker of Fifth Avenue. 25 Leonore. - - - - - - - - 25
Eel Demonio - - - -       - - 25 Black Wolf.     - - - - - -
Left Her Home --  --25 May Turpin. - - - - -            -     2
Revelations of a Female Detective 25 The Black Band. -  - - -
The Pride of the Arena. - - - 25
These Novels contain One Hundred pages, put up in handsomely Illn-
minated Covers, and Retail at Twenty-five cents each.
Ask any Ncwsdealer or Bookseller for a copy ; if he has not got it, he
ill get it for you.
COPIES MAIL ED FREtE ON RECEIPT OF PR/cE.
THE MOST      LIBERAL     TERMS TO      THE TRADE. { .
A nnDR1s;
HILTON &amp; COMPANY,
PUBLISH ERS,
e8Na   ssAu SRn2, N. V.

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

CHAPTER I.
The Captve and their L dian Cef.
UPON the road which windM from the
village of Coosa, in the former territory
of the Creeks, towards the capital of
Georgia, there stood, about twenty years
ago, under a projecting shelf of rocks,
on which some dozen of red cedar and
pine trees were scattered, the humble
log cabin of John Copeland; or, as he
was generally styled, Captain John.
Before it was two huge posts, connect-
ed by two large cross-beams; between
which was swinging in the blast a large
sign daubed with a gaudy copper figure,
intending to represent an Indian king,
with his diadem of plumes, tomahawk,
scalping knife, girdle of wampum, and
so forth; Beneath this figure, in words
not unlike Egyptian hieroglyphics, was
scrawled, "Entertainment for Man and
east."
it was on a stormy December night-
the wind moaned wildly through the
black pine forest, on the verge of which
the cabin was.situated-rain, mingled
with hail, dashed against the window
shutters, threatening the inmates every
moment with a deluge ; while the crush-
ing of trees, broken down by the storm,
sounded like peals of thunder through
the dark abode of Captain John-when,
something like the tapping of a hand on
the weatherboard of the door was soon
succeeded by a knocking that shook the
very logs of which the cabin was con-
structed.
Immediately upon this summons the
door opened, and a head peered out into
the dark night, as if to reconnoitre the
ground around the door, just where the

butt-end of a rifle was advanced-doubt-
less with the benevolent intention of
saving the inmate the trouble of open-
ing it.
The foremost of a group of beings,
whose characters could not be ascer-
tained in the dark, came forward, threw
the door wide open, entered, and, strid-
ing towards the chimney with a haughty
step, there sat down.
A considerable time elapsed before
about twenty of his followers stalked
into the room, in the same silent and
haughty manner.
When the hat had entered, the per-
son who had opened the door shut it
again; and, stepping towards the fire-
place, where a large log was still glim-
mering, threw a couple of dry faggots
over it, kindled one of the pine torches
lying near, and moving deliberately to-
wards the bar, placed a lighted candle
upon it.
The rude objects of the room appear-
ed now more distinctly ie the livid glare
of the torch and the wavering light of
the candle.
On a chair, before the fireplace, sat
the personage who had first entered-
his blood-stained blanket was thrown
over his whole body, so as entirely to
conceal his form.
Behind him, on the fioor, a group of
about twenty-Live Indians sat on their
haunches, with their legs crossed, their
fees shrouded in their wet blankets;
while large blood-stains,. with which
these were tinged, betrayed the charac-
ter of the expedition they came from.
In the corner opposite the fireplace
stood the bar, behind whose railings a
dozen dirty bottles, and still dirtier
tumblers and mugs, were ranged.


8              ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

ROSA, THEINDIAN CAPTIVE            9

The landlord now seated himself by
the side of him who seemed the chief of
the band.
Another minute elapsed before this
personage roused his head, two-thirds
of which were concealed by a piece of
cotton tied round it, on which, like
fringes, little clots of gore hung.
The backwoodsman cast a side glance
at the Indian, but withdrew his eye at
the next moment, and looked again into
the crackling fire.
"Has my white brother no tongue'?"
now said the Indian, in a low, guttural
tone.
"He will listen to the talk of the brave
chief," returned the backwoodsman,
sullenly.
"Go call your woman," said the In-
di in, in the same low tone, without
raising his head.
rTie backwoodsman arose, and turned
towards a large bed, behind whose cur-
tains the woman was sitting.
After a few words she emerged from
her resting place, and advanced by the
side of her husband towards the Indian
chief.
She was a stout, resolute-looking wo-
man; yet there was something so very
alarming in the blood-stained visitors,
illumined as they were by occasional
flashes from the glaring flame, ahd their
deadly silence was so ominous, that the
woman stood speechless with terror.
Stepping to the .ide of her husband,
she stood in silent expectation.
The Indian now raised his head very
slowly, and said-
"Listen, woman, to the talk of a great
warrior. Hig hinds are open, and he
will fill the wigwam of his white brother
with deer skins ; he will ask but little
from her, and what she may give easily.
Has my sister," continued he, turning
his head to wards the woman, "milk for
a little sister ?"
The woman looked astonished at the
question, without comprehending his
meaning.
"Will she," continued the Indian,
raising his voice a tone higher, "give of
her milk to a little sister, that she may
not die for want of food ?"
The woman looked bolder, as she now
began to comprehend the demand, and
she moved from her husband to theside
of the Indian.
As she did so, the Indian opened the
folds of his blanket, and produced a
beautiful child, dressed in a rich emine
pelisse, and cap of the same.

For a moment the woman gazed In
astonishment, but in the next her fe-
male tenderness prevailed. Stretching
out her hand to receive the child, she
exclaimed---
"Body o' me ! a baby! Where have
you got that there poor little thing? It
ain't a red child-surely I will-"
The woman would probably have
given further vent to her feelings, but
for a significant glance from her hus--
band.
The Indian seemed not to pay the
least attention to what she said, but,
unbuttoning the ermine pelisse, he slip
ped the garment off. A robe of gros de
Naples presented itself. The Indian
untied it in the same manner, knot after
knot, and had succeeded in extracting
the child from a second robe, when a
third, fourth and fifth of the finest cam-
bric, trimmed with Brussels lace, ap-
peared, within which the child was
buried.
The Indian seemed now to lose pa-
tience, seizing his scalping-knife, and
cutting the three remaining garments
asunder, he presented the naked child
to the terrified hostess.
"You wretch !" shrieked the frighten-
ed woman, snatching the child from
him.                 -
"Stay," said the Indian, pointing to
the neck of the child, from which hMng
a gold chain with a little medal.
'rhe woman slipped the chain overits
head, and throwing it into' the face of
the Indian, she hurried towards her bed.
"The deuce is in that woman," mut-
tered the backwoodsman, not without
uneasiness, at the sadden outbroaking
of his wife's feelings.
"The red warrior," said the Indian,
with unmovable calmness, "will give
beavers' skins for the milk of his sister;
but he will keep what he has picked up,
and the door must be open when he calls
for the child !"
"But," said the backwoodsman, who
seemed to feel it incumbent on him to
be more explicit; " to speak plainly, I
don't care to keep the child, though I
have plenty of my own. Eut should
the parents come, or the white father
hear of it, what then? the chief knows
that his hands reach far."
The Indian paused a moment, and
then said, in a significant tone-
'"The child's mother will not come,
The night is very dark, the storm blows
very hard, the trail of the red warrior
will not be seen to-morrow. it is far to

the wigwam of the white father. If-h
hears of ,the child, the my white bro
her~ told him of it. If he takes it, tht
red warrior will take the scalps off hi
children."
"There, take bick your child-I will
not have anything to do with it !" said
the backwoodsman, in a firm and reso-
Ante tone-.        .    ..
The Indian drew his knife in calm,
concentrated rage, and looked in the
direction of the child.
"We'll take care of it-nobody shall
know of it!" shrieked the woman in a
voice alhnost of frenzy.,    ;
The Indian put his knife calmly in his
belt, "The red nen are dry," said he,'
in the same tone.
The woman muttered something like
pomson.
The husband, however, now strode
somewhat more rapidly towards the bar
-took down one of the bottles and fill-
ed a tumbler, which the chief drank as
he sat. It then passed round to every
Indian'
When the third bottle was emptied,
the chief rose abruptly, threw a Spanish
gold piece on the table, and, taking
from his girdle of wampum a neckcloth
of beads, hung it round the neck of the
child, which the woman had in the
meanwhile dressed in a homespun flan-
nel frock.
"The Creeks will know the child of
one of their warriors," said he- and,
turning round, he stalked with great
dignity towards the door, followed in
the same manner by his ien, and dis-
aippeared in the dark night.
"The squall is over," said the back-
woodsman, who had looked after the
Indians, as they stole towards their
birchen canoe.
"Who's that red demon ?" his wife
broke forth, when the last had disap-
peared, fetching at the same time a deep
breath,.and shuddering involuntarily.
"Hush, woman! There's foul play, I
warrant ye!" said he, shutting the door
and stepping with the lighted candle
towards the bed, where his wife was
nursing her new charge. "That there
poor thing might tell a story, maybe,
that we should not like to listen to !
Ay, and she may cost us our scalps, too.
There's something wrong -- they have
been, on a scalping expedition; that's
certain; but where, the deuce knows.
Well, if they've been down at the Span-
iard's," continued he, looking alter-
nately at the child and at the gold coin;

e "I shouldn't care a curse ; but things
- must be looked to."
e So saying, he threw himself upon the
bed.
But it was long before the sturdy old
l backwoodsman sank again asleep. The
terrible night scene seemed to have de-
stroyed his repose.
Captain John was one of those li-
censed traders who had settled two
years before this'nightly visit among
the Creeks, under the patronage of the
general government, and the protection
of its agent.
He was a man half way between
thirty and forty, as stout and square
built "as any one who ever trod in his
own shoes," and with just as much of
tavern-keeper jollity as corresponded
with his grave customers and his own
bargaining, shrewd hawk-eye.
The Creeks had been for many years
on good terms witg the white people.
Yet there were among them the germs
of a rising discontent; which, perhaps,
none was able to observe more closely
than our tavern keeper.
Numberless squatters settled down on
the richest tracts.  Dissensions had
broken out respecting the occupation of
the lands on the head of the Oconee
river.
The difference had been settled by a
treaty, in which the chief of the Oco-
nees, the son of a white, ceded the fer-
tile lands.
The greater part of the tribe, with
the descendants of the Ahikos or heirs
of the Oconees, were thus cast on the
mercy of their red brethren.
He was said to be of a haughty, stern
and treacherous character -his influ-
ence with his tribe to be unlimited, and
even great with the rest of the Creeks,
who began to be alarmed for their re-
ainaing land.
The backwoodsman, then, knowing
the dangerous character of the Indians
among whom he lived, not to distrust
them, he determined on visiting M'Lel-
lan, the deputy agent, in the ippeir.
Creeks' territory, the next morning.
This purpose firmly settled, he soon fell
asleep.
Accordingly, with the break of day,
the backwoodsman was ready to start
for the agent's.
"Send Tomba with the skins up to
the Cherokees, and keep yourself quite
ready, if I shouldn't come back to-mor-
row night," said he.

1;

{ .5
''
4
t.

.+        t
;,  s r   !
'           4
r Y '
F ,9


U)                 ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.
" When shall I look for ye, man 7"  With an air of apparent indifference
demanded his wite.                  he said-
"Trts more than I know myself; do  "What's the matter? Car't an honest
as I tell ye; they are stirring, and we man get a couple of yards of flannelfor
must loc to it."                    a petticoat, when a great chief has strip-
So saiti, fie stuidy backwoodsman ped his child like a "-thief, he was just
took hi loatdel horse;whip from  the about to say ; but he prudently swal-
wv:'ll md bes.troie his switch-ailed lowed the dangerous word down.
marc.                                 'ie chief fixed his penetrating look
The road, or rather path, leading to upon the backwoodsman - "Does th
the tore oft Co plain M'Clelhm, ran (laughter of the warrior want clothes?"
throue.h a long pine forest. The ground he asked.
; as I' '(cred  with a thin sheet of  "Foolish question," resumed our can-
inow, the atd softened after tei hail ning backwoodsman, who well knew the
tOrn:.                             mode of allaying the suspicions of th'
(Our captain was a baekw;"oodsman i savages. "Bet hasn't but one frock,
the fall sens  of ihe Vord, w-ho, with and that she wants herself. I'll give a
mn iiy good gnalities, had some very in- gill o ' whiskey if the poor thing ain't
dif'rent ones. and among those an in- froze,1 to death before I return."
:emte aver sion to the red race, which he  'T  red warrior will send clothes,"
hated, to un his own expression, ''more said the Indian ; and whispering to the
than poleats."                     next of his men, the savage then glided
He had just turned round a sweep of swiftly away..
the ridge, from wltili he had a full view  ''Well, if you'll send what I'm going
otf the broad bottom, and now entered for,.I may spat niysclf the trouble; but
a copse of dry and hickory wood, when don't forget the shoes or moccasins, as
his s dliloiuy was very suddenly inter- you like best."
iupted.                              John- concluded, and was turning his
The branches of the thicket opened, horse's head, when the Indian made him
and a tall, gaunt. human form reared a sign to stop.
itself before him, completely shrouded  "The paths are many that lead from
in his blanket.                    the wigwam of the white man to his
The horse shrunk ack, and the back- brethren, and his tongue is very crook
woodsmatn was near being thrown out e(d ; but the eyes and ears of the chet
of his saddle,                      are wide open. Let not him, nor his
Thie Indian of yesterday stood before people, be fIoul by the red men, or
him, his head stilt covered with the they will take lhis scalp."
pier of cotton, and his only eye which  'Well,"' said the captain, "yo won't
was visible, darting frocious glances at keep nit a prisoner in my owa house,
the rider.                      ._- when there is so much to be done-ruim
For a long while the Indian stood I to be bought and skins to be sent away
without uttering a word.            to the post ''
" A mighty warrior,'' said he at last,  ''When the moon has changed thrice,
with a voice in which rage and deadly my brother may stir again; but then let
liatred was feam fully mingled,  has him beware his tongue."
thrown his talk beforo a dog, who will  The Indian turned again into the deep
sow wee ds in the path which lies be- forest, leaving the backwoodsman to us
tween the red and the white nic. ins own thoughts. These were certanly
he counted tie heads of those he left in not of the most pleasinpanature..
his wigw;aml ? When  e reteus from  'That the Indians meditated mischief
the white trader, he ll w tind it empty, appeard from the ominous mystery o
and the scalps of his women and chit- their chief. But when the blow would
dren drying in the smoke of the red be, or how to prevent it, were ques-
men."                              tinos that lie could not answQr. " But
A low, tauntinglaught resounded from should 1,'' so concluded he, " ever be
both sie of the thicket, at the same able to give a hint to M'Lelbau,  what
time the boughs moved asunder, and a then ? Fiom M'Lellan to Colonel flaw-
group of hidous ftrms were seen glid- iuts' are a good long two ailes, aid be-
ig behind the speaker.             fir'e the tidings will reach him, the bhow
Presence of atiuid was a virtue that is struck and our scalps taken," added
our bac woodsmant had ally gained i e, involuntary raising is cap and
his dangerous trade. a scratching his head. "Anid then wotil

+ EOSA, TIE INDIAN CAPTIVE.                      ,i
thc red skin have brought the child, if one of the three sections of the Creek.
-he meant any harm.? he would have Ite had now'corie to bid-farewell to his
dashed it against the next tree."    countrymen and neighbors, opposite to
-Hdwever wavering     his intentions whose cabinahe had resided in the little
might have been, the voice of his wife, Iidian v;llage of Coosa.
and the sight of his children, determined  By his side was the little girl who,
him for the less patriotic, but, undre seven years before, had become an in-
present circnmstances, nor e prudeitt mate of the cabin in so strange and
resolution, of waiting the finbl resalt in mnysterioun a manner.
patience.                              She' sat still and mildly near him,
The Indian kept hist word.         looking up into his pale face, and catch-
He had not been nany hiomurs at home, ing the sounds of his words.
when one of hi boys brought a buidle  The dawning loveliness of the child
of clothes, which an Indian runner had had attracted the preacher's attention.
thrown before his feet without uttering Ehie hiad, with the children of the trader
rintgle word.                     t and the Indians of the villageattended
Days and weeks passed over our fa-1 the school of the missionary ; and had
mil7 in this suspiense,ms  while they cx- twined herself so deeply about the hearC
nected with every homur .to hear of the of the lone,- pions wanderer, that the
mnassacr  of their fellow-citizens; and I thought of separation from her fell very
fancied in every whistle of the wind heavily upon him. He now' motioned
they pteiceived the distant yells of the tothe little girl to leave them alone.
savages, riushiing'upon them to complete  "And sd you will," said the preacher,
the work of destruction.            after the little girl had gone into the
But their fears were, happily, pnot garden, "not hear of my proposal to
realised.                            take your charge fromr you   She is too
The dark clouds had, indeed, gather-.: tender ever to be a good hand at work;
ed, but they drew off in another diae- 'and it would be a pity to let her fall
tion,and the storm broke ver the heads among the Indians."
of the Choctaws of the six villages, who,  "True,"  said the captain ; "but then
lived farther towards the Mississippi.  the Indian has sent regnlariyeveryyear
So secret had the scheme been, so his ten beax-r skins for boarditig, be-
treacherously concealed was their real sides clothicJ. Though only a red skin,
design, that the twelve tribes of the I cannot dispose of 'his property."
Creeks had united and crushed the ut-  " And you never saw -or h+ard of
fortunate Choctaws before their white him "
friends and their allies were in the least "I saw him twice, as I told you, muf-
aware of it.                         fled in his blanket-; and once I'eckon I
With the tidings of the character of i saw him more ; but would I hadu'tspeen
the war and the restored peace among him   It was just a bit of womanish
the iLians, our family again breathed curiosity," with a side glance at his
more freely.                         wife, "and I wanted togo down and see
The backwoodsman was now fullr Colonel Hawkins about the child., And
convinced that the child Which had been I paild for my curiosity with my best
put under his charge came from a Spam- horse-he shot him'doi wi" a dog !
ish or Fteich planter in the territory  ."And none of the Indians have given
of the Choctaws.                     you a hint about the beads i"
Ouri host again parted with his liquor, "I don't hike .to talk about .it. Tho
taking in exchange skis ; a nd except a child'b a Frencher or a Spamniard, relv
new addition to his family every year, upon that ; lut ,if you want, you mieay
litfTl occurred worth men'tionitg. get that hint yourself. There is jfast
Thus,had six summers g ann by.    one of them red skins lying in the back
It was at the beginning of the seventh sheds."
sttutmer, on a niild, clear evetung, that "I should like to see him."
the batciiwoodsman sat along with his  Both leftthe table, and approached
fiamuily at supper. ~                the Indian, who lay half naked on his
At the upper end of the table sat the blanket, his ifife at his side.
Rev. Mr. Charles Clafirson, a missionary.  They beckoned to'him, and went to-
To his profession as a mini-ter, he had wards the garden, where the children
joined that of a teacher of youth.   were playing.
He hind, during the two years' of his The minister took the little girl in his
mission, resided four months with every arm, and pointed silently to thme beads.

{_'
1

1C 't
itj
5, R  g

,a
, ,
c


ROBA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

12             ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

The Indian looked for a moment very
attentively ; and then crying "Hue !"
and raising his hands with every mark
of fear and astonishment, darted over
the fence, and was soon lost to the eye.
The missionary and the backwoods-
man returned silently into the room.
"Well," said the latter, with a sharp
glance, "have you still a mind to the
child ?"
"Certainly," said the preacher, "if
you allow me to speak with the agent."
"Not as long as I stay with these red
skins," said the tavern keeper. "But
my time will be short. They are again
stirring; and there are things going on
with that red skin beyond the Ohio.
They say it is the chief of the Oconees,
or moiko, as they call him."
"That's a dangerous fellow," said the
clergyman.
"When I am down the Misdssippi,"
resumed the backwoodsman, "you may
do what you please."
"Sure enough," interjected mine host-
ess; "poor thing, she'll never be fit for
a job, and you nouglit as well take her.
She bought do for teaching them girls ;
but we must think of ourselves."
The strain of the woman was inter-.
rupted by a piercing cry, which came
from the garden.
The next moment the object of their
conversation rushed in, pale and trem-
bling.
Before they could ask the cause of her
strange emotion, a tall, gaunt and co-
lossal Indian steipped into the room,
dressed in the attire of an Indian chief
of the first rank. His frame was very
powerful. On his naked arms and an-
covered temples arose seams almost
finger thick.
His whole attitude was imposing in a
high degree, and resembled more of a
bronze statue than a living creature.
The most striking part, however, of the
Indian was his countenance. His fore-
head,erowned with a diadem of plumes,
was highly intellige it.
The dress of this remarkable person
consisted of a sort of waistcoat of deer
skin, that covered his broad chest, and
an open hunting shirt of cotton, which
was thrown over it. To a girdle of wam-
paim was attached his breech-cloth. His
moccasins and leggings were exquisitely
worked. Ie held in his right hand a
ride ,and on his side stuck a scalping-
kuite, richly inlaid with silver.
"Tokeam !" exclaimed the missionary.
The backwoodsman was just going to

raise his tumbler to his lips; but his
appetite seemed gone at the mention of
a name which was known to be synony-
mous to a deadly enemy of the whites.
He surveyed the chief from head to
foot.
"Six summers," said the Indian, after
a long pause, during which he had seat-
ed himself, "are gone and returned
since the miko of the Oconees left his
daughter with his white brother. Ho
is come to take her now into his own
wigwam."
"Then it is you," said the captain,
"who that night left us poor Rose, as
that there' gentleman calls her. But
why have you never shown yourself, or
called for the child ? What if she had
been lost?"
" The white man want only the skies
and the land of the red men-they enre
not for a chief," returned the Indian,
with a bitter smile. "If the child had
beer taken away, the scalps of your
children would have paid for it. He
will now take what is his own:"
"You don't call Rose, whose parents
you have murdered, your own ?" said
the minister.
The Indian cast a glance of inexpres-
sihle contempt at the speaker as he rc-
ph-.
"Where would the White Rose, as
you call her, be, if the hand of Tokeahk
had not arrested the arm which was
going to dash out her bra~imis? Who has
hunted for her when she crawled on her
hands and feet ? Who has sent the
be vers' skins and drink water?  Oa
added he, with contempt, "you are dogs
-your tongue talks of what your heart
does not know."
''The miko of the Oconees," said the
missionary, undaunted by the cold ve-
hemence of the Indian, "will not tear a
poor Christian child from iher kindred ?
The whi e father would be angry-ho
will pay back the skins."
"No need of that," cried the woman ;
"I'll give back all what the red skin
clief has sent."
"The chief of the Oconees," said the
Indian, in a stern tone, "will not talk
more with the white father. His path
is long-his heart yearns after freedom.
He will seek it where no white maa,has
trodden the ground. He wants his white
daughter to pook his venison." lie then
wha-tled, and a party of Indians enter-
ed, followed by two girls.
"Canondah !" exclaimed the mission-
Sry.

One of the girls stepped forward, and
crossing her hands on  er bosom, she
inclined her head towards the mission-
ary.
"And you will leave us?" he said.
The girl was silent.
The chief made another sign ; and
the second girl seized the shrieking child
and lifted her itito a blanket, which was
thrown over the shoulder of the first.
the then passed a string round the hips
of the child, and tied it, raised her to
the shoulders of the girl, and wound
her arms round her neck. The Indian
girl took now the upper corners of the
blanket, and drawing them together in
Mher hand, she was ready to depart.
The missionary, with the family of the
trader, had looked at these sudden pre-
parations in anxious suspense.
When they were finished, the mission-
ary advanced to the Indian and said, in
a mild voice-
"Then to your love and sisterly care
I must leave the tender plant!"
The Indian girl on whose back the
poor child hung, bowed her head.
The girls left the room with the rest
of the Indians-the chief only remained
behind. Then rising, he said -
"The miko of the Oconees has paid
for the milk of the white woman. His
path is long-his heart is sick of the
whites - may he never more behold
them!"
When ho had spoken these words, he
rose, stalked out of the room, leaving
the missionary and the trader in silent
Surprise.
We now leave Georgia, and the home
of the backwoodsman, to resume the
thread of our narrative in a far distant
country, and after .the lapse of several
years.
.           cHAPTER IL
The Two Maidens.
On the northern extremity of the lake
Sabine, there rises from the dreary cane
and cypress swamps, and between the
rival rivers, Sabine and Natchez, a rich
bottom that swells gradually, as the two
rivers diverge into the hills.
From the narrow lane which nature
has left between the forest and the cane
brake, two female forms were seen glid-
ing towards an open place.
The complexion of the foremost maid-
,an showed the copper hue of the Indiga

race. She had now reached a bend of
the lane, where a prostrate cotton tree
crossed the opening, and leaned herself
against the trunk, apparently to catch
breath.
By her side hung a pocket knife of
considerable size.
"Rosa," she said, bounding towards
the second female who had now issued
from beneath a cotton tree, and sinking
on her legs, and crossing them with a
quickness and pliancy which resembled
the windings of a serpent. "Thte White
Rose is no more the same-look how the (
grass grows on the path her foot has
trod so often. Why is the White Rose
sad?"
There was something so touching 'in
the voice of the Indian-her attitude,
as she cast her arms round the form of
the second female; was so beseeching,
as made it doubtful whether her interest
was relationship on her part, or the ex-
quisite beauty of the object before whom
she was seated.
The soft black eye, rolling languidly
under its long silken lashes, and repos-
ing oi the Indian, gave her the air of
an ethereal being.
This beautiful female was, in fact,
Rosa, whom we have seen,' seven years
ago, carried away by the Indian chief.
She looked on her red friend'with an
air of the gentlest tenderness-a tear
stole into her eyes-and, bending her
head, she' pressed a kiss on' the lips of
the Indian maiden.
"Why has the White15tlsgo tongue?"
resumed the Indian in the same touch-
ing tone. "Look! Canondah's bosom
is now open for the woes of the White
Rose."
"Dear Canondah," lisped the fair
being, throwing her arms round the
neck of the Indian.
"0. tell Canondah," prayed the In-
dian, "what it is that afflicts your ten-
der. heart?" then changing on a sudden
into a plaintive tone-"Look," she ex-
claimed, "these arms have carried the
White Rose when ohe was very little-
on these shoulders she hung when we
crossed the big river. On this bosom she
nestled like a water fowl. And now she
is grown big, and has become the White
Rose of the Oconees, she will shut her
heart. 0, tell Canondah, what it is that
heaves your bosom, and makes you pale
and trembling ?"
Rosa-for by this name we shall now
call her-looked at her friend for a mo-
mnt; she then whispered, as if afraid

'II .!

N'

'3 i Si
-     °r
t
t:=r}l
,   '",x
F'     r =;
rt
9j       .
C    ;~'
J      k
f    S
ti's
S
'
1
[
'     4
i tF
3
.t  ,
i
f'
{f     ;

1         }$

,
4
l
t
t
I
t
i
t
}
}
s
t


ROSA, TIE INDIAN CAPTiVE.

il           IOSA, TIIE IDIAN CAPTIVE.

of being overheard-"'There is," point-
ing at her breast, "one thing, that I
cannot tell, which fills my heart with
paii and woe."
"Is it the great chief of theSalt Lake,
Ro-a, Wih lt)causes 011r sorrow'
Rsa grew pile, she stepped back,
and covered her face with her hands.
The Indian sprang from the ground,
and throwing her arm round her friend,
borh walked on in silence.
Theystood now on the verge of the
cane brake.
"Saud is the path of an Oconee girl !"
broke out the Indian after a long pause
-but li-ten !" exclaimed she, turning
her cear towards the stream, from whence
a f sint, distant, rustling noise was now
heard-' iWhat is that t"
",, nothing," returned Rosa.
The noise, though faint, was now- dis-
ime° ly heard.
'"Canondah !" exclaimed Rosa, " you
will not hunt the great water serpent?"
But her words were in vain.
The Indian darted, with the swiftness
of a deer, through the dense canebrake,
and nothing remained for her compan-
ion bun to follow the crashing sounds
that pointed out to her the direction in
which she had broken through.
While she wound herself through the
mazes of the reeds, a piercing shriek
was heard; but it was not the voice of
Canoundah. A plunge succeeded, f 4-
lowed by a short, violent struggle; then
a deep silence ensued.
Rosa now followed, breathless, to-
wards the stream.   After a toilsome
march, she at last reached the edge of
the bank, and her eye soughther Indian
friend.
"Rosa !" exclaimed the Indian, who
stood in tihe shallow water.
"Cauoudah !" said Rosa ; but the In-
dian pointed towards a cypress tree that
StOoi below the bank.
"The white youth I" demanded Rosa,
inqut ingly.r
'fTe Indian laid -her finger signifi-
cantly on her-mouth, washed the blood
from her hands, wiped the knife, and
ste ypd towards the tre. Bending the
birao es asuuder with her left hand,
.she eend cu1(lItthe pabt of her right in
token of iriendhip, and pointed to-
ai  t he bank, to which she led the
'the foliage of the cypress now opened
suit-ny, and a young white man ap-
pea I, aovig slowly towards the
water's edge.

"how came he here ?" asked Rosa, in
a low whisper, with her eyes riveted on
the stranger.
The Indiam punted to a yawl in-the
palmettos, and which the younrg-man
had evidently tried to toree through the,
reeds.
He had now nearly reached-the shore,
when he became exhausted. He stag-
gered, the reed yielded to the weight,
and he was on the point of sinking,
when he was caught by the Indian and
drawn towards the bank, against which
she leaned him.
The cause of the stranger's weakness
now appeared. The jaws of an alligator
had seized the might leg, and the blood
gushed froan a fearful wound.
Tie Indian had no sooner remarked
it, than she hastened to the side of
Rosa, and untying the silk handkerchief
from Roa's neck, with the words -
"Your white brother is bitten, and you
see Canondah has but her gown," ran
with it in her mouth towards a patina-
christi. She broke the -tem across her
knee, and loosened the soft rind that lay
under the bark. She then got down by
the side of the stranger, staunched the
blood with the soft. fibres, and tied the
silk handkerchief round it.
rley now laid him on the ground.
His eyes were closed, and his hands
hung down on both sides.
lIe seemed on the point of dissolu-
tion.
Rosa had stood:gazing in silence--
then lifting up her hand in a supplicat-
ing manner, she looked at the Indian.
11cr friend seemed to comprehend the
silent language; for, casting a tong and
anxious glance at the stranger, she cx-
claimed-
"Your white brother is come in the
canoe of the great chief, but he is none
of his warriors!"
"He is, perhaps, a sailor."
"No," said the Indian-"look at his
hands--they look like a girl's."
"Perhaps a runner ?" said Rosa.
The Indian shook her head. "Look!
he came from the salt lake through the
big lake that dinuks the water of our
stream ; bat he does not know how to
paddle a canoe through the high grass.
He thought the serpent was a rotten
log, and he trod on it, aid it has buiied
its teeth in his flesh. Your white brother
has fled Iroim the great chief." She said
these words with great decision and
tinmness, as though she had been the
stranger's companion.

"And, will Canondab cause the blood
of a brother to be shed, who has never
done any harm to her ?" said Rosa, in
a beseeching tone.
The Indian looked at her friend, and
paused a moment.
At length she said-
"Well, Canondah will listen to the
voice of her sister that speaks for the
white youth.".
So saying, both girls tripped away,
-and penetrated farther into the forest,
towards the trunk of an immense holy
low cotton tree that stood *on the slop-
ing ground.
rfbe interior of the hollow tree was
wide enough to admit of six men. The
care which had been taken to clear it
from the rubbish, and a neighboring
salt lick, showed that it was used by the
Indians for their nightly walks -
Canondahi approached the tree with a
wary step, and entered it in the same
cautions manner.
"It is empty," said she, "and the
bears won't come !"
. Both girls now ran towards a couple
of cypresses that stood farther towards
the bottom, found the salt-lick, and
tearing the long floating mazes of Span-
ish muss from the trees, collected a load
that promised a soft couch, with which
they hastened towards the cave.
While Rosa was spreading the horse-
hair like plant on the ground,the Iudian
moved two logs near to the entrance, to
secure the passage against unwelcome
intruders.
"Good!" said she, when these prepa-
ratories 'were fiished; and poth girls
returned to the stranger.
"But he is very weak," said Rosa,
"and cannot walk."
"We must carry him !" replied the'
Indian.
Rosa blushed deeply.
But the Indian, without paying any
further attention to her delicate feelings,
bowed down, and putting her right
hand between the turf and his limbs,
made her companion a sign.
"Is Rosa afraid of touching her white
brother, when the walk will cause him
so much pain ' she said, with mild re-
proach.
The maiden now dropped her arm;.
and both raised him on their clasped
hands, supporting his back in the same
manner, Thus they carried him to his
couch. When they had laid him down,
the indian whispered-
"Canondah will be here when all is

dark, and pour balsam into the wound
of her white brother !"
But her wOrdsvere lost; for, except
a heavy breatlh,the stranger gave hardly
a sign of life.
The last rays of the setting sun had
just touched the hills, when the girls
arrived again on the spot where they
had gathered the grapes ; and theyre-
turned the same way which they came,
towards their wigwams, to which we
shall introduce our readers, anticipat-
ing, however, their arrival by a few
hours.
CHAPTER III.
The iivdhli E'awint.
Notfar from the scene of our adven-
trie there was a considerable clearing,
which ran for two miles along the river,
stretching half a mile from its margin
towards the forest, 'when the level plain
sloped gently into the cypress bottom.
On a near approach, gray blue smoke
might be seen curling through the mel-
low foliage ; and here and there a single
cabin, nestling beneath a broad syca-
more, and surrounded by patches of
Indian corn and tobacco; and a dusky
form stealing through the shrubs in that
wary manner which long habit renders
natural to tie red race, indicated an
Indian village. These outposts passed,
the number of dwellings increased, and
might amount to about fifty.
Mo-t of the cabins were without win-
dows. In lieu of the door hung a buffalo
hide, fastened on the door beams, and
flung, during day time, on the low roof
of the cabin.
There were, however; two cabins, or
rather cottages, of a lar-ger size. Both
nestledhlik the rest, under a cotton
tree.
In front of one of those larger cabins,
under a grove of palm trees and man-
gtoves, sat a knot of about fifty men,
enveloped in a column of dense smoke,
that proceeded from pipes two or three
feet in length.
They were almost all of them dressed
iii hunting shirts of cotton, their chests
bare, with their girdles of wampum, to
which their breech-cloth was attached
by a thong around their shoulders, and
their tobacco pouches hung. They wore
their hair, and none had a scalping,
tuft.
Themeetingseemed-merely occasion-

t
}
i-
j'
1r
t  .
} 3 f
I
'f 6;
E
ut i
i t'
9

I iP j

7 7 / ,
'/


16                  ROSA, THE I'DIAN CAPTIVE.
al, and of a private character. The in ten summers they wilt wind their
men, however, sat according to their folds.around the trees, and grasp then
rank, the inner space beipg occupied by with their treacherous limbs, and stifle
the elder members; whire the younger their growth. So the white man will
formed the second and third ring.   become as numerous as the vines, and
In the midst of this group sat an old ,as the birds that gut the air with their
man, whose superior rank was evident, wings. Thus has the miko of the Oco-
from his commanding attitude, and the nees spoken. He has sent his runners
deference with which he was treated by to the great T cumseh, to brighten the
the warriors.                       link between he two people ; his run-
This person's frame consisted almost ners have smoked the' pipe of peace
wholly of skin and bones ; a d the with the chief, and lie has promised to
softer part of his body apparently were strike a blow when the Creeks shall
dried up, leaving nothing but veins and raise the warwhoop. But the red men
sinews.                             of the people of the Creekus and the Mus-
There was an air of proud, stoic, men- cogees have shut their eyes and ears.
tal suffering in the miko of the Oconees, fhey have looked at Tokeah as one who
on whom years of expatriation and the would sow seeds between them and the
fall of his unfortunate race had worked white people. Yes," said the chief, with
such a change. His head was sunk on emphasis, after a pause, "Tokeah want-
his breast, and he was absorbed in deep ed to sow seeds-to break the link which
thought.                            has not tied, but fettered, the red men
"Then our people have lost all their to the white. But the Creeks looked at
lands," said an old Indian in the inner the miko as a traitor; and the false
circle,                             tongue of red men, who liked the flre-
The individual whom we have do- water of the whites better than their
scribed, paused a moment, and, without brethren, has betrayed his tak to the
changing his attitude, replied, in a low, white father, and Tokeah had to turn
guttural tone, and with a dignity which his back on the land of his fathers, that
seemed to exclude every doubt-      he might not be given up to the enemies
"Au elk may run three times over of his race. The Great Spirit has made
their lands between the rising and set- the red men blind, that they could not
ting of the sun !"                  see their brother and the son of the mi-
The Indian who had started the ex- kos of the Oconees from their enemies.
planation, uttered a very deep, plaintive Yes, they have suffered them to grow
howl; then, lighting his pipe, and rest- and to spread over their lands; and
lug the bowl on the ground, soon en- when their enemies had become as nu-
veloped himself in a cloud of smoke. merous as the buffaloes on the hunting
"And the holy ground has been dyed grounds of the great Cumanchees, then
with the blood of the red man ?" now  they raised their wharwhoop; and -
demanded another of the dark tribe, were broken and struck down"
"The graves of the slain red men are A low, plaintive moaning ran through
twenty times as numerous as the men the crclo- -none, however, dared to in-
of, the Oconees whom my eyes behold," terrupt the speaker.
returned the chief, in the same mourn-  "Their white bones," continued he,
ful trine. "Their bodies were strewed "are now cove'ecl with earth, and their
on the ground like the leaves of the blood is no longer to be seen  their
tree=, and the long knife or the rifles of land are no more their own; the canoes
the white men were stained deep in of the white men paddle on thei  rivems;
blood. The Ceeks will never face their their horses run on broad roads through
enemies again. But," added he; and he the country ; their traders have over -
now raised his head, his keen, dark eye run it. What the gun and the big kiiire
assuming a bright glance, and his fea  of the white man have not destroyed,
tures a [ttiy expression-" t'okeah fore' his forked tongue, his tire-water will lo.
told It to his brethren, whe he spoke Tokeah has seen the holy ground, tand
seven summers ugo to them. 'Look," the burnt villages of his people. lie
said he, "the white men are now few in has seen, too, his brethren lying before
numt'er, and their strength is that of the the houses with painted signs. like hogs,
vines uhat grow on our trees. A single their guns and tomahawks besmueared
stroke ot the tomahawk may cat the with mud, themselves the scorn of the
feeble weeds, and free the tall trees from white men."
these that spread over our binds. Biut A deep groan escaped his listeners.

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

"The woods, where Tokeah has once
hunted as a chief, as a mighty miko, he
has beheld again like a thief, when the.
sun was down-he' has seen his people,
which was the flower of the red men,
weltering in the mud."
When he had spoken these last words,
his head sank again into his hands.
A deep pause ensued.
"And has the great mike riot talked
to his brethren ?" demanded now the
same old man.
The chief raised his head, and looked
at the speaker with a calm dignity.
"Has gay brother forgotten that the
red men of his people have cut asunder
the link which tied him to them, that
he had to fly from the land of his fa-
thers. A fool will talk twice. His
brethren have shut their ears seven sum-
mers ago, when it was time to strike the
blow; but his tongue was tied fast,
when he saw his father's grave the last
time-his heart was with his true men."
"Before long," continued he, "the
Creeks will be turned out of their own
lands; they will drive them after the
elks and deer that have sought the
woods beyond the big river, and the
Creeks will seek a police .for their wig-
wams on this side of the big river. Then
will Tokeah extend his hands to receive
them-he will open his wigwam. His
men have plenty of venison and corn,
and his girls know how to weave hunt-
ing shirts-he will divide with his men
what he has, and join the link which is
now broken."
A loud, but respectful burst of ap-
plause followed the last words of the
chief, who again laid his head between
his hands.
The sun now sank amidst a flood of
glory, mantling the hill, which was sur-
rounded on every side by a thousand
glorious dyes, reflected from the various
tints of the foliage.
The miko cast a last, long glance at
 theligesug rays as they laded away ;
and then moving his feetforwads, rose
en the ground, slowly and 'maaj "tieally,
with  the assistance of his hands.
His rising vas a signal for the rest,
who, reaming themselves up in the same
nanner, seemed for a moment as if they.
were growing out of the earth.
The elief now, stalked towards the
large cabin, and alter having entered it,
there sae duOAe-
The interior of the cottage was very
simple, but extremely inviting. It con-
sisted of two apartments - separated

"from each by two folds of carpet. Both
had glazed windows, and the floor and
walls were matted.
A long table stood near one end of the
apartment, and the nicety of the ar-
rangement of the simple furniture, be.
trayed the tasteful hand of a female. On
one side of the wall hung a costly rifle of
American manufacture, next to a fowl-
ing piece, and then a beautiful double-
barrelled gun from Versailles. On the
opposite side were placed the various
implements of Indian warfare-quivers
of deer and alligator skin, bows, scalp-
ing knives and tomahawks.
In the midst of these weapons, hung
a bag curiously worked in wampum,
containing probably the arcana of mys-
tic medicine,which the descendant of the
inikos had inherited from his ancestors;
and to which, perhaps, he owed his au-
thority over his tribe, as much as to his
distinguished qualities as a warrior and
hunter.
. The twilight, so short in these regions,
had settled into obscure darkness, when
two female forms entered $the apart-
ment.
"My children have stayed long," said
the old man, without looking up.
"They have gathered the grape, which
my father likes so well," returned one
of the females.
"Good !'' was the answer.
Canondah-for it was she who had re-
turned with Rosa-now took an earthen
vase, and put some of the grapes in it;
then placing a dish with dried venison
and parched maize on the table, she
filled an earthen mug and handed it to
her father. C
The Indian drank, and put it on the
table, then cut a few thin slices from
the dried haunch, and took a handful of
parched corn.
Hi repast vas as short as the prepa-
parat ons were, and scarcely a minute
had elapsed, ' when the dishes were're-
moved.
"Are not, my children hungry ?" de'
manded he, after he had fiuished his
repast.
"They have eaten of the grape."
"Godt'!" said the old man, reclining
again his head upon his hands.
The girlihad no sooner observed this
movement, than she glided forward and
si'iking down before the chief, she fold-
ed her arms on.lher bosom. He laid his
hands on both her shoulders, as if oless-
,ug. her.
As soon as she felt the touch, she ut-

.,    ,
9
'   #
',-
 ,
*
,  ti   S
,
,Y
4=S    y la
ri        #
'Y    A+
t
5
1          '
t22yy== !)
tAYN

I'

17


EOSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

terec a deep, melodious humming, not stranger gave her strength. Iappily,
unlike the gurgling of a brook.     the sounds of the united voices of father
Gradually the sounds . grew louder, and daughter drowned theslight noise;
and lowered to a soft, guttural bass, then and the room  being completely dark,
they rose, and warbled into the wild, she stole through it without being ob-
uimpassioned notes of her tribes.   served.
As the girl proceeded in her extei- rIei village was buried in profound
pore song, her ardcr seemed to cofnm- sleep. Not a human beig wasto be
iicate to tho chief. lie bent down to seen.,
tue singer, and his voice joined hers in  Rosa stopped a moment, uncertain
its usual low, guttural toue.       whether to take the nearest path through
On a sudden, the maideu paused, and the village, or the more circuitous way
raised her voice ; she demanded t e through the forest.-
maning of the wailings of her father.  At last she darted forward like a
"Why," sang she, "is my father, wpil- frightened fawn..
ing   The uniko is far from lhis native  ,he ran swiftly, and it was not many
laidl-far froim the graves of hisfathers. minutes before she arrived at the en-
r;ut the Great Spirit is niear him, his trance of the cave, breathless and ex
#loud hovers over hin and covers him, lasted.
that his white eneies may not see hiu,  She again hesitated a moment - her
tl he shall i;C iin his anger."    natural delicacy revolted, but it was
"My daugh tte" si(l the old man. only a moment.
"has forget ten to Sing the praise of the  " i'he youth is cold, sick and hungry,".
gret cliic'fr of the Cumauche'es."  5i(1 she to herself, and, removing two
S!he wil wiper it into his; ears logs froi the entrance, she stepped very
wlili lie shall be in the wigwam of her 'lightly in.
tIUber' "The stranger was asleep. She cowered
'Gol !" said the chief.         down, and raised the moss with which
"and hs the White REoe no tongue he was covered. The silk handkerchief
to slg tie song of the Oconees ?" si was still wet with oozing gore, and she
he afwr a while.                    had no diffi ulty in loosening the ban-
Suonai tur ucl round in the dark dage. A few drops of the healing .bal-
ala:rtmuelit-she felt with her hdnd in sam produced a startling cry.
Search of her feend, but she felt in vain  "For heaven's sake be silent.! For
-the White Rose was nut in the apart- the trees have cas, and the wind is
meat,                               blowing iroia below. It is I-it is Ca-
"She is under thu big tree," said she, noiidoah !" whispered she, with a voice
moving slo wly and with a heavy heart whose trembling sound contradicted her
towards the door in quest of her.   words.
W hen Rosa had entered wth Canon-   "it' is Canondah," said she, once more
dal into the alairtment, she retired to pouing a few crops of ibat  minto the
the fbi'] which separated broth roomat-___' oitldShe icov'ereti it with soft ban-
there she stood watching, with a ujirob- ages, and tied it fast. " And there is
ing heart-, the moment when the chief the juice of the grape; here are eggs
bhonld have  m   ennis hed l eil, a cefd trom the water birds, and venison ; and
hi usld hasi fortheis etirngit.e  th is will keep you warm," said she, now
ha usual sg frtei ei eet.          cvrighm.vS'      tebane.
As Canondah, however, sank on herz covering him witthe blanket.
knees, and the  vell-known sounds of   ' Then, gliding swiftly through the
the night song began to rise, her heart opeiiog, sue, secured it, and fled'home-
aulost sickened with impatience and wards. But the nearer she cime to the
disappointment.                    cottage, 'the slower was her pace. She
She had. scarcely caught the first notes had reached the avenue, whenher eye;
when she stole through the folds into Ianight the dir form of her friend.
her little room,. threw off her rustling  " Rosa, " muttered the Indian girl,
tn robe, and slipped on a light utslin "what have you done 9 the mike has in-
ri em; then, taking a blanket iromm tHih  (uired 10r you."
beach, she threw it over a little basket  "Here," said the maiden, breathless,
a d glided forward into the first room. handing her fiend the vial ; and both
fei' heart hgat almost aloud, her knees entered the cottage.
smioue together, as she laid her hands on  "Tmhie White Rose," said the old man,
tae mysteiious bag of wampum ; but a "hare lost the blood fronm her cheeks-
.oet's thought n the wound of the since the last t wo moons, her eyes are

ROSA, TIE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

filed with water. But the great chief
of the Salt Lake will dry it."
An involuntary sigh escaped the fair
maiden - she began to weep and sob:
aloud._
'The White Rose," said the chief, in
the same told and steady toie' "will
be the wife of a great warrior, who will
fill her wigwam with the spoils taken
from her enemies. Her hands will never
do work, and will be envied by all the
squaws."
When he had spoken these words, he
raised his legs on the low couch, and,
shrouding himself in, his blanket, and
lying down, soon fell asleep.
Canondah seized th~e hand of the fair
girl, and drawing .her into their room,
laid her inger on her mouth ; then lead-
ing her to her couch, she pressed her
gently down.
Rosa seemed to understand the mean-
ing of the Judian girl, and was silent,
But it was in vain she closed her eyes-
the pale, sufbring form of the stranger
stood before it. There was a storm ris-
ing inher guileless heart that seemed to
banish all rest.
Minute after minute passed, hour after'
hour, and still, she could not sleep. At
last a stir in te front room announce
that their chief was awake.
Canondah sprang up from .her couch,
and, as if aware of Rosa's restlessness,
she stepped lose up to her, once more
laid her finger on her lips, and then has-
tened into her father's room.
The chief's preparations for the en-
suing hunt were soon finished, He east
a pouch full of tobacco and shot, and a
large powder-horn round his shoulders;
and putting his long knife in his girdle,
took up his double -barrelled gun. One
of the young men cameto.carry the'bow
and quiver with a bag filled with pro-
visions.
When the old man stepped out-into
the avenue, he found the whole band of
his warriors and hunters alreadyassem-
bled.
They had assembled from their cabins
in the same silent manner, and they
glided now behind their chief towards
the bank of the river, and into their
canoes, with a stealth which had some-
thing appalling-startling.
They have gone,"' said Canondah,
who had accompanied the train to the
water's edge, and again returned.
"Then let us hasten to the youth I"
said Rosa-
"The White Rose," said the Indian,

19

'in a mild but serious tone, "must sleep,
or her pale tiae° will betray, when the
sun rises, what is buried in her bosom.
My red sisters are yery subtle, and their
eyes are wide open. They would find
the trail of their sister. A girl could
now run after the.miko. Canondah will
look to the 'stranger, but her sister must
sleep!"
So saying, Canondah pressed the fair
maiden gently on her couch, and disap-
peared behind the folds.
Whether the tender language of her
friend, whose faithfulness and sisterly
love she knew, or her weariness con-
tributed more to enforce this command,
we are not able to determine. Sh,'how-
ever, soon sank into a profound repose.
CHAPTER IV.
TVhw o mded Yo©u17 _
The morning scarcely began to dawn,
when 'the, dusky forms of the squaws
and of their :daughters were seen hob-
bling and gliding towards the spot where
their men and fathers. had embarked a
few hours before.
Canondah tripped towards herfather's
cottage. She found Rosa still sleeping.
A tender smile played round the beau-
tiful mouth --her finely modelled lips
moved and whispered.
Canondah 'ent - over the enchanting
form, and could nOt resist pressing a kiss
on her lips..
The maiden opened her eyes, and see-
ing her friend,.she whispered-
"Canondah, I had a dream. I saw
him. gHe stood in a deep, deep valley,
and he stretched his hand out for me,
and I raised hii. Have you soon him?
And is he not more sick? And does he
not look pale and tremble with cold ?
And has he catch of the fruits and drunk
of the wine t"
"Rosa," returned the Indian' with an
arch smile, "has not talked so much
these twenty suns. The youth is under
the big tree."
"But how came be there'? You did
nps let him walk o"
"The, shoulders of Canondah have
borne him."
"And the trail that we have left, and
the big serpent, and the broken cane,"
said the charming maiden, blushing in
girlish confusion at the innocent cheat
which she was playing upon her Indian
friends.

,
s 'i
' t
i
t
, .
a

ri

18s


ROSA, Ti 9 1 IA APTPTR

SOSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

The Indian,whose additional six years
had doubtless rendered her more. expe-,
rienced in those little stratagems, one of
which her friend seemed willing to prac-
tise, broke out into a loud fit of merry
laugh hter.
"B t, Canondah," said she, "how you
delight to torment poor Rosa !"
"Look there," said the Indian, "how
the White Rose has turned a cheat in,
onenight-sre will tell her sister of the
trail and broken cane.,Sie cares no
mote about them than the mike for his
beads, while her heart thinks on he
-white youth.  ,anondi will whip her
White Rose for it. But come," added
she, handing her a dress of somewhat
coarser materials than that she wsre
the day pre vious--"Rosa must take this,
and cheat the squaws too !"
T he maiden slipped, with a sigh, into
the caieo gown, flung a silk handker-
chief over her bosom, and tripped be-
fohe tie cabin, where a clear spring was
bubbling. In a few moments she was
again at the side of the Indian, who
pointed to the table where their break-
fast was standing- two baskets with
grapes and cakes of Indian corn, and a
cup filled with milk.
Rousa waited in silence for the moment
when the Indian would open the con-
versation, casting only now and then a
shy glance at her; but the dogged girl
remained obstinate, and she glided si-
lently through the door as soon as she
had done eating.
Rosa sat down to her little work-table
with a sigh, to busy herself over a gown
which she intended for Canondah's bri-
dal dress,
Perhaps three hours might have
elapsed, when the Indian returned, a
smile of satisfaction played over her
countenance, 'and, taking Rosa's liondi,
she drew the maiden afterer towards
the bank of the stream, and the harbor
where the women and girls were assem-
'led around the canoe, waiting only for
the daughter of their chief.
"Rosa is very timid," said, she, turn-
ing towards the woman -" she cannot
go along ." and the three girls bounded
with a single leap into the bark that
floated as light as afeather on the beau-
tiful stream. A shout of joy burst tromn
the lips of the multitude.
Canondah waved her hand gracefully,
and szed the paddle. The canoe dart-
ed a short distance up the stream, turn-
ed sulhienil down, again they lew up,
nal ageim glided down the treat.

All at once a sudden, piercing cry was
beard from the direction in which the
canoe had shot along.
For a moment, the women, girls and
boys stood still, aund the next tlbey scam
pered and hobbled away on the path
along time cane-brake, and in the direc-
tion where woleft the stranger.
Rosa grew pale, and she turned, with
a faltering step, towards the well-known
path, following the multitude with a
pamiting.heart.
She had a guess of the device of her
friend, but dawning love is anxious, and.
Rosa began to feel its symptoms.
When sh 'arrived near the cotton
tree, the last of the train, she found
squaws, girls and boys collected round
the stranger, a sullen and wondering
group.-
A hollow murmur rolled ,round the
dark circle-in the midst of, and only -a
few paces from, the 'youth, :Canondah
was standing.
The youth leaned on the trunk of the
tree with his eyes closed, insensible to
what passed around humn.
"Look !" said the Indian, waving her
hand to the squaws,'who now upend
the ring, and speaking with that asst-
rance which marked all her doings and
sayings-" Look,! the'great chief of the
Salt Lake hassent a ruuner' in his ca-
nes, anti he has been bitten by the ser-
pent of the water."
She spo'ke these words with so- much
unconcern, that the .assembled crowd of
squaws and girls had not the least sus-
picion of any deception practised upon
them.
Sene of the old squaws were seen
creeping towards the cane-brake ; but
Canondab left them no furthei- scrutiny.
Waving her hand, she directed some of
the girls to prepare a litter.
They obeyed instantly-cut two sap-
lings down, laid stems of cane across,
and covered them'with'tallimndsea. To
this couch the youth could be safely
trusted, and the female commander once
more waved her hand, and, putting the
train under the superintendence of Rosa,
she darted with her two companions
again through the cane-brake.
The group moved slowly afd in si-
lence towards the village, where they
found Canondah, who had returned in
the birchen canoe, already waiting. She
preceded them to the cottageof her fa-
tier. She opened the door, and point-
inig to th bench, the bearrs laid the

ounded stranger down. The crowd
remained outside
"Rosa past stay here, while Canon-
dahis tal ing with the squaws." And.
so saving she slided out into the aye-
nue, with an air which seemed to soften
a little her father's austerity.
The maiden sat down on the bench,
anxiously looking at the youth, who lay
deadly pale,. and shaking badly with the.
symptoms .of a wound fever, that had
increased-during his. exposure to the
damp night air.
Canoudoh again entered at the door,
through which, after some minutes, she
was followed by an old squaw, who cat-
nid a bundle of dry herbs in her hand.
Thehidepusarepresentative o scula-
plus,-for such was her capaci y, hobbled
towards the youth, made a deep examni-'
nation, and again trotted off.
"To-morrow the cold will be' gone,"
said Canondaih; "hut we must not pour
more balsam into his wound."
The old squaw came again with aket-
tie that contained a decoetion of herbs.
She poured part of it into a mug; and,
while Canondah raised the patient, she
presented it to him...
He opened his. dim, almost sunken
eyes, but shut them again, and suffered
the old squaw to pour the drug into his
mouth.
Soon after he had taken the draught,
drops of perspiration began to appear
on his forehead.
Making a significant gesture with her
hand, the old squaw shrunk out of the
room.
The female council seemed to have
left on the countenance of Canondah a
sternness that caused poor Rosa a slight
tremor, when the Indian girl seized her
hand and led her into the inner apart-
ment.       -
"Rosa," said the Indian, when they
were seated on the couch in their little
room, "Canonlah lhan cheated the eyes
of the squaws of her people, that she
may lighten the smile of joy on the fair
cheeks of her sister."
She paused.
After a little, the Indian girl again
epoke-.
"She has taken the enemy of her peo-
ple and of the chief of the Salt Lake
into the wigwam of her. father - the
spy!"
"0, no, Canondah I" exclaimed Rosa ;
"look only into the face of my brother.
Does he look as if his tongue was false0

Does he look like an enemy of his own
people l"
"My sister is very young, and does
not know the enemy of the white peo-
pie. They send their young men into
the villages of the red people to count
their cattle, and. their corn fields, and
their skins;-and when they return, they
show their brethi-eu the path that leads
to the red villages, and they come and
take all from them, and drive them into
the woods."
"And does mysister think," returned
Rosa, timidly, "that the youth is one of
the spies'!".
Th1eiesIndian shook her head doubt-
fuly.
"Does he not speak with their tongue?
Look, my sister," added1)sheafter a mo
ment's reflection, "Canondak has ex-
tended her hand in- friendship. towards
the stranger, when she saw that the
heart of the White Rose yearned 'after
him; but she has not acted like the
daughter of the- great miko-she has
put the night-between him and tJi miko
--and now she takes Jhim into her fa-
ther's wigwam when he has left it !"
"But he would have died of his fear-
ful wounds in the woods. Look 'how
he trembles with cold ! rIfhe fever, too,
shakes his limbs ! The morning and the
night air is very cold, and the fogs are
wet P"
"And the miko," said the Indian, "he
will not clenchbbis fistagainst a brot her,
to whom his daughter has extended her
hand ; but when his daughter has-been
a fool, and has'extended her hand to an
enemy of her people, will the face of the
iikd not darken on the girls ?"
"Must he kndw of the stranger?
whispered Rosa, hesitatingly, as'if afraid
of giving utterance to her words.
A light smile of scorn. passed across
the countenance of theIndian girl.,-
"The miko of the Oconees;" said she,
with a touch of pride, "will scent the
air of a white man ton suns after, hehas
breathed it; and he wiU see theprint
of his feet twenty suns after hehias left
it in the grass. Canondah may cheat
the squaws, but she cannot cheat the
mike. , And will the squaws not tell this
to the warriors and hunters what their
eyes have seen ? And will the warriors
- ot whisper into the ears of the mike
And shall the daughter of Tokeah stand
before her father like 'a liart NO," said
she, "Canondah loves the White Rose
j very mnch, but she would not cheat her

3
,
4
i.
- )7i
ti   .
sS  '
.
i  ,
+;t  }
.
r
,  ,
s
r
i
;
s.
,
.
'
,,,
4i
it
'''t t
t  .t
,j   t
1'
'(_

',I'

'I4

1
a ,
i'
3 +r


ROSA.:TEE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

father. If the youth be a scout of the
white men, her father will see.'
"And m.' brother 1" said Rosa, trem-
bling.
"Will learn to die," said the girl, with
a firm, decided tone. "But the youth is
hungry, and Canondah must cook for
him."
Rosa now followed the Indian with a
trembling heart.
Five hours had passed, and the moon
stood high, when a light stir from the
patient told that he was waking.
The girls hastened now, to put those
refreshments before their guest which
the skilful hand of Canondah had pre-
pared during his sleep.
When he had finished his light repast,
Canondali laid him again softly on his
cushion.
And, casting her arm around Rosa,
drew her towards their little room.
But Rosa,as soon as she perceived the
first symptom's of Canondah's sleep,
rose softly from her couch, and stole
through the curtain to the feet-of her
white brother.
CHAPTER V.
The Indian Maiden and the Stranger.
The extraordinary skill which the
Indians possess in curing flesh wounds
and fevers, appeared strikingly in our
youth when he awoke next morning.
He felt himself sufficiently strong to.rise
into a sitting posture. While doing so,
the two girls entered.
'Good morning, my sister," said he,
with a voice still faint.
The compliment was returned in si-
lence.
The Indian glanced at him, as if to
inquire into the state of his health, and
stepped close before him.
"My white brother," said she, after a
pause. "is come in the canoe of the great
chief of the Salt Lake-has he lived in
bis wigwam, and smoked the pipe of
peace with him'
The meaning of the Indian, though
expressed in her figurative style, and
broken, guttural English, could not be
mistaken.
"Chief of the Salt Lake! You do not
mean the pirate of Barataria ?"
He did not pronounce the last word,
but looked at the Indian, whose eye was
rivetted on him with a calm, scrutinising
expression. .

"Where am I?" exclaimed he now, in
a tone whose hollow sound betrayed the
fearful agitation of his mind.
"Fear nothing, my brother," lisped
Rosa, whose tender heart could not bear
the struggle fhat manifested itself on
the face of the youth. "The daughter
of the miko has extended her hand in
friendship-my brother is safe !"
There was a tenderness in the tone of
her voice,.a delicacy in her movements
as she crossed her beautiful hands be-
fore her bosom, that chased away the
clouds from his brow.
As the youth looked up to the lovely
beig who thus encouraged him, the ex-
pressioi of his countenance changed into
that of surprise-till' his eye became,
to use an Indian term, "wide open with
wonder and admiration."
But the fierce little Indian left him no
time'for admiration-she seemed to have
laid aside all her softer feelings.
"My brother is very young,"-resumed
she, "to go on the war-path against the
great chief of the Salt Lake. He must
first learn to hunt the deer and buffalo,
and to strike the big water-serpent, be-
fore he fights his enemies, or the girls of
of his people will weep over their fallen
brother."
There was an air of pity, mingled
with contempt, that raised a transient
blush on his cheek. He glanced at the
speaker, as if to inquire into the rela-
tion in which she stood with the dread-
ed pirate ; but her calm, immovable
features 'gave no clue to any conclu--
sion.
"And why do you suppose your bro-
ther," said he, adopting the saine ap-
pellation, "has been on the war-path
against the great chief, as you call the
pirate P"
"Look !" returned the Indian ; "when
the red men go on the war-path against
their enemies, they strike the warriors
and chiefs of their foes-'either dead on
the spot, or they catch them, to show
them to their young men and their girls;
but then they watch them, that, they
may not run away from them. But my
young white brother is none of the war-
riors or chiefs-his hands are very ten-
der, and have never raised a tomahawk.
The great chief has caught him with
the boys and girls of his people, and
sent him to his village. The chief of
the Salt Lake is very great, and strikes
men, but he cares not for women or
girls !"
When she had uttered this tauntim

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE, -

speech, she watched his face keetily, as
if to read the impression. her words had
made.
Rose's eyes were rivetted on the stran-
er, and her countenance betrayed in-
tense anxiety.
The youth, seeming to find gradually
the key to the heart of his fierce little
antagonist, replied-
"Does a great chief strike, people who
have no arms, or does' he rob women,
when.they are' on their 'way to see their
mother?   Only cowards do that -the
brave warriors strike only men 1"
The manner'in which he uttered' these
words raised the interest of the Indian
girl.
"And has my white brother then been
among tQose who went on the war-path
against the chief of the Salt Lake? Ias
he not been caught with his weapons ?
Then he has been caught as a spy,.as, a
scout, for he-speaks with the tongue of
the enemies of the red people, and of the
great chief-or does my brother talk
with a double tongue?"
"You do your -brother injustice," said
the youth, with some embarrassment ;
"he is neither a spy, nor is he on the
wara-path against the great chief. He
was on his way to see his mother. Has
my sister never heard of a great people
beyond the Salt Lakes whose big canoes
cover the sea? See ! your brother is
one of these , people -i he came many
thousand miles across the big lake-he is
from England."
"England !" muttered the Indian girl
whose geographical'knowledge was.rather
limited, as may be supposed-"then my
brother. is none of the people who are
the eneaftes of the red men; and not on
the war-path against the chief- he did
not cone as a'spy ?"
"Certainly not."
The Indian paused thoughtfully.
"My way," continued he, ."lies far ofi
frort that of the pirate, but he crossed
my path, and took us, the friendsof'your
people, prisoners. See, my sister," added
he, after a short pause, "I have escaped
from the strong hold of the pirate, bu
it was not my intention to conic to your
village. A strong wind drove my boa
into the mouth of the lake, from which
ascended the river on which your village~

is situated, not knowing whither I was
going. My waylay towards the mouth
of the Iississippi, to the white people-
I sought them, though they are atwar'
with my own people-yet they -would
have given me a big canoe to return to
my home!".
"The white people," said the Indian,
with fiercenss- "they would have killed
you !"
"No, my sister."
The Indian shook her head incredu-
lously.
"My brother makes a fool of Canon-
dah," she said.
Rosa had stood a silent and attentive
listener.' She -now touched the indian
lightly,.and whispered to her.
"My brother speaks true," said she.;
"he is welcome."
"Where is your father r" demanded
the Englishman-"you are not yet mar-
ried ?"
"The miko is gone with-the warriors to
the hunting grounds, and will not return
these twelve suns," replied the Indian.
The youth's countenance lit up with a
beam of hope"
"And my sister," said he, "will show
her brother the path that leads to the
village of the white people."
"My brother," said the Indian, "is
welcome to the wigwam's of the red peo-
ple, but he must stay till the miko comes
back."
"Till the miko comes back !" repeated
he, crest-fallen.
,   A  pause ensued for some moments.
At last the youth said-
"Has my child ever known a sister of
hers to whom 'she was attached with all
her heart ?"
The Indian glanced at him, and then
threw  both her arms round the neck of
Rosa, and pressed half a dozen kisses on
her lips.
f "How would' she like to lose her sis-
ter?" said the youth, touched by the deep
affection of the Indian girl.
"Canondah could not live wi'.hout the
l White Rose.'
t   "And if the White Rose should be
r torn from her side, would she not try
t every means to save her V'
I "Canondah would give her life for the
eWhite Rose !"

2a
,

I

jLV

9   ,
f
'
.
s
ye
S
5-ti
y
.i
f
N, !
r  w
xa
{,
4
.
.'ry .
i   r
.


tT

24

O' ,  F  I1 ANC TIC

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

"Look !" said the youth-"in the ves-
sel in which I came, was my sister with
four of our servants. She is as kind as
you are, and almost as fair as your sis-
ter.  We were going to she our mother,
when the pirate took our vessel and led
us into captivity. I escaped 'to save my
sister, either with the assistance of the
w      people who are our enemies, or go
t the e   try of my own people, and
to re iz v th a big armed canoe to res-
cue her rot 1 the ,hands-of the pirate.
So, 'my good sister," added he, "I have
not a day to lose--every moment brings
dangers."
"Your sister," demanded the Indian,
with a gleam of joy in her countenance,
"is in tie hands of the chief of the Salt
Lake, and he keeps her in his wigwam V"
"You may believe me."
"And how many suns is it since the
sister of my brother has been in the wig-
wam of the chief of the Salt Lake?"
"Twenty-one days."
"The presents which the chief has sent
here," said she, turning to Rosa," are butch
'uurteen suns old 1"
Rosa replied in the aflirmativo.
"And does the chief of the Salt Lake
want two women, when the great miko
of the Oconees had never more than
one ." said she with an air of hero and
deep scorn; which, however, changed
suddenly, as she clasped Rosa in her
arms; "the White Rose,' exclaimed she,
"must weep r.o more-the miko will re-
turn the presents-he will not suffer the
White Rose to be carried away by the
chief of the Salt Lake."
"And my good sister," resumed the
youth, "will not clear the path of her
brother, whom she had received so gene-
rously into her wigwam ?"
"My brother is welcome," returned
the Indian, and he shall have, plenty of
everything, but he must stay till the
miko returns. If the great chief has
taken his sister, and keeps. her in his wig-
wam, he will make her his wife, and she
will be the wife of a great warrior." -
iHaving thus, as she conceived, given
to her guest the last consolation, she wasI
going to leave the room, whea Rosa ar-
rested her once more.                1
"And does my sister think, that whom
Rosa abhors, the sister of my white brk-t

ther will love? Aii will she not help
a sister ?"'
"And the miko, when he returns from
the hunting 4 grounds, and finds that the
young man is gone ?"
"Canondah must tell that Rosa has
cleared his path," whispered she, with a
downcast look.
"And Rosa ?" interrupted the Indian,
darting an impatient glance at her, "Go!
Canondah would rather die !",
The youth looked after the girls, as
they now glided through the door, like
one spell-bound.     -,
At the well-meant consolation of Ca--
nondah, indeed, a sneer passed over his
countenance; but remembering how very
different the ideas of an Indian must-ne-
cessarily be from his own, he composed
himself.
Though they had uttered the latter
words in the Indian language, yet the
attitude of resignation,'the humble mien
with which Rosa folded her hands upon
her bosom, and the horror of the Indian,.
gave him partly a clue to what had just
passed between them.
"But who is this being, so strange, so
tender, and yet so beautiful, who is step-
ping like a mediating angel between me
and this haughty savage ?" demanded he
of himself. "11,w came she among these
Indians? Surely she has been carried
off by the pirate ? And how eano she
by her dress? the latest fashion !"
But then she spoke the Indian language
fluently.:
The more these mysteries weighed on
his mind, the more confused his ideas-
became; but he was still more embar-
iasied by the novelty of his situation,
and the persons by whom  he was sur-
rounded.        -
There was in the situation of the youth,
helpless and melancholy as it Was, somr-
thi g extremely roman tic.
Captured,-as we have seen hin to be,
by the Pirate-of Barataria, on his passage
to one of the Western Islands, h found
himself, after a solitary confluement, and
a still drearier exposure on' the Gulf of
Mexico, suddenly thrown among Indians,
and near one of the most beautiful beings
his eyes had ever beheld.
The very romantic and daring impulse
that prompted him to escape in a stormy

night from the strong hold of the pirate,
. in hope of reaching thy month of the
ississippi, and thus perhaps liberating_
a dear sister, wrought within him a ten-
der interest in the beautiful andsinnocent,
Rosa,.
Asolitary confinement in a cottage,
with no other object before his eyes than
a fascinating maiden, placed in strong
relief by a fine little Indian figure, could
not but excite those romantic sentiments
which slumber in the heart of every
warm feeling youth.
But there was also something which.
y eened to contend powerful against
the soft sentiments which began to creep
into his bosom.
Rosa's surpassing beauty had excited
his deep interest, but prudence seemed
to repress his feelings. His heart lay in
his eye, but his tongue was governed b
cooler reason. And a reserve began to
come over him, that tended to make the
life of the three inhabitants of the cottage
painful.
The two gils seemed to grow more
reserved in the same proportion. They
had not since the first interview spoken_
a single word,. They were stillatten.tive
to him, and even more so than before,.
but preserved:an unbroken silence in his.
presence.
The Indian girl, regularly performed;
the task of a rsurgeon; while Rosa gave
him his meals. On these occasions her
hand vWould tremble-indeed, a shy and
furtive glance would steal on him, as he
took the cup, and her eye would sink on
the , floor with a timid expression-her
bosem would heave, and a crimson blush
would mantle over her cheek and neck-
but just when he was going to break the
silence with a soft, condescending case,,
to which he had schooled and -studied
himself through hours before, the name-
less grace which pervaded "her move-
ments, and .her mild dignity tied his
tongue, and made him look with a deep
confusion which did not escape the fair
maiden.
There was something singular in this.
It seemed as if the delicate being looked
up to himewith awe, but still with a true
' nobleness, which inspired him with a
entitment not unlike that with which a

pious-catholic looks upon his favorite
saint,
It was the visible power which pure,
uncontaminated innoence exercises, with
undisputed sway, over those who come
within its enchanting influence,
HAP TER      V.
The Night Dance.
nIt ewas the night of the fourth day
sihce the  n man had become an in-
mate of the cottage. ie felt his strength
almost returned. 'he healing balsam
had effected wonders, and already cica-
trized the wound, so as to make -banda-
ges superfluous.
He had slept for a couple of hQurs,
when a light rushing noise on the mat
awakened him.
lHe looked around, and caught the dim
shadow  of . a figure that disappeared
through the door. At the same time
long, and loud flashes of a glaring light
itlumimed the room.
The young man sprang up.  ,
"The village is on fire !" exclaimed he,
rushing towards th door.
"D p't be alarmed, said the soft voice
of Rosa, who opened the door, and stood
on the threshold-"our girls and women.
are performing the night dance!"
SThe mournful tones of musical instru-
ments were now heard.
"N ight-dance !" repeated th youtb-
"Am I allowed to see it ?"
. "The night is very cold and damp; my
brothermust not walk in the dark night,
or he will catch the fever again; but,"
added she, after a pause, "'my brother
may see the girls dancing from the avin-
dow of ,Ross's 1-dom."
So saying, she tendered him h r hand,
and led ,hi!n through the partition-cur-
tains into her apartment,.
'This, room' was lighted with. a: small
window,that looked out On the bank of
the stream.
A scene here presented itself of the
most citing description.
Roundthe cove a group of more than
a hundred squaws, girls and boys was

r

i
i-
r }
S;
( '
a
'.6ii
ar
rt{ i
r, ,
ar;
:
{
r
,
'     ,
' :
.7  r
.,
,  .
3  ,
S
F   .
;
i.
.t

Fv
, :
°jx
,     ;t'i
_ ._
1
'_   ;#   I
_    , '
g7     ii
-      x
z  "  rN
F    S
1 '  ?Y
x  _
s
r
!   L
t

;;.
,{  t
4
i(
S
!
_! '
t )(
r

t
4

t.
=YI r,
-'   ,

3

t
Rp
I


ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

assembled in a wide circle, each of 'them
holding in one hand a burning pine torch,
in the other a bell.
Four of the company occupied a sepa-
rate place in the circle, and played on
Indian drums and Indian flutes.
The sounds elicited from these instru-
ments were at first very faint, slow and
deadened-but they rose by degrees, and
quickened, as if to rouse the passions of
the dancers.
When they had changed into a double
strophe, the light and graceful form of
Canondah was seen rising and entering
the circle.
Her dance was singular. At first she
glided, orrather wound, itself round the
sitting copper figures with serpentine
quickness-then she assumed a perpen-
dicular attitude, her feet moved close
together, and she scarcely lifted them,
but kept time to the thumping of the
drum by raising her heels, and turning
her feet in the same direction. Her
gestures were strong, chaste and very
graceful. When she had danced for some
minutes, she at length wheeled round,
and took her seat.
The blaze of more that a hundred
torches glared in all directions, and were
reflected from the wide mirror of the
stream-the copper figures, resembling,
vith their blazing brands, so many fierce
demons-the old squaws, with their dis-.
hevelled, glossy hair floating round their
withered necks and shoulders -their
ungainly, threatening gambols-and the
sombre, melancholy sound of the Indian
flute, that sounded like a death-knell,
gave to the sight an inexpressible look
of fierce and demoniacal revelry.
On a sudden the torches were blown
out, and the whole scene was involved
in darkness.
The stranger felt a cold shudder now
creep over him as he stood at the little
window. He involuntarily drew nearer
the maiden, and seized her hand.
"It is a frightful sight indeed," said
he ; "and, Rosa, how could she live with
such beingsV"
"0, they have been very kind to Rosa
indeed, but-"
" But, " resumed he, " you have been
carried oft by the pirate --"

"0, he will do it !" was her reply,
covering her face with her other hand,
and weeping.
There is nothing more calculated to
awaken sympathy than to see a tender
and innocent being in danger-it aroused
all our energies.
"Never !" exclaimed he, forgetting his
own helpless situation in the danger of
the beautiful being-"Arthur will protect
you!"
"Arthur !" she repeated, musing.
It was as if his name had brought him
still nearer to her heart !
She drew  nearer to him-her )hand'
trembled in his-its soft 'palpitation now
thrilled, like electricity, through his very
veins ! The moon shed its silvery light
through the window.
"My brother," said a voice behind
them,- "must whisper softly into the ear
of the White Rose, for she is very tender
-look! she has brought him wine and
a blanket into the hollow tree, and she
watched by him when he was sleeping,
-the roses have almost gone from her
face!"
"Rose !" exclaimed the youth, who
remembered now the light noise which
he had sometimes heard in his broken
slumbers, "you did not do that ? Ho
do I deserve so much kindness and favor
- from you ?"
"But, Canondah ." said the maiden,
with reproach.,
Canondah, however, was gone-she
had stolen through the folds as silently
as she had.glided in'
"My sweet, beautiful Rosa!" exclaimed
the youth, overpowered, clasping her to
his bosom.
She suffered the embrace with yielding
tenderness.
His lips sought hers-they touched-
their breath mingled-it was a delicious
moment!
"My brother," lisped Rosa, with a
tremulous voice, and still clasped it -his
embrace, "see, the cheek of your sister
burns  very   much, and   her bosom
threatens to burst ; and"-her soft voice
fell into a mild, beseeching tone-" ny
brother must not stay longer where Rosa
sleeps-nor must ha come when his sister
sleeps. Ah I" added she, and her voice

melted almost in silver tones, "the wise
man, and he who died on the cross for
,our' sin's, would be, very angry at his
sister."
"And' who is' the wise man t" inquired
the youth.
"He who has taught Rosa, in the cabin
of the trader,"1
The youth paused a moment, ,i a
paroxysm of love and admiration-then,
as i seized by holy awe, he caught her
once more in his arms, raised her, and
laying her softly down on the couch, he
pressed a long kiss on her Izpsb
"No, dear one! Fear npt! None
but a wretch, could beguile so heavenly a
being into sin! Sleep sweetly, and in
peace. Another will watch for you;"
So saying, he agakJ pressed a kiss on
her lips, and fled from the room.
"Arthur !" repeated she-"good night,
Arthur"
He caught the sounds a he hastened
towards his rooms His bosom burned
with inexpressible passion.' A' storm
had risen in his heart that threatened to
consume him.
"If ever," prayed he, "my fate shall
be linked with that of a human being,

let it be Rosa !"
When Arthur awoke the next morning
the scenes of the last night floated before
his imagination like so many.dteams.
It was a bright and lovely morning. In
a field, a group of Indian girls' were ga-
thering corn,               -   ,.
Arthur proceeded through the avenue,
-looking to the right, he beheld Rosa
in a garden.
She had already espied him, and now
dame tripping and blushing towards him.
"And will my brother not see the fme
flowers of his sister'?" said she, raising
her eyes with a tiid' expression  anid,
taking his hand,and drawing him towards
the hedge, his eye rivetted .on her, as if
to satiate himself.
Arthur took the flower, and stood
gazing and 'admiring deeply the'living
. Rose.
Arthur now took her hand-it was the
loveliest little hand 'ever touched by; a
love-sick youth.    /
"And how long has Rosa lived among
these people 'P'

-4
;f         r
'Y
i
'                                             'i
t
_           "fit        1                                   r
f
{
fj
t
E
f
P
x
{ F
k
(4
t
T
C
f {[, _
E                         __"._
I      t
i . ,  #

'4
r'r,- '
q;      i,
i 1       3   r
J
(  t
'
Y+               /

ROSA THE   IAN ' APTW

"We are seven summers on the banks
of this waters"
"4nd where has Rosa been previous
to this time '"
"In the cabin of the white trader many
days from here--beyond the big river!:
"The Mississippi ?"
"Yes)'
"And does Rosa know how she 9amn
to the ti~ader 2"
"see'' said she, in a mysterious tone,
"th people with whe; Rosa lived when
she was very young, told her thatponee,
in  stormy night,,an Indian chief came
into their cabin; and brought them your.
sister, in clothes that werefvery pretty,;
and that she had been found on the road
that lefd4 to the great village on the big
river. That chief was the miko.!"
"Will Rosa show me these clothes "
said he, with an eagerness that betrayed
his deep interest.
"They are now old," said she, "and
very little. , Rosa wore them when she
was not yet a summer old---but she will
show them to you?5
$he tripped now towards the cabins
followed by Arthur, in anxious expecta-
tion.                             a
She opened a drawer in the wall below
the Indian weapons, and took a pack
caref'ully laid by-unfolding it, she then
handed every piece to: the youth. The
ermine pelisse and bonnet were well
preserved. The Brussels lace had beeome
yellow with age-.the cambric and gros
de Naples 'were faded.
Arthur exAmined each piece with great
attention. Near the seam of one of the
little dresses he discovered a cipher, with
the initials " J. d'A.,' and a coronet over
the letters. "Rosa;' said he, and his
mien became : earnest, "these clothes
show that you at e of a .dLittinguishid
family How you fell into the hamds of
the Indian, heaven only knows ; but-."
He paused a moment; for having looked
at the last piece, he noticed a sealed
parcel, with something heavy in it..
"It is the gold chain,"  said Rosa-"but
we must not open it-the .chief has put
it up himself from me. '
She took now the dresses, laid them
again ear  fully by, and put the package

ii
;i 3

F
i' 1


fI

28

ROSA, TUE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

I

"Rosa, " said the youth, after a pause,
"Arthur loves you very much    more
than he loves himself. Willyou listen
to hin?"
The full glance of love and tenderness
met his eye.
He continued-
"Arthur has a mother, who lives many
days' sail from  the mouth of the big
river. To her Rosa will be welcome.
Arthur is rich, and his friends are very
powerful-they will find out her father
and mother. Will Rosa follow her own
Arthur?''
She listened attentively, but she did
tot enter into his meaning. "But the
miko," said she, timidly, "would not let
Rosa go."
"We must fly !" said the youth.
"Fly !" said she, "and leave Canon-
dab, who has been a sister, a mother to
Rosa?   And. the miko, who has paid
beaver skins for the milk that she drank
in the cabin of the trader ?"
"Ros'," said the youth, in the rnst
touching tones, "do not mistrust me-
have confidence. Arthur will return ten,
fold what the chief has paid to the white
"rthur," said she, "no-- Rosa loves
her brother very much-more than the
light of her eyes-and his voice is much
sweeter than the song of the birds ; but
she-cannot leave those who have been
kind to her "
"Will Rosa stay with Indians; when a
father, a mother, are weeping for her l"
he asked.
"See !" said she, 'the Fathet in hea-
ven has given her the miko a' a father-
lie will not forget His child !"
She now got up to go to her sleeping
room, and he arose to follow her.
The arrangement of the room was
simple. Near the window was a trunk-
the youth cast a glance at him..
"For heaven's sake ! how came this
trunk here ? It is my sister's !" said he
with vehemence.
"Your sister's !' returned she, with
astonishment; "the chief of the Salt
Lake hassentrit to the miko. It contains
the presents which he has sent to your
sister. 0, would I had never seen him!"
She covered her face and grew pale,.

ROiA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

"Poor Maria !" said he, as he opened
the trunk; which was filled with a variety,
of fashionable female dresses; "and how
long is it since the pirate* has-sent you
these presents ?" demanded he.
"Seventeen days."
"Then he has only robbed her, and she
is still safe !"
But the sight of his sister's wardrobe
cast a glooin over his countenance -his
face darkened, as his eye fell upon Rosa,
who was dressed in one of her robes.
"And, Rosa," said he, bitterly, "wears
the spoils taken from 'my poor sister ?"
His look, his voice, startled the poor -
maiden-it wrung her heart.
She threw a timid glance at him, and
crossing her hands before her bosom, she
said-
"The arrow stics deep in the bosom
of poor Rosa - my brother must not
drive it deeper ! She must wear the
presents of the chief of, the Salt Lake-
the miko has bidden her to do so."
A blush suffused his cheek-he was
ashamed, and reproached himself for hia
rudeness.
"Forgive me, Rosa," said he, throwing
his arm around her-"but my poor sister
is very unhappy !"5
She looked at him  with a tear trem-
bling in her eyes, if to read his counte-
nance.
Canondah entered, and glancing at
them, her countenance seemed to darken
a little, and taking her hand, she led her
towards the trunk.            . .
"Look ! the presents which the chief
has sent are his sister's-he has stolen
them from her."
"His sister's -!" exclaimed the Indian.
"Yes," said the Englishman ; "see!
here are her diamonds !" pointing to a
casket, to which hung a small key. He
opened it.
The girls looked with astonishment at
the glittering beads, as they called them
"They are worth beaver skins.! said
Canondah, with a childish stare.
"Many thousands of beaver skins !"
The girls started back in astonishment
and wonder.
From this moment, the fierce little
Indian seemed to have banished every
suspicion, and to have become all tender.
ness and confidence,

Arthur's lova to the darling of her
heart, and the discovery of his wealth,
had, little as it was'understood.or valued
on her part, removed every doubt as to
his being a scout of the white men.  °
"The white youth who .is worth so
many beaver skins," reasoned sbe, "will
not come as a spy into the poor village
of the red men."
Though her demeanor previous to the
discovery had been generous, she seemed
now anxious in the-extreme to show him
attention in a thousand wafs :  .
,,        "My brother must eat," said she-"he
S is hungry, and then will go with Canon-
dah i"
And, 'without waiting for his reply, she
led the way to the breakfast. When they
had finished the repast, the. Indian girl,
beckoned to him with a knowing smile.
"My brother," said she, when they had
stood on the green before, the. cottage-
"listen to your sister -she wilt he very
kind to her brother, it he.wil love Rosa
very much, fbr the chief of the Salt
Lake has made her heart very sad,
Look !' continued she, pointing to his
soiled cravat, "me chief has taken his
sister's clothes, and those of my brother
are very dirty. She will give him what
he has left in nthe-council wigwam."r
Arthurcould not help laughing at the
manner in which the Indian compromised
with her conscience; and following his
generous guide, vho tripped before him
towards the second larger cabin.
"Look here !" said she, with the same
knowing nod; pointing as they entered
the open door, to several boxesthat stood
on the floor -a dressing case among
them. "The pirate has stolen them too
-my brother may take what he wants,1
When the young red men," whispered
she, with an arch smile, go to see their
girls, they hang beads round their arms
and necks-my brother will look very
handsome !"
"And does the pirate stay here V" said
the young.man.
The Indian nodded.
"le stays sometimes ten suns with
the mike, and then he lives in the council
wigwama"
She now tripped out of the room, an
left the youth to make his toilet.

C0[APTER        V I I
Farewell!
"The White Rose must take another
gown, too,".said, Canondah  "and the
beads," pointing to'the casket.
Like many of her more refined sisters,
she took a particular interest in fanning
the flame that burnt but too bright ia the
bosoms of the lovers:
"They are his sister's," returned Rosa,
shaking her head-'Ley do riot belong
to Rosa 1'
"But the chief has sent them  to the
miko for Rosa.
"Can the chief gve what does not be
long to him?"
'The Indiai became silent and 'thought-
fil.
"Rosa is right," said she, clapping her
hands joyfully, when her eye  fl on
Arthur, who had entered. "My brother
looks handsome," said she,;casting a very
roguish look, at Rosa,sand then stole out
of .the room.
The maiden blushed deeply-the gen-
tie heaving of the bosom betrayed the
emotion that the improved, appearance
of Arthur had doubtless prpduced,
The hours that Arthur passed near this
beautiful being, were the most delightful
of his lite.
Arthur seemed at intervals to become
more daring--his lips would hang longer
on hers-his -embraces would becomeO
more impassioned.. But there was -inher
something ir'definable,  that always re-
called him to his senses.
"See," said he, "dear Arthur, "when
he urged her again to follow him, "Rosa
loves you more than 'her words can tell
you-she will be sad, very sad, when
you are gone, and go you must-you
are come to our wigwams as a stranger,
you leave there as our brother, and we
must not keep you. Rosa, your sister,
has spoken. with Cmnondah, and she rhas
promised that she will show heib brother
the path to the villagescof tle'white peo-
ple. But Rosa must aot go-she thust
.not fly from those who havesdone her
good!'
He fel the force of what she said, and
was silent. .Ile saw, also, the necessity
of his speedy departure, or i'ather flig1ht

r-
;                             T
4
'
4i

"I

,1'

A

j
.,
d'   P/
7
'!
f
}
f
.   , k
S       Y  ,        + 1
.t        9v

.

f
r
Ia
t
,

q     5
4
'


.SA, TiE INDIAN CAPTW E.

-he filt it from what he now understood  "Can ay brother do the same?" asked
respecting the relations existing between the girl, who'noy stood with him on the_
the Indians and the pirate.          bank, surrounded by the swarthy urchins,.
,  t .was about two years before this  There was something taunting in her
period, that the pirate had made his ap- air that nettled him a little; but a rapid
pearance on the banks of the Natchez, glance from her satisfied hime and he
with a band of armed men. This meet- replied in the affirmative. He east of
Ong with the Indians seemed at first of a his coat, and threw himself into the colds
suspicious character, but they very soon water, followed by all the yelling boys.
entered into terms of friendship.    He crossed and recrossed the stireain
The Indians provided the pirate with and stood in half an hour again before
corn, meat, and even tobacco ; and they the Indian girl.
received, in their turn, rifles, powder, and "It is very vell," whispered she:-niy
such other articles as they stood in need brother must change his wet clothes."
of.                                    "What is the meaning of that, sister?"
The pirate had shown himself in his demanded he, of Canondah.
dealings liberal in the extreme, and he  '  My brother will see," said she, now
was a universal favorite with them,  pointing to the council house-"he must
There was no doubt but Arthur would not talk so much when there are so many
be given up to him. To these came others ears."  She turned round, and left. him,
of hardly less weight.   -             Night had closed in. When he entered
Canondah had indeed been, ever since the room, Oanondah overhung the win-
the night-dance, their most tender friend, dow carefully, and lighred the torch.
and the guardian of their love; but in  He looked silently at the preparations
the midst of her shrewd solicitude, she made. She had always 'retired shortly
could not conceal an anxiety, that began after sunset, and risen with the dawning
to be more visible every day. Even the morning; and Rosa, though she had tar-
care she took to hide their love from the ried an hour or two by his side, never
scrutinizing eye of the squaws, had prolonged her stay beyond a certain hour,
something ominous in it. *           She seemed more than usually sober---.a
The squaws had behaved towards him mild smile of resignation sat on her
with a sort of savage delicacy, or rather cheek-her eye was bent on him, while
a sullen indifference. Not one of them a tear stole from time to time dovn her
had intruded tipon them1 or shown 'the cheek. She covered her face 'with her
least curiosity ; yet their dark looks, their hands, and wept bitter ly.
suspicious glances, and the repulsive, "What is the meaning of this, sweet
threatening mien, with which they eyed, Rosa 1" asked the youth--do telleme !"
him when he chanced to drop ito one of  But the poor girl could give no reply
their cabins, convinced him that he trod -her voice was choked. gHe drew her
on dangerous ground.                 to his bosom-he kissed the tears froin
But it was as if he had been entranced her cheek-he conjured her to tell him
and bound, with adamantine chains, to the cause of her grief. It was in vain.
the spot. Ten times he was going to Iler eyes hung on him with inexpressible
propose his determination, and as many tenderness; but it was as if her tongue
times his words stuck in his throat, cleaved to her mouth. The fleeting time
It was on the afternoon of the eighth passed on, and midnight had stolen upon
day of his sojourn in the village-he was them silently. Canondah now appeared.
perfectly recovered, and sitting by the  "0, so very soon !" exclaimed Rosa.
side of his beautiful Rosa, when Canon- "The water birds begin to cry," said
dah stepped 'from  behind the curtains, the Indian girl-"it is time-come l,"
and beckoned hin'e to follow her.' "My brother," said Rosa, "must go !"
They waked through the serpentine "Must g1o !" repeated the astonished
windiegs of the village-at length they youth-who seemed to have forgotten
dropped, as if by chance, among a group  another, sister, everything ! "That is
of boys, a dozen of whom were sporting impossible! O, 1 cannot leave you!
'i the stream.                          "H~e must!" said the weeping mani.en,

'I

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

with a voice choked-by her deep emotion.
"Without you?   Never !"
Shall the mother and sister of Arthur
weep over a fallen brother?  In four days
the chief of the Saltlake will be here; he
will follow the trail of my brother, and take
him, if the path be not very wide that lies
between him and the village.
Arthur looked after the maiden as sh.e
drew tow ards the other apartment, and ran
through the room in the wildest agitation.
"Listen, my brother," said the Indian,
with a solemnity which. recalled the young
man somewhat from his trance. "Conon-
dah will do for her brother what will darken
the face of her father and her people, for'
she loves the White Rose very much. She
will show her brother the path that leads
across the swamp, and she will paddle him
over the second river. Will my brother
promise by the Great Spirit, whom his and
yher people call upon, 'that he will not tell
our white enemies where he has. been, and
what his eyes have beheld ?  Will he pro-
misc that he will not show to them the
track that leads to the villages of the red
men ?"
" I will," said the youth, with a firm
voice.
"Then tako these clothes,". said she,
handing him a suit of Indian apparel.
"Those," said she, pointing to his dress,
." would soon be torn to pieces by briers.
I'he print of the moccasin is very soft ; and
in four suns, when our people return, they
will, perhaps, find it no more. Here is red
paint," added she; "or men will follow
you, and it may throw them on a false scent.
Be quick."
The youth slipped mechanically into the
waistcoat of tanned deer-skin, iud even'suf-
fered the maiden to assist him. She tied
the moccasins on his feet, and slung, the
girdle of wampum over him with natural
unconcern, as if she was assisting one of her
own sex. "Here is a blanket," said she,
throwing it round fun. "Here a pouch
with powder and shot; here another, with
wine, cakes, and venison. That gun will
kill water-fowl and deer, and with this my

brother will make fire to roast what he has
killed." She hnng every article upon him
with a cafe that showed how fully she was
conscious of his-helplessness.
When alLthe preparations were finished,
shy slipped again through the curtains, and
Rosa came out once more with a faltering
step.
Arthur cast his arms sound the lovely
maiden. For a long while they were clasp-
ed together in silent, speechlss ariguish.
"Rosa," sa'd he at last, '"I shallleave you,
if youdesire it. I owe you mine,  my sis-
ter's, perhaps my mother's life, and the
happiest hours I ever enjoyed. I1eave you;
butJ shall see you again."
She shook heir head.
"Do not doubt it my dear Rosa ; let it
be the hope that lightens your path. Ar-
thur will come and lead you to a place where
the sun shines on-happier beings."
A minute longer they hung on each oth-
er's lips, when the torch-light was extin-
guished. It was the signal for, their sepa-
ration. Arthur took the lovely helpless
being that lay speechless in his arms, bore
her to her couch, pressed a' last kiss on her
lips, and bade her farewell
The Indian todk his hanad, and led him
from the door. They glided through 'the
avenue, stealing far from the cabins, along
'the hedges and shrubs towards the forest,
with a step so light, as scarcely to touch th
ground. The faint star-light was obscured
by the night-mists, that hung a broad veil
over the village. They now had reached
the sombre forest, illumined only by millions
of fire-fies fluttering about in every direction.
A noise not unlike the murmur of an
approaching multitude struck the English-
man's ear., He hesitated. "We are dis-
covered," whispered he.
"No," said the Indian, "it is the cry of
the. tree-frog and crickets.7
The noise increased fearfully  as they
approached the swamp, where the roaring
of the bullfrog, with the piercing, hollow
bellowing'of an alligator, that was not cuite
torpid, resounded.
"Keep close," said the Indian, after they

f
'  ' i

45i
IV

J

30

_                  ,


OSA, TEl INDIAN CAPTIVE.

had walked nearly an hour. "we are near
the swamp."   Her step now became very
careful; she put her foot forward to try the
ground, retreated again, and tried on another
direction. She then cowered down; and
crawling with her hands on the ground, she
lifted pieces of turf and mud. "We are on
the logs that our men have laid across the
swamps. Hold the'skirt of my gown."
He seized the dress, and they advanced
along the narrow passage.
"Take care," whispered she; "a wrong
step would bury you for ever in the mud."
They passed the dangerous passage in
safety.
"Throw your blanket over your head,"
said the Indian, when they had arrived at
the end of the logs. "The woods on this
side of the swamp are full of briers. Keep
close on my track,' the serpents are very
many, and their sting is deadly. Bow down
you: head, or the thorns will tear your
blanket from you."
"What is that ?" cried the youth, from
whom, as he glided after the Indian, his
blanket was torn vith irresistible force.
His guile stepped back. "It is the big-
brier-my brother hust bow his head,"
disentangling his blanket at the same time
from a-4mge branch studded with thorns of
a hand's length. They arr ived at last on
the banks of the Sabine. Without losing a
moment the Indian sprang to a hollow oak.
"My brother must assist Canondah to shove
the canoeinto the water."
They'carried the light vessel with ease
to the water's edge. A push brought it into
the river; she took the paddles and bade
Arthur sit still.
The sound of the paddles raised thousands
of pelicans, ducks, and wild geese, who,
fluttered about in every direction, striking
our travelers' heads in rather an uncere-
monious manner. The canoe shot across
the river like one Qf its finny inhabitants.
In a few minutes they had reached the
eastern bank.
They landed, and Canondah took the
hand of Arthur.'
" My brother must now open his ears ; he

must not let a word of his sister's talk fall to
the ground. Look, the prairies, on this
side of the water are empty, and the trees
are very few. My brotheri must go up the
bank of this water, till the sun has sunk
behind the trees that grow on the other side,
then he must turn towards where the sun
rises and the wind blows cold. Does my
brother know from whence the cold wind
blovs ?  The trees will show it to him.
The swamps are not so many there. When
my brother copies to a swamp, he will know
how to cheat those who follow his trail."
She paused, as if she expected a question,
but the youth seemed too absorbed in other
thoughts.
"My brother's course," said she, "must
be crooked."
Again she paused, and then said, with a
voice whose soft melodious tone was touch-
ing in the highest degree-
"My brother is now free, and his path
lies open before him. When he comes into
the village of his own people, he may tell
the girls that the daughters of the red men
are not less generous than those of the
white. Let my brother not forget what the
White Rose and t red girl have done to
clear his path. It will perhaps--bury the
tomahawk of their father in their brains,"
whispered she, with a scarcely audible
voice.
" Canondah !" exclaimed the youth, hor-
ror-struck, "'how is this?  What do you
meaxu by it?  Will my flight bring you in
danger ? Never !  [ will return; I will
wait for your father, and face the pirate."
The girl had relinquished his hand, and
glided doen the bank. He ran after her; but
she was already in the canoe, that shot now
swiftly and lightly through the water. A
farewell sounded from the boat as it darted
away under the veiling mist, and soon en -
tirely disappeared. Arthur called her by
her name ; but she gave no answer, He
conjured her to take him into the canoe;
but the light stroke of the paddles was
heard no more-nothing but the shrill notes
of the alarmed water4owls resounded on the
air.

3
d,

F 5
1 '
(
4
4    ,_

I

.OSA, THE INDIAN CAN         VE.                     33
We leave, him tohis own thoughts; to  ame from, in a country apparently so thinly
return to a personage , whom  our readers settled. Any person whom elanoes might
will probably think we have lost sight of. . have thrown into this medley of men, and
women, and children. white, yellow, and
black, evidently dressed in their best, woutd
CHAPTER    VIlia             have been puzzled to guess at the meaning
We charge you in God'sname, and the 1ipg's of the gathering. From the hard drinking,
To go with us unto the officer's.       dancing fighting,,romping, and "cutting up
SuAKsPnAir.     high," that reigned throughout the assembly,
There are few countries .in the western one might have imagined that there was a
hemisphere, which nature seems to have general Irolic ;; but there wpe also arms,
more distitetly pointed eat for great pur- and an attempt at military uniformm; and to
poses, than that to which we are now shift. form into a line. Some shouldered their
ing our scene; and yet there is scarcely one rifles, others their fowling pieces, a third
of less inviting appearance. Emerging from  carried anold carabine without a,lick, while
the bosom of the sea, or rather from, the a fourth had a rusty pistol with a broke
great channel that sweeps the collected barrel, or a stout club in his hand.
waters of hundreds of rivers through its  This was the general aspect of the motely
plains, it forms, as it were, the key stone of assembly. It was gathered before one of
the endless valley, and probably of the future those miscellaneous stores, which are so
'empire, which time and the restless hand of frequently to be found, and so characteristic
man will raise there. The while country, of the smaller towns in the back woods. , A
however, is studded and' interested with few earthen, jugs, a keg of chewing tobacco,
lakes and swamp,, and traversed with rivers and a barrel of. whisjcy,-or a flask of gun-
and streams, and the foot of man may there powder,'with a brown w ol hat,, and a pair
be literally said to rest on watery ground. of shoes, to'which a few rusty jack knives
For more than-a century, the boundless might be added, exhibited the whole mer-
tract of country, then called Louisiana, was chantable commodities of the owner.
little better than a forgotten and neglected  Over the 'door an oldsign was nailed, with
colony, ceded and exchanged with a careless-, the inscription,'" New store cheap for cash,"
ness that showed hdw little iutportance was and on the walls of the rickety frame )ouse
attached to it. A new era began to dawn was written with chalk, "Whisky, Brandy,
upon its incorporation with the great repub- Tobacco, Post-office." The persons assem-
lican family of North America, and the new  bled around this dwelling consisted of a knot
impulse which it received by the Union, of double-jointed, square-built, men, duly
soon began to be fdilt in the vast improve- convened to select their officers, and to
rnents that were everywhere carried on.  march forthwith to outfight the British. 0n'
Even at this early period, that is, some a stump of a cotton tree, that at.other times
fourteen years ago, the banks of .the Mis- served their women in alighting from their
sissippi up to Baton Rouge, and as far as horses, stood a gentleman, as he was called,
Natches, presented a long, and bait seldom whor to judge from his high crowned hat,
interrupted range of old-fashioned, but sub- clean shirt, and new coat of hinsey woolsey,
stantial mansions.                      was undoubtedly a candidate for one of the
It was on a bright December morning ; military offices, for which the election was to
the sun was just sufficiently cool to dispel take place.. Close to him were some others
the mists and fogs that had hung about, the of a similarly aspiring exterior.
rivers and swamps during the preceding   There was an unusual silence, compara-
-weeks. Thereuere a great bustle and com- timely speaking, round the knot, if we cx-
motion in the county town o Opelousas. It 'cept the occasional whooping of two topers,
seemed indeed wonderful where the people who, with pint glasses ia hand, hal satun.-

5.   ,  .
}
7
',
,5.
. r
i
_° ,
_'3t-,
P' t    t
-'  }
.' i
.,w l
,j
t Y i'
--
4'?,    ,
"  P
'  j.
'   [ '
' _
.      3
__   f
' 3
t '  2 i , t
'
t ,e
,
I
s  ,!
,t
,  r
{

. .                      _
:......
r                                             ._..
..:.... .:
3
. .. ..:.,: z e:.
;i.,:. ya°s.: .}.,?k,:si,.-a :.  '.h'3               ..:q-f'' .                                  ':   f'L t-                 ', .w::.,,                  n
1t. r     ..-, .:     yy. .                           ': S':;"  r S.Ss         i. r 4' :5' i   "'e;=h;'  s s'Y:r  .. ±:' '" Sj:  S.'"' '"x ' -  ° :i; )::
"'11. "E  '             ':$ei'l",'";s. (:                      .! £    j w.. rt'r'f'?. ;.y:l ,K~     X;-S d."5]'  :.TY .":  a; ' ..\ .'0.gV4:' ,:r

.  ;  ,
-_,
t $E
t
Lf
_    tt
y*dt .I
\n
t
{ "
a f '
i' 15
' 'c,
fi
.3 ,
n
=   a     . ;

r
.1 ,+


f
13

ROSA, TJE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

RQ1,TUE .IDI1ANAPTIVE.

tered and reeled along the street. The words
outgoing, outfight, outrun, were distinctly
beard.  fIalf a doken Goliahs detached
'themselves from the knot, "just to take a
peep at what them there noisy fools whoop-
ed at sp devilishly."
From the dark express swamps which
begin about half a mile from the margin of
the Atchafalaga, a figure had emerged,-
which, from its dress, belonged to the In-
dian race. As the individual advanced with
a wary step wards the town, he had at-
tracted the attention of the two topers, who,
though their hands were giddy with the be-
witching flavor of their' favorite Mononga-
Bela whisky, had no sooner espied the lurk-
.  ing Indian, as they presumed him to-be,
than they gave chase. Swift of foot, the sons
of the west had soon outstripped the Indian,
who seemed in fact too much 'spent long to
escape his nimble pursuers.
Before they had repeated their "Stop l"
the 'Indian was within the grasp of a power-
ful fellow, when a voice, not unlike that of a
roaring bull, bawled'out to him "either to
stop. or he would set his jaw bones aright
in a style."
The poor Indian seemed to comprehend
the language, or the meaning of his pursuers,
and halted; not, however, without putting
himself into an attitude, that indicated his
firm determination to resist to the utmost.
His gunlock ticked, and unsheathing his
knife, he stepped back, facing his antagonist.
The foremost of the two pursuers had left
his pint glass behind the rail fence, that
formed the lane, to have a cordial after his
return, and he was unarmed, if we except.
the dirk that stuck in his girdle: He now
stood before the Indian, whom he exam-
ined with the shrewd glance with- which a
new and rather suspicious object is sure to
he scrutinized, by such as claim the right of
looking into every one's business.
The appearance of an Indian in this quar-
ter was in itself nothing extraordinary, as
scarcely a hundred  miles' further to the
northwest their villages were established,
and their excursions were known frequently
to extend many hundred miles. Their di-

minished number, and above all,. their in-
creasing want, edged by the taste they had
acquired for the irresistible' firewater, had
made them in fact the hunting slaves of the
settlers, who bought for the tenth part of its
real value, whatever game the insatiable
thirst of these wretched victims led them to
procure. There was certainly no other in-
tention en the part of the pursuers than to
have a little fun, and to drink half a pint
of "genuine Monongahela" with the red
skin. At last the man who stood within
the grasp of the Indian, announced his n- -
tention, by swearing he should drink half a
int with him, or he would "put him into
his breeches' pocket."
By this time the second pursuer, on:whom,
repeated draughts lay heavier, had :ap-
proached the Indian, when they took him
between them with that regardless familiar-
ity and assurance-which either.knows of no
resistance, or cares not for it, andconsiders
it a right tp meddle, with undisputed au-
thority,  everything in their own country ;
both advanced:from:the dark shade of the
cypress t ad a the lane, that ran from the
morass owards the river.
"Come, red boy," shouted the second
companion, who, occasionally missing the
narrow trodden path, staggered knee deep
into the mire, while the 'other,' to use his
own expression, "could still stand in his
own shoes." "If ye shan't fight thexa
British, and drink, ay, and drink too;"
By this tithe the rest of the party had
come up, with various degrees of 'swiftness.
There was a sort of jeering curiosity observ-
able in the crowd. Without asking leave,
as may be supposed, they approached the
apparent Indian, examined the. fowling
piece, took a peep at his' scalping knife,
and at his shattered sword, and one even
went so far as to lift the big cap, to get a
deeper insight into the character of theif new,
and as it seemed involuntary visitor. ' There
was something strange in his appearance, it'
must be confessed. A light cap covered
his head to the ears, and carefully concealed
the flaxen curls, but the soft down: of his
youthful beard rendered the conecalnent

:nsles,. his openfur waistcoat showed th
{dress of thy naies, bta'pair of antalodi
contrasted strangely vith the girdle of'vam
*pum   His leggings, with ne nioecasin
were of Indiau make.; hi hands and face
were painted, but Gs countenauce  as
finely fofjned, its features so regular, so no'
ble, that' the crowdgazed with that sorhap
perplexity which anany of them had perhaps
experienced, whenthey approached a thicket
expecting to neet a growling bear and found
in its place a furious panther.
" Stand off,'-said4the trangeat last, with
a voice iuwhich scorn and iidigdation weore
closely blended, aslthe audacity of one of
the knot, g1ho,-with hands whose warty'ex-
ereseonces seemed, to belong rather to the
pay's of an alligator, than to a hunian being,
j d again lifted his cap, and shown th curls
f4the yoyth.
rtawas,as our readera ill h ave guessed,
Arthur, who, guided by the Indian runner
to the4path of the Coshattees, lid at last
found his way throughthe almost inextricable
ranges of forests, and swamps, and lakes,
and rivers, with which these 'regions are so
' overnabundantly blessed-though not with-
out the losa of one of his moccasins.'
Perhaps he wou d never have reached the
banks but for the favorable season,fand the
lowness of the waters, dried' up as they
were f by ho, ardent 'sun of the preceding
hummer.
his firm, robust constitution 'had, With
the flame that burnt, in his bosom, aid the
.esire of liberating his sister, contributed to
Larry him through all obstacles,'in a sEirter
time than, might have been expejte froi a
youth who had, probably, ,iade his fdrtneiI
Vouriu a different style.  ie had subsistedJ
on wild ducks and geese, whh he; had;
killed and roasted in the maiigd t ughthim
by the runner, gnd he wa' jst emerging
from the wildernessiand again appoaching
the dwellings of civilized beings, when, as
;eohaytsen, his course, was arrested. 'he
huge eolossalpowrus. of the backwoodsmen;t
their observant  eather-beaten 'features';
the long, dangeous dirks, showing' buck-.
horn hafts, stuck out of their girdles, gave

e them rather a dangerous aspect ; and desi-
s rOUS as he tvas to  lldke'lized'=hunan
- beings, entire igrdnanee of the country, and
, his reent adventure, had taught himu the
e necessity of extreme -ir unspectiet  He
o determined to-retrace hid steps as oOn ashe
- sawthem;, but it was tob late.
f aWhew:!"whistled on6 oftheptty, after
a long pause if astonishment arid scrutiny,
, " now tell us, neighbor, %1ho -yougare; for I
Salculate you ain't none ofherni rat-eyed
red-skins ?"
aam anEngIishmait," was the short
reply of the young man. It Was given. in
that'brieftone. and notiithoit'that slight
Sneer, with  vhich a'Ndisguised noblemeat
wooldithrow off anri ognrto9 and announce
at once to his supposed inferiors, his red
character. Perhapsrtliere dvas' something of
a similar feelingid' the nind offthe youth:
the' g4ance t leasthieli ho each cursorily
over the motldy eriowd and' their garbs
seemed to betray any thingbut respect or
fear.:
" An Englishnian!".repeated twenty
voices; "That ainat your oniy recoihmendaa
tion," said his first interrogator, casting ,u
exterminating glance ttheruhnlucky y'ong
man.
The 'yottng manr deignedIe reely to re-
turi the ids glans "of the'thi kkset, square
built gentlemarr; who eagryeye easured
iim e'videntlfwithri avildisposition ; her
a moment'ss' consideration, h6evev'8 he said]
_ Foty the 'present it i lay nly one."
But ivhatevmnaythave been hili feelings
of his-examiner,°id they'wbrceertainly 4d4
inidal, hit I3 est'cf: theknv4f seeded fotto
participateihthen. The ssiaoteedtinly
that "reverertial  stonishmnt which.our
f oung }Eiglisinin perh ps expected ;
asoafe    osiay afiendly.fe"ling towards
th stanigehivhos aobl heanihgseemed to
p~~     Perhaps the slumbering tie of cony
saigditiity an  Veretaon tohwsrd the cnar
try to whiehunany eathem owed their origin,
and which  gmtiybeni seend an :or icesa,
at the apearan'b    very"Englishman i
this,  uitry,'ditsibeted little.  Celnf
it is, the crowd seese~d to have forgottenbfr

I,

34

(

I

" T'%
i                  i
!     {''
6, i, jl' 1
j  ,t],
1 +'S
. ;;}i#1
$;
l     q
( rj
_.
,' , t
Z   i     _
t f
,Y i- ,
t  J
,
'. if
;  #
f
f    ,,.   '
#
r
e  '
tt7,
F
':r
u
:n  g
,. } P'
4

A1

3~~

.    i ,
' 't
,1
y   ' F
t    -  r
;
'    " .
+ J/
.j?
k    ;'
o       }
1
i
.
r
T
^ p,   $
E
. L
A' '
it i
± z
r P,
$
L, "  .S
t      v ";  '
i

2Y

.

t,
.i
:'


'. '
t .
., 3
.q
#{q
3h- 3
3+,  w
K
rf92
f-   #
"
.
Z=
I t

36                    - ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.
a moment, at least, that the young nu who of obstructing the public road to an unof.
stood befr them, was an individual of the fending traveller ?" demanded the y outh in
n timT whose troops they were just going to the same firm tone.
meet in deadly strife. Gradually, however,  " The citizens of the United? States of
different thoughts and recollections thronged North America," said the person interro-
on their minds, and their disappointment at gated, with a dignity that startled the youth
seeing an Englishman instead of an Indian, a little, and made him look at the high-
contributed to augment them.           crowned hat and his coat of linsey-woolsey
"But, tarnation ! how .did you get here with rather more attention than he origi-
to Opelousas 1" demanded the illwilled in- ually intended, "are at warwith your cou'n-
terrog:atist.                          try, as you probably know as well as my-
"From on board my vessel," was the self."
short answer.                             "I am," said the Englishman, whose
"From on board his vessel," repeated spirits began to flag a little, "neither a sol-
again a dozen voices, and the clouds that dier, nor connected with the army, and have
darkened their brows threatened now to been thrown, through a series of untoward
break forth.                        y  accidents, on your shores ; I hope I am safe
The news of the landingtof the British amongst you ?"'
troops had just reached the village, with the  "That yell soon find out," replied the
tidings of the capture of the gun-boats, and man, dryly. And with these words the
some other things of minor importance.  group closed round him, and they moved
The ill-looking questioner stepped aside toward the town,
with sme of the men, and spoke apparently
with ai air of mystery and great import-
ance,. Their glances fell from time to time       CHAPTER XIX
upon the stranger. They were soon joined,
by the rest of the backwoodsnen, and the Forbear a wIile-we'ZI hear altite more..
air of the speaker became more determined.                     SHAKSPEAtE.
The Englishman was left alone, but they  The country town of Opelousas consisted
posted themselves behind him, thus preclud- at that time of about twelve frame and log
lug the possibility of escape.         built dwellings, among which was one of
At tines, one or the other would detach somewhat a'better structure and of a larger
himself from the knot, and eye the young size. It was the residence of the squire, to-
man more closely, as if to confirm  his own wards which the drowd now  advanced.
opinion of the audacious suggestion which There was something in their manner, that
the speaker had probably started.      did not augur the best recepion   from the
Nothing could be-more striking 'than the magistrate, to whom the Englishman knew
change which this short conversation pro- he should be introduced.' He had at first
duced in the countenances and demeanor looked at the proceeding of the motley group,
' the backwoodsmen. The.familiarity with as the unseasonable merry-making of an
which they had received him9, their curiosity unruly mob, who will allow themselves a
and forwardness, seemed at once to have broad joke at the expense of a perplexed,.
given way to sold repugnance. Their man- and inexperienced traveler; but the gravity
ncr had changed to a sullen, hold, and eyen and sullen dignity, the stern looks with
haughty reserve, and they surrounded him  which he wis measured, and; above all, the
again, with their speaker at their head.  distance at which they kept, as if they wtere
* Stranger !" said the latter, in a tone of afraid of coming in closer e'ontact, deered a
authoritative indignation, "you are a susp-4 prelude to many disagreeable feelings.  .
clons person and must follow us." ..When they arrived before the house of
"And who are you, who , claim the right the squire, the whole town was collected in

I'

ROSA, TRIDA CAPTIVE.

z
f
,+
a-.

ntof it  The Englishman, with his cap- drank the health of their hostess as well as
tors, entered, and the crowd that had col- their own, withoig tforgetting thatof4 the
leted beforeethe house, now rushed vigor- pi'isoner,:whose ffat s-he'iere 'ust going'to
fly on the foremost men, and would soo  vo veso seioi sly A stranger niigh 4iat#e
hbave drawn its inates into the bak-room, entered and seen these different person sge
theorly one which the house contained Yon calmly sitting at their meal, ordrinking
'  tthefsioor besides the kitchen   As soon, their todye
th.hta .h  ro  erevdtesoonu      thir o.y, aud ho would have guessed any
howyg, athe megpereivedtth          i     inbnt thiat fierr4eali ashanqdsstionio
f ittingb1 breakfast, they stem  ed the 'cur- eb  decided, on whi~h perh~ags the eifor
rent of the ntruders with their'square-built deat of a felId nd
ret  hewdds,''h.                            J'vbeing depended:. ,Sdcalni,
backs, and the words-"=he squide's taking slow, and fernrmrya'every moiementof
breakfast,' caused an instantaneous re- the'parties engaged in eating and drinking.
treat.                                     The wife of'th squire ifrn mther to time
There was something not uninteresting in cast astoleii' a  t the es tive, as ifde-'
theeager  intrusionand iutant retreat of these sirou to eatch 'a glinpsee :oflwhat was to
rough countrymen ; .it showed a sense of come, and aboy. nd two  full=grown girls
decorum, thought the Englishman, who was looked still more attentively altheir new
not quite so much absorbedin his own affairs iguest;the squire, however, eatnrfnoved,
a to lose sight of the new objets that pe, and fully recupied with-the business fmas-
dented themselves, espeeilly as they :augur tieation which he seemed to perform witha
ed better hopes. The captors and ourcap-s steadiness, ta gives togvery  ncera its
tive, remained in tee roomey proper tim.
n"pMen, will you take breakfast V" said  I"The election in t orer?" asked he, after
he sun-burnt elderly, but vigorous-looking a lonf pause,r
justice'of the peace.                        so," replied the original'speaker with
"Perhaps that there stranger will,"'replied a sullen glance at the   Engfishmau.n  a
the Erst captor, taking arihair, and sitting A other Zng pause followed, during
himself down--aidt then pointing to thy which they finished their -fYal. When thio
suioIndiani. Thether two .inen had ti;Ie was cleared,'the justiio rose, and, open-
l'take      hairs;cig .                  iif thfe door leithe crowdiin
"Sit down, man," 'said the squire to the  "And now,' saidhe, putting an old cork
{aptive, without looking up from his place; inkstanfd,fth a pekuarched' by lag dis-
t " and help yourself  A cup, oldwoman' use, and'a quire of paperbefore' him, "to
The mistress filled encp withwcoffee, and business   What is the matter now, and who
put, it before her new guest; with plate, is toispeak f s"t      '
n feand  fork. } There was in the whole a  The.trinrirate seeiedat a" loss~'who
vztsullea piinitive civility, a stern should begin. One looked at the other with-
;formality? which  began to inspire the young  out saying a word. v        .,
nan with that respect towardshisgough bn  " Well, JoeDruufimust speak fli  ' at
' 4 anly acquaintances, which a propercoin- length aid'ine ofithe captors._ .
uct of the less informedclasses never, fail  his worthy, without-waitin 'for further
produce even on those of higher.         'mook al         hugo qeid of tobacco
ta' second repetition of the invitation, from his 'squaremouth;threw it-'into the
' iast do h to the table. It wa spread with corner of the himney, and began to state
corn,h        ggsard the case in acear, plan    ui&amp;; throvivig,
mackerel                                 however, a strong sisftcionott id=y oung
"lelp yoenr~lf, men,"  id the squire.  man.b                          on
*he; bidwoodann did not {wait for#a  'The judge* now -or thefirstime,'eyed
eondinvitation-rising,'they proceeded to the defendant more attentrrely who stood
he a le, to ta4!s   thEirlikation. *Thy l.+n4t   nole4ted before h'ii;lis'faii-es

x1

..IZ
1

,  I

5Iv'
4'f

27

f   r"
.
' 1
/, Ja
° l ',
t,
'
: =  'y
'
f'
.-,rr
i ?;
4}+ .
t   i
:ms's
" ;  }+
t
rtjY
i,
itx{  "
+, _
f
t
i      '        r
sr    i      a   1
4             tE
t r 4     i
i    f  i-   r


IT
3 fI

ROSA, wTHE INDIAN CAP'TWE.

oecaioual y varyin a&amp; little.  second cap.. Fore him that  excited his attention, and preoi.fe  a~gdlv~rdb  asfo  Osesdbmi  scu.
s iilar portion of',tbaccon ofirmed the  It was not so muich the  n ~ihrriat 'be.
statement of Joe Drum, as quickly as the h lavior daring  s'horLt tu ni eof °his i rol.
heavincs' of his.,ongue, allowed .     untary stay, for h  }a  but little o?p&amp;b't3_
"Sure'" aai d  y way p of' intrj'etlor* nits, to develops real blaraeter, but there
"yoin'r  gai'  s besotted aeeC ,rI feckb  i; wn jhithat weli=bred air, that ofti is
aend but yest &amp;~ay, whzenFIfrew ~you out.of , anal ease* which stirtied4 our. slievWd OltW  -
Lhe mud atA 1igto s,!wanp? you pronrsed tices who hadl ro b 'k seen inudh 6f-the
me firmnlynot to look at, ay li qor for these w ,orld. The' LugY shb °air  'he sawws
f axweeks."     ..      'either really at entleman,'or a"{ouii'tman
"And so I don't" replied the hard worker who by a long' isg uisoc.' had ' c4Oired case
and drinier, "I've shout zny eyes the whole ce  ssumipg ar ycharacter. Both spei s
{4ay and drLank blind, ,333%1e Ume, noif 1bahd.conic under the  hands' of the' jii tice in
+&amp;an't 8s b r~  jid a bu them ;ips and . country were.,'the. conflux of ei irayts
ljevies,"thowng ndirty Ieatheru bags wtf rom al1'arts othe','World, id ' ery' : n -
s~4oea sinal siJver rnp  - np zthetbe  lAhdLoniBI c rat'wti      h"   c
' w us  ~r~t goy that tte + Ji'1ti h n  i  f i  { *tin. ade  ' r . ; , within  h  r.
again."S               4f  '               ten y r ..                    1']'/
"Don't be s. uqy4". id tie; ehge, 'orl  Hisineih d
mutfn o.         ...      .theseR.two classes1q 4 e r  efr~Imwas
must ine   ) y p ~e~th   f,w  ;' to be referred, when ihr. e fell on a  ppr'cel
grn  Ay, andthat ye nmoPut. -, apdget        #x r         i I'bottze'
grn. uB  b  ,W  f{ e-a   '"Jusha n       cP   he re~ap~   o,
and apfitoy'by      4 o  aT-1 .e -ysaid he to the first app \ 'hen6'11"7   adi'bput
'~ Pu't  so.fa  S~l ~~ia tip  ig a p  $ ; of spectacl s dyer a sharp nost,,
" ~de.'st ern --"' owoiit nalee n a1rd. he bega F treadk, The  J $ r~t _Twas apjprocl
If         ys"                 '     .   natiimuof the eomxnap . eiral an w1i4h
Th  hidpe       hdnuw willing he endeavouredi    a  h?'   wt i'u®fe
Te'hr"    q~j      ~   e            low -citizens for the defence of the {sateai
_#         u   4  . narto tlQ tggratQ  off                               ead
sue elrs      s4we        oseyces .v      drdhliii4t arnfor the rQ eti
t a~r4a  n-~~'~~D~.~'i               f thecapita1~. Yho eond was a proelana-
n wa         ~       ~                 to. nf martial. lII   he n3litar r' i1ttiye
pechifinga-and the 1aonthes~ot.  sbec'o    acn i14Atidiee
' TheM              .4$ et       ug1the'attentaio rof every Rcitizen toward 4trai.
he kept his peacee.'tphie5p.(irf w4teqontl, xth b
Thjges tp.h         rq4al' intent o 1 "of bptra yi~ it to the ixvaders.
asue  ht$~e4O~~prlxd" "Themn two papets "; padh           f a. 'sde-.
q ,'to  1ih  M   I liable, 'ho, agecus- libe~r at  e pac,'appl'A  or drolne
tome  ''7I 1    ;Va slowly * steadily. "Let's hear them'"!?e1         444l t}
through his  . a~f daily rwor , seet hi  .r'of voies.' '4
asf udd  eyc1bd ipou.to decide a matter"  The ju~triee began.ito read iu t *  slw {
of much i       oaneet ani everi had py-'tone  'ihh'betrayed tsht 'he 1hnei p, . P5
~yqsy~  before hi. r"p, better  how to. ban g:1aaixe. thanma volume
Though cases weea dri o    irnOt      of black letter.                 ;
..se4    in imto'..upserior tribunalp, .aid*' fl"'Ire onI,1 saul a 'ri de from annfa
kresM6Aidelmougikt  i7we
tckr0 had even been tom~e lirogmg natters  tod  ta teesrne
" r  t Lourse o©.'isa     tr.: career, yet trouble lui sef a bit."
thee  assomthnginftibidivd st          ' i . wa  rr' .on iecan uh. kie  h

33

th-in ,",sub oine .9a dQZe 1 others, impa Tent  " ]But I am neither ar soldier nor a s
t h  p peIg of their .                dz srr' si Vi  "as
. h  jusvpe tlirowyau 1tcrrogatlva 1ano  -7 ".          fIa
at the young man,4 which being returned ?in'   "Well ,go. on."'
4   a tsfaet ry ; nan9nr, he . JaxdrJi4 i   'f"y ill starS threw me on your shot'!.eFt F, rtf-f  Ii  6jY y
p..    _ .".oti ehrbeeni ship v~che l V' t1 w u-.
'There w     ; Iit Q1, sehsat O~n. produced ed the judge, in a t ne which indi t1&amp; aw
arn~pg tl eu torn. T1ey.nQW  o1ed at   llrrnative'anSWer, ' r~      t }"''sa
him with that sort of increased esteem  hk~h "'No, ' frii ui Yvc sd had been bard
a lier tf man kis sure, to ohtarnfrom the  by th e pirates 'at' Thratiaria1' nd Wee  .
ignr ,t', When, he4 ,had' tfiuisIhe4,  aeep, tak~enii isonerst by their~
pause ensued.a                          f 'There  wus= genieral'i r' ailing to
I '=") ung     n.,'.demnuded, the jiistd, crow kd. ~hte6 of th prtofhaati  y
with an opening anid encouraging gfiance, jvho had for so? long a time. infested . ti
i  'what have you to say: in your defence ?0  osrdo    hm-e ntylrvgn
"' Aevrd    to these; papers," rpf e  hes~iswerand of. wou' ' ina y avtramagan
"   nthmari l   md~estonly firm tonme, s41 desire'  hear afrightful tale inteilarded&amp;'
o6,th  artillaw'tenda only the 'dis- ivth some desperately fought bt ttkes
=4 nct of _the eapia j,.How frare we fronmit '"t3eLet's hear soiethi'of he'ruh.
4'To hUtidred uies by water."   ''era 1" cried to   o en';vices i; ,f.
- .Theu Isupposo, thi. putL oK heontry '~  eep  'your 'e P ''said teutc..
's not n e hded }i the anetioue l district 7' ',"We' have 'no time to listen to stories, How.
I44     ", P' s    usiceuwthan emp hasis didi you:esc p~ foth the pitat' strong .
f  th a t  h o w cd  h i d  f eB i ng  A  w e  f a v o r a b le  t c4 h o ld 1 '   ' t e E g  " I  o e e  i c l '   '4   .4 m t  _
x. tai4n, he. a til  :A thy  enjoins u nn fown of  ; ypri en ' by means of Wianket
ever American   t~inu the apprelj ension off whichi'I'cu~t' to piecesrandthe ulia'
suspected. er ones feQ dwitbin. the linesof of 'their fort, aid' eAehedl tie bei'"
p~h    does ~o ttnd to these arty  ""And did you coeon  fromi the' slad4 of
"Then'~ you    v ce'tin1y t no right,"   "No," aald the'. nishtnn, who e
continued tireEnghi an. encouxa ed by ra ity did niot admit of =aei  iuinthentiou,
the placid . untelk:c of tie'ju ipe, ."to "1 went intO'a yt il; aid  }strong.south'
te     rv~rnq erctxy            hmaesel         ri    u      wa ~       .-series of accidents has thrown in your way." '  "And' how. did you come by this Iiirlian
"Ay, but tho ecident yob muis st toe  ss ' 'ou"'didn?t.  bt ,it' fromv th
ae, nd p"iiiove''?i  a ,rr°xc4 the jus4cer "You. ;pirates'  "' '"  ° 'r  4  '.  
know atones iare .easier {tteltant  roe. "N"i-
. The law says, anr tbim papers. too, that  "F ell', where did &amp;u get it ?'"
VR5 s   nc=trvipg, ,it' in th  sate is # The young imau  vasileot:
to _bo detained, , lces he e  gihmate  " Wel; speak ydurmxind' laidi~ ~l It
'  himself duly with a asspqrtp, sbscikbed b it'etr  "saidthe  justice, #en  !  .ln
th proper authorities. It's weluaerspo  him. nt~i~mo~to
, ' ven if I bad my pasprt-=abqut . c, it I came by' the t dreg  i  ih s sert,'and
'W} t of not satisfy you 1hei a igned b , the cannot be o a any mprtanee in Ethe present
'English gut oei'nnxtwith  ('u..7 y, '   ",, ., - W9 ho ~ye'  9r Y
{ar.  '    '   . a  _              ".Ay, aild ?of:he ver 'irst d iaortase

4'

y
°,;
;i ;
i
;j f ,
' r j
,r-
ii   '.
.   {,,i $
j2, 3?
FLEE
f
,fi;s,
"fir
FiS
'r'  i
"                     {
"
:j"#!  _,
p,
--t's'
~
-
_          " ;
1
"               '  Cm
,d   V
1                   f        " 1
4  j           _         ,,      5
7      'A '}   'r7
i
f      v %i
i
L f   L
E3  '#    i ,
t      f     .?
1, zi
i       I
.}           %i

i9 r
3  e
44 ti
X44

.
t
-  _- ,


,
. ;
.
Y
a

40                      ROSA, THE IN
maybe a good enough one; but you are to
answer a heavy charge, preferred against
you by two aen, and the comnmonwealth in
general." '                       4
"And what is theirE charge ?" demanded
the Englishman,proudly
"That .you are one of those emissais.
ad spies' who are sent by your government
-0to ts shame be it spoken.-to-excite the
savages, who live within the.pale of our
lavWs and jurisdiction, to deeds of.,blood-
sh4 a°dmassaere against poor _helpless
fsnilies.'"             :, s -"
:The young man east a haughty, indignant
glane at tle justice and the to plaintss_
who stood before him; but the charge was
so unexpected, and his real danger stared
hir now so frightfully inthe face, that he
could not find words for a long while. -He
was prepared to be detaiei and qgestioned
-perhaps even to be sent.dhwn to the eity;
hbthe was ignorant that an expedition had
been fitted out to attack the very place
which he was bound to. Above all, hehad
neverheard anything respecting the re tions
in whih' his Goverument tood to the In-
dians, and that his: proud countrymen h td
d fifdrgottea their standing as to avail
themselves of these poor wretches. 'TVhe
more-degrading-and really. panialous such
a reproach, if'true, must hayo been to' him
the greater in hja momentary confusion4
"It's a downright lie !" he was near ex-
eaang
' Stop ' cried the judge, who had atten-
tentively read the countenance of the youth,
and seemed afraid lest an unguarded wprd
might involve him in a quarrel with his
powerful antagonists, which he foresaw
would.be-the -inipnediate consequence. .
"I ha'np~tno notion of seeing my house
turned into a battle-ground. If you can
give satisfactory proofs how you came by
yourdress, and that you are not guilty of
theehbarge brought against you, it. is well
for you. If not, I must arrest you, and send
yea down to head-quarters."
'You know your duty," sai4 the Eng-
A long pause followed,

4' '
TiAN CAPTIVE.
"Perhaps," resumedlt1 e justice, 5oa
have procured thendidairess f'rin  e of
them redskins thataka still=lurkniug in 'anr'
forests.' Gan youtelhts'where ?" "4  4  .
" I cannot tell you that," said the futh.
"It would be easy for me to tell you an
untruth.  1ut that shall never be  Rest
assured, however,'that I am ieither an em
iessy' no r agypy.§'
T    ohe judge cast, despondinglance at
the young man, whose hobnesty evaded his
suggested though obvious hint. '
"'Then I must setta you'down," added
e    "   "f'   '  '4
"I desire it," said the youth, who ex-
pected that it would be mueli easier-to clear
himself 'fromn'stich a suspicion before'men
Who, from their higher standing,:would be
more competent te"appreciatehis character
than thesea'ekwoodsni. The 'vicinity
pf the Englishcamp itself, among whose
oficershe was ud't tohAVe some aequaint'-
ancesmight, perhaps, cntribute to losen
the Gordian knot: and he hoped:,to find,
even in the city, some Englishina  who,.
being acquainted - with his family; would
ive thenecessary security.'-
"Bah !" sti that be of theb captors
whose tongue  i5 -the heaviest, :l  'i
go! A spy more or less won't- -niake no
difference.  Let'm  red-skins come-we'll
fight 'im andBritish'toO."  -.F
Therkias a symptthising' stir ambngst
the crowd; but the  eater- art observed a
sulleh  silence.  '''    '4  4_'.-
"That jdu mightthave:done, as long as
ho was in yuirhan s," said the justice in a
low tone, 'and before youa brought your
charges before. me [now it is too late."
"Ay, _tIbe sure,".echoed twenty' voices. '
"A4 and'the proclamation, says that
very man'alhould appreheid and catch them
there spia."
"Gloom !Itsad the justice addressingthe
ill-willed peake  '!I reckon weain't worse
men thani yeare, but-h'ng me 1if  should
have talked so ih ch, asyou did-to catch as
ane a lad as ever trod in his own shoes. )ou
.d better .indyowr own business  oung
man," said he, trringto the Juglishnau.

RIOiA, .TiE .I4N CPTIVE.                           41
"Imust go _aegording to the law. I.am fineient of the prisoner caused some eon-
sorry for yoti. It is severe for-a free coni  sultation. "The justiened the discus-
try; and I am afraid thorn gentlemenown sion b    Tsayipg thati edOuladnIe auot
the river are still more so; but theykdnow dthse things, andtel th~ein afterward; and
their own business, and we are at war. the c  d then seytated"
Your countrynfen, however, have desered  .gain the'noise "rose; and in avfewminii-
it ; and the blood deeds to which thyhrve utesVthe little town wa literally in'it np-
instigated the brave Tecuisch, and the roar. An old druinhproeuredlhaven knows
Oreels, justify  our watching.  Whethr; llereewas strIck with a forgo that shook
you are a soldier or an emissary will be the very windows, and was acdompaied by
found out, You've not infringed our peace, a ife, ;laying %Aln4ce Doo e, in tones -as
true enough, but maybe you have broken shrill gund "distiit as can be imagined.
the peace of the country, and therefore I; Then followed the uauas firings at random,
must deliver you upto a higher tribunal."  and paci ork lines and manaeivresupnd
There was in the whole proceeding of the down the street:     _
justice, and even of the surrouidin crowd  "And do you really think that this un
notwithstanding the evident indications of founded suspicion int y pove of a sriousia-
simple rusticity, a manliness, a straightfer tiLre 7' demanded the Englishma,  iwhenhe
ward downright plainness, that seemed even saw  tnself alone with e4 inaist6ewho
not ashamed to lay open its own defects, began to write the evidence f the casein
which caused a tremulous feeling gradually characters a legible asihse we find ' on
to creep over .our young mn, who had th     reeorner.       '
hitherto presented a firmness that would ' At such a tinie nothiingis'unfounded that
scarcely have beenexpected.: He hadflooked may inflict a wound on ourselves, 6i  th
for nothing else than, a petulant andarro- piri4 of-ur enem is, j rt ne'yns tce.
gant questioning, mobbish. language and 'I tell ye, younan,' that unless'you at
pelting, and. a vulgarshow  of 4 superiority prove in why r'panner you have been forced
towards dreaded enemies.- He, could not into your disguise you 'are a dead  rian,
even help similing at the naivete with which '"IdbIdur jaw, yyoman, said he, turning
they-soloirted iisassistance in the intepe- to his wife, who " stod-  ti  a 'yiyg
tration of the.proclam tion. Butthe order, glnce, at his side, muttering ifow andthen
the steadfastsrepublican s ernpess, jnd grave a word intohis ear. "These pranks of yours
formality with which everything fas trans- wont do here. Youkndw'iwat Mr'  Gens
acted, tle patience -with which ,the , inotley tillon told mrh Devil i"-muttered he, "it
crowd listened tothe long proclamation,tand theyave d1n- that withthat mad, hat
the active interest that every one took in would theydo with a poor country squire?
the public concern, as if it were that of his No, no," continued he, after a thdughtfil
own family, could not fail to produce a cr- pause, "I thought-but there are tooamai
responding effect upon our observing En  glooi is; addhe prodanitions have
lishman, who began to perceive that hi  done tieir work. No, no, yourmust'relyon
prospects, depending as they were on apee- yur own godosience, nd on thegreat
ple of-this;cast, were far from being flatter- f aster. But," added he, after a pause, du-
ing-.     .                             ing whichlie"eput ten'tines his pen on the
The justice spoke to some of the nenre- paper, and gave up the task again as often,
specting the secure Iodgment of the captive. "there I ha t riake out the'evidenie of
The:sherif and the constable were absent, yourSpprehensioi just for nothing  and
and the jail was broken open, the Inst pris- hang me," throwing the paper aside, "if I
owner, a negro slave, having :forced the door, can find words to  fill that scrap. Though
and escaped into the woods. As the neces- I expe    s tm great men down will pay but
Ssary mechanics were' not at hand1 the con- little attention to the airibbling of an old'-

I

1

Y
h*
'

I

3f ,
t           +
p+"
4',"   i-
t4x '

t
#-     i

F    i
'
-           5
t
'k .
!i
'.     5 .
,a
:
__
t j}}
1   ! (      ,l
fr        sJ
"'  'S .
' :.


I1

42                       ROSA, 'PI    t   AN  CAPTIVE.
country squire. No, I hain't no notion  what jou please,' said, shu0   g  after
they'll do that, They area sort of -quick, her husband into the street..
short-handed,. ready fellows, they ate, who,  The Englishman now commenced 'writ-
in their military pride; care devil a bit for a ing his owncdnimnitmhent. H did it in a
poor msgistrate. .But niayhap they would. short, 'precise' style, apd with that candor
Y9uPg man, you are a true and hdhest lad, which was natural'tohiri',' and it vas fin-
l warrant me. .You have time. Just sit ited- in less than a quarerof'an hoil;
down-there is paper and ink-and you may,   "  alobo'!" said the'returning 'squire,
write what you think .proper; and I'll sign " they 'are lighting again. We imut ho
it. and put, my name, with the crosses of the quick, or they .woi't 41e atle to put'their
two captors, duly undor.  Mayhap they 'marks under. Have you'done, nian I?
mought read it. Just si down, lad."      Arthur handed him the pdper.
- T1ere was something, after.all, extremely  "4y, and as niice as ever' caine from  a
ludicious in this to our Englishman. lie goose quill. Well, 01A   olnah, 'go call
had beaono his own. defeiidant, attorney, them two men, and sucli as choose fo cohne.'
and now clerk too. Without' moment's      The summons of the *rnanwas answer
hesitation, however, he prepared bim eif for ed by the irruption of the whole crowd of
executing the demand of the honest justice, white men. The justice read the evidence,
mho was stepping out to look after the do- signed the paper, and laid itbefore the two
ings of his countrymen,' He took the captors.
stump of the miserable pen, trying with his  " Ay, that's fone of your hand-wHting, i
best efforts to write with it-but it was iin. roared Ir. DickG loon, the principal ae-
poasible.                               cuser.                       ".{  y
"With-that there thing, you cannot write,  "And if it ain't; havd you anything to
man,'esaild the wife of the squire, laying a say against it'?" returned the judge. " Thl
wingf'the wild goose on the tale: "there laclhas caused me more trouble than a dozen
you'll find plenty of quills.9 -        of yor common blackguards, and I reckon
She had already passed the meridian of it is -btt'just he should have a little of it
life, but was still a healthy, and even abux- himself.,
om-looking woman.                  .       'Ayand str it is,* said'the rest of' the
"But what, for heaven's sake, as brought fen. "It is as'ylan d'  tinre aS though
you to Opelousas, when ,you must' have it'had been written by the squire himself.'
lgnown that our people were gathe ing from ' "if, ' said oie' of' the bystanders, " as
yll- ends of. ths garish ?  Why didui't yobu you a e so ready a hatat the quill, yep
wait till night?  We could then have done inay'as well have a little job, and seJust put
something for you. Mr. Gentilon is not then there naues On that thiu bit of paper:'.
far, and we bought have sent you there: tearig'a' scrap of paper frota the quire
e is as. finp a gentlerpan as livus on' the  vhioh lay on the table, and holding it' with
naks of the Mississippi. But now- all is both hands on the table. '" Put here, man,'t
over-they'l9 hang you; jou may cd sure said he, "er-squire--below Joe Drunt-
9f that."       '=and'Elias Shad:"                         -
The prospect was not. very eoosolatory  fWell," said the-laughingequile,"here
But the youth listened with interest to the you have at once plenty of business, and-I'lI
e usionsof the good old dame.           warrant they will very aon find otu hdWto
"Perhaps," co tinued phe. "you mought employ you."
till get up there.. We1lltry it." - '     "Ay, so we will," said twenty of  theme
Womnan !" muttered the s uire, pottin  every orie tearingbff, piece -of paper, after
his hea4 -through -the door,' noneof ' 6 having before domanded'permission witha
y    tellyu'                        knowing 'nod-and approiueliirkg the 'youth
"Never mind inm. and"just put 'down ihi their' turn,.

"This is'an election," said the English-
man, smiling, "if I am not imistaken."
" Ay, so it 'is-write;down, man.":
"Ay, and h' sha'n't do it for nothing,"
laid one of the bhckwoodsmen, who elbowed
himself out of the room, and soon came
back, with a'bottle filled with liquor.
"d6This is a vote,"'said'the Englishman,
smiling, "if I am not mistaken."
"aAy, so it is-Mrite 'down, rxan."
"'top, men, eried the one who had re
turned' with the bottle. a' Let'mn take a-
dram first-your health," said he, raising
the tumbler, and drinking three-fourths of
its contents himself=-" drink, man+"
"Much obliged to you," returned;the
laughing Englishman.
"Ay; 'it .is genuine Mississppi rum-
should have plenty but for them Britishers."
The Englishman continued writing. The
businesswent. on iwthout interruption, each
of the men waiting patiently till the one
before him had been dispatched.e When he
had written about one hundred votes the
erowd became thinner, and at last he war
left;alone.                        a
C HA~ XX.
Come on, come on, come on; gih c yo
an, 's: an early stirrer, by the odd..-.
SHAXSPEA-E.
k Well, lad I I'am glad- of it, fort our
sake,"'said the squire, who had returned?
from the street; "they have'inade me their
captain, and mayhap, I shall b"able et do:
something for you. But they are fghting
again,'" 'added he, turning, to' his Svlfe.'
That envious rCature, Dick, cannot bear
his defeat."       '
"What's'the matter ?" derhanded shO, in
a tone that showed she felt herself fully en-
titled to take part in every transaction.'
"Ay, that there fellow wanted the cap-
taincy, and I kiow they beai-lhita grudge;'
he is as sour' as a limle. Deuce knorwhit
bargain he had-and they are' just 'aueing
him in red brine."
S   " Won't hurt him," said the old v man,
with nucii equanimity

'Bat 'et'" havidiniai4 fid"or an, and
bottle  f col'd'Monoahela s't d'ows,
'lad'aud-dot riakeyourrif. 'nneasy- a
been myself Ir many"ueh brapesadin
one when I could nevei have thought to
esape with awhliskin/  God =bless 'him
-a true-Indian he"was, though a -tdrroto
the poor people beyond the Ohio, hut asnO-
ble a red skin as ever roaid the :wodd.
Little thought I'to see another day, 'but just
i the harp knife was running 'idnd'
"dead, you may Mill see the mark of it "Msid
he, pointing to a red streak round the iroWiA
of his gray head-" then canre Teeich,
and tookme seder his proteeti i shi
never forget that noble fellow, ior'willI y
couitryen" that ' he delivted A  biive
and noble warrior he 'was; nose of yOut
skulking eowardly red-skins, Who arid
ing in our woods, andrshooting awaylot1
game for a draiof whisk ey."  t'
"Ay, and that dry fellow," interard
the 'wife = of the 'squireupttin'g a yoasted
wild gooset with sundry other dishes ebh'he
table'; what d'ye'all him ?'I   ' - 4
Tokeab, the mike of ~he Oeuees ,tets
me aload with-him," replied t'hs4ird :
You knot'" said thgeEngllslimati, With
a suddeness and veheinence that :startled
his' hosts,              hmslbue'tdi'
ieht,-but re-posessing hnslgeia
ed in cooler /tine-" a' goodmanT things
about the Indians.         ..        : '
hatete 'do," returned thejustice, e st
ing a shrewd"glance at thelseddodndiarr-
t bu nothing abountTokeahforthany year
It is as it head been skalloddbythe seaw
NoIU atrace'ls left ofl hI :,
" Ajt and poor'Rosa 7" aid his wifee'o -
"Rosa !" exclaimed t 4finth; forgetting
hitiseif a second tihr  a "
!The squire and his'ife ehadged signt4
flcdnt glanees, but, without speakirigaayb de
they spit down to dinner.  -  I
I wonder only,'- said' the wonian,''ear-
Png the goose, A' what ihas become of: thas
pretty-child.' I shallidetcforget that night
as long as:Ilive."           y
"Confopnd him," sai'the justice, forget
ting his injunctiont:Samuel, "I wish'he
wereit thendevil i and..Nthrugh I care little

;_
I

I
I

:tOsA4 Tf , II AP#I.

I '  f he 1,p,
,
r
°
+

I
z     e

, 11
_f
;I
2'
"  '      z'  "

-
{;


i.

_-
is a
.
= "
-
°
t

ROSA, THIE.-INDIAN CAPTIVE.

for the red skins, that fellow made my blood. I can do anything for you, I'll do it without
chilly as often as I saw him. Ay, and he a bribe. I know how you feel; I was my-
was just everywhere and; nowhere. No; I self thongbound with my wife and my chil-
shpuldn't like to-have him within a'couple, dren.: Little do I want your gold, nor do
of hundred miles."                     my children-eight of them  are married,
"You have then experienced some har  and must look out for themselves, and then
adventures, and know doubtless how one two girls have their stout arms that miust
hust feel, who sees himself torn from the make them'a living, and something:besides.
side of his friends and relations ?" said the I forgive you your bribe. I know I would
youth, doubtless with the intention of sound- have offered all I was worth, when the knife
ing the judge, whose intention, if not suspi- of that cold-hearted red skin passed round
cion, he saw was excited by his unguarded 'my scalp. But that's another case. Then,
emotion.                               again, do you think -that your escape wou I
The justice cast a scrutinizing glance ever be possible?  Young 'man, I see ye
from his plate, or rather wing of the goose, know little of these states-you are from a
en his guest.                      .   country where the people seldom  act; un-
" And do your laws absolutely enjoin less they are bidden; where they dare not
you to send a poor, harmless) traveler to do anything for the good of their country,
head-quarters under so slight an imputa- for fear his majesty and the hundreds and
tion ?" continued he.,     ..         thousands of lesser tyrants would be dis-
The justice cast a second glance at the pleased. I remember such things, when
speaker.                               Louisiana was still in the hands of the
"I don't know-whether we are obliged," Spaniards, and when I boated down the
said he, after a pause. "The martial law  Mississippi tg New Orleans. What a poor
don't stretch so far-and as for generals and life them fellows had of it ! And we could
military, we care just as much about them not even approach the banks Qf the river,
as for any, other men. No, no, I don't like unless boarded by a dozen blackguards, in
them martial laws-Mr. Gentillon has told shabby ragged uniforms ; soldiers and ofii-
me a good many things, which I should cers of the customs, as they were called:
wish, for the good of my bright young coun- they came up to us with their hands open
try, had never happened; but he is a like so many beggars. We couldn't sell a
Frencher, and looks with a French eye. pig without silvering them ; even vyhen we
But still there must be something, in it."  landed, heavens ! what a watching and spy-
"Justice," said the youth, turning alter- ing there was.  They look  upon us
nately to him and his rifle, "I am rich. If Americans as on so many'devils.. And after
a thousand, if two thousand pounds are not all, there was cheating, and robbing, and
sufficient, I will doublethat sum; it is of dirking, amid poverty and, slavery--away
the greatest importance tome toretch home with such a life--no, one dared to lift his
as soon as possible."                  hand, unless permitted by the governor and
The justice paused as if to give him fur- his helpmates; cud every day you might
ther time foraexplanation.' ".Young man !" hear of murder and stabbings. Ay, I know
said he, and his countenance assumed a something' of them countries, but here is
grave expression-" young man," repeated another,.thing. Here the people are the
he, "I have been, as I have 'told you, in sovereigns; ay, and as good ones, I war-
similar scrapes, andhave seen a good deal rant ye, as them of the old country, and
of the world; but all your English gold, and better too, because they cost nothing. Look
if you offered ten hundred times as much here," said he,," rising from the table, and
more, couldn't bring abott what you mean, opening the door, as if intending to look 'at
evenfif things had not gone sofar. You see the surrounding erowd-a man with a rifle
before you a magistrate, and-a captain. If on his arm stood before the;entrance. The

44.

4

vt

F

F
Id
pIi  -

'I
a-

OA TH      DIAN CA PTVE.
dstice gazedfor a while at the multitude  thenn,'though.there be not a single =ocked-
and shut the door again.         -     'hatmanibigst us."'
{ Iook here," said he, taking Ste  n g Th'eepo6f rifles had been heard all
li h   ,an' .hand, and leading him tothe win "thstiife  iiik sticessiou.
. .            r"aaThey'a'shooting at a mark," 'said the
doo that opened out on the jail  A coupe  se, "and if ye'l just tep' with me
of mene were working with such tools as the the door, ye may see them. Look"there !"
hurry df the day had thrown into their way. said he,opening the floor . A  target tas
" Look R":said he, "them men are going to stuckup on .the margin of the river ; 'a d
repair the jail, in order -to'eceive its new the menehot from the middle of the' street.
inmate, that's you-rio one has bidden them  " There you may stand for'houns or the
to do it  nor that fellow who stands at the whole day, and re'l1 searcely'find ten shots,
;back door of-my house with a loaded rifle- out of a hundred which have'inissed the  '
it is their own doing. 'But you sha'n't go ring, and none which have mis'sed the tar-
to the jail; mj' woman has her own notions, get. The" distance; is; as" you see,, full a
and I 'mttst fellow her orthere will be trou- hundred and fiff  yards.' Ho! niy lad,"
ile in the house. You are 'no jail bird- added' he, shutting  the door, ".escape
your fade don't look so. You shall stay would'nt do-you would have the 'whole
with Sqdire Copeland. But, - to' return to pack; like so 'many blood.hounds, at-your
o ir Sties again. Ye'll find it the same heels'; and, like theth, they would -scent
through the Union, if youll travel'thousands your trail, and hunt you throughthe swamps,
of miles iii these United'States they'll not though it were to the banks of ;the abine.
wait fororders; but they'll just do such 'Bucome, ld, don't be downcast make a
things unbiddenwhich they think necessary 'hearty'dinner, and then 'take a nap for a
for the coxnmoti 'weal and 'safety 'of thiir couple of hours, and then a ride withn to'
country. The face is, you can scarcely feel Mr. Gentillon's. "You sha'n't stay oaer
that 'there is a governnient'amongst asr; ye night here-no, nor shall you enter the jail.
are not aware that we have a government. Mr. Gentillon willodge you'safely. There
You are your owni master, and may do as you are secure, and maybe he'll donorefor
ye please in a country where We .govern you than poor 'Squire: Copeland;'don't be
ourselves; ay, and well too. Let yourself bashful, lad; don't lose your spirits." There
be betrayed into a foolish action, and ye'll are mpnv ups and downs- Ihave had them
find that the law will set as tightly upon ye, myself, and my skii is'still whole, as you
ay, and more 's, than in theknost tyranni- see. Now, old woman, cheet up that lad"
.cal couinti-y. But else ou have no master;
you are your own master. 'o you'uudr-    '
stand my meaning ?" demanded he, a little '  '     APTER
emlarrasseo in his fervor to lay the state of   '  '
1tin sin his country as clearly as psibeosl  y th e met s, Fhave drs too mn smc k ak
before tle' yguth. "'that comes from a isper. A    od arkt 2o     sit dow
country where every one takes an interest now stdown:-Coddouss  -'
in publicaffairs, and in the public welfare, ' t !rj    .   SHiJA1 SPiiAlUE.
and just as much bse should; andhtbat'   it has been patent'to the reader that the
the ,yery thing. Now you may perhaps kind-hearted Squire Copelan4-:perhaps in-
4hink ;ear, ountrymen vwill have a '   fiubne'd s tirWhrat'by his wife-wasdiisos-
gamed-but I tell you, you are mistae ed to givd'the yonngr F~glish' captive: the.
let th~eBrit,igh eoipu, ad Iwarrtan y&amp;-J benefit' df the most latitudinarian construe-
wont we'll best them, no, I won't sa~  ntiof the proclanlatioiihich had been read.
thatt, though 1l ou' insay so ; but 'I1 in'eourt-and,4nilecd, could the' have done
you, man, they'll find 'us ready" to receive' so 'without imanirg a responsibiity whsoai

1
L
t
i
s

4
bI",
f  '


AG          1?OSA, TL1IL  4 CPTIVE.

]

n~sX, Tfl IDIANCAPTIV.

his positions as a civil sagistratesanddna p- hbad -perceived hehindthe Venetig blinds
tan of a militia company, involvd, voql  Such is man ! Iis hear wps.Miwith
doubtless have releasehim  jonditionally  Rosa, who sat enthroned init inalliier lo.
This responsibility b. prf redimposipg liness; yethe had'seeri the sparklie of bright
upoa another--a man pf authority, amnein  eyes from behind the'blind, and cortespnd.
 of the stato senate, ths r.Gentillori ing curiosity began to manifest itself. Wh'at
of whom   mention has been made above, youth can resist some tender emotioni if in
Je accordingly. togk the prisoner to that -greeable .o rtena"ce, urks4ehind, anele-
gentleman,whoa after hearing the statement gant curtain or a Venetian blindK?' Arthur
.of the case, reeeived fths young. mai with entered the saloon.  ;
much kiudness, ang took immedia te steps to  "Good day, Mr. Gcntilkm t" said the-
have him divested of hi lndiandisguise dad honest squire, "I did not kiow you. was up
habited  in the  costume of a; gen1e= --thought you down at tlhe head-quarters.
man. , To this end he placed  im in te Eaig me ! if that ain't the Indian lad.",e
hands of a eelored servant, who was consid- claimed he, shaking the young man- by the
ered a fi ;ip performing the, ties of the arm, acid leading him towards the window
tonsorial art as well as thesa of 4v k4t de -'"Ay, ay, and so it is. Well1 well, all s
chabre.riglit---and I am glad, hoy% yon are here !"
The young mad was conducted to a neatly  "Per mit me to introduce you to my fna-
furnished bed-mom by his sable usher, sup- ily," said the 'senator, who entered from the
plied with watt, soap and towel,.and left second door, and  led  both  gentlemen
to perform hs toilet alone.             through several apartments, into the din.
After half an hour, his featpres had again ing-room. They found three ladies there.
assumed their natural, hue, to his no small  "Madam," said the senator, "I have the
advantage. The black again made his ap- pleasure of introducing Mr. Arthur Graham A
perance, staring him in the face, ii utter as your ,uest, and I ,hope my children,"
astonishment.             -             turning to the youngest females, "will en-
"Them   ladies will now like massa bet- deavor to make Mr. Grahaxm 's stay with tia
ter," 'muttered he. On the table in his as little tedious as possible."
room lay several suits of the latest french  A slight curtsy followed, performed with
fshion.                                 a grace and ease that made hiinsurfoo be.-
"Massa must sit- down," said the negro, ing welcome.- During theshirt pause that
placing a chair, and taking his apparatus ensued, the members of; the party seemd
from his pocket.                       fully employed in examining the new objects
The youth east an inquiring glance at the which were'thus praiented, in that lancing
black artist. No -man of fashion likes to manner, which the more' civilized world
trust the most important part of his owi) permits.    °
dear self to a bunger, but he sat down, and  Madame Gentillon was oe of those mud,
the first cut of flambo convinced him that benevolent beings, on whose fide is  itten
he was an adept. Wien both head and face in legible characters,' that 'theylive aid
were disencur.ee of:their superfluities, he move in the 'happiness 'of iheir feinilie .
selected from anong the suits, a blue coat There was a visibI acquiescenlterina h
ith similar pangloops, nd a-light blue measures of her husband, thatseemed toih-
waistcoat.. ie was out, culed, and dressed quire 'very little into the character of her
in the most becoming manner; norcould he new guest, though a melancholy expression
resist casting frequent glances at the mirror, showed how deeply she felt these' awkward
surveying himself with much satisfaction, ness of her situation.r
and with a mien, in which seemed to lurk  The daughters were blooming girls. The
som ething like a desire to know a little one had evidently reached the zenith of that
more of the enchanting bla'k eyes that he charming age when the heart 'i longing

nter realities. Her jet-black eye -ested for
inoment on the stranger, with an open atd
somewhat' arch exp spion, and. when it
withdrew, it was done with anF air that stold
plainlyI am already -dngaged. Thy se4
cond daughter seemed to have just arrived
at'the threshold of the'virgip age; and-the
"long silken lashe', underegath-'which the
hazel eye turned:languidly d4u the +hgudsome
youth, and again sank downwards, spoke
Mrs Graham," said Mrs.     entillon
"has a mother in Jamaica, who is weigng
'or himn V
The Englishman bowed.
:And a sister ?subjoined the eldest of
the tvaO jirls, who, from her prospects, felt
her~eiprobably entitled'to become a. lead-
ing  iexnber of' the eonyeisation.. "And. is
-she roely in the ituds of that- that- --oh,
I do not know what to call himri ?"
"dall him piate,"; said the senator, smil-
ing.            'w '    '  J'
"'But, papa! hew y'ot like.to  mharra
x  'I?-by no means  Lonly, like preci-
sion, and now the more so, as our.dinged.
waiting for us.?G
Mir.;DickGloom nog stumbled into tb
rimand satidow, Th dishes :ere d&amp;
Ilicious,the Burgundy .exquisi e, th  rpm,
esa~oringsteJJdqnire   peland sud Di k
Gloom's opinion, better than the best British
aJi1raky - sepiiot =hiehsremainedun4
coht oeted,ists ,therothe,; meznbers of .th
;   i  partygireferredKFrench wing-apd  o
Uplartiesiwerecintent. 'The eo.vergationi
however, during;dinnerwas niorgIangdishi .
agSthanmight'hav'beert epeqte frsm the
gay spriightliness! of :he ;14er da ughtr
The senator evidntly.repressed ap. unre4
strgine&amp;L merrient, that, under,{preseint cir-
eumatanees,  i dght perhaps offe4the f l
wings of hi guest. After they hitd' take  a
etip ofstrong coffee-the squire and Dck
Gloom, however, adhering to their rum--
they o5  roiuthe' table'
'  "And how do y'ot like, sir, onrcointry?7'
;inquiredthe senator, Wh n they were again{
seated on the sofa.

" The  ataksb$.the Mis issippi prpent
beautiful views and excellent situafionunt
the rest.p a yperemud-hole."
"Your pardon," returned the senator.
"'onjadgo froi ist sight . and h  of'
court edoes nOt, present;the most agree bWe
viewVbut yom&amp;eemn to forget thatsthis.part
of the country i nft; yet settled. Y',gep
fir these sanp ;:Louisiana hasrospn to
expect'mnch'future-wealth,' Perhaps.en-
tury may pass before these morasses will e
drained, and in a state ' j ultivation..  t
should this'once.beeffep ed, they will .be real
and mnxhaustihhl gold-mines.
' A hind ed year1'.'acried, the sql ,
with indignation;' " In-ten years yem y
raise m4llions of ;hogbeadl sof sugar. , Is
the nesticountiyin the wold-"
gThere you   e 'area&amp;itaken, aguit li e
hundreds of my fellow-citizens, vho, le_
fond levels; beholi altejad4hser splaudid
effects f our free institutions which anaply
bd'theb resit'aftimne and ofop prous ;x-
cumstanices." f F,'_
i"A  d  n  tFoudeOk after the grey ?"'
i                     ded the sqjire,'wo ha4 expressedtl lit-
tlb interest he'took .in tiLppuversatio  by
frequent yawningthat resounded on the
piazza not unliken the'haronious gobJig
of a turkey.
Our igaodsquie hidnot advanced inhis
philanthrbpienotions quite so farras.to for-
get hi oivnminteres..and by permittgag the
Englishman to ride his favorite horse, lie
wished to $vaithims 1f,is horse an pip,
'to bring the sema19t tQ  f4by g n:t,
':That the    da g gd tell you, neatr,
what a fine beast he had   xide mjpon  Iy
I:dedif: he did tdlr the cotton' tree yon-
yden just hs if it~s a  e i itog."
i J To rnorrciwt-or w/ said the na-
'Ay; to-n crrow' nmustb down at Point
npee with    p people, of there wI "be
ightitig,andrthe 4I} knows what.""
E"Well,-if  aou 4j ist," said the gqnale
senator,"' 6 .wiUl g down if Mr. grah n
is not too much tired."
'  klad likehii, a;n  tired ? -Now, gena-
tor,' yon shallsoseerbow tired he is."

aI

46

si

f

i(
s
i
4.
i 7r
i
," t'
r                       f  I
I
r     y  !"
,r
i
,
4 3  t"
r
"                        c
S  s  F
{ ttp r '3t,
'                        ,  fdy  ' Je
!}3
T  !    {'
i  S r ,S
i 11 $ 11
g fl
d          !       +
i  4  i1    }  !
t
~ra
tP         !
r  4 + k-
1
t
' !r
1
I
4
t

_
.
Y
YY 4 §  _


ROSA, THE'INDIAN CAPTIVE.

t

LI

ROSA, tHE 11DIAN CAPTIVE.

And, so saying, he whistled to a negr
and called for his grey. Taking the saddi
from his hands, he adjusted it himself, an
then said :---
"Well, lad, just mount, and' show on
Senator what fellows both of you are."
"Many thank for your kind assistance,'
said the Englishman, smiling.  ,
S Mr. Graham is perhaps tired ?"said th
senator, who felt that the display of horse
inanship, under present circumstances, was
something like abuse.    -    -    '
The Englishman, however, mounted the
horse to satisfy honest Squire Copeland ;
and, alter some light and easy turns, rode
in full gallop towards the double-barred
fence, and cleared it in the finest style.-.
"Well," said the delighted and 'as-
tonished creole, "I take him. Fix your own
price."
"Well, senator, that there lad," casting a
knowing glance at the'Englishman, "un-
derstands more about horses than you and I
taken together, I warrant ye."
"I beg your pardon, said the Englishman,
who perceived the drift, the rough, but
knowing old man, was going to take. "I
amp only a trifler ; besides, my notions are
genuine English, and would scarcely apply
to this country."
"Well, and what would ineh a slick nag
as that there fetch in England ?"
The senator threw an encouraging glance
at Arthur.{
"A hundred pounds sterling." -
"That is, four hundred and fifty dollars,
ar thereabouts.  Well,;that is too much ;
but half will do."
"A bargain !" exclaimed the enraptured
squire-" five dollars more than I expected,
they'll just do for a morning treat to my
company. But I want money to appear
somewhat decently down the river, at the
heid of my riflemen. And 'now, lad," added.
he, in the same tone-":walk, just up
through that there gate; I know you won't
run away, end if you do--you won'tjrun
"But, squire; you must not speak in this
mnner to the gentleman,"said the senator,

o, when the young. man had disappeared be-
e hind the fig trees. "He is of one of the best
d families, and connected with one of the
commanders of the British forces." '
r    "A fig for their good and best families,"
returned the old inan, whose head.began to
" turt a little from:his copious libations at
dinner. ; "Them best families are the very
e nobility'and the aristocracy. Ain't we free?
Ain't our principles free,? Ain't we sprung
from as genewine a stock of old continenta-
lers as the best o  em?  What do we care
about them Eng sh ?"
"But you w   ld not insult a guest of 1y
house, and a stressed young man."
"Certainly not," said the squire, whose
heat was only momentary. # "And I am
just come to talk about that there lad."
" Well, to tell you my opinion plainly,
you have done a foolish thing that may
cost the noble youth his life.",
"Ay, ay, I was afraid of that."
"Well, and why did you dismiss the ac-
tion?  A man of your round nmus might
have seen that the British would not send
youths as emissaries, with scarcely a beard
on their chin."
"Ay, ay, true-I mought have done so,
but for that babe of mischief Dick Gloom.
He stuck and hung about me like a wasp.
At any rate, senator, you must not let F'
go down ; he would make u trouble-you
understand me ."
"I  do-there you have brought a fellow
into my house who rages, like the yellow
fever, over my peaceful dominion ' But the
day before yesterday ho beat one of nlyne-
groes, that I almost despair'of his:.being
again good for anything-you may count
each of the-thirty-nins lashes on his back."
"But them negroes are such beastly cre-
turs," said the squire, wh&amp; again=thought it
his duty to take the part of-his countryman
against a negro. "And the lad is honest."
"Yes," said the senator, drily, "for-the
last Tennessee which he ordered, I had to
pay just twice as much as for that which I
brought from the city."
~"Now look, the lad has bought a parcel

)

of land in our county, and you know he
wants to pay for it."
"Yes, with my money-the sooner he
better. I will gladly contribute my share
to get rid o'f him."
And I hope you'll part friends, though
few like him; yet he has many ma'dcaps on
his side, and I don't trust him at all."'
"And still you will give him your daugh-
ter? You Georgians are strange people.
Youhang together like a nest of hornets;
touch one and all the rest are on your heels.
And the poor Frenchers, as you call them,
have to pay f'or it. But come," added he,
good-humoredly, "I presume you retired,
and have slept but little last night-we will
y a       take supper, and then both of you may take
your rest."
The party assembled again in the dining-
room for sapper.' The family drank Bur-
gundy diluted with water ; the squire and
Dick Gloom took tea ; but little was spoken:
and the company soon broke up. Arthur
retired to his room. When the servant left
him, he paced for an 'hour up and down his
apartment, and was just going to lie down,
when a heavy, slow step, that .shook 'the
very staircase that led to his apartment,
made him pause. The door opened, and a
tall, large man entered without further cer-
emony. It was the overseer, Mr. Richard
Gloom.
"Sir," said the young man, and the fire
of indignation flashed from  his eye, "I
presume there will be sufficient time to-
morrow to choose your visiting hours."  '
"Ay, boy," returned the visitor, with a
fw taunting laugh, "still afloat? I thought
thee hushed!"-
"What is your demand ?" asked the
youth, half choked with rage.
.: "I reckon.a prisoner and a spy hasn't nq
right to ask after honest men's business,"
replied he, with. a dry. malignity, turning
his back on him at the same time, and
throwing his linsey coat on the chair.,
"What does that mean, sir? Aie you
sent by Mr. Gentillor? ' exclaimed he, with
a voice of rage. The thought struck him
perhaps unnecessary precaution on the

aI
"I

1

4'

part of the Creole had brought about this
intrusion.Y                        ?
"Vr. Gentillon'!" said the fello~wwitlr a
sneer, hanging at the same time hiswaist-
coat quietly on the 'chair.  "He is a
Frencher, and cuss" ie, if I''trist these
Frenchers; they are  'rascally slyaset,{and
rust be attended to. No, it are myself
who wishes so much to see'thee hanged.
Worm thee just a bit further, as thou hast
formed thyself through the Indians. It
are sheer foresight."
"You shall not, sleep here !" thundered
the youth.'
" Thinkest thou so, boy 7" retorted his
enemy, with the same wild taunting laugh.
"Dick Gloom 'never turns his back to a
fight ; but take care of thy jaW-bones, ay,
and *f thy eyes, too."
So saying, he threw his 'huge form 'down
with a forcethat hook these whole manSion.
Arthur sprang up and ran through theroofm
half distracted with rage. The cold malig-
nity of the 'fellow had so exasperated him
that he trembled ; he was no longer master
of himself. He looked round the room for
some weapon. But the felw lay  uietly
grinning ou the bed, without uttering a sin-
gle word. Gradually the young man re-
turned 'to his senses. Throwing himself into
a chair, he laid .his head on the table, try-
ing to take his rest in 'this uncomfortablM
posture. le fellow lay for about a 4tlater
of an hour motionless.
"Now, boy, choosest thou the cool chair,
instead of the soft warm bed ?-maybe tho
wouldst lik  a better beddellow -!-mayhap
thou'lt soon sleep alone, as the gallows has
got a lill ofsale on thee.. Now, boy"said
the fellow, rising at theile'tinie, 'and' ak-
ing his linsey coat from the chair, %I'aht
just totell nen thng-harke, then. Thou
hast been the cause of my defeat inethe can-
yas, and I should have mdejist'as good a
captain as that there old weasel-face squire
yonder ;"but thou hast saved °he froh a cdoIl
bath, maybe a bit mole, though  he inest
rifle that ever shot beaver and red skin is
gone, and a new hat, too, 'that est five
dphi  cash, paid dwn'honestly t John-

t  1' {
'4'  f )
t3t=j.
r
4

48


t

,OSA, IlHE INDIAN .CAP'IVE.

t;                     -  ROSA- TUE INDIAN CAPTIVE.             a
=f yonder at Blaton Rguge-have the re- deeply ruminating on the strange question
ceipt still in my pocket, now  the bat is of the negro. A good-day was wished hi
gone.". TheEnglishman'smLiencohtracted from all the members of the farnily, and
Sinto somethig like a-bitter laugh.. ,, they expressed their serious alarm at seeing
"XWe..are nov yen," said the relow; his pale-looking'mien.        "
"hut hearken-I haven't no notion to bear . "We are, for to-day, alone," said the
thy saucy pride:  ho hast t1led with the senator when they had done breakfast,
squire, and with that there Frencher-look, "and ve may as well take a walk is the
boy, we are in a free country, liberty gratis cool ignoring air, and chat a little."
for nothing, and whip me if I ain't just s ~The youth bowed his acquiescence,"and
good a man  s.le best of them.. I wanted they rent towards the river.
just to castigate your high-flying British  "But what does the cloned on the brow of
haughtiness,.and §how thee that a back- my fend signify ?" demanded the creole.
woodsman knows what is genteel, and won't "I hope Mr.'Ggaham has slept well."
uffer himself-to be doggedly used; ay, and  'As well," repeated the youth, "as one
generous too;. for I won't spoil thy night's in ray precarious situ tion may be per-
.rest; since I know. thou art sleepy and mitted-"
weary too.          x                     "Permitted !" said the creole, . vho had
And so saying, the sullen fellow took up caught up the expression.
the rest of his garments,and  marched out  "Certainly," returned the Englishman,,
f the door, doutbtless .ot a little proud of with a bitter laugh. " I received a visit lnt
his own generosity.                     night-a visit which has disconcerted me
more than anything else since my short ad-
venturous life in Anerica.""
CHAPTER -XXI.                   "A visit'" denianded the creole. 'Not
a disagreeable one, I hope ?"
The sun was already high when Arthur    "Mr. Dick Gloom," said the youth hit-
Graham awoke from his long sleep. The terly, "has condescended to use my apart-
negro of yesterday sat cowering by the meant as his bed-echamber. 'Really, :thefel-
ade of his bid, enjoying, a sweet hour's low put me out of eountenance."H .He then
idleness.                              told the whole affair.{
"Massa,". said he, "has sent Bambo to   "And so lie came to sleep with you, for
help the Englisi gentleman'to dress.1  fear you would  escape ?" said the 'senator,
" Your master is yery kind; I can dress laughing.
alone"   -                                 So' it seems,' returned the Englishmai,
"The Englis   are gg9d madsas," con in a decided tone,  which betrayed that-he
tinued the Ijack.  "Can massasw1iI ?"Y  expected anything-but to be laughed at.
The:Englishpan started al the question  "I see," said the ylanter, still with ai ex.
pcd casting an inquiring glaiceat tie black; pressioi of good-huhnbr, "you have-not'
. e thought of Cauondah. "ertainly," re- travel in America, or you would have
liedr he.                              been frecuently obliged'to resort to a chair.
' But mna psud not swim across the in case you refuse a bed-fellow. But I ato
SSppi"      ,-.really sorry. The best'way will be not to
"I presume-not."                     show any resentment. The fellow has his
The black went towards the window, and friends, and, of course, such ones as himself:
looked out pf it. "But massa inoit swin and he thinks himself, ashe frequentlysaye.
half agyos ?"  -just as good as the best man on the grou-d.
"I b~ieve 1 eduld.' He is one of those necessary evils that dften
The, black said n t a word re.    attend the great 'blssing; I mean our lib-
Arthur dressed, 'and went~ down 8tirs, erty."

S
f~
t
t
a
T
4ate{
F
J
I
Ih a 'I

II'

/ .

_    _
{
-E
#i r
# '

" It is a dreadful thought, to feel one's riot mistaken. It is a pity we have no tel-
self at the mercy of such a populace,".said escope.  But the canoe approaches ra-
Arthur, on whom the adventure-of thenightpidly."
had left atdeep impression. "Sir, I pity Ihe canoe, in the meanwhile, shot down
you, with all youreliberty. We have dt  with extraordinary swiftness. A tall, well-
mob in England, too-and a pretty mad formed Indian stood erect in it, leaning
one, to speak the truth-but we have also gracefully on his lance, examining atten-
means to keep therein proper bounds."  tively the two gentlemen.
. " Ten years ago," said the 'dreole, "I  "Strange !"'said the 'senator. "I have
thonght exactly as you do, Mr. Graham, never seen an Indian so dressed. He looks
and many of my countrymen are'still of the extremely handsome. But whom does he
same opinion; but a riper judgment and a speak to ?' A female, 'with a stiaw hat.
long experience have shown me things in a Still stranger ! She is a white girl, and, as
different light. The fact is, that we have no it seers, quite young."
me) in America, in 'the sense which you  "1Let us hasten towards them," exclaimed
take it-that is, a poor, idle, discontented the Fnglishman, with an agitation 'which he
rabble, increasing in numbers every day, could not account for.
without, principles, and without property,  "It would be useless," returned'the se-ie
anxious for any innovation that may give ator. "The bark glides twice as swiftly
them scope for plunder and excesses. The down as we can walk. I shall, however,
very men whom   you have seen at Opelou- give orders to ride after their "
sas, homebred amd ,homespun as their ap-  Both hastened towards the gate, and
pearance may.be,-are freeholders, who conie Arthur ran and ang the bell. A couple of
from the eastern states to settle here, with negroes came running, and one of them
or without families. You cannot expect soon after threw himself on the back of a
from men whoahave spent the greater part horse.   '                4
of their lives in the woods the refined man-  "Try to bring them back, at any rate,"
ners of Paris or London gentlemen. Yet cried the senator, shouting after the gallop-
even that roughness wears away every year; ing black.
and you would be astonished at the change  -" What is it, papa ?" demanded the elder
that has taken place during the ten years daughter, who 'had peeped 'through tlhe
they have been in the Union." He was go- Venetian blinds, and now came' tripping
ing to add something; but the attention of through the corridor. "Won't you tell us?
his auditor seemed attracted to another ob- Come! We have not seen you all day."
ject. With surprise, he paused fora mo- And catching hold of his hand, she drew
merit; but the eye of the Englishman con- him towards the ladies'sitting-room. Arthur
tinted rivetted on the river. "What is it, olloiwed, musing.
Mr. Graham?"
The young man pointed silently at the
river, on whose immense mirror a dark speck     'CHAPTER XXIII.
was seen gliding down the current,
"It is a canoe, filled with Indians," said  The Indians, as may be expected, were
the senator, after having attentively looked. the subject of conversation. Though they
" I wonder what may bring them down the were frequently seen in these parts, and.
Mississippi in such numbers ?" -almost every day some individuals of this
"And is it not usual with then ?" de trace were stealing round the corners, yet the
manded Arthur, his eye still fixed on the mysterious appearance of the'eanoe and the
canoe.                                 strange equipment of the savages, so entire-
"Not at this time-they come by ,land. ly different from the abject and poor outcasts
These Indians, too, are well-armed, if I am of the tribes who 'lurked in the heart of the

'4
r

e           'I
'      w

51

y         i
r
s
i
4
t

I


ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

settlements, had excited' the curiosity of the
planter.
"From what I have seen of these sav-
ages," said the older young lady, who had
already ten times opened her mouth and
shut it again, in consequence of a serious
glance from her father, "I am really not
over-anxious to behold any more specimens
of these people; but we are so lonesome
here--ah! so lonesome," added she, nearly
yawning, "that I would give something to
know how they look. A female, you say,
papa, was among them?   Probably, one of
them-how do you call them ?"
"Squaws," replied the senator.
" Squ-squaws !" repeated she, opening
her pretty lips with a grimace, as-if she was
afraid the uncouth word would hurt them,
and showing a row of ivory teeth in so droll
a manner, that the company could not help
laughing aloud, and even Arthur,who seemed
to be buried in thought, woke from his
reverie.
Melisante thing !" said the father,
threat uing her with his finger.
"Now, papa," said the sprightly girl, in
a half-laughing. half-whining tone, " how
unjust you are ! Here we are sitting and
sighing, not unlike the two princes of the
Arabian Tales, surrotuded by black vis-
ages, and watched by the agreeable Mr.
Dick Gloom-nd Charles is away, and you
are going."
"And Mr. Hugh M'Leaven," added the
father. in the same mocking tone.
" P pa !" said the blushing girl, putting
her pL'y finger to her mouth. ' But do
you rally intend leaving us here aloue, in
the cu'. pany of Mr. Dick Gloom,.youi wor-1
thy ou :seer"r
C.   inly, my fair Eleanor," replied the
father. imitating her tone, " unless you
choose :o work on' the lines."
" Ta, I will !" exclaimed she ; "the
north uaa ladies shall not say that they aret
more   :triotic and republican than we are
--I u.1 at least carry provisions for the
worki eu."
" A Irast for one of their commanders,"
&amp;aid ti~e father.

' But, papa, how you delight to torment
us ! Pray, shall we really have no balls
this year ?"
"I am afraid but too many !"
"And why leave us at home?"      She
now caught the meaning of her father.
"Oh! those terrible--" but, recollecting
herself, she changed them into "the terrible
war!"
" Eleanor!" exclaimed both father and
mother, with a mild reproach.
"But why so deep in thought, Mr. Gra-
haq ?" demanded the former-
"I was just thinking how many a one-
some mother and sister will count every
minute with an aching. heart, that may
bring them dreadful tidings. Miss Eleanor
is quite right in calling the war and its au-
thors terrible."'
The gay volubility of Eleanor had now
received a sort of indirect check. She gazed
for a moment; with a tender and full glance,
at the youth, and then said, " Mr. Graham,.
we too ljave a brother down the river-
But reall , papa," resumed she, turning
again to h r father, though with quite an-
other air, " if Charles, now -''
"Or M'Leaven," added the senator.' The
girl again blushed deeply.
"If you do not cease tormenting me,
papa, I shall not open my mouth again for
the whole eveiing."
"For which silence, perhaps, we shall feel
very much obliged," returned the father.
I am free to protest," subjoined Arthur,
"it would be a loss indeed."
" WEll, now, if Charles should receive
any iLjury," resumed Eleanor, her eye
hanging with an interesting and droll e:
rs 'ion on her father, " then ho would be
loft to the mi roy of an old snuffy house-
keeper, and you know', papa, he would not
even take a cup of.coffee from her hands."
"But how can we help that, dear Elea.-
n'or ?" said the father.
" Oh ! take us with you, papa. Come,
Gabriella ."
Both girls now tripped before their father,
and raising their delicate hands, they begged
- Oh!I take us with you!'

,OSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

The delighted father looked for a while
at the blooming girls. "It cannot be,"
said he. "In case now the enemy should
take the city ?"
"Then they would certainly respect the
fair se' as they have dose everywhere else-
I pledge my honor for that," said the Eng-
lishman, who felt himself called upon to
protect the gallantry of his .countrymen.
fA grateful glance from the charming pe-
titioners was his reward.
"And what do you say, madam ?" de-
manded the planter, now turning towards
Mrs. Gentillon, who at all the while a si-
lent and passive auditor.
"Whatever you decide upon, dear Gen-
tillon, will be agreeable to me."
"Well !" said the yielding father-"-I
am myself of opinion, it will be the best..
We will go down together, that is, if I can
bring Mr. lick to stay here."
But the latter words were not heard by
the delighted girls. Both fell upon the
neck of their father ; kissed himand mamma
a dozen times; and Eleanor ran out of the
room to make preparations for the journey.j
Gabriella lingered in the room-from time
to time her glance stole from behind the
silken lashes of her. beautiful languishing
eye, upon the youth
" I am afraid," said he, "I have spoken
against the interest of my country. The
Americans will be invincible, if they know
_what treasures they are going to defend, and
what soothing hands they have to expect."
"Really, my country will' want such a
stimulus," said the representative, " and
with all that, I an afraid our resistance may'
prove ineffectual. The odds are too great,"
said the senator, stepping at the same time
between his guest and his daughter. The1
latter left the room. Arthur paused, and
seemed lost in rev'rie. Yes,". repeated the
senator ; the odds are too great-fourteen
thousand against three."
"Only three thousand soldiers !" said
the astonished youth.
"Oh ! no," subjoined the planter, who
began to be aware that he had spoken,
rather too freely respecting the state of de'-

fence. "There will be some thousands
more, but still I am afraid we shall have to
relyon the generosity of our enemies."
"Mr. Gentillon and his countrymen will
certainly not be disappointed; and my coun-
trymen ought to feel proud to become the
protectors of so generous a people."
"Oh. as for that, I have every hope.
Our commanding general is a man of energy
and military e perience."
"Has'he fought in any battles ?"
"Chiefly against the Indians-he in the
terror of the'savages."
"'Indians-?" repeated the Englishman, in
a tone that, notwithstanding his efforts,
could not entirely suppress a slight sneer.
."Yes,"' said the senator, a little dryly-
" the-Indian wars are the school of our of-
ficers and soldiers, as the East:Indian wars
are the preparatory exercises for your coin-
manders, and even of your hero of Vittoria."
Their conversation was interrupted by the
heavy steps of the overseer, which were
heard in- the corridor.  Both gentlemen
went into'the saloon ; where they found Mr.
Dick Gloom, 'just filling a tumbler with
rum, and diluting it with a few drops of
water-he swallowed the draught compos-
edly, without paying any attention to the
gentlemen.
"I thought you would not return to din.
ncr," said the creole, "arid had given orders
to send it up to you."
'  We took twenty Bands more, and so
have got done,"' returned he, in a sullen
tone, without looking ups /
Arthur had stepped up to the window.
"Have you seen the Indians ?" demanded
the planter.
"Have I? ay, so I have, and so plainly
that I could. fiad theta out among thous-
ands."
Arthur became' more attentive.
"Can't sry, not I, what sort of red skins
them are! Have never seen the likes of
them-gold and silver plenty, and a girl,"
added he, smnacking his lips, "Oh geminiQ
if I ever saw anything so well jointed in the
whole of Georgia or Louisiana!"
"Can you give me some nearer detail of

3

q ,g
'
Y  t
i

/_

y.       ]               '    f
Yak   d   { ;   *#      x .   r:  ..

:
'
i
4
F

.s
e ,,,


"ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

54

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

the female ?" demanded Arthur, stepping had joined the family, " can satisfy your
closer,                                curiosity respecting the female and the In-
"Ay," muttered Dick, "the Indian gen- dians ; he has seen them, as he says, at a
tleman has found his tongue at last, when short distance."
there is a petticoat afore his face-you may ("Ay, and so I have, and the girl too, that
go and look at her ; she is down, mayhap sat in the bow behind her capper sweetheart;
she'll go to see ye. Z-s !" said the fellow, if she ain't the prettiest thing that I have
"I've peppered many of them; they ain't seen--mought be a governor's daughter for
lurking about you for nothing, I warrant that matter."
ye. Mayhap they are sent from s )me other  "We believe in your good taste, Mr.
quarter ;" darting a grim glance at Arthur. Gloom."
The senator had listened thoughtfully to  The short and stern sneer of the planter
the reports of the man. Tlhe sudden and caused a long, deep, pause, during which
strange interest which Arthur seemed to the negroe came in, who had been sent after
take in these savages had excited his atten- the Indians. He returned without having
tion. He was, however, too well-bred to seen more than the canoe ; a cravasse, below
give utterance to his suspicions ; indeed, his the lands of the planter, had prevented him
whole conduct toward his prisoner showed a from following them further.
marked regard.                           "Well," said the planter,." whatever may
Probably Creeks,"  said he, after a he the case, we will all go down together:
pause, "going down to submit to the Gov- it is, at any rate, safer in the capital than in
cument.-the country."
"They have done that long ago, you     The conversation had now assumed a
know," returned the overseer; "but them  turn that seemed to give every one full
red skins are none of them Creeks-they scope for meditation, and the members of
are quite of another stamp. I'll be shot if the party sat silent and thoughtful. The
I ever saw so fine martin, and fox skins, senator rose up, and both gentlemen walked
and panthers, as they had hanging round again into the parlor.
their bronzed bodies ; ay, and their guns-  "Sir," said the Englishman, whose situ-
saw as fine a double-barreled rifle as you ation in the house had become more painful
ever had in the country."              every hour, "I am aware that my presence
S" I should like to know where they came is likely to cause an anxiety in your peace-
from   "interjected the senator.      ful family, which, in the present difficult
"Perhaps that there lad," returned Mr. times, must fall doubly upon you. I must
Dick Gloom, with a piercing eye at Arthur, request you to-"
" mought tell more about it, and bring us rThe senator interrupted him with
on a fresh scent." "Pshaw ! you will allow me, Mr. Graham,
"Mr. Dick gloom will please to call this so much discretion as not to take a stranger
gentleman by his name, which is Arthur under my roof, and to make myself a sort
Graham," said the senator, in a short, con- of jailor-you pardon the expression-with-
manding tone.                          out sufficient reasons. I am fully convinced
The suspicious glance of his overseer, and that yen are what you say, and know equal-
his inuendoes, seemed. however, to have ly well how to appreciate the innuendoes of
taken a slight root in the senator's mind, a savage backwoodsman. I should, how
The Englishman's strange agitation, and ever, be glad if the gentlemen down the
desire to see the Indians, could not fail to river were of the same opinion; but come,
produce something like suspicion, and even let us take our evening walk."
alienation.                              They passed along the avenue, and
A servant entered to announce dinner,  sauntered along the bank towards the
"Mr. Gloom," said the senator, when he ravine.

CHAPTER XXIV.
"During our morning walk, anofficial ac-
count arrived, which will tend to heighten
the exasperation against your countrymen ;
. mean the destruction of our boats.
The countenance of the Englishman
brightened ; 'the senator had touched a
point which struck his English nerves too
powerfully.
The desire of hearing something more of
the affair was clearly legible inthis eounte~
nafee.
"It could not be otherwise. expected,"
conthmued the senator; "your superiority in
numbers was too great."
"Mr. Gentillon will allow me to think,
that even had it been less, the result would
have been the same."
"And Mr. Graham will allow me," re-

turned the senator, "to doubs his patriotic'
assertion-and with good ground. The ac-
tions on Lakes Erie and Champlain, and
the repeated captures of your frigates, are
 sufficient proofs that my fellow citizens
know how to fight, and to conquer, where
the odds are not too great."
"But Mr. Genfillon willgnot adduce those
trifles as proofs of your naval superiority.
s6'We must leave naval superiority for the
present to those who enjoy it; at least, it
would be ridiculous to enter the lists with
our f evfrigates and sloops, against the
greatest maritiine power of the present times ;
but even from these defeats, which you call
trifles, but which I consider in quite'another-
light, and really as preludes to future great
battles, you may see what the Americans
can do, and'what they will do, when they
have a maritime power-and this they must
have in less than twenty years."~
"6My countrymen will feel very much
obliged to Mr. Gentillon," returned the Eng-
lishman,- "if he allows them  fifty years.
Butin this time the United States may per-
haps have ceased to exist. The elements of
which they are composed are of too discord-
ant a nature to promise a long and a firm
continuance."

pie in the world. With a sound understand-.
'ng, you give yourself the worst airs. A
Frenchman pillages the country, and plun-
ders the inhabitants ; but he does it with
something like grape, and though his rapa-
ciousness'is execrated, it is soon forgotten,
from his politeness. You Englishmen are
too proud to take where. you can give; and
if you spend your money in the conquered
province, yet you do it with .a sneer ; and
while you, in fact,, benefit the country, you
destroy-the favorable impression by the air
of contempt which accompanies your gen-
erosity. You are the fathers and the found-
ers of this country, and yet speak of an
enemy, and the idea of aft Englishman is
connected with it.  Mr. Telemaque will
think his mentor a little inclined to be tire-i
some, bnt Mr. Graham may be assured that
it is only sincere regard that prompts its
conversation. I hoped to chase away-the
melancholy cloud from the brow of my young
friend, that might otherwise have settled
there, and rendered his stay at my house
still more disagreeable. If I have'trespass-
ed, I beg Mr. Graham's pardon."
The Englishman pressed the hand of the
Creole warmly. "I feel," said he, "what
I owe to Mr. Gentillon, and I can pnly give
the assurance that I shall not think, even
the hard trials which I am going to encoun-9
ter, too dearly bought by the interesting
light which he has thrown on many sub-
jects entirely strange to me."
He was going to say more, but the over-
-seer strode in, announcing that the steam-
boat which was to take them: to the city
would be down in a few hours.
The man scratched his head once or
twice, and was again slowly retreating to-
wards the door, when the senator suddenly
demanded, "How many bales may be in
the cotton gin 7"
"About fifty."
"And on the boards ?"
"Fifty more ; and in the field perhaps a
hundred ; about a hundred more are expect-
ed from the Atchefalaya."          a
"For how- many have you bagging-?"

" You Englishmen ark the strangest peo- I demanded the senator.

1jr

/

r
t
a       ir?
C   f,
'&amp;.
,
,
9
+
1
t
1
d
ti
i

Ii
t
II'

!
.

f
_ u        ti
:£    t
X
2          iqy#
_      3
_                     4

I


ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

"4'
t
w

"A hundred," was the short reply..
"The rest," said the planter, "will be
sent to you-it must be pressed before my
return."
"Well, senator," said the overseer, "I
haven't no notion of staying here, when my
people are going down to fight the British-
ers; I mean to go down myself."
"As you please," returned the senator.
"Make out your accounts, and deliver them,
and you are ffee to go-I dispense even with
the usual warning, though it was stipulated.
If you choose to go down with the steam-
boat, you can do so ; and the accounts will
be settled by my lawyer."
The determined, cool tone of the planter
seemed to make a deep impression on Mr.
Dick Gloom. He stood for a moment,
struggling between his desire of going down
and fighting the Britishers, and seeing per-
haps his malignant hatred gratified against
one of them ; and the loss which he, must
sustain, if dismissed from his service. The
mention, however, of the lawyer was deci-
sive. Scratching his head once more, lie
marched off, muttering, "I'll stay."
"One thing we have gained. We are
rid of that fellow, who might have made our
passage very disagreeable, and caused us
even some trouble in the 9ity. We must
now prepare for the joyrney. Your par-
don," said he, bowing slightly, and leaving
the saloon.
Arthur went up into his room. He had,
notwithstanding the extreme politeness of
the planter, and his anxiety to conceal em-
erything, observed that his efforts had be-
come rather studied. He had remarked the
solicitude with whigh.he had cut short his
conversation with Gabriella. There was a
polite but obvious repulse in the manner of
the senator. His situation began to grow
painful to him; his heart almost sickened
with suspense, fear and dreadful anticipa-
tion. He opened the window. The ser-
vants were gaily bustling up and down stairs
-4heir merriness fell heavily on him. He
shut the window. The sun was setting,
and his broad streaks on the Mississippi
announced the close of the day. At last the

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

hissing sounds of the steam-boat were heard
-a few minutes more, and the vast machine'
rolled before his eyes,Tand turned, and moved
slowly towards the bank. The deck of the
vessel was filled with a medley of armed
men, whose tremendous 4houts announced
the riflemen of Opelousas. She had now
come to-and Squire Copeland, with four
men, armed with rifles, marched towards
the mansion. -They halted on the piazza,
and squire Copeland entered. There is
something appalling in a military display of
this character. Arthur grew pale-and a
slight shudder flew over him. But a mo-
ment's reflection gave him firmness, and he
descended with a quick step.-   .
"Au, lad !" exclaimed tie new  captain,
shaking him heartily by the hand, "there
you are, all's right-I hope it may end well
-shouldn't like to see thee hanged."  And
so sayingrhe stepped, with all the military
pride he could muster, into the parlor,
where the planter and his family were just
entering from the side door.
"A good evening to all ofdye-i see you
are in your gears. You h tin't no notion,
senator, to take them tender creatures down
with ye-do ye? Hang me, it ain't no joke,
nor a husking frolic neither. How now,
young folks, d'ye really mean to run your
chances with us? Ay, and all ready from
top to bottom ! No, I warrant ye, there will
be fine doings."
He would -have probably continued for
half an hour longer, if the senator, who had
been unusually serious all this time, had not
interrupted him. by saying, "They will go
down with me."
"Well, well, all's right ; I hain't no ob-
jection. But," and he turned now with a-.
military air towards the senator, "I have to
thank you, senator, for the care you have
taken of the prisoner-your trouble-shall be
duly paid in country bills; one dollar and
seventy-five cents for one day and a half,
maybe a few hours more--according to law.
But, I am now to reclaim the prisoner, at
your hands, that he may pass into military
jurisdiction, according to law."
"Well, as I am going down myself, cap-

tin,.you will have no objection, if I take
care of the proper lodging of Mr. Graham.
Where is the captain of the steamboat"
lHe had just entered the house. The sen-
ator spoke a few words with him apart, arnd
the boat's new company having taken theF
customary refreshments, they proceeded on
board the steam-boat.
CHAPITE XXV,
'a Fellow citizen !" said the senator, when
.the party had entered the cabin of the
steamboat. "I hope you will pay proper re-
spect to misfortune, even in the person of
an enemy of our country ; from all appear-
ance, we have a gentleman before us-as
such, I wish him to be tre ted ; as senator
of the state which we are all going to de-
fend, I wish him to be so treated. Sir,"
added he, turning to Arthur, "here'is your
state-room."
The sort address hid the desired effect;
the multitude whoeame gazing and peeping
through the cabin door drew off in silence,:
and _the company was soon left alone. It
consisted of the senator and his family, and
about twenty landed proprietors from the
banks of the Mississippi. The senator pre-
served his usual gentleness, and the open
"manner in which he treated the prisoner,
bespoke that he was a 4nan of 'that firm
'character, which neither feared suspicion,
nor shrunk from it. But Arthur himself
felt the necessity of greater reserve, and it
was but seldom that they exchanged words.
After a short supper, the females retiredI
into the ladies' cabin, the gentlemnen in their
small but elegant state-rooms, of six feet
eight, inches in length, and four feet in9
width.  Arthur soon followed their ex-3
ample.
The lamps shed a dim lustre through the
cabin, above which the heavy footsteps ofi
the trampling multitude were heard mingled
' with the regular strokes of the steam engine.'
Arthur, in his berth, felt his hand softly
touched, and a voice 'whispered into his

" To-morrow, at three o'clock, mama
leave dinner, and be in the ladies' cabin."
The mysterious speaker stole through the
silk curtains that 'hung ,down from the
ceiling of the little room, and left Arthur to
his thoughts.
The passage was a dreary one to Arthur;
wherever he turned he beheld cold, scrutiniz-
ing, or desponding glances.  The senator
had become more pensive and dejected every
passing hour; his eyes hung long and de-
spairingly on Arthur. Eleanor had not .
spoken a single word, Gabriella had not left
the ladies' cabin, and betrayed her presence
only by a loud sobbing. There is something
extremely discouraging in these mute work-
ings of pity and sympathy.
The dinner bell rang, and the family sat
down with the rest of the company ; but
none of them tasted the dishes. Gabriella
looked up, from time to time, from her un-
touched plate, and at last, unable longer to
suppress her feelings, she burst into tears,
and left the table. Arthur felt' his right
foot touched, hestarted, and after a moment-
ary recollection, stole behind the curtains of
the sanator's state-foom; a door opened
from the small apartment into the ladies'
cabin--Arthur passed through it, and Barn-
ho stood before him,
"Move towards the curtain,' whispered
the black, "or they'll see the English massa
through the window, It is well, massa has
understood Bambo; but not .yet time. 'Does
massa see yon smoke ?"
Arthur looked in the direction indicated,
"It is the camp of General Coffee, with
his militia men. We must pass them before
massa can leave the boat."
A few minutes brought them in sight of
the eucamped troops, who, however, were
manoeuvring quite differently from the speci-.
mens of soldiers which we have sketched on
a former occasion. The Englishman stood
in silent expectation.
"What does that mean ?" demanded he,
at last.
The negro laid his fingers on his mouth,
and looked at the men. The steam-boat
was now on the point of the great bend that

/

4

I

R     i
i,
4;
I
sl
b     i

t{
-

56

.t

F

J,
P


33

IOSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

I1

I

f
a      {
fr
"
t
1
t
L:
I
t,
i
ti
t
f

*1

forms the broad bay, at whose skirts the force the coat off his back. "Massa has,"
city slopes down  towards  the cypress resumed he, "not more than sir hundred
swamps-a few seconds more, and they were yards to swim-he ar near the right side-
in sight of the capital.               he must keep his head under water as long
" Now it is time," said the black. " Look as ho can, that no rifle may kill him-his
onder, dear massa ! See that big cotton- head would then be like the trunk of a tree. .
wood tree-it looks like a broom. Massa There !" said the slave, pushing him to the
must look that way," whispered the slave, railing. A cord fastened to the stem, hung
seizing the arm of Arthur, whose eye was down into the water. " Now for Heaven's
riveted upon a distant object that glided sake."
dlown the stream.  " Look this way !-    The youth, however, as if insensible to
don't yon hear sir ?" repeated he, seizing the threatening things around him, kept his
the gazing youth bf the arm. " Well,.-  eye steadily fixed on the canoe. They had
yonder massa sees the big cotton  tree. now approached so near as to be able to
Three miles further down are the American discern the persons. The slave grew ahnost
lines, on the right bank-mama must not frantic. Seizing Arthur by the arm, he was
approach them. For Heaven's sake ! look about to push him into the stream, when
his way," said the black, in a hasty tgne, the steamboat turned suddenly towards the
shaking him violently,                 bank, and passed the canoe.
Arthur turned his eye in the direction  "Rosa !"' exclaimed the youth, in a tone
pointed out by the slave, but the next mo- of the wildest joy.
nent it fell again, as if attracted by a magic  The canoe turned, and a female fhrm rais-
power, towards the floating object.    ed herself, assisted by a noble-looking In-
"iFror this cotton tree," continued Barn- dian. It was the White Rose.
bo, "there leads a passage into the cypress  "' You are lost !" said the negro, coldly,
swamps. Massa must go along the hedge cutting with trembling hands the cord from
of the sugar cane, and keep to the right side, the hook, and throwing it into the water.
or the men will discover and shoot him dead. "The general knows of no mercy against
Why-massa must be crazy !'" muttered the the English-in an hour nassa will be shot
trembling slave. "lie will ruin himself -poor Miss Gabriella !" .
and me. Massa must," continued he, shah-  "Away with you !" cried Arthur, who
lag the youth once more, and turning him saw persons running through the ladies'
by force in the mentioned direction, "g1 cabin.
through the swamp for a mile, and then   The negro shunk behind the railing, and
turn down in a line with the river. Seven the senator, with Captain Copelaud, stood
miles he must go, and then he will be op- before the Englishman.
polite the British camp, lie must take   "IHow d'ye come here, sir !" cried tho
care of the American mnca of var, and look latter, sternly.
for the British gun boats. In the devil's  The senator looked astonished.
name-mamsa is mad !" cried the almost de- - " Gentlemen," said the youth, in a col-
spairing Bambo, at the incomprehensible lected, firm tone-" you are come in a hap-
listlessness of the Englishman.' "He will py moment. I hope I shall now be able to
be lost !"                             justify myself fully."
The object at which Arthur had gazed   "'What! is that the Indian canoe ." de-
became now plainly discernable-it was the manded the senator.
mysterious Indian canoe. ,              "Even that. It contains the persons who
"Look at these Indians !" said he to the will give you the best account how I came
negro.                                 in possession of my strange disguise. As,
"Bah !-a fig for 'em. Now it is time- however, there will be no time left to speak
take off your coat."  The negro pulled with to the Indians, I request your kindness, to

r_
t
t
"
Y  _
a
_
t:
;,
r
,
:
r
.
tom:
6'
r.
f
i ,"     I
,:
t,
F-
r

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE."5)
demand from the chief of the party, the re- ran ont of the room, and a long melancholy
lease of my word of-honor. While he spoke, pause ensued, of which we avail ourselves
the short hissing sounds of the boiler au- to look after the canoe, which appeared; at
bounced that they were on the point of land- so critical a juncture. - It had halted, as
ing.                                    soon as the-cries resounded, a short distance
" Back ! back !" roared a hundred voices, from the steamboat. The Indians were for
"back ! you damned redskins, or the steam- a moment engaged in seeking for a landing-
boat will crush you and your paper canoe place-but a number of 'steamboats -barred
into a thousand pieces. The canoe was dart- their approach; farther down, the 'big ca-
ing directly after the steamboat ; it was ifear noe , as they called the merchant vessels,
being upset in the rolling waves which the presented a long and impenetrable barrier.
ploughing wheels left behind, and only the They turned disappointed higher up. An-
extraordinary skill of the rowers saved then other'ery was heard. The flat and keel-
from being buried in the vast deep.     boats were lying :there at anchor. Again
The steamboat was made fast, and the they turned, and had to seek for a landing-
multitude now rushed ever the boards, to place at'the upper end of the harbor, oppo-
greet their friends and brethren in arms, site the suburbs of the city. They had just
who were crowding the banks. Wild, joy- landed when Bambo was -unnirig out of
ful shouts burst from a hundred lips.   breath. The-negro seized one of the la-
The senator, with his family, four guards, dians by his panther-skin and pointed,
and Capt. Copeland, remained in the cabin. trembling, down towards the steamboat. A.
"Where are the Indians ?' demanded the shake, that threw the poor fellow  on the
creole, looking anxiously through the win- ground, was all the answer; the proud In-
dow. "They are gone-I do rnot see any- dian recoiled as if he had'been touched by a
thing of them. Mr. Graham,'" ,said he, serpent. Making a sign to five Indians to
turning to the youth, "the time is short, remain as guards of the prisoner,.the young
and each moment is precious. Captain chief hastened with the rest of the party to-
Copeland is only waiting for orders to de- wards the steam boat, without deigning to
liver you to the regulars ; they will be here cast a further glance at his guide.  .
in a few minutes; I b.eg you, for Heaven's There was a sad melancholy stir among
sake, not to trifle. If the Indians know  the persons, whom we have left in the cabi
your secrets, it is certainly fair to show to of the steamboat,-occasioied by the appear-
your friends no less confidence, that they ance of four new comers, whose steady firm
may act as soon as possible."' march, weather-beaten countenaneen, glitter-
Mr. Graham,   begged Gabriella, the ing arms, and uniform dress, bespoke them
tears trickling down her cheeks, "speak, to be regulars. As soon as they had arriv-
for Heaven's sake."'                    ed at the steamboat, the doors and passages
"Here, then, lad !" said the squire, with were\guarded by them. One sentinel was
emotion, "the martial law ain't to be trifled posted before the door of the dining room,
with: we mean you' well. The. reg'lars a second before'the entry that led to it.
will be quickly at our heels, and from their  The Englishman was stepping from the
grasp, hang me,,if there s an escape."  door, flanked'on both sides by two regulars,
"Friends," returned the Englishman, with an officer behind them, just as the old
pressing the hands of father and daughter, miko and El Sol had found their way into
my hearty thanks, but I cannot, dare not the steamboat.
speak, before I am disengaged from my --"Back !" cried the first sentinel, who
promise upon honor. Even to an Indian, stood before the passage presenting his bay-
faith must be kept." onet.
T'he senator beckoned his servant, ad The two Indians gazed for a moment, and
whispered something in his ear. Bambo then pressed forward.

I;
fi
I!

r

I,


1ROSA, TH IINDIAN cAT

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

"Back ." repeated the soldier.
"The chiefs must see their white brother,"
said the old Indian.
The soldier gave no answer, but booked
towards the approaching prisoner.     +
" Tokeah!" said the Englishman, who
stood now before the old Indian, only sepa-
rated by the sentinel. "I have kept my
word of honor ; but I must request you to
release me from it."
At this moment the band opened, and
Rosa flew into the arms of Arthur, the mus-
kets sank from the hands of the iron-hearted
veterans, and they stepped involuntarily
back at the sight of the transcendant and
almost unearthly beauty of the maiden. For
a moment she hung in his arms, speechless,
unconscious of everything around. The com-
manding officer made a sign.
"Sir," said he, "the time is pressing."
"Rosa, I must leave you," whispered
Arthur.
"Leave Rosa!" exclaimed shQ, and the
crimson of her face changed to a deadly
pale.'
"I must go with these gentlemen."
She hung on his arm like a drooping
vine.
" Tokeak !'\ said the youth, still support-
ing the maiden  ith hisarmn, "I have prom-
ised not to tell where I found you and your
tribe. Your Indian dress is near bringing
me to an ignominious death-may I tell how
I caine ito your village, and in possession
of this dress ?"
The Indian listened attentively.
"Sir," interrupted the officer, "that is
against military rules."
"Certainly not," replied the youth, loft-
ily ; "I gave my word of honor ; I reclaim
it only."
"I wish you may give this gentleman
time to explain himself," said the, senator,
who stood with his family behind the offi-
cer.
"Even the high respect'I bear to Mr.
Gentillon would not permit that," returned
the officer. "'What the gentleman has toc
say will be heard by his judges."
"May I speak ?" demanded the English-

man, once more, of the silent and provok-
ingly calm Indian.
The Indian was about to open his lips,
when the soldiers raised their muskets, and
pushing both the chiefs aside, they marched
their prisoner on shore, and soon disappear-
ed among the gaping crowd.
Rosa looked after the youth, who, like a
meteor, had vanished from her sight ; she
drooped her head- then gazing wildly
round, she was going to rush after the be-
loved object, when she felt herself suddenly
withheld. It was the senator, who led her
gently into the cabin,'and made the Indians
a sign to follow him. He had scarcely de-
livered Rosa into the hands of his daughter,
when he addressed himself, trembling with
anxiety, to the old Indian, who stood before
him in all his shrunken grandeur, un-
moved, to every appearance, by what he had
seen.
" Was It you, from whom the young man
obtained the dress and the weapons ?" de-
manded he, with an impatience which was
the surest means of obtaining no reply at
all.
The old chief gazed at the interrogator,
but he gave no answer.
"Perhaps you know something about
it?" demanded the senator, turning to the
young chief.
The same silence.
"Men !" cried the senator, who knew lit-
tle of Indian manners, or of their circuitous
and sententious phraseology, "I must re-
quest you, in all earnestness, to speak plainly;
the life of the young man in whom you seem
to take so deep an interest, depends on your
promptly revealing the manner in which ho
came by his disguised"
He might have spoken an hour without
coming to the point.
" Why has Arthur left Rosa'?" demanded
the latter of her neighbor, the tender Ga-
briella.
"He is led to prison," said Gabriella.
"T Io prison-and why? Has my brother
done wrong ?"
"They suppose so-they think him a spy,
a British emissary, who instigated the In-

dians against the white [people," replied
Gabriella.
The words spy and emissary had attracted
the attention of Tokeab.
 "Is the old man," said he, "to whom the
miko of tho Oconees talks, one of the chiefs
of the white men ?"
The senator nodded.
"Has he fought in many battle ?"
" No-I am not a military chief, but one
of peace," returned the senator, who, when"
he found that his abstract expressions were
riot in the vocabulary of the Indians, en-
deavoredconsequently, though with difficulty,1
to adopt a simpler mode of conveying his
deas to the minds of his auditors.
"Then," said the old Indian, after a pause,
"he is one of the wise nien,-who hold their
talk in the council house."
The senator replied in the affirmative.
" And the wise man cannot deliver my
ypng white brother from the white warriors,
and from the prison ?"
! "No," said the senator, painfully embar-.
rassed at the tedious questioning.
"But the old man," continued the miko,
is wise, and he can clear the path of the
chiefs of the red men, that they may talk
to the great chief of the white warriors."
"Do you wish to speak to the general"
den anded the senator.
"We do," was the brief answer.
"I doubt very much whether the red men
will be admitted. The necessary precautions
do not allow strangers to go down to the
lines, where he is at present; and even if
they go down, they will scarcely find oppor-
tunity of talking with the chief. He is very
busy."
" Tell the great chief and father that the
chiefs of the Oconees and of the Cuman-
chees are come with their hands extended, as

be effected with such men ; and yet the mo-
ments were precious. As the intercourse of
the young Englishman, beyond doubt, had
been with one of the most dangerous ene-
mies of the white population, it wa to be
feared that his case would not even be
thought? worthy of a strict inquiry or tfe
decision of a court martial. According to
the customs of war and'the rules of martial
law, the fate of the worthless adventurer
might be sealed in less than one hour, under
the pending pressure, and where the English
camp was scarcely three miles from the
American lines. Great as his influence was,
he had himself witnessed an example of the
stern justice of the commanding general,
that filled his republican mind with involun-
tagy apprehension. He ran through the
cabin to Rosa. "Will my fair child go with
us ?" demanded he.
She inclined her head.
" Then'come," said he. "I will try my
utmost to bring you before the general.
Come, red men," added he, turning towards
the Indians.
"The wise man," said the miko, "may
show the chiefs the path-they will follow
him."
The party now left the cabin. A carriage
was waiting at some distance from the mar-
gin of the river. The senator made a sign,
and it drew up as the party approached.
"The red rnen will follow- my carriage,".
said he turning once more to the In-
dians.
They nodded their acquiescence. Afoot-
man opened the door, let down the steps, and
the senator handed Rosa in, and took him-
self the back seat. The carriage whirled
along through oyster and orange - shops,
mountains of Pernambuco logs and bales,
bales.of cotton, and sugar and tobacco-hogs-

brethren"                          -    heads; but its rapid course was soon arrest-
"You might as well tell ire," said the ed. Long files of carts and wagons, with
senator. "Only let me know."            ammunition and cannon, moved slowly on
"The miko of the Oconees never talks the road, leading along the Mississippi to
twice," said the old man, turning his back the lines. Every opening was filled with
to the senator, and thus cutting short the foot-passenger atmd militia-men ; small de-
conversation.                           tachments pf regulars marched at intervals,
The senator perceived that nothing waste with officers on horseback at their head.

.

Ii

:1

.1r

,,
'             -     r
" z
3
;?
( i' .
r-
S
J
11
"              !
{
,

(

60

;

f


ROSA, THE INDJAN CAPTIVE.

Negroes with spades, gohg to work on th
lhies, picked their way carefully through th
long ranges of wagons and horses which ob
structed their passage.
"It will take up too much time to gi
down ia the carriage," said the senator
" Has my child any objection to a walk ?'
A mild, consenting glance was the an
swer. They alighted, and found the Indians
close at the wheels of the carriage. Beck-
oning them to follow, they now crept in
their turn through the crowd, often in im-
minent danger of being'caught by the wheels,
or trodden under the feet qf the horses. A
weary hour passed before they saw the
mansion of the general. 'Ihe house stood
back from the road, and separated from the
long range of summer mansions of the
weal: lier creoles by a pleasure-ground, the
projecting railing of which enclosed 'iron
every side. A small picquet of regulars,
stanotued before the entrance, with a crowd
of officers of the regulars and militia, im-
pedel their further progress. The silent,
&amp;light bow of the senator was returned by
all the officers, with every mark of respect.
e spoke a few words with one of the chief
ofhcers; and leadingR osa towards him,
made the Indians a sign to wait for him.
He was then s n lost behind the shrubs and
trees of the avenue. After a few minutes
lie returned, his countenance beaming with
satisfketion.
have seen and spoken to the general.
Thou1 seriously engimged, yet he will re-
receive  ic chiefs. The rest of the red men
must re min here. Come, then."     And,
with a -ecipitancy which showed his anxi-
ety, he led the way through the avenue to-
wards the mansion, ascended the steps that
led to the piazza, passed the corridor of the
maus.u, and entered a wide s loon.
CHAPTER XXVI.
They found the general; surrounded by
his staff and other leading officers, whom
he was dispatching on various routes, ac-
celerating the business of defence, in which

e he was for the moment busily engaged, with
e a gravity and coolness only to be found in
- a master mind. He was a tall, swarthy, large
boned man, whose weather-beaten 'counte-
o nance bore an appearance of severity by no
means prepossessing to a stranger ; and yet,
when for a moment his iron features relaxed,
- and he turned his bright brown hazel eye
with a calm smile of recognition- on the
senator and his party, as they entered, thpre
was a good humor and benevolent that
immediately radiated those stern features,
which had a happy effect in restoring the
confidence of his visitors. The compliments
of courteous salutation being over, the sen-
ator introduced the two Indian chiefs to the
general, who received them with every de-
mionstration of regard.
"The red men," said Tokeah, throwing
himself into his usual oratorical position,
have brought the great father of the white
people tokens of their friendship. They
have brought him the great chief of the
Saltlake, that he may hang him on a tree."
"Chief of the Saltlake !--what, you do
not mean the pirate !"
"The pirate of Barataria," said the old
man.
"Indeed! well I am  glad of it, though
it is no affair of mine; it belongs rather to
the government of the tate whose territory
he has violated, yet I amn glad, both for the
governor and for the state. How did this
desperate character come into your hands?"
"The great chief of the Cumanchees,"
said the old man, "has caught him when he
burned our wigwams, and carried away the
daughter of Toheah," pointing to Rosa.
The general cast another glance at the
young warrior, and a long pause ensued.
"Do the white warriors," resumed the
miko, "tAke the lives of those who come
into the wigwams of their red friends from
over the saltiake ?"'
"If they are the enemies of our country,
and if they go among the red men to sow
needss in the path that lies between the
white and the red people-certainly."
",But do the white warriors take the lives

ROSA, THlE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

63

of their brethren when they, come to the honor that he would not betray the site of his
wigams of the red men because they are village."
hungry and dry, and hbavelost their path ?  ;" Ah ! I understand now. A bad con-
The father of the white men is a great chief science," whispered the general to the sen-
and warrior, and very wise; but do his eyes ator.
see what his red brethren are doing, when  The latter podded.
he is far from their wigwams i"         "Tokeah is mistaken," said the general,
" Only the Great Spirit knows and sees with a grave mien, " if he fears the white
eryt gsmen will ever disturb him, provided he
everything," said theogeneral.
t father and chief listen to keeps peace. He has only to be afraid when.
he lift  the tomahawk, when they will find
the talk of the red men, that his hands may himaTherever he may be. ie hs done
not be stained with the, blood of a good...
brothber"       tt     much mischief in his time, but that is now
-he     ,'past. Where lie the wigwams of the Qeo-
" He will,'" said the general.                                            - 9
a nees -"
"The sun," began the old man, "has     " They stood on the water that runs into
risen and gone down twenty times since my the same lake, with the river op which the
young brother, who is now in the hands of Coshattees have their village."
my white father, caie to the wigwam of'  "Natchez ?" said thd  general; "bhow
the Goonees in a canoe. He had escaped long is it since the red men left their wig
the traps of the thief of the Saitlake, who wams?"
took his big canoe, and him and his sister;  ',Seven suis since they saw them for the
and he had paddledup the river fo the vil- last time,"
lage of the Oconees. A big four-foofedser-  " For the last time 7" repeated the gen-
pent of the water, whose, sleep he had bro- eral: " do not 'my red brethren intend to
ken, buried its teeth in his flesh, and one return to their villages 1"
who is now gone to darkness and the worm,  "The sounds of the1 axes of the white
strucli the serpent, and showed the young men make a great noise ,in the ears of the
man the wigwam. The miko of the Oco- ied men; they will go where their. eye
nees was,, with his men on the hunting meets no footsteps of the white men." (
grounds, and when he returned, the scjuaws  "Does the great father of our people
whispered into the ears of his men that his know of this 7" demanded the general
young white brother had been inthe village ;  "The, red mep have lived since seven,
but his young brother was gone, and the summers on the hunting grounds of the
miko, who thought that he was a spy of the people of the Mexeos: they will go," added
white people, followed his trail and found he, in a melancholy tone, " where the
him. My white brother is very young, but plough and the hoe of the white manwill not
he is very-brave, he struck the tomahawk follow them."
from the hand of one of the red men, and  "And how long is it since the English-
his arms had taken hold of him ; 'but hedid man left your wigwam ?" demanded the
not sheathe his knife in his bosom, and general.
strike the deadly blow. The mikohas seen  "Ten suns."
it, and has sent'onte of his runners with his  "Has the young man not seen any other
brother, that he might showshim the path Indians ?"
of the Coshattees, that leads 'to the white  "He was two days at my house, general,"
villages."                            interjected the senator; " one day on his
"But why has the Englishman not ex- passage down."
pained these circumstances ?" demanded the  "The' feet of the white brotherar&amp;not so
general, turning towards the senator.  nimble that they can cross the swamps and
" The Indian had extorted his word.of the woods. My white brother would never

~
G,
t
P"
1'
t
i
r
tt
+4j"
.
i
'+i
t
s
:
x
'
.
'Li
!
f
t
.
i
} ,
't
;
i
r
h_

'4
J-
f,
f ri
i
{ {e
t.
5
,
'i
rt
yZ
' p
fi
ei  f
i

;
S
7
f
t
i
.
4
t
.         Y
P
r
1
,,  !
l(j     F
_ '     f
F
,      r
j '
.;

._V
i-t
L     am

';
ii,


G

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

=r

have found the path without the runner of
the Oconces."
"It is well," said the general.
lIe rang the bell, and an orderly appeared.
Seating himself in his arm-chair, he wrote
a few lines, gave them to the soldier, and
stepped forward, addressing the party in
general, but more particularly the senator.
"The manner in which our enemies have
treated us. instigating and exciting our mis-
guided 'red brethren against the poor settlers
and helpless families in the west of the
Union, certainly justifies severe 'measures
on our -1'rt, against persons suspected of
being cot earned in those dastardly under-
takings. From what I understand, the
Englishman in question does not belong to
this class of wretel es. I hate the enemies
of my co'itry ; but far be it from inc to shed
the blood f an innocent and peaceful travel-
er, whom  toward accident seems to have
thrown on our shores.'
"He is a young man of high standing
and conned Ions, and has been captured by
the pirate, with his sister. Even the man-
ner in wL h he kept his word of honor may
convince you, general, that he is a gentle-
man."
The ge1ral again bowed slightly, and
turned toe ds the young chief, whom he
seemed to  ad through.
"It is I l A, tbn," said he after a while,
"of whom our western newspapers speak
with so n'h admiration, and who saved
the last pa:- sent by our government to
explore t    stern country from a cruel,
treaeherou death. and relieved the young
woman fr,. a rrible death. You see how
aecuratel; a ore informed of your doings."
The y a    Lief bowed, and inclined his
head.
"I sha  ih -py," continued the gene-
ral, " to     i   1tr mine and my country's
guest so a   ,uaished and humane a war-
rior as tih  u If of the Cumanchees-the
most pow '   of the Indian nations in the
Mexico's,  aiedi he, turning towards the
senator ; a o, if I am not mistaken, the
only one, yo the Maquis in Senora and
Senowha: , ho are still independent of the

I

4'

Spaniards. 'Their cavalry is a' fine corps.
and they are, I am sure, the best irregular
lancers in the world."
"The Cumanchees know no master ex-
cept the Great Spirit," said the young war-
rior loftily.  "If the heart of the great fa-
ther and warrior of the white people ap-
proves of what the chief of the Cumnanchecs
has done, let him do the same, and give the
white young man to his friends, whose
hearts are very sad."
"Be assured, my brother," returned the
general, "that I shall do what my duty and
humanity demand. If the youth is innocent,
and I have no doubt he is, then he shall be
free. For the present I am pressed with
affairs of importance ; but in one hour -I
hope I shall have done, and then I shall
expect you in the city."
Waving his hand to the Indian, he shook
that of the senator, and the party withdrew.
A sergeant informed them that he was to
conduct the Indians to the lodgiug-assigned
to them by the general, and to take the pi,
rate into safe custody. They now passed
through the pleasure-ground under quite
different feelings. 'The re-echoed roaring
of a twenty-four pounder, from the camp,
struck their ears, just as they arrived at the
gate ; but the Indians passed on. seemingly
without noticing the heavy peal.
"That's from one of them guns," said
the sergeant, pointing to a heavy pieco of
ordnance that stood behind the lines.
They approached them, and looked at-
tentively at the new objects that presented
themselves to their eyes. The lines were
not yet quite finished, but in a state of rapid
progress that promised a speedy termination,
They consisted of a long range of cotton
bales, extending from the margin of the
Mississippi across the bottom towards the
cypress swi np. These were covered with
earth, exhibiting thus an impenetrable
breastwork, behind which the assailants
could be received with the sure and dreadful
fire of the western back-woods riflemen.
Several batteries, parly finished, showed,
heavy pieces of ordnance that were to do
fend the principal points of the line. The

OSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.
whole betrayed an arrangement simple as  A crimson blush flew over her cheeks and
the shortness of time and the limited means neck ; she looked with inexpressible tender
allowed, but highly creditable to the enter- ness up to the creole.
prising and 'ingenious spirit of its author. " He is so kind a brother," answered she.
Behind the line were posted the regulars,  " Brother !" repeated the creole; "my
encamped with such troops of the militia as fair child is not a sister of Mr. Graham ?9"
were sufficiently trained and proviided with  . " Not a sister," replied the blushing
armhs, to the number perhaps of two thous- maiden, " but--'"
and. There was a wild merry spirit, a fa-  "But," resumed the lively senator-"
cetious gaiety among the men, that con- understand you, my beautiful child; Yet toi
trasted strangely with the grave thoughtful me-you are not the daughter of the Ia;
mien of the different officers and comman- dian chief ?" taking her hand at'the carne
ders. The Indians were allowed to ap- time.
preach witIin a certain distance; but they  " Oh, no," replied she.
seemed themselves to feel the necessity of  " And how came you into his hands ?"
not penetrating too far, and they examined  "Oh, Arthur will tell you evey thing,"
the different objects. with a delicacy inter- said she, taking his hand, and clasping it
esting to the various spectators-and yet with infantine fondness.
there was something melancholy in their   "Charming, lovely creature," exclaimed
gaze doubtless from thedeep-felt superiority the creole, with an ecstacy which, if wit-
of.their white oppressors.          ,  nessed by Madame Gentillon might per-
"And how many men gay such a gun haps have caused some wry faces-" you
kill at once ?" asked ElSol, in broken Eng- must stay a long, a long time with us."
glish,-pointing to one of the cannons.   " If-" whispered she, scarcely audible;
"If loaded with grape, fifty," replied the  "If Arthur," the senator edged in, "re-
soldier, with some pride, and that important mains with us-well, well, I~ shall try to
mien which delights to have an opportunity  keep him, but I doubt very much whether
of showing its own superiority.        I shall succeed."
The Indian stood thoughtful.           The carriage had, in the meanwhile, ar-
"My friends," said the senator, "nay rived in the city, and halted before an ele-
stay here ; but this young lady and I will gant house. The footman opened the door,
ride home, if the chiefs have no objection." and the senator stepping out, helped Rosa
Both waved their hands, and the senator to alight; he received, or rather took her
' with his lovely charge stepped into the car- arm, and led her up stairs. They entered
{ tiage.                                  an elegant and well-furnished drawing-room,
"But we must go, too," said the sergeant, where they were expected by thie family
- round whom had closed a file of sodiers, who with an anxiety heightened by the appear-
were to take the prisoners in safe keeping.  ance of the interesting maiden.
, El Sol, without giving a reply, waved his  "There comes papa," cried the meiry
hand and pointed forward.              Eleanor, running towards her father to em-
"And will they do no harm to Arthur ?"  brace him ; but suddenly changing her in-
asked Rosa, when she saw herself again tention, she caught Rosa into her arms.
seated by the side of the paternal-creole.  While she held the maiden still clasped in
" No, my child !" said he, in a soothing her arms, she glanced at her and her father;
tone-" our fears are now over. Arthur will the expression of satisfaction beaming from
shortly be with us."                   both their countenances, seemed to restore
Her head reclined, she sank into a sweet at once all her former buoyancy..-
'everie.            -"Here she is." exclaimed the giddy girl;
"'Arthur seems very dear to my sweet 'the beantifu'l rose of the wilderness." She
child !" resumed the creole. 'gazed for a moment at the fair face, expand-

'ii

!"

i
. ;
~
'  "g
v  ii.
',
,. ,
j
4; t
.
;L {
{

_j
't
,
y
rFt
f
!


f

4y

h
i4

ROSA, TIE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

G6                     ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.
ng under the bright radiance of hope, and father's neck, she began to pray so ardently.
after having impressed a dozen kisses on her that the fond father could not help comply-
lips, she began to examine her dress.   ing with the wishes of his little termagant.
" Really," .eclaiined she, in droll sur-  " And so, papa, you thought Rosa was a
prise, "your mantua-maker has not a bad sister of Mr. Graham ?" exclaimed she with
taste.  'Vhere was this beautiful silk robe a merry air-" Oh short-sig edness of man-
made ? It fits so prettily, and the charming kind ! I made it out at first sight. That
little morocco moccasins ?" bending down, was not a sisterly embrace. Am I permit-
and looking at the prettiest foot imaginable ted to show you how brother and sister em-
and thebracelets and the bonnet? Really, brace?  Come here, Gabriella"-and step-
my sweet child, the first Parisian artist could ping forward, she took her sister's hand,
not have chosen a better assortment. My and shaking it with a hearty, but rather
sweet, sweet little creature !"         cool and formal air, she said in the same
She would have chattered half an hour tone of drollery, " Well, I am glad to see
lknger in the same strain, if her sister had you, brother ; I hope you are well? how is
not interrupted her.                    mother, well too ? had fine weather-fine
" But you will not monopolise her en- day-agreeable passage B'
tirely ?" said Gabriella, with something like  There was something so gay, so playful
envy.                                  in the buoyant spirits of the interesting
"Sheer jealousy," exclaimed Eleanor ; girl, that even Gabriella could not help
there she is,"-passing Rosa into the hands smiling, though with a tear glittering in her
of her sister, who now clasped her in her eye.
tenu. Gabriella's eye hung with a tender  "At last," whispered the arch girl, "there
expression on, the very form of, the being appears again a smile on the'face of my fair
who came so unexpectedly to save one so heart-broken sister.-Oh me! how much
clear to ~ her heart, and perhaps, take him worse than barbarians you are! what
amway again ;-a tear started in her eye, wounds you cause "
"My dear sister !" exclaimed she, and,  "Eleanor," exclaimed Gabriella, and a
the two girls kept each other embraced as deep blush suffused her face, "how cruel
if they wou  ever separate.             you are !"
Both father and mother looked in silent  "I ?" retorted the lttle termagant, in
errotion at the two tender beings whose merry petulance-"here comes a troubador,
similarity of mind and sentiments bespoke melts the heart of one pror girl, and capti-
itself so clearly. There was no etiquette, vate that of a second-and vho. is she ?-
no ceremonious introduction,            my poor, poor-"
The beautiful being had at once conquer-  " Really ! Eleanor !" exclaimed Gabriella,
ed all the hearts of the family, and all th' and her tears began to flow faster-" You
bonds of cold formality were forgotten, or are very indelicate."
rather overleaped.                        "Eleanor !" exclaimed both father and
"Come to our mother," said the sensitive mother, in a reproachful tone.
Gabriella, and she passed now like a beau- But Eleanor already hung upon the neck
tiful toy, a third time into the hands of the of her sister, and her look implored her for-
dignified matron.                       giveness so piteously, that the kind soul
The father had not yet had an opportu- could nothelp granting it instantly. With
nity of relating to his family the favorable a second turn, she sat down to the open
turn which the fate of their friend had taken. piano ; her tender fingers flew over the keys
Eleanor was trinping round as if in quest of with a swiftness that dazzled the eye, and
something ; all at once it seemed to strike after a tender prelude, she struck into the
her that her own curiosity had not yet been delightful air of "The Troubadour." 1Her
satisfied. Throwing her arms round her voice began to warble the sweet notes ; all

A coach was heard rolling through the
street. It halted before the door. Eleanor
ran towards the door.  "It is Arthur!"
shouted the boyant'and tender-hearted gii-.
The news was received with an exclama-
tion of joy by the company, and even the
passive Madame Gentillon could not sup-
press her emotion. The Englishman alight-
ed, bowed to a military gentleman who re-
mained in the carriage, and entered the
house. There was on his countenance, when
he entered the parlor, a slight, melancholy
seriousness visible, which, with the natural
dignity and loftiness of his demeanor,, ren-
dered his appearance extremely interesting.
It was the consciousness of having acted a
noble part; tempered,, however, by some-
thing like an unpleasant feeling. He paid
his respects to the ladies of 'the house, and
after grasping the hand of the senator in

turned towai d tihe fair performer. Ro
sat near, Madame Gentillou like one w
was dreaming ; she teened hardly conscio
of herself among the lively and tender gir
As, however, tire tones of the instrume
spoke forth the harmonious dotes of the ai
her face began to brighten, her eyes
gleam, ,and hdr whole form appeared oleo
trifled-she listened with an expressic
which seemed to anticipate that joys of
higher description, and pleasures of a noble
taste, would brighten her thorny path. S1
rose, and glided with a light airy step t(
wards the piano-forte, as if afraid of disturl
ing the fairy sound, and with a native woe
during gaze, she looked both at the sing
nud the instrument, that uttered such ha
meonious'concord. Again she retired, ande
down deeply musing. A tear stole from ur
derneath her silken lashes, another follow
ed ; they were tears of inexpressible joy
that she had never shed before, and the,
produced that corresponding feeling of in
terest and respect, in the surrounding per
sons, which noble and tender souls never
fail to pay to innocence and virtue.
CHAPTER XXV.II

F+
rr
F.
t' 4
4
i"
S
irL
§3
I
t
V
P S t

.i

,ter

silence, he approached Rosa, who stood lean-
 ing on the sofa, without being able to move
s from the spot.
" My dear Rosa," said he, in a tone thrill-
t ing with emotion, "nothing shall ever more
, separate us."
Every one stepped back, and the family
- looked in silence at the noble couple.
S"ILet us now, dea- friends, forget the past
and live in the present, and acknowledge
thankfully the ways of Providence," said
Madame Gentillon.
"Not a hair shall fall from  our heads'
without He wills it," said Rosa.
iertearful eyes were turned towards heav-
en, and again upon Arthur. The mother
crossed her hands, and a general silence be-
spoke the deep feeling of all.
"I commit," said Arthur, after a pause,
"my Rosa to the hands of the tender Gabri-
ella ; she will not reject so lovely a sister."
.The girl blushed, and received Rosa in
her arms. The senator understood the
meaning of his gueit, and seizing his arm,
both gentlemen walked into the next'room.
"I am so unfortunate," began the Bng-
lishman, "as to give my friends more un-
easiness than even the rules of politeness
will allow."
"Sir," replied the senator, with a hearty
shake of the hand, "do not speak here of
rules, where k an extraordinary .ec4 se super-
cedes every rule. Pray speak Sri hout the
least reserve."
"It is absolutely necessary for me," said
the Englishman, "to leave the city to-mor-
row."
"Why to-morrow 7" interrupted the sen-
ator; "I hope the general has not fixed the
time."
"Not exactly ; but still in a manner that
allows of no hesitation. Were even the re-
collections of a more pleasing nature, a cir-
eumstance has occurred which calls me im-
periously hence."
"I hope the general has not contributed
to make Mr. Graham's stay so unpleasing,"
returned the senator.
"Certainly not," replied the Englishman.
He paused moment, and then said, "I

(s I
r     _

{    t
i
I1
4
1
si

f  ,
i  ,
i
f {
a
'        f
'
o


t
ki    '
FS
F
b'
1
.
t i
a
J

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

feel myself even obliged to his delicacy, for the future representative of an ancient famn
having treated the whole in private.  I iy, aiinl, perhaps, of a noble house bury
have spoken with him ; but sir, let us pass himself in the recesses of i country sa?
over these last two hours in silencee"   Believe me, sir, marriages then only prove
lie pressed the hand of the Creole, and a happy, when temper, education, and even
long silence ensued.                     equality of rank, fortune, and birth, make
" And why leave the city so soon ?" re- us conscioUs of the claims of respect which
sumed tle senator.                      the beloved object has,'not only upon us,
" The pirate has made his escape," re- but on the esteem of the world in general."
turned the Englishman                      " True," said the Euglishnman, who, re-
'" 'then Mr. Grahamn must depart indeed." luctantly, seemed to enter into the discus-
" Yes, sir," replied the Englishman, " I sion of a settled point; " but, though my
must, and wish to depart with Rosa, in si- country is called the most aristocratical, and
lience, to-morrow."                      considered so, yet in this point, we differ en-
"With Rosa ?" demanded the senator.    tirely from the Continent, and the best fain-
"' Yes, sir."                          iiies'will not think themselves degraded by
The senator shook his head.           a union that would be deemed a misalliance
" Sir." said he, " you would pot. expose in France."
this innocent being to the sneers of your  " I know," said the senator, "that gold
coantymien ?"                           can effect anything in your country, and
" Mv conntrymnen," returned the youth, brighten the most sullied character; but
Si" er sometimes, but never at innocence with Mr. G raham, I hope it to bp different;
and virtue; I am. Loltever, well aware o4f and sensible as he is, he cannot but see that
the iopr= riety of th ng Rosa along with he is going to involve himself and Rosa in a
me    thit a -emale co  muno , and yet. to great risk, if he insits upon'taking her along
leay hor is absIlntely imipodssiblh. The fi- with him.''
ture ive of Arthur Grahami nmust not be -= This must be done, my dear sir," said
eta    even by the slightest susphin "  the youth ; l n-tbu we have not yet touched
i he fatiure wife of Arthur Grihiui !" the very point.of the question ; foim what I
rep   +1 the senator. with a send  hahe hinow, Rosa is certainly of a noble. and of a
of    l'od : his Mr. Graham thought on wealthy family. There are vestiges left in
the i, arity bet we n himself and her x  It tie Iands of the Indians, that might put us
woe      i delicate, inded, to d ubt of lif in thoe way of finding out her parents."
hoe  tilh i'i:euions ; but have oult coasid-  " But la Mr. Grahani sure that the In-
ered  h! hive your fuiily ''         dians will give up their claitus?"
i i be,'' said ihe yout !i, iiroly.  The  Arthr -'h'looked pe'iplexed.
pro,    dit' in Cl tent  ritain wool: not  -' Al, in 0 case they shout d refuse to do so,
he       i to act as I mnlist, under the obliga- have we ily coercive means ? She is the
tio       are upon ime, e en il my heart' ad pted child o'f the Indian, and no law can
wa      f l e.''                        force ita into comlplianlice with your wishes."
nor your sentiiments," returned the  " Spaie iy feelings, my dear friend,'' ex-
sena  ' lbut I cannot approve of them. -'chiiuied the youth, not without vehemence,.
Y   e  'her'l obligations, your Iif Iiiperhaps; ' I should run oad at the mere thought of
but    _e ou make her's happy ?  She is the iher being forced to return with these say-
Jno     ui.m tiiig being I ever saw; [but ee ages."
is a    I if nituire, ant would play but a  " I shall do all in xmy power, my dear
ead    ' ii the slihioniable circles of LioidonC Grahmn. But perhaps it would be better
or 0 1't, 'toin. Will your love stand proof fdr both of you. it---"
aga    tii ' sneers-pcarlmn the expression  " That is settle, sir," said Arthur, with '
-oi r cold-hearted fasliioiablcs ; or, c   . s ai.r. of ittpatien ce ; " I ams very

happy to have gained her af'eetion; 'I am
proud of it.' Love, you know, is the best
teacher. She is lbut fourteen. One, or even
two years, will put her on a level with the
bert educated young lady in the three king-
doms. I am   well aware that the future
Lady Graham cannot, must not be a shep-
herdness; but this will not be the ease with
Rosa. There is a delicacy, a strength of
mind in ber, that I am sure will point out
to her the straight road through all the in-
tricacies of high life."
The senator paced up and down the room.
"I will mlke you, sir, a proposal. Leave
Rosa with us ; my family are delighted with
her."
"It is impossible !" said the Englishmtan
passing his hand over his forehead, on which
idrge drop s of perspiration bespoke' the in-
tensity of his feelings. "The mere men-
tion of it would break her heart."
"Pshaw !" returned the senator;: " girls
hearts are easily broken and repaired again."
"Mr'. CGentillon would find it otherwise.
Wo, sir ; it would he worse than cruel to
play that game with her."
" Well 'aid the senator, "I will speak
with Madoiae Gentillon; perhaps she may
be able to find a clue that may lead es out
of his labyrinth of embarrassments. But
now let usreturn to our company."
Arthur rblowed slowly and thoughtfully.
Theg found the circle of the family greatly
increased . Elanor stood at the side of a
wel-formed young man with a rosy counte-
nance. She tripped up to Arthur, and draw-
ing herself a little up, assumed as grave an
attitude a' I tform,inclining somewhat to-
wards faness, would admit. The new
guests seemed to be intimate friends of the
house.
"rAlr me to introduce to your acquaint-
anee my byr there " said she, with a droll antd
rather all and formal air, " Major Ge-
tuillon, of -pf-a"
" The City Volunteers," subjoined a flue
lender yotg ran; with a pale but healthy-
looking coletnance and a couple of black
eyes. ' shuuok hands cordially with Ar-
thur.

"Here is a Yankee," said she, with a
blush that spoke more than her words, and
a voice that tre mbled a little, poiniing.at the
same time to the young man at whose side
she had been standing, when the two gen-
tleinen entered.  "I hate ahese Yankees,"
added she, in a sly whisper to the young
rnan; the sound, however was caught by
our Captain Copeland, who had unceremo-
niously entered'and stolen behind her.
" I believe her," said he; "-she will give
poor Mr. M'Leaven trouble enough, I vt r-
rant ye.tr
"That man," exclaimed the merry girl,
to the infinite satisfaction of the party, "is
our trustworthy justice of the peace, in the
county town of Opelousas, at present cape
tain of a company of militiamen, duly elect-
ed, and come down, to fight the British."
Shtkiug hands with him, she turned away.
Well,.lad," said the worthy old man,
with a hearty laugh "I am'glad to see thee
again; thou art as honest, ay, and as true a
lad, as ever trod in his own shoes, and hast
more real- blood in thy little finger than
yould swim a horse, God bless tee! And
should them British.play thee praaks, come
back to old Squire Copeland."
'Arthur seized the hand of the old man and
Asak it heartily.
The buoyaut vivacity of the little mistress
of ceremonies was somewhat disconcerted
in her flow of spirits, by the bluntness of the
old man; but after a moment, she regained
her former gaiety.
"That f iendof ors," continued she, "is,
to speak  kh the tongue of his own connam
try, a gentleman from the great emporium
of the north; I hope yot know it ?"
" New York," taid the young man, re-
turning the polite bow of the Englishm:m.
iAnti that gentleman is from our wel.
beloved city of the these and thious."
"Philileluphia," said the other.
She was agnia interrupted by Squire
Copland, who had now taken a stare round
he salmon, and had at last become station
ary' before Rosa. The old man stood for a
while, gazing with surprise at the maiden.
An indistinct recollection seemed to float

t1

,
{tt
3
'
} t

68

X11
L

3


ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

before-his memory, but still hbr was uncer- shops, called, in the language of the coun-
tam, when she, who had considered him try, entertainments. They had gathered
with no less attention, seized his hand, and from all parts of the world, attracted by the
spokc in' her soft silver tones, ," Does not warlike preparations; pretty much in the
my white father know his Rosa ?" ,     same manner that, during a heavy gale, tho
" Rosa !" exclaimed the astonished 01d seabirds are seen hovering round the wreck-
man, "hang me if she ain't Rosa, :s she iag vessel, to pick up those remains which
lives and moves !" And he seemed really to chance may have thrown in their way.
have forgotten his twofold dignity and im- The-Indianssatin their usual listless man-
portance. He hugged her, and shook her ner, squatted on their haunches, their heads
hand, till the poor girl could scarcely help reclining on their hands, and these resting
crying out. "Oh you must come with mce," on their knees, with their guns between
said he ; " my old woman will get crazy them ; gaping occasionally at the straggling
with joy, ay, and so ye must."         groups and individuals, as they passed them,
" Ay, to be sure," intcrjected Eleanor, without receiving, in their turn, more than
"and have a husking frolic, ny, and perhaps a contemptuous side glance, which now and
dance too, a hopsesa. It will be charm- then one of thesnrollers deigned to cast upon
ing, enchanting ; they are very agreeable them
people in our much-beloved towsnof Ope-  About half an hour might have elapsed
lousas, that they are" "since the Indians had landed, when one of
The whole company joined in a laugh,  these grog-shop keepers, whom the olive
"My tormentor again at my heels," said hue of his dry face bespoke to be a Spanird,
the squire, good-humoredly.            emerged from his haunt, and strolled slowly
"Well, we will conclude a lasting peace." towards the Indians, who were sitting in the
"And break it again in half an hour," re- same unmovable indolence ; giving/no other
turned the squire.                     sign of their existence than an occasional
"And bhomerry," replied she.         turn of their head towards the lower part of
We now leave our friends, in the happy the quay where their chiefshad disappeared
circle of congenial beings, in order to east a among the crowd, His curiosity was doubt-
giane at the quay where the canoe was ly- less excited by the silence and unusual stern-
ing with its captives, the pirates, the claief ness of so many savages, whose dress be-
nse of the fortunate meeting.         spoke them to be of a class far superior to
those who were, teen daily, and, which
seemed still more strange to mine host, could
CHAPTER XXVIII.              'look without emotion at delicacies glittering
in red, yellow, and white hues behind the
We left the canoe, with its inmates, in the dirty windows. Holding a bottle in one
charge of five of the Indians, four of whom hand, a tumbler in the other, he filled 'the
were Oconees, and one a Pawnee. It lay latter with liquor, and presented it to one of
near the margin of the bank, and at that the Indians, after having tasted it himself.
part of the levee where, at present, the first  The Odonee looked at his companions,
of the suburbs end. At the time alluded to, and then at the man, with an expression in
however, the houses, or temporary frame which desire, and an almost innate passion,
dwellings, were but thinly scattered in these seemed to struggle with fear. A recollec,
part, decreasing gradually into a few single tion of the consequences that had accom-
taverns and grog-shops along the road that panied their late excess, and a glance at the
leads to the plantations on the left bank of Pawnee, who sat sternly by, and darted 'fa-
the Mississippi.                         ouns glances at mine host, got the better of
The dwellings were chiefly tenanted by his thirst;. he turned away almost with
retailing tradesmen, who kept grog and wino horror-

,1

,
;
t3
'
4
i i   x
G
r

The man, however, was not discouraged;
stepping nearer, he held the tumbler close
to his nose, trying whether his firmness
could stand the proof. r The Pawnee no
sooner saw it than he bounded from the
ground, and threw his lance 'forward with
no threatening" a gesture, as to make the
host shrink back with a precipitancy which
spilled the contents of the tumbler, and.
brought the bottle itself in imminent dan-
ger. ' Proiably he would have given up his
hospitable intentions, but just as the Paw-
nee was darting towards him, the wary eye
of the olive-faced little man caught a ghmpe
of a head that rose from under t  mat,
with which the canoe was covered. roses,
as it seemed, with difficulty, peeped round,
and then sank behind the cover.     .
The. Spaniard retreated thoughtfully to-
wards his shop. He had not yet reached it,
when. he was joined by a second inhabitant
of the neighborhood, probably impelled by,
the same laudable desire of offering his ser-
vices. Both spoke together, and then they
returned towards the canoe. The second,

who was rather better dressed, and whose low the canoe.
appearance and long whiskers denoted him  Both the Frenchman and the Spaniard
to be a'n individual of the " great nation," seemed now tired of remaining axty longer
began to show his politeness by the eus- as unprofitable spectators, and they went
tomary salutations, which he accompanied awaj', It was, however, not long before
with' a few Indian words, picked up in his the latter returned again with the negro,
intercourse'with the red men. The Paw- carrying a portable kitchen with fuel, to es-
nee stood erect, his lance on his arm, and tablish one of those movable public tables
his stern, fierce eye fixed on the speaker, which we have mentioned, and which are
with an expression that but little concealed still seen on the levee. He lighted a fire,
his suspicion. When the latter had ex- hung a couple of kettles filled with rice,
hausted his Indian vocabulary, the savage and chops of mutton and of beef,,over it,
waved his hand disdainfully, and turned his .and seemed to pay no further attention,
back on the intrudors., Again 'the head either to the Indians, or to the boatmen who
arose from behind the mat, anl peering out were rolling barrels and .bales, with the
with a long, almost beseeching look, sank usual vociforations attending this sort of
again.   -                 .           navigation. When about a .dosen barrel
In the meanwhile, a flat-boat had corpe had been landed, the crew dispersed, only a
down, and was seen floating at no great dis- couple of the men remaining. They threw
stance from the canoe. The boatman looked themselves on the ground, lolling their heads
for a landing place-the Frochinan hal- on their hands, and looking in the same
load to them, and then waning up to a direction, with an indifference that seemed
skiff that floated a few, yards above the' to have been borrowed from the Indians,
canoe, he untied the rope by which it was  Perhaps-an hour might now have elapsed,
dangling, and leaped into it evidently with when from behind one of the frame houses

'S

'

i  f
a.

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

the friendly intention of assisting the crew
in their approach towards the  . The
skiff darted towards the canoe, and the
Frenchman, as if with the intention of pre-
venting a shcek, laid hold of the light In-
dian bark, Again the head rose. It 1iet
the face of a countryman.
"It is I-it is Lafitte-a thousand Napo-
Icons !" were the only words whispered in
French, and in so low a tone, that only the
acute cas of the Pawnee caught the indis-
tinct sounds. Raising his lance, he would
have darted it at the lPrenchnan, if his arm,
had not been caught by the Spaniard, who
pointed significantly towards the manoeuvr-
ing militiamen, and the crowd that hovered
at no great distance from the spot-the arm
of the Pawnee sank. Shaking the Spaniard
off, so that bottles and tumblers fell upon
the sand, he motioned to the Oconees, and
all the Indians moved into the canoe.
The skiff had, in the meanwhile, come
up to the flatboat, and the united. exertions
of the boatmen soon brought it towards the
bank, where they made fast a few yards be-

70

{


72                      ROSA ,THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.
two men advanced vith a hurried, and as it  "I wonder," said one of the backwoods-
seemed a doubtful step, looking at first men. "why them three officers ,tift gone
warily r %und. As they approached the spot down on the levee? it ar the straight road ;
where the Indians lay, their steeps became and what have them redskins to do with th-
firmer, their mien more authoritative, and custom-house ?"
they advanced like men who came on an    " I warrant ye~ they know their business o
official errand. One of these individuals ay, and their road too," said the second,
w'as dresses in a military uniform, while the flinging a small silver coin to the Spaniard.
second, who kept a pace behind, seemed his Mine host filled the tumbler, and the boat.
attendant. When they had come up to the man quaffed the gill down, smacking his
Iudians, the apparent officer halted, and lips-the Indians turned involuntarily. For

pointing to the canoe with a great mien, he
made the Indian a sign to follow him. The
savage looked at the officer without chaug-
ing his posture. The Spaniard, who seem-
ed all the while absorbed in the grosser
affairs of his' kitchen, turned towards the
new comer, and had no sooner observed hin,
than lie lifted his cap and bowed profound-
ly. The officer nodded complacently, and
stepped up to the boatmen, and taking from
his cocked hat a printed paper, he unfolded
it, explaining in a few broken English words
the nat ure of his errand, which related, as
he said. to custom-house regulations. He
wout back again to the Indians, and beck-
oning to the Pawnco a second time, he
marched away,
The boatmen had been :stless and indif-
ferent spectators of the mute proceedings,
but fhey had no sooner perceived the custom-
house officer, as they presumed him to he,
turned again downwards, then they slowly
arose, and striding towards the Pawnee,
turned him with force towards the officers,
accompanying their gestures with a sign
that showed their own displeasure at the
contempt of their public affairs, and their
disposition to force him into compliance.
The Pa\vneo' looked for a moment at the
sturdy backwoodsmen, whom he had seen
coining from  afar, again at the officer who
was already at some distance, and proceed-
ed without looking further behind, as if his
Ecrupls were overcome. Making to the,
Oconees a significant gesture, and pointing
alternately to the Spaniard and at the canoe,
he went after the officer, and the three per-
sonages were soon lost behind the frame I
houses.

ROSA, THE INDAI CAPTIVE.

(
S

some minutes, however, they seemed to feel
the importance of their trust, and they turn-
da away, as if afraid of looking at.the se-
ductig bottle. The second boatman now
came, and after having taken the same li-
bationm, both threw themselves again on t .-
ground."
The effect of the bad example was slow.
but irresistible. One of the Oconees rose,
and casting a doubtful glance round, as if
afraid of being seen by the dreaded Pawnee,
he stole towards the kettles, and seizing the
offered tumbler, swallowed its contents with
an avidity that extorted a low contemptuous
laugh from the backwoodsman. Another
of his brethren followed, looking round in
the same wary manner; a third and a fourth
succeeded; still no Pawnee appeared, and
their thirst got the upper hand of their fear,
Again the fi-st of the Geonees advanced
with somewhat tmre assurance, and again
the rest followed, till their draughts became
so frequent, that timy stretched themselves
on the ground. in a state of insensibility.
The obliging Frenchman cane now saun-
tering towards the Indians, and casting an
indifferent glance at the besotted savages,
stepped hastily down towards the canoe,
gaud lifted the mat.
" Monsieur Lafitte," whispered he.
The head rose again.
Putting his hand cautiously under the,
mat, he severed the thongs with which the
arms of the pirates. were p3imiioned, with a
single effort, and dropping his knife and a
small bottle into the canoe, he again step-
ped back on the bank.
For some time there was no sign of any
movement, but, after a few minutes, a light

stir betrayed that the prisoners were en-
deavoring to restore the circulation of blood
in their limbs. As they had been only par-
tially bound during their passage down the
Red river and the Mississippi, having alter-
nately the free use of either of their hands,I
and of their feet, they regained their mo-
tion sooner than was even expected aby the
Frenehman,
" These savages," said he to the boat-1
men, apparently with much concern, "are
as drunk as beasts: they will lose their
guns; we must put them into the canoe."
The boatmen remained in their listless atti-
tude, without giving a reply. The solici-
tous Frenchman stepped down with the
guns.
"Sir," said he in French, "it is time."
Very well-your name, Sir," said the
lshy voice of Lafitte.
rLouis Marseille."
"You have my word of honor for a thous-
and Napoleons."
"Good !-make haste !"
The Frenchman had scarcely ascended
.the bank, before the mat slided into the
stream with a light rushing sound. The
noise of the mat made the boatmen'run to-
wards the canoe. tha now darted across the
stream like an animat d being, impelled by
the powerful hands of 'he skilful oarsmen,
who regained with every stroke more of their
former strength. For a moment they looked
at the swift canoe that became suddenly peo-
pled with a swarthy, weather-beaten, and
suspicious-looking race ; then recollecting
the custom-house officers, and the manou-
vres of the Frenehman,they began to suspect
foul play ; they reared their double-jointed
masses with morequickness than might have
been expected from 'their sluggish nature,
and jumping into their skiff off the flat boat,
gave the fugitives full chase, without being
in the least disconcerted by their numbers-
d   "Messieurs !" cried a man from the canoe,
that darted already fifty yards before them.
At the ame time pointing a rifle towards
-"  them.
Fa"Fire away, Mesheers," cried the back-

woodsman, not in the least daunted by , the
sight."
But the canoe was too lightly built and
too well manned, not to gain with every
stroke of the oar on their pursuers; and af-
ter a few minutes of fruitless struggle, the
two men returned to their former station.
the sun was now setting. A crowd corn-
ing from the city, was fast thronging towards
the upper quay. Amidst the glittering arms
of the regulars, the lofty forms of El Sol and
Tokeah could be distinctly seen. A fierce,
terrible yell burst from the throats of the
Indians. The flat boat that lay below the=
canoe, had for a considerable time concealed
the escape of the pirate, and it was not un-
til they had gained the current of the stream,
that it became visible to the keen eyes of
the Indians. Leaving the regulars behind,
they darted 'ith immense leaps towards the
spot where their drunken men lay, and ar-
rivet just w'hen the boatirmen had again Idn'd-
ed. A glance at their brethren betrayed the
ole-without hesitating a moment they
tI ew themselves into the skiff.
But the pirates had too great an advan-
tage over their pursuers, and notwithstand-
ing the extraordinary skill of the Indians in
handling their pars, and their still greater
exertions, yet such was the superior and al-
most flying swiftness of the birchen canoe,
that the pirates were approaching the right
bank before the Indians had even passed a
third of the stream.
There was, - however, another point to-
wards which the pirates turned their eyes
with anxiety. Three ships lay at anchot
near the shore, where they were to land.
There was evidently a short consultation,
and 'even indecision among them, of which:
their pursuers availed themselves, by ie-
doubling their efforts. The fierce yell that
resounded nearer and nearer, cut short the
consultations
They pushed with renewed vigor towards
the bank. As not the slightest stir on board
these vessels was to be observed, the spirit
of' the fugitives seemed to revive. They
were within gun-shot distance, when they
found the ships entirely deserted. The sal-

4

ti

(

..3 i
E
to
.t
.:


RIAOA, THE INDIAN.CAPTIVE,

lors had been called into the service of the had heard of land thieves, but not of the
country, and were enlisted in a marine con- thieves of the Saitlake. " What d'ye mean
pany, which the commander-in-chief had by that ?"
thought it prudent to establish.          " Pirates !" replied the old chief. "The
The last rays of the sun gilded the ey- white warrior s must not stay us."".
presses on the eastern bank of the Missis-  " D'ye think them fellows are pirates ?"
sippi, when the canoo was seen darting demanded the worthy sergeant, with the
through the opening that intervened between same doubtful shake of the head.
two of the vessels.                       " The miko of the Oconees has said so- '
Repeated shouts from the left bank had at and again was pushing forward.
last excited the attention of those who were  "Miko of the Oconees ?" repeated the
on the right side. There were some groups sergeant.  "May be you are mistaken in
of black people, and downwards, at a greater taking them there runaway men for pi-
distance, a company of the militiamen com- rates. Them  men are, any how, in the
ing from their mauceuvres, and the lines that swamps, and there they can fight a hundred
were raising on the other side of the river, such red-skins as you."
The pirates had, in the meanwhile, landed,  " The chiefs will find them," said Toke-
and pushing the canoe back into the stream, ah, trembling with impatience.
they crawled up the bank, lifted their caps,  " And who are you ? and what business
and, making a low bow to their pursuers inl have you to command here in sight of the
true French style, they ran along the line to- head-quarters ?-Miko of the Oconees ?-
wards the swamps, and in the same direc- what'sliat to us?  1 reckon you won't tell
tion which Bambo had pointed out to Ar- us which is which ?"
thur Graham.                              " Them are wary fellows," said another,
A troop of militiamen had come sufficient- "lurking about our camp t they want to
ly near to intercept the fugitives, or at least get their pouches filled with gold from them
to give them a chase ; but the nimbleness Englishers, I warrant ye."
of the Frenchman, and their own lassitude,  "Pirates P'iroared a third ; " do you take
tter a long exercise, as well as ignorance of white men for pirates ?"
what was going on, made them halt; and    "Them are militiamen who have escaped
they looked now with a sullen curiosity to- from this cursed business," roared a fourth,
wards the Indians who were fast approach- who had probably found but little comfort
ing. Stepping up closely to the margin of in the daily drilling.
the bank, they permitted them to bound on "Stop, red gentlemen !" cried the honest
land, and to come up, but their twenty rifles Tennessee sergeant, who now felt it; ineuin-
formed an impenetrable barrier against their bent upon him to assume his authority, and
future advance. The Indians looked round to do the public a signal service by inter-
for the pirate. who were by this time lost cepting such suspicious-looking persons.
to the eye behind the hedge, and again they  Though there had not been many words
pressed forwards.                      interchanged between the parties, yet,they
ofdly ! softly I red skins," hailooed one were drawled out so slowly on the part of
of the soldiers, who, to judge from his an- the militiamen,, as to give to the pirate9
thoritative mien and the epaulettes on his even in the opinion of Tokeah, an advance
jacket, was no less a personage than a ser- that would put it out of their power to comoe
geant.   Where to ?"                   up with them.
"After the trail of the thieves of the Salt-  A boat filled with regulars and their offi-
lake."                                  cers, had in the meanwhile landed, and the
"Thieves of the Saltlake ?" repeated the worthy sergeant began gradually to pcrceivo
honest sergeant, shaking his head with that us mistake ; but tl precious moments were
doubtful wisdom that betrayed the good man lost-night had closed in.

.1 a
i'
'
s
.
G'
x
,
-
r
t
i
k'
t
f.
k
,
t
;
Z
t
a
f
I
?)

"Well," said the sergeant, considerably
erest-fallen, and in a tone still lower.-
"You may go and try your chance, but ten
to one they are gone ; and if you find them,
ye'll het buj dry blows, and maybap more.
My mnen are tired ; but, if you think-"
A sullen silence betrayed that none were
willihg to go on so dangerous an expedition.
It is too late," said the old chief, in a
voice in which shame and ire were fearfully
mingled.
"And will the mike let his enemies es-
cape ?" demanded El Sol, with surprise, in
the Indian language.
"Shall the red men become the hunting"
dogs of the whites? Enough of blood has
been shed for them. Not a drop more shall
flow. Does El Sol know the path of these
woods? Can his eye see the.trail when all
is dark?  Does he want to see his braves
killed by robbers ?"
The old chief spoke these words with a
decision that sprung perhaps as much from
hatred to his enemies, as some, not entirely
subdued, predilection foir the pirate, who,
notwithstanding the dark treachery that had
cost him his only child, kept still his hold
on a mind, that in hatred ks well as love,
was impelled more by instinctive tenacity
than reason. , El Sol listened in silence to
the talk of his father-in-law-making now
a sign to his men, they' returned to their
canoe, which, in the meanwhile, had been
brought back, and theyrecrossed the stream.
CHAPTER XXIX.
After having traversed an immense tract
of country under difficulties which only In-
dians couli overcome in so short a time,
and in parts seldom or never trodden by hu-
man foot-the mike with his son-in-law
had at last arrived at the place of their des-
tination, as we have seen.
Their diffeulties had begun as soon as
they had issued from the Red river. The
numerous mansions on the banks of the
Mississippi, the scattered villages, the threat-
ening mien of the black and white people,

A

and the suspicious glances with which they
'vere measured on theih passage, had augur-
ed to theri an evil reception, These diffi-
culties were by no means diminished, when
they at'last beheld the city, with its bustle
and warlik preparations, and the thousands
of br ick jnd stone buildings, every one of
which was considered by them as an im-
pregnable fortress.
It was, therefore, with no-little''satisfac-
tion that the miko heard the well-known
voice of his young white brother, the Eng-
lishmnan ; and the desire 'of joining him who
might direct them in this civilized wilder-
ness, contributed greatly to the'haste with
which they darted ~after the steanmboat.
They were driven off the bank with a con-
temptuous roar that stung the proud chiefs
to the quick. It was the first shock that
their pride had received, and they land-
ed under gloomy forebodings.- They neg-
lected none of those precautions which they
would have taken in their own;villages ;
but, unacquainted with the mixed;character
of 'the population of the big village,- as
they called the city, they considered the
prisoners as secure in'the canoe as if they
had been in their owin town. They doubt-
ed, not in the least, that the pirates had es-
caped with the assistance of the whitest as
they called the Americans, and that even
the chief himself had connived at it. - The
coolness with which he had 'received' the
news, and the manner in whichthey had
been arrested in, their pursuit, confined
them greatly in their suspicion.
When they had again landed on the left
shore, they were 'received with a low' taunt-
ing laugh that resounded from the'idlers
who had gathered round the drunken Indi-
ans. The two chiefs exchanged significant
glances, but their countenances betrayed
not the least symptom of what was passing
in their minds. Calm and proud, they dis-
posed of the Oconees by leading them, with
therest'of the men, to the lodging which
had been assigned to them, while' they
themselves went, accompanied by the ser-
geant, to the residence of-the general. lie
received tiem,'sufrounded by several 6fi-

_
1j, 3
t I,
t        t
1

a

74

OSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

I;,

it
J               t
t
.7
J
1
f
It
1                         k
i(
1                      S
I
i
1.                          '
i
6
r
r
t
r
r


76             ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE

cers of the staff and his adjutants. His
countenance had assumed an expression of
condescension that, equally far from super-
cilious haughtiness and forward familiarity,
seemed calculated to inspire them with a
salutary respect.
The Indians stood a considerable while
before the general, who was alternatively
eyeing his visitors, in whose tirien something
like a calm sullenness was clearly legible ;
lie opened the couverstltion by saying, "'Ihe
pirate has cheated the men of the two chiefs
-I am sorry for it."
The Indians gave no answer; they kept
their eyes fixed on the floor.
"But," demanded the *eneral, "how has
the pirate found out the path that leads to
the wigwams of my red brethren ?"
The thief wanted to kill the buffalo
and the deer," replied the old niko,
The general seemed satisfied.
"The chief of the whites," resumed lie,
after a pause, "has weighed the words of
his young brother, the chief of the Cuman-
d1ees, and has found them good. He has
set his white brother free."
The   countenance of the  Cumanchee
brightened with satisfaction. Tokeah, how-
ever, was unmoved to all appearance.
"And why did the miko of the Oconees
take the promise from the youth that he
would not tell to the white men where he
has his villages ? Are the Oconees rapa-
cious wolves, that they hide themselves in
their holes, afraid of being seen by day-
time ?"
"Does my great father like to show
what is dear to him to thieves ?" replied
the old Indian. "The Oeonees do not
hide their wigwams from the white men,
but from the white thieves who come to
steal their cattle and their corn, and to burn
their wigwamns. They want to live in peace
with them, and far from them."
"And the old chi ef has quitted the good
lands of his fathers, and gone into a bad
country on the Saltlake, where the shells
cut his moccasins."
"If the red man has a handsome woman
who will not cook for him, and make his

s hunting shirt and his mneasins, he sends
f her back to her father's wigwam, and takes
an uglier wo nan, who will do for him what
he wants, and will not run after the young
men.   "Tokeah," continued he, "has
lived in the land of his fathers, and among
the white men, with his people. If their
horses or their cattle went across the line,
they durst not go and catch them, and if
they did,.the whites took their lives as if
they were buffaloes. If the cattle of the
white men came over our lines they came
and took them, and those of the red ien
too. Tokeah cannot live with such men."
"But," said the general, "have the red
men no bad brethren among themselves?
There are bad men among every people."
"The red men," replied the Indian,
"punish their bad men, and they drive
them from their villages ; but the white
men," shaking his head, "take the part of
their had brethren. It is far to the Great
Father, and he does not hear the cries of
his red children; and Tokeah is therefore
going where he will never see their trail."
"And so the chief of the Oconees isn
going to the Cumanchees, and has bright-
ened the link with them ?" demanded the
general, as if willing to elicit something
more from the reserved old han.
"The chief of the Cumanehes," said the
old man, in a melancholy tone, "is the son
of the miko; he took into his wigwamn her
whom he had delivered from the fire-death."
Where is the woman ?" demanded the
general.
"She is now laid low," replied the In.-
dian.
"And how came this about ?"
"The balls _of the pirate have pierced
her heart."
A long pause ensued. The general had
probably caught a glimpse of the further
views of the old chief,,whose inveterate en-
mity towards the whites was so clearly legi-
tie in his mien; and perhaps wit the in-
tention 'of impressing El Sol with  ,ter
opinion, he said-
" There is no doubt that the red men
have suffered in some points from the whites,

ROSA, THEID
ht they have. certainly done as much
wrong to us as we dil to them. They
should remember that we are as lawful pos-
lessors of the land as they are, and certain-
ly the strongest. We could havo made
them slaves, and sent them into our mines,
as the Spaniards did. We have left them
their lands; and treated them as brethren."
"The Great Spirit," returned the old
chief, "has made the big river run from
where the snow  falls, towards the land
where the sun shies very warm and, burns
the face of man. He has given to the red
nmen end to the white men, plenty of lands.
Why are the white men never satisfied, and
stretch out their hands for what belongs to
their red brethren, and take, with every
summer, more of the lands where their fa-
thers are buried ?"
"The whites have bought their land
rom the red men; and it is, therefore, their
jest property."
"They have made thered men drunk
with their fire-water, and then cheated
them out of their lands," replied the old In-
dian.
"Chief," said the general, not without
vehemence, "the Great Spirit has made
the lands for the white men, and for the.
red men, that they may live on the fruits
which grow on the earth, and dig the soil,
and plough the ground, but not for hunting
grounds, that some thousands of red nen
may find deer, where millions of happy
people aught live peacefully. If you keep
those lands which are left to you, and
plough aid hoe the ground, you may live as
well as we do, and as independently as we
live. You will have the same right as we
have. But if you choose a roaming hunt-
ing life, you nu  abide the consequences,
and look for the desert.
"The Great Spirit has made very big
spiders in the pountry where Tokeah lived,"
raid the old Indian, "and many of them
will kill a bird, Thes'e spiders said to the
red bird, 'Look, we will let you alone, and
ee will not break the peace with you; but
you must not tear our nests.' The poor
red birds kept in their nests, and waited

)IAN CAPTIVE.
there fore a long time. Hunger P ove them
out of them.   When they stirred, they
found all the woods overrun with the nets
of the big spiders, and. the poor red birds
fell into them; and the big 'spiders sucked'
out their blood, and made them (ie a slow
death. The whites are the spiders, the red
men are the red birds. Their tribes were
many; but they are swept from the face of
the earth. They died by the-bre-water and
the cunning of the whites. Tokeah will go
far from them."
"That you may do, as I told you," said
the general, whose' ire began to increase. f
"(The white men will not sow bricrs in your
path, whatever your designs may be; but I
want you to know that we are both gener-
ous in rewarding our friends and have suf-
ficient power to punish our enem:es." When
he had spoken these words he turned from
the old man towards the young chief; and
having paused awhile, he said, " y young
brother is again going to join his people.
He will tell them-how much the chief of'
the Whites honors the young warrior who
has been just towards his white brethren,
and he will brighten the link between:the
white and the red men."  He stepped to-
wards the table, took a golia meal sus-
pended by It silken band, and hung it round
the neck :of the young warriors "Take
this," said he, "as a token of friendship
from the white-chief; and be in future, as
you have been hitherto, the friend of the
wh4te people; and if you again see a vic-
tim oppres ed, then remember the donor,
and hasten to his relief."
The Indian suered the medal to be hung
round his neck; and then laying his left
hand on his breast, h'e took witu ls right
the hand of the general; and putting it on
his forehead, he bowed. He then stepped
back. "The chief of the Cumanchees goes
on a long path ; and' he will nut see the
great white chief any more, of whom the
tongue 'of the red man talks as of one of the
greatest warriors.  But he will tell his
Pawnees of the Toyask villge-of the
great and lust chief of the whites, hat they
may spare the ives of his bret lern. But,"

/

:

n,...    ®.. w      +aa-nasm      "e.w.+.  a  w o  e x .sa  a.s .. tea. r -rsao-acs

1
F

3 'r
"           1     i

(.


0

ROSA, TlE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

RdSA, THE INIIAN CAPTIVE.

added he, and his mien assumed a loftiness
that startled even the tried veterans, " imy
great father may tell his brethren that they
must never cross the waters which Waem
dalh has made to separate the red from the
white men. El Sol must do as
and his father have bidden. The chief of
the Cunmanchees could not save the brethren
of the great chief.
"Farewell, noble youth !" said the gen-
eral, stretching out his hand, which was
taken by the young man with marked def-
erence.
All the officers shook hands with him-
and the general, waving his hand to the mi-
ko, both chiefs again left the saloon, fol-
loved aby the orderly, who conducted them
to their lodgings.
CHAPTER XXX.
The night passed to both our parties in a
state of mind little different from that of a
prisoner of war who is on the eve of setting
out fur his hoame. The 'Indians looked at
the splendid dwelling and entertainment
wien the liberality of their white lather
had provided for them with a momentary
.uriosity, again relapimg into that state of
excitement that might he compared to the
inquietude with which the king of the Af-
ricau deert-is seen pacing up and down his
iron cage warily glancing at every opening
that could give him a chance to break
fourth.
Arthur -Graam and Rosa were scarcely
less auimted. rherd were many causes
that e mitributed to banish sleep from the
ecs of theu Englishman. His interview
with the general had left a deep impression
on his m ud, mixed with a feeling of hum-
aleim 1lie. He had no doubt been treated
Sin a just and lawful manner ; but at the
same tine, it seemed with a coldness, the
reumembmance of which still caused a chill-
ing sensation in the heart of time chivalrous
Eugi;siaan. To this humiliating, at least
not very pleasing thought, came the idea o
a da ar mather, whose heart might be broken
at the loss of her two only children, of his

sister, an d then of Gabriella, whose tearful
eye betra" d the pang which tore her bosom
-R-Ilosa  ,rself, too, of whose ulterior des-
tination he was still uncertain. "Will they
give her up ?" did he repeatedly ask him-
self.  "Will they not force her ba'ek ? And
if they dol  " Ilis heart shrank, from fur-
ther thoughts.
Similar were the fears of Rosa, though
her agitation sprung from another source.
She loved so deeply ; every pulse throbbed
for Arthur; it was her first, her only love;
and she gave herself up to the glowing pas-
sion in the sweetest anticipation. But ho
was, she now felt more than ever, so much
above her. He moved so gracefully among
the fair Creoles, that he had attracted the
eyes of the fairer of the two. Love is sensi-
tive; and the long lingering glances of Ga-
briella had not escaped her. Her heart
saddened at the thought of her own un-
worthiness and simplicity. She was but a
child of the forest-simple and uneducated.
Such and similar fears agitated the poor
muiden, and kept her awake through the
night. Morning hred not yet dawned when
she sprung from her couch and resumed her
dress. She paused and listened. No sound
was to be heard-all was buried in sleep
and silence.  She sat down, and watched
another hour; and   now   footsteps were
heard. Some one came up stairs.     She
opened the door. It was a female servant.
"Where is Aytlhur ?" demanded she, with
a low whisper, as if afraid of being over-
heard.
"In his room," answered the girl.
" Tell him to come to Rosa; she is
waiting for him ?" said the innocent mai-
den.
The Negro girl shook her head. "A gen.
tlemmian," said she, "must not go into a lady's
sleeping-room."
Poor Rosa blushed deeply.
"I will tell Bambo," said the girl; "but
I must not go there."
She went down, and returned again in a
few minutes, saying that the gentleman was
dressed, and wished to see her in the draw-
ing-room,

"Oh, lead me there!" she said, tripping
after the girl.
She entered, when Arthur and the sena-
tor walked from the second door into the
room,
The morning salutations were whispered
scarcely audidle. Rosa slipped on a pelisse;
and taking the arm of the senator, they
went down stairs, followed by a servant.
They knew what awaited them, and not a
word was spoken. Trlhe streets were desert-
ed.s. The pale, flickering light of a not yet
extinguished lamp announced the morning\
twilight. Scarcely a human form was to
be seen, except the sentinels, who paced up
and down at their posts. They found a
waiter stationed before the public, house,
who conducted them into the parlor, where
the Indians sat assembled in deep and grave
consultation.
The young chief rose, and advanced to-
wards the entering visitors to receive Rosa,
whom he led to the settee close to Tokeah,
and pointed silently to two empty chairs.
Arthur surveyed for a moment the Apollo-
like form of the lofty young Indian-the
complete picture of a noble Highland chief,
but for his color-and then sat down, got
without uneasiness.
The old miko had scarcely looked up,
and continued in his deep musing. After
r        a long pauses he turned his head; and
looking round, said, in the Indian tongue,
.        "Where is the White Rose, whom Tokeah
picked up from among the horses in the
woods ? Has she forgotten the beaver-
skins which the miko gave to the white
trader, that she might drink of his woman's
milk, and not wither away for want of
food?"
Rosa began to look pale at these words.
"aTokeah," continued the old man, "took
'her into his wigwam, and made her the
foremost among the girls of the red men."
Again he paused.
"Shall the old miko have no daughter?
Will the White Rose leave her father, who
has given her food, and follow a stranger?
Who will cook his venison when he returns
A         wrom the hunting-grounds?  Tokeah has ,

given the White Rose to a great chief, that
the heart.of the old mike may find joy in
his children, and that their voices may
sweeten his days when he shall be no longer
able to hunt the buffalo."
"Father !" cxclaimred Rosa, writhing
with. agony.
"Here is the bravest of the braves,"
said the old chief, rising slowly, and with
solemnity taking her land, and laying it in
that of El Sol.
Arthur and the senator stood in mute and
dreadful suspense. Without comprehend-
ing his words, they understood their mean-
ing; yet such was the stern solemnity of
the withered, ghastly-looking old man, that
they sat rivetted, in breathless' anxiety,
without being able to move.
El Sol had listened all the while with, a
forbearance which, though evidently pain-
ful to him, was too essential a part of good-
breeding with an Indian not to be strictly
observed. He received the, hand of Rosa.
Rising at the same time, and turning to the
,old mico, he saidin, a low, solemn tone,
"Wacondahhas spoken;-h:is voice calls El
Sol to the prairie of the Cumanchees. He
will find a wife there, as his father did.
The sons of El Solshall be wholly Cuman-
chees. Never will he lead a wife into his
wig vam whose heart is turned to another.
El Sol has already stayed too long with the
White Rose. He has beheld her-he will
never forget her; but he must not look at
her any more."
He led the maid, in silence, towards Ar-
thur, who arose, and grasped her hand.
"My young brother," said he, in broken
English, "has kept what he has promised
to the miko, and El Sol will keep what he
has promised to Canondah, his daughter,
who is laid low." ;The young chief return-
ed again t the settee, and sat down.
"Lister, then," resumed the old man, in
the Engl'sh language, "that you may re-
member the talk of the miko. When the
White Rose lay beneath-the horses and their
hoofs, on the road that leads from the big
village wh.ore we are now through the coun-
"y of the Choctaws, she wa a sucking

II

79


babe, who( could not tell the tale how she fit, from the servant, and laid then on the

came into the hands of the miko of the Oeo-
nees, and who were those that gave her
birth. 'Tokeah has watched for his daugh-
ter mor thian for his life. His thoughts ran
otherwise  o ut the Great Spirit has spoken
with the to::;;e of his son, and his voice
must be ui!!id. There is the talk which
the mik of the Oconees held with one of
the trad ., that it may be remembered, and
not die A a  him."
He h. a id the youth a paper, sealed with
a wafer m   which the chain was enclosed.
* " Ti id men," continued he, " know
their Lu n rn from their paint, the whites
know tiei fmon their clothes. t There are
the elot :n which the White  Rose wore
when T'eah saved her from the knives of

his pege.. They will show. to you the
father wi ee child she is. The thief of the
Saltlake  3s rubbed my young white brother
and his    r. tie will find," said he, point-
ing to t, trav"ling-trunk, " what the thief
has sea 1 the village of the red men.
My brol a" added he, "is a true friend of
the red   xn ; his tongue is not forked.
What '       at chief of the Cumauchees
has dot 'tie man would do. Be it so.
Will m   : "' er clear the path of the White
Rose fry.     a ? And will he lead her into
his lod'     4 ' uv wife ?" He east a search-
ing ge .  the youth when he spoke the
words.
" I wL    'r lied the Englishman.' "
will gi :° !.y word of honor that she
whom i          tm your hands is my truly
beloved{;."f
The=?       raised himself up; and plac-
ing his      am the forehead of Rosa, he
said, in     oie. Farewell,.my daugh-
ter ! M      (t reat Spirit clear your path
from b     °
She          If on the neck of the old
man, a          "re for a while speechless.
He si   a.     e thin turned with the
humbh         'awards El Sol, crossed her
hands ,          in, and bowed. Not a
word u          't The Indian sat silently
down.            'r took the rifle and the
knife, '.     .-t of the fatal Indian out-

floor, and then left the room.
When they came down stairs they found
two Indians, with the trunk and the packet.
The carriage of the senator was at the door.
The servants put both articles into it, and
it rolled again homewards. The morning
had, in the meanwhile, advanced ; and when
they entered the drawing-room they found
the family assembled. The parting scene,
however, had left a deep impression on their
minds, and they received the morning coin-
pliments in silence. Eleanor tripped round
and round, with a face that was a little'
soured. Her curiosity had been put to a
hard trial, and was, in fact, the only motive
of her early rising. Her noisy movements
had awakened the whole house-mother,
brother, and sister. As soon as she under-
stood the principal persons had gain eseap
ed without begging her leave, she could keep
silence no longer.
" Wlre have you been, papa ?" demand-
ed Eleanor, a little nettled that they had
gone without asking her leave.  "Very
soon I shall believe that we arc in an en-
chanted castle.  Nothing hat mysteries.
Here we are running up stairs and down
stairs, and looking and waiting, and you are
all over the city.''
Rosa flew- on her neck. "Oh! do not be
angry. We saw my father."

"F lather ?" denuanded Eleanor. " You
do not mean the Indian ?"
a Yes," replied Rosa.
"Oh! do not call that nasty savage
father."
" That is not the voice of my Eleanor,"
said the senator, with rather a sternaeeent.
"Few fathers would have done what these
Indians did.'
He explainedo his family what he had
just witnessed.
Eleanor had tripped up to the window,.atl
saw the trunk and packet carried it) the
house. Its extei'ior was too promising nat
to acite the curiosity of the merry girl she
opened the daar of the saloon, and wnt into
the eorridor. The senator cast a siguilicant
glance at Arthur.      a

. ,
_
t
f-
r
x
,_
r
F.
T
a
8.
t .

4

N

',
r,
_
-
F
t
C'

" There is some attractive power," whis-
pered he, with a smile-" we must satisfy
the troublesome girl."
The servants brought~both trunk and box
into the drawing-room.
"Do you like to see Indian= fashions ?"
demanded the Creole of his daughter, while
the'servant opened it.
The girls tripped towards the open trunk,
with an awe with which a connoisseur would
approach the veiled painting of a} Raphael
d'Urbino. Eleanor lifted one of the robes
with a sort of respect that extorted from her
-father a fit of langhtcr.
"For Heaven's sake," exclaimed she,
"where does that come from?7"
"Not from the Indians, certainly,"' said
the planter.
"And that.?" taking another,   'But
what is this ?" catching up the morocco
casket.
" Indian beads, in all probability," re-
turned the planter.
Arthur opened it-a necklace of brilliants,
with braclets and ear-rings of sparkling
atones, dazzled their eyes, arid attracted
oven the attention of the Creole.
"They are, indeed, beautiful; worth more
than a hundred thousand francs," said he.
"See, Eleanor, in what manner the Indians
provide for their children."
" Oh ! tell me," said the girl, with an air
of droll impatience, "where such as these'
.are made ?"
"In London," replied Arthur, "and 'for
mysister."  .
"Oh, they will exactly suit Rosar!" ex-
elaimed the girl, taking at the same time
ithe measureof Rosa. ' Come, now, child!
come! we ipust dress you-we have every-
thing; c'ne !-come !" and each of them
taking hold of Rosa, ran with her to their
apartme nt.,
When the troublesome spirits were gone,
Arthur folded the packet. aThey lcft the
child'ad cases to theexaninatiaon of Madane
Gentill ;u and began to pare over the writ-
ing lhI 'Il1they d[eLierl with no little
difficul' y. It stated that the mica of the
Oeonce, while still living ou the laids of

O  A  ROSA, THE INDIAN CAP'TVE.

his fathers. met on the road that leads
through the country of the Choctaws from
the big village of the white men, on the
endless river, a party of the warriors of the
Choctaws of the six villages. In the midst
of them were four white men and three
white women, one of whom was very young,
and very tender, mounted on horses. A
fight ensued between the Oconees and the
Choctaws, who were at war, and the latter
were put to flight. That the, four white
men, who had killed many braves, of they
Oconees, were caught by them, and scalped,
with the women ; none but the child was
saved. The clothes of the women were very,
fine, says the same manuscript, and they .
got for thema-and their beads a great many
blankets and gnns. Here the information
ceased. There was Uo date, no name what-
soever.
S'The information," said the senator, "is
precious, and may lead to disclosures. But
let us see further."
'hey now examined the gold chain. It
was of Mexican worknanship, and of .ex
traordinary fineness. On it hung a medal-
lion, on the one side of which was.engraved
a coat of arms, surmounted with a coronet
--three Saracen heads, with a sabr over
their. On the other side were engraved the
letters, 6 J. d'A."
"This eoat of arms," said the senator,
who prided himself not a little on his de-
scent from an old French fainily, " this coat.
of arms shows clearly an ancient family. I
understand something about heraldry. But
the medahion is too thick for its small size
-it mutst oplen.
He tried it on several sides ; at last forc-
ing a needle into the narrow edge, it opened,
and a genthman in Spanish uniform, with
the craos eat the order of Calatrava appeared
--bt still no tiunme.
"It is the portrait of her father; there is
no doubt.  1er vt ry features. She is cci-
tainly of a goalmuiiniiy ; but how she canme
into the t na'aa of thie tjiCe ailS is really hbe-
vand1 my', compjrehueasion."'
M'r. (3 m ',m, 's'il Maitihue Gemni!i{ n,
who had uike iv1 ej' ialihe ii'her tit.  ad

8o

R   A, T        DI        Pry. S  o

t


82                      IROSA, THE IN)IAN CAPTIVE.
with no better success, "1 have been so    " Who 1" asked both Eleanor and Ga-
fortunate c,  find out a person who will briella, in a tone whose vehemence but lit-

answer your wishes and ours. Madame
Grillard has relatives in Jamaica, and she
intended long ago to pay them a visit. I
sent yesterday for her, and she is quite w il-
ling to accompany you, provided she is per-
mitted to do so by the general."
'There is no little question about that,"
replied the senator.  I am really glad of
it. Without female companions, I could
not see how you are to take her along with
you. Delicacy towards those with whom
we are goiug to enter into closer ties, is the
laughter of respect, and the mother of hap-
piness. 'It will, hwever be necessary to
Lay the case before the commander." lie
sat down and wrote a few lies, which he
gave to a servant. " I am afraid," said the
senator, " you will have a hard game wtithj
the girls. They are so fond of her, that I
ani sure the mere mention of palling will,
fall heavy on them--they are just coming."
The trio returned with Rosa, again met-
ainorphosed.  A  light green riding-dress
enclosed her sylph-like form, and was bound
round her waist by a girdle, with a gold
aigrette. She moved with an easy, grace-
ful step, towards Arthur, and looking tim-
idly, and yet confidently up toihim, said,
"See what my sisters have done with poor
Rosa," laying at the same time her hand on
his arm.
"Pie, for shame!" whispered Eleanor,
" You must not do that.
" Why not ?" said she, clasping his arm
still faster, as if afraili lest he might escape
her.
" Be a little more distant, a little more
proud, and cold. You must by no means
show to the lords of the creation, as they
call themselves, what is passing in this weak
corner," pointing to her heart.
" But Rosa cannot conceal what her heart
speaks so loudly."
. Mistaken child !" said the vivacious
girl. "But we will teach you-in six months
you will be a proficient." '
"But she departs to-day," said the sena-
tor.

tie concealed their unpleasant sensations.
"Rosa-perhaps, in a few hours."
''How, paa ?"    said  Eleanor, " yen
again jest with your poor girls ; but if ye
kiew how you are tormenting us, you would
not do it."
"I speak truth," said the senator.
For a while the girls looked attheir either,
then at Rosa, and again at Arthur, with a
mien in which the most unpleasant surprise
was strongly depicted.
And is it really so? And will you, Mr.
Graham, leave us, and take Rosa with you? "
"I must," said Arthur.  "A dear, and
perhaps a heart-broken mother, and my
poor sister, demand it iirfperiously."
"Oh ! you may go," said Eleanor a little
peevishly, " but leave us Rosa-yon cannot
take her along with you."
All the preparations afead--Madamet
Grillard will accompany Rosa " said the
father.
"Do not leave us, Rosa," begged both
girls, each taking her by an arm " reainan
with us, Rosa-Arthur will soon return."
"Return! and Arthur will go without
Rosa," said she, slowly, as if afraid of giv-
ing utterance to her fetrs. H1r eye became
dim, her whoc 'ountenance hind changed
into a deadly paleness. Arthur flew towards
her-he placed his aria around her. \
" Arthur will not go without Rosa," said
he, in a soothing tone  "Nothing shall
again separate us."
For a moment she looked up to him, asif
doubting his words. When, however, his
open, confiding eye met hers, she said,
" Arthur must not go without Rosa. It
would break her heart," laying her hand on
her bosom. " Arthur promised her red
father to become a brother to her."
"It would not do," said the Creole. "It
would really break her heart."
phe certainty of losing their new friend,
and more especially Rosa, whose transcend-
ant beauty and harmless innocence hud won
the hearts of all the family, threw a gloom
over the circle, which soon brought tears

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

into the eyes of the girls. The breakfast
p passed over in deep silence, as did the fol-
lowing hour. It seemed a second to those
who wished to prolong it to years.
Madame Qrillard now made her, appear-
ance. She was an elderly lady, ofthe true
French school. She ha.d spent'he greatest
part of her life iteducating the children of
the wealthier Creoles. She entered her of-
lice as duenna almost assoon as she came
intothe parlor, by casting a half-forbidding
19ok at Rosa, whose hand was: still locked
in that of Arthur.
. "And so, noon ready 7" demanded the
senator.
"Happily, II-ept' myself in readiness,"
returned the lady, "though it was intended
my journey should take another direction."
" Ah! I understand-up the Mississippi.
I trust the Englishmen will not be so nun-
gallant as to plunder our ladies."
" The French," said she, 66 are the most
gallant people; and-yet     -
"True," said the senator.  .
'However," exclaimed Eleanor, who had
tripped to the window, "you do not intend
to take all these movables to Jamaica,
madam?"
"And where else, miss 7" returned Mad-
mne Grillard, sharply.
"Come, and see, papa," said the 'droll
girl, a tear still twinkling in her eye.
A wagon,. loaded with a dozen trunks;
and a dozen or more boxes, halted before
tih house.
"You cannot take these things to Jamai-
ea," said the senator, who, notwithstanding
his efforts, could not suppress a smile.
" They would freight a boat of twenty tons
burden. You have but one carriage, and:I
a  uncertain whether I shall be allowed
to send mine alon."
"Charming!" exclaimed Eleanor. "That
vill gain us another hour.
Bat itpassed as quickly as the former;
and Madame Grillard returned sooner than
was expected, with her diminished stock-
till sufficient, however, to affright a poor
gentleman, who was destined to sit in a car-

riage, blocked up on every side with such
agreeables.
The senator now sent word to the adju--
taut, at Arthur's request. He soon made
his appearance in the carriage of the com-
;yander. After having saluted the company,
he said to Arthur, " The general has direct-
ed me to deliver his .best wishes to Mir.
Graham and the young lady fQr a happy
journey. He has not the least objection to
the departure of Madame Grillard.,
The Englishman bowed politely.
"I am further, to inform ,Mr. Graham
that the commander of the, British fQrces
has expressed his desire to have as sog as
possible the pleasure of seeing Mr., Gsa-
,m. His carriage will be waiting half-
way between the two camps."
The information was received by the Eng-
lishman with another silent bow.
The hour of separation was -now come.
The regret was unfeigned, and .fell heavy
on the whole noble-minded family. It was
long before Arthurcould tear himself frpm
the almost paternal embrace of the Creole.
The parting scene with Madame Gentillon
was shorter, but not less affectionate. It
was still shorter with Eleanor. He .now
took the hand of Gabriella. 6" The inter-
est," said he, in a low whisper, "which the
noble Miss Gentillon has taken in my fate,
at a period when I seemed to deserve it so
little, will for ever be one of my sweetest
recollections."
' Mr. Graham," said Gabriella, with dig-
nity, "was unhappy and suffering, and this
gave him a   laim to the sympathy of-"
The senator now approached, -and cut
short a'scene which,'he--felt, could not ut
increase the heart-ache of his daughter
" Rosa," said Mrs. Gentillon, 'vhile she
held the maiden inher arms, lookig 'mild-
ly into her face, you have no father, no
mother, on the wide earth. Your father 'is
in heaven-love him, that he may never
desert you. May you ever lose your 'ino-
cence in the refinement of the world;- and
if heaven ever calls you to the important
duties of a wife and of a mother, 'be as

,


ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

good and as virtuous a matron as you are a had to ascend tihe Mississippi, whose cur-
child. God bless you !"                 rent wsas against theta.  When they arrived
The mother passed the sobbing maiden at the fatal spot where the canoe was lying,
into the hands of her daughters. 'The ad. they found the Pawnee baarted nuler the
jutant stood a silent and respectful specta- batik, it without arims, almost without
tor. ie had waited for a starter of an dress. A shout of joy burst from the f1i
hour, and had even retreated into a corimer lowers of Ll S l.
of the drawing-room, in order not to dis- The chief turned sternly towards his amen.
turbo the parting nomnerts of this excellent i " The red mean must not eo the laughing-
faiiy. The senator observed himi; ammd stock of time whites," said he, eaistimig a aig-
separatid~g the lovely girls, he said, ' Comae, niicant glhmco at a group of idlers wvio had ~
it is time- our friend is waiting.'    asiiildrtn      hm
tfrThey ioved slowly towards the door, as  ''he 'awUee warrior had risen ; and ad-
if desirous of postponing their separation  vacing towards the chief, with a downcast
for a few moments longer. The carriage   -olt, stod silent.
of the general, with that of the senator,  "The cuiig of the thieves was very
was waiting, the latter loaded with the great tocent so brave a warrior," said El
novabhles of Madame Grillard. By the Sol in a soothing tone.
side of the coachman sat Mirza, the favor-  'lamewatrior hooked up into the face of ie
ite slave of Gabriella.                 yowg chief. at if to read its expression,
"H ow is this ?" exclaimed Arthur, point- aad th i laid his left hand on ismmsm,
iSng to the girl.S heyah I" continued he, "it is unt god
You are likely to want her," sai-lthe for thu Pawnees to stay longer with the
senator.  "There will scarcely be a super- white serp"nts. We il o to the during
fluity of female servants in your ca:np."  grumails.'
"Farewell,generous,kod-hearted beings," "tAh u are he thieves none ?" demanded
exclaimed Arthur. overpowered with such the Pa nec, with no autiiihting glance at
kidness and attention,                 the Oconees. "'hey would not have cleareA
their patIi, if Sheynh had not been put oui a
-                      false scent."
."Tte Oconees are the brethren of the
CHAPTER XXXI.                 Pawnees, and of the Curanchees," said the
We again return to the Indians, whom  young -aef. "My brother's eye must not
we tiuid pursuing their way towards the look dark on them."
banks of the Mississippi, followed by their  icy entered their light canoe, and lio-
warriors and a equlIe of black men, who needed on their voyage. Ten weary dys
carried the provisions which the commander had elapsed before they beheld tiemimotl
hutt ordered for thirm,.                of the Red River, on whose banks tie d't..
Ttikeah cast, from time to time, an in- lage of tie Pawnees of the Toyask trite
voluitary, lingering look into the doors and lay. They had still more than four hindred
wirtmi's of tire boos-s, as if le wished toimiles to ascend the stream. Just above the
in   an object that had become neeessamy junction of t-e two nigigty rivers, ant nj
to hint from habit. Gradually, as they the opposite bank, there is a cove, furmel
emerged from  the mazes of buildings, and by a protruding blur,.era the other side of
appl;thed-te rising grou-d, their steps  ich the current of the main stream rushes
bcamume queicer, their gait more firm. It wth impettity, turntig suddenly to the
seemmed as if the purer air imparted to them  right, to)receive its new and last gieat trio'-
new strength for their hazardous and long tary. Theme the cr ioe directed its course
They had now a course of more at the bidding of Tokea. The aged chtef,
ght hundred miles before them, and always taciturn  and stern, had, sice the

a ,
,

k
-
,
'
'
s -
_
t
Y.
tC_:
S

!loss of both his daughters, become more so ;
she was absorbed in thought, and seldom
did a word escape him. The young chief
bad watched the hapless, lone old man with
increasing tenderness. When the canoe had
gained the little harbor, where hundreds of
vast trees were riding quietly at anchor, the
old chief pointed to an immense cotton tree,
whose prostrate trunk stretched into the
river, with its top buried in the mud. The
canoe glided swiftly between the trees, and
halted at the point. The old man swung
himself on the tree, and crept up the bank,-
followed by El Sol and the whole band.
When he had reached the bank, he threw
himselff on the ground, and lay fora while mo-
tionless. The warriors stoodround him, their
eyes rivetted on the miko, their heads sunk
on their chest, their hands folded together; l
but not a sound broke the solemn silence.
"Earth !" groaned the old man, still ly-
'lug on the ground, and the wyiud raising hist
/glossy, silvered hair, "earth, that hast seen
the sons of 1im who gave birth to the son 1
of the red men, Tokeah greets thee ! Earth ! 1
where sheo is mouldering whose breast gave I
him suck, Tokeah hails thee ! The master t
of thy boundless forests was he born-the °
miko of a mighty people was he chosen, as
his fathers were. A fugitive, he now stands t
on thy last boundary, an outcast from thy
bosom, a stranger to thee and to the graves
of his fathers. Great Spirit, why hast thou t
donie tis .Por countless summers the fathers 1
iof the Geonees have hunted on the banks of s
these waters, and swayed over a mighty
people. Why must Tokeah wander in the
wilderness, and turn his back on the land of w
his fathers? Why must the memory of him  v
and of his race be tob'n from the earth ? m
Speak, - at Spirt! Let Tokeah have a mi
sign. that he many know thy will." ti
The oldman looked up to the wide vault a
of heaven with an imploring eye. It was b
overcast. The north blast moaned through
the forest. Tokeah's eye became wistful.
Again he sank on theground. 4 cold shud, ti
der seized him. "Great Spirit, forgive !" a
muttered he. "'thou lookest daik on To- s
keah, because he talks like a child," tI

9

I

E

84

The chief now rose with dignity; and
motioning to his friends, he said, with a
melancholy solemnity, "Seven summers
have passed since the msiko of the Oconees
turned his back on the land where his fore-
fathers dwelt. Two times he has crossed
the big river since, unseen, alone, to lie on
the graves of his fathers. He was hunted
like the rapacious panther that seeks its
prey. It is for the last time that lie now
stands on the lands where his fathers have
lived. While he was in the great villae,
of the white mei, and in the painted wylls
of the wigwam, 'here their chief had put
him with his breth'"n, his head rolled rest-
less on the couch that was prepared for him
by the enemies of his race. 'Go,' said the
spirit of his father, who dwells in the green
prairie,.'go to my grave, and collect from it
the bones of him who gave life to thee, and
of her whose breast gave thee suck; take
them from their dark abode, and fromhose
who scorn them, and who send their hoofed
beasts to tread upon'Them. Let them re-
pose. in the same ground where my son and
his people are dwelling, and rest them among
the bones of the red men. Be not afraid of
moving then ; no curse shall attend thee.'
Tokeah arose," continued the chief, " when
he spirtt had spoken to him, and his soul
was troubled. Again he lay down on the
couch of the white men. 'The hoc,' said
he spirit of his father, 'has passed overthe
hillock of death where thy father lies ; a
hort time, and his bones will be cast from
t, and scattered in tile wiuds.' "
El Sol," said the old man, turning to-
wards the young chief, "Tokeah must do
what the spirit of his father has bidden; he
must take the bones of his fttler that they
nay rest undisturbed. He most leave
he chief of the Cumanchees for six suis,
nd go to the plain where his father hies
uried."
El Sol listened respectfully.
"Has the spirit of his father spoken to
he miko of the Oconees ?" demanded he,
after a paOise, with a voice whose low
pounds resembled the rolling of the distant
under.

t  3,

,
t
.


ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

863                      ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.
"lHe has," said the old man.        y gether into the form  of a small coln,
" Then he must obey his vows. Great," which they covered inside and out with the
added he, and an involuntary shudder shook; skins of a deer which they had killed the
him, "great is the curse that haugs over day before. A beam of satisfaction gleamed
those who remove the bones. Their people through, the withered countenance of the
turn with, horror from them, and their old man when he saw the coffin finished.
names are cursed from father to son. But He fastened a broad thong on both ends.
if a father has spoken, the son must obey. "In the hark of thy native woods, and dad
El Sol and his men are the brethren of the in the skins of those deer which thou hast
miko, and they will go with him."       hunted, thou shalt repose," said he. He
" The path of El Sol," said the old man, then laid himself down to enjoy that rest
"lies towards the setting su . that of To- which he wanted so much, after the toils or
heah towards his rising. El Sol is the son a long and  hazardous journey.  When
of the miko ; but his eye must not dwell on night had closed in, the old man rose; and
the defaced hillock where his father is laying the coffin on his shoulder, beckoned

buried."                                 to his Oeonees, and proeceueu towarws
Never shall El Sol look at the shame of grave of his father.
his father," said the young man; "but he   It was near midnight when they arrived
would follow the miko, and stop far from  in the valley.  The waning moon flew
the grave; and he will wait there till his through the thin veil of watery clouds, pour-
father returns."                        ing only now and then her silvery rays on
The olf chief made an assenting nod, and the Indians, who moved in profound silence,
the party moved towards the rising sun. along thebanks of astream, through a range 
With the morning of the'fourth day they of colossal walnut-trees. A slight shudder
found themselves on the foot of the moun- fell on the old man as he passed through the
tain, into which the vast plains of Georgia well-known recesses of his count. His
swell as they approach the Oconee river."  teeth were compressed. The spi its of his
"Does my son see," demanded the old fathers, he fancied, were hovering round
man, when they had emerged from the im- him, their voice whispering into his ears.
mense forest through which their journey Ever as he advanced his step became quick-
had led them, "yonder big hills, whose er. A distant sound struck his ear-it was
nps are clad in the morning mists?  Be- the barking of adog. "Spirit of my father,"
hind these is the vattley where the bones of moaned he, "the white men are near thy
the miko's father repose.'7              grave i' He now ran-he flew towards tht
"The miko must go, then," said El Sol. , spot. It was surrounded by a rail fence-its
"No, my son," replied the old man, lovely wilderness was gone-the stalks of
"When the corpse of the father of Tokeab Indian corn were strewed on the ground-
was laid low, then the great prophet of his   the trees had died-their barkless trunks
people spoke a curse on those who should stared like so many ghosts into the deadly
ring his bones in the light of the radiant face of the old man. " Spirit of my father
orb, an'd muakte them white with shame. cried hie, almost in agony, "wher a th
The light of heaven must no more behold bones that have made thy strength, and
them-they were given unto the dark and from whom are the bones of thy sond?' The
they must be  lifted in the dark. Let us plough had passed round the withered tree
tarry till the radiant orb is beneath the whose ragged outlines seemed mourning is
world."                                 the pale moonlight over its decay. The old
The old man muttered a few words to his man fell senseless to the ground. His follow-
Oconees, and they ran off on different sides, em bounder after to assist him.
returning soon with a load of bark. They  "Away!" muttered lie,-htha faint voiye,
sat silently down, and joined the bark to- 'away from the ground where a mig

#
I
E
.
E

miko lies buried. Tokeah will dig up his
bones." With his hands he dug up the
half-frozen ground.  lhe sharp stone  cut
deep into the withered palms. The blood
ran from his fingers, the skin was torn from
them; but the haste of the Indian increased,
as if afraid lest some one might deprive him
of his treasure. He bored till he had turned
up the whole mass of earth, and collected
all the remains of his father. For-the first
and only time in his life,'tears gushed from
his eyes. He ran towards the grave of his
mother. The plough, had here gone deeper.
Only a few handfuls of earth covered her:
bones. With unutterable grief, he added
her remai m to those of his father. The
moon poured 'her bright silvery light on the
savage as he lay on the ground before the
cofil. "Spirit. of my father 1" groaned he,-
"thou hast spoken true. The beasts of the
white men have passed over thy bones-
they have defaced thy grave. Look down
from thy abode, and behold how thy child
has done what thou' hast bidden him. He
will take them  now where no despiteful
hand shall uplift them. He will seek for
them a place where his own bones shall
rest. He will bury them among the people
who will revenge thee on thy nefarious inL
traders. Thou shalt look with joy on thy
children, and glory in their deeds. But thy
son is like an aged oak-the blast has
withered his strength-the storm has shiv-
ered his limbs-his spirit groans. His chil-
dren are his people. Spirit of my father, if
thou beholdest the face of the Great Spirit,
petition him for thy son and his children."
(The barking was again heard.)  "I hear
the sounds of the forerunner of the enemies
of my race.   Farewell, my native land !
Farewell, trees, in whose shade Tokeah has
so often taken the cool mid-day breeze after
a long hunt ! Farewell, stream, in whose
waters he has so many times refreshed his
limbs, and where he first paddled the canoe !
Farewell, hills, on which his father taught
him to send the quick arrow !"
The moon 'poured once more her light
from the flying clouds, and the barking was
heard for the third time.

t
z1

"
(

A

SGreat Spirit ! prayed he, " thou hast
looked with a Lright eye on the deed of thy
child--show him his path to the prairies of
the Cumanchees."
The chief now arose; and laying the cof-
fin softly on his shoulders, as if afraid to
disturb the remains, he threw the thong
over his neck, and hastened back to the
Cumanchees. "The spirit of my father has
spokpn true, said the old man, with melan-
choly solemnity. "The plough has passed
over the =hillock that enclosed his bones-it
was bud waste."
"Then let us go on our home-path," re-
turned the chief; "and the Great Spirit will
guide us."
Again they crossed the , Mississippi, and
entered the mouth of the Red Rive'. Ten
more days had now passed. They had long
ago left the swampy regions of the Missis-
sippi, and they found themselves on the
high plains that separate the.Arkansas from
the Western Louisiana. Before them lay
the snow- clad tops of the Oyask Mountsins,
beyond which the immense prairies roll and
swell towards the Rocky Mountains.'
El Sol pointed silently to the bright aerial
tints with which these outposts of the
mighty ridges were crowned.   "'Behind
these mountains," said he, " and far down
where the sun shines mildly, and the bread-
tree grows high, there will my - father re-
pose."
The sun was fast setting as they landed
on the extremity of a long table rock that
ran for about a mile along theleft bank of
the Red River. lie stopp ,l on the bank;
and making his- warriors a  gnto follow
him, proceeded towards a rock which arose
in the midst of the bleak, salt prairie, in the
centre of which was a-grotto, that protected
them perfectly from the cold night-blast,
They were now near the imaginary boun-
dary-line which the Pawnees of the Toyask
tribe and their Northern neighbors,. the
Osages, had, marked for their hunting-
grounds.
Tokeah, with his Oconees, shivered with
cold. Their constitutions had, during a so-
journ of seven summers near ei p Gulf of

r

i
r
F.


88                    RIOSA, THE INDIA~ 'CAPTIVE.
Mexico, and in the  dst of its watery ex- the/spot with that minute attention which
halations, become in a manner relaxed, and an ndian bestows on the vestiges of his
they were keenly sensible of the frost. But enemies.
not a word of complaint escaped them. El  When the scouts had made their report
Sol motioned his Pawnees to make a fire in to him who seemed the chief of the band, he
the grove. Tokeah looked in silence.   threw himself, with a dozen 'of the savages,
" Tie nose of the miko scents the red from their horses ; and, following the trail
men ; they are on our trail,' said the old of our party, they compared and measured
man. " The night fire will guide them."  at the same time, each footstep with a quick-
"My father must sleep," said the young ness and agility which rendered it dubious
chief ; " El Sol will watch-his ears have whether their eyes served them not quite as
caught their sounds."                   well, in the dim moonlight, as during tho
They ate their night meal, aid the  co- day time. It was not long before they
nees stretched themselves round the blazing leaped again on their ankihals and bounded
fire, while the hardier Pawnees sought their towards the bank, leaving the rest of the
beds before the grotto, on the frozen ground. party near the rock.
El Sol was listening to a legendary tale of  El Sol had, in'the meanwhile, wound his
his Cumanehees, when a sound struck his way up the bank ; and leaning himself on
ears. Both warriors sprung on their feet, the rock, he beckoned his Pawnees to follow
and bent their ears in the direction whence him. A ghastly smile lighted their fierce
the sounds proceeded.                   countenances, as they indistinctly beheld
" Dogs !'" muttered he, " they will growl their enemies. The young chief stood in
(or summers after their enemy, who has silent suspense, his eye bent on the savages,
only struck them a blow when it was in his his ear turned in the direction from which
pwer to destroy them," and touching his he had come, when a faint splashing sound
sleeping warriors, he darted towards the was heard. Motioning Tokeah and his
bank where the canoe lay.               Oconces to remain in the canoe, he now
His men followed, w ith the old chief after crept along the ground with a quickness
them. He beckoned his warriors into the that would have led any spectator to doubt
cane, which he pushed into the stream, whether he and his followers were human
while he hinelf stole with one of the Cu- beings, or so many four-footed animals,-.
paniiees along the narrow frozen )atl  tt making their way tow  s their prey. Per-
ran between the water's edge and the high hips three minutes had now elapsed since
table rck. Tl party obeyed without ut- they had begun their serpentine motions,
tearing a word, and the canoe glided down and they had now approached the pam ty of
the river which they had but a few hours the remaining Indians, from whom they
before ascenied, for about half a mile, when were onl separated by a slightly rising
a prjecting rock barred ihe ulterior progress ground. These stood with the reins of
of the yaung chief and of the Cunmanchee. their horses in their hands, intensely bent
A few thwarf bushes had taken root in the tfrwards in the direction where the chiefs
rock ; lie broke their trauches down, and had disappeared.
making the canoe a sign to approach, both  The north  blast whistled wildly, and
young men entered it. They landed where brought the low, hollow sounds of the whis-
the table rock began, at no very considera- pering Indians distinctly to the ears of the
ble distance from  the grotto. A  party of y' ung Cumanchee. lie paused for a iso-
from thirty to forty savages were seen ih the mnent, then raising himself on his knees, he
light of the young moon about a quarter of looked up towards the young moon. She
a mile frot the bank, and close to the rock issued now front a dark showery cloud, and
where thity had taken their night's repose. poured her dlima light over the dusky forms
Some had dismounted, and they examined of the opposite savages. Slowly lifting his

ROSA, THE 'NDIAN CAPTIVE.

rifle, El Sol at length made a sign, and the
next moment half a dozen of the savages
fell prostrate to the ground. A tremu4ons
yell rent the air from the bank. Quick as
lightning the young chief bounded towards
the guards; The reins, or rather halters,-
dropped from their hands, and they fled with
the utmost precipitancy 'towards the river.
Nothing short of the readiness and expert-
ness of the young chief and his warriors
could have succeeded in catching a dozen of
the animals. So quick, however, were their
j.        movements, that the halters passed almost
instantaneously from the hands of their
enemies into their own. A neighing sound,
a stamping noise, was a1 that was heard
from the rest of the horses. Terror strick-
en, they bounded up, snorted, and then
rushed into the wild waste of the salt prairie.'
The young chief leaped on his horse, and
galloping towards the bank, he picked up
his rifle ; his men followed him. They had
scarcely entered the canoe, their horses
awitnining behind, when the quick .report of
rifles was heard-accompanied by a shower
of arrows.
"Will my son promise the miko to be a
kind father to the Oconees ?" said Tokeah,
with a hollow voice, single balls still whist-
ling about their ears.
"A father and a brother," said the young
chief. "But why does my father talk thus,
he will live long with his children ?"
" Will El So} promise it. by the Great
Spirit ?" repeated the old man, in a more
hollow tone.
"He will," returned the young chief.
"Will he promise to bury Toheah and
his father among his people, the. great Cu-
mantchees ?"
"He wi1," said El Sol, with a slight
shudder.
It was the will of the Great Spirit that
TolLenh shall not behold the lands of the
Comanchees ; he is doomed to die on the
,  lands of the whites."
He muttered a few words into the eais of
ono .of his Oconees, and the savage burst
into a yell of the wildest despair. El 'Sol
seized the arms of the old man. His mands

:1

still grasped the'coffln, whieg reposed on
his knees; but his frame was relaxed. A
ball had entered his breast, and life was
gone. The young chief threw himself over
the corpse in mute horror. A cold shudder
passed over him. The canoe had long been
made fast before' he woke from his stupor;
when at last' the soft touch of his Cuinan/
ehees made him aware of the danger, he
toook the corpse, and bearing it to the shore,
seated it before him  on horseback.  His
men, after having destroyed the canoe, fol-
lowed, and they then-moved on-towards the
village of the Pawnees, which they entered
on the following day, amidst the appalling
sounds of the death song, with the remains
of the lastof the mikos of the Qconees,
CHAPTER XXXII
Years elapsed after these events. It was
on a serene evening.   The setting  sun
was shedding his last rays through the yelp
low tinted cotton and banana trees with
which the dark green alleys of pruned coffee
shrubs, that spread round Graham's seat
were studded, 'Gradually their lengthened
shadows were losing' themselves in the con-
fused colorlessiues of twilight. The dis-
tant hills still gleamed in a garish sunshine.
The evening breeze stole fresher and fresher
from the sea shore. The last sound of the
negro's song had died away. Only the low
notes of a straggling humming-bird about .
the flower-beds, or the merry chattering of
a parrot in the cocoa trees were heard. All
breathed peace and silence.
On he piazza of a magnificent mansion
sat Sir Arthur, and upon his right his beau-
tiful wife Rosa, whom we now introduce to
our'readers as lady Graham.f 'A child, love-
ly as a seraph, played in her arms. From
time to time, the eyes of the happy couple
wandered from their own group to the de-
lightful scenery that lay around them.
"A delicious evening," said Rosa-" I
think we are about to receive a visit," turn-
ing towards the still illumined hills that en-
closed the valley, and from whi°h two ear-

I

1
C


J0

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

riages were a.en rolling down into the broad
plain.
"I prsume not," replied her husband.
"They come from Kingston. It is too soon
-I hope they will give us at least time to
settle after our passage. I am so estranged
from my second home, after a two years' ab-
sence, Mother," said he, addressing an el-
derly lady, tvho was stepping out of the sa-
loon with letters in both hands. "vyou would
not have seen us soon, had it not been for
Rosa,"
"Then I have to thank you, my darling,
for this agreeable surprise," returned the old
lady, joining, at thu same time, the happy
party.
" We wanted nothing to complete our
harpiness, but our dear mother and-"
Aid-" repeated both.
"Graham's sweet seat. Oh! I longed so
much aftermy dear Jamaica, it was as though
an inviible power drew me hither."
"I fear, my poor child, you had to con-
tend against two powerful antagonists. From
the letters I received4before your arrival, I
was really afraid your uncle would not per-
mit you to depart as soon, and Arthur, I
know, is inseparable from old England."
"Just the contrary !" exclaimed the young
baronet, with a triumphant air. " Not a
sound escaped her, and if I myself were not
so deep a soul-reader, we might still be at
Ludlam Castle."

that Rosa should be found acceptable toom
relations. . Your reception has exceeded my
most sanguine hopes. I must confess I was
rather anxious, as your uncle is so particu-
lar, and his prompt demand to see you he-
fore your nuptials made me tremble a little.
Thanks to Providence, who has disposed it
s well! You are, perhaps, the only being
of whom your uncle is fond."
"He wts really displeased at our depart-
ure," said Sir Arthur, " and grew so strange
and mysterious when we took leave of him.
But what is the most astonishing, he came
the day afterwards to Ludlam Castle to see
Rosa once more-gout, and a host of in-
firmities, notwithstanding."
"He desires your departure from Jamai-
ca on the first of May, and has already pro-
vided for your passage in one of his Ma-
jesty's vessels.  Can you guess where these
letters come from? they have been here
these three months," added she, handing
hin a couple of letters, and taking from
Rosa's arm the child, which she caressed
with motherly tenderness.
"Oh, ftom our dear friend Gentillon,"
said Sir Arthur.
" Gabriella," said Rosa, taking another.
" She is married," lisped she, after she had
flown through its contents.
"To whom ?" demanded her husband.
To the gentleman from Philadelphia."
"And this monster of a letter 1" demand-

i You are so fond of your native country," 0d the old lady. "It has the simple address,
said Lad pr Rosa, while her eye hung in sweet Mr. Graham."
ecstacy pon him.                         " That letter, epistle I should say," ex-
" Children," said the mother, with a voice claimed the baronet, laughing, " comes
titled almost with transport, "is your honey- from the hand of our worthy justice of the
moon not yet over?"                    peace, of the county town of Opelousas."
" Honey-moon !" repeated Arthur, press- "lBut," said the mother, does be not
ing his wife to his bosom.  "Our honey- know that you have succeeded Sir Robert ?"
moon will last as long as we live. We are " Never mind, my dear mother," replied
happy-happier every -day."             the baronet.  ' I am sure he wtuld nut ad-
The eye of the old lady was turned with dress his majesty  otherwise  than  r.
an expression of deep-felt delight on her George."
children.                                " Monstrous !" exclaimed the oyl lady.
We have," said she, after a pause, "It is the same to whom you have desired
"every reason to congratulate ourselves. me to send aunualy a bag of coffee, auid a
Sure as I was yen would be happy in your pipe of rum    i"
union, yet our family connexions required  "The same," replied the baronet, still

FI
E~

rP
IiH

ROSA, THE INDIAN 'CAPTIVE.
laughing. "This letter contains much valu- ana, and orange-trees, to receive the new
able information-and he begins, as usual, corners.
with 'dear lad.' lp warrants himself that  It: was Mary, sister of the baronet, witl
the rum sent to him is genuine Jimaky ; he her husband, Colonel. Howard, the forme:
lets me further know, that his beloved town of whom we left, some years years ago,
of Opelousas has, according to his predie- captive of the pirate. She had arrnvet
tion, increased to fifty houses, among which shortly after -Arthur -and Rosa, safe, and
are five brick buildings; that Dick Gloom  without further injury. A British merchant
has, since his marriage with Kate, become vessel, on board of which'she had been pur
quite orderly, and don't fight above twice a by the pirates, had brought her in due time
year; that Sarah, Peggy, Bill, and Harry to Kingston; rendering farther efforts f
send many greetin gs, not to forget Joe and her release unnecessary. The second wel
Bets-none of whom I have the honor to come, after an absence of.iAo years, was
know."                                 not less affectionate. She came abeompani.
"Abominable !" exclaimed fhe mother, ed by her husband, Colonel Howard.
again taking the letter, which was written  While the baronet saluted his sister and
on a large sheet, each page containig brother-in-law, the two beforernentioned
about fifteen lines. "It -appears as if he carriages had come from the opposite direii
had writtenit with his horsewhip."    tion at( a more moderate pace. The group
" Gentillon," said the young baronet, of servants, with a couple of boxes and port-
"scolds a little about the present sent to :manteaus, attending even the shortest ex
Gabriella, but his efforts have been fruit- cursion of a number of the fair sisterhood;
less."                                 had barred nearly the whole road, and the
"You ought to be a little jealous," said carriages were thus prevented from making
the mother to Rosa. "The casket for Ga.- further progress. Arthur had no sooner ob-
briella cost five hundred pounds more than served the delay, than he hastened towards
that of her sister."                   the coaches. The first of the two was a
The two approaching carriages had in the superb traveling carriage, with threegit-
meanwhile reached the gentle eminence on tering- coats of arms on each side, and one
which the mansion stood, and their motion behind,Two ederly gentlemen satin'its
attracted the attention o the little group. The baronet's excuse for the short interrup-
The sun was down, and the night closed.tion was answered in broken English, in the
fast in. A servant lighted the lamps in most polit :rnner.
front of the gate.                        "I prene," resumed Sir Arthur in the
"I wonder," resumed he .matron, after French language, "the gentlenien are new-
~~coiners as  tell as ourselves."
a pause, during which she looked alternate-
I " We landed yesterday ,"'replied ,the
ly at tlie two carriages, "where they tarry "yep
-  strang]ers
so long. It is four hours since I. have sent t"rom England, if  amto
an express with the news of your arrival,a  "    i     t     u      ro   itt
and she might noev be here.".ask ?"$contmued the young brunet, with
the true curiosity of an isolated planter. ,
She had scarcely spoken, whenaelegant  "No sir, butfrom Cadiz.
landau and four whirled at'a rapid pace  "The country where the armies of Great
round the mansion, from the opposite diree- Britain have recently andsogloriously bled,
tion, and halted before the gate.- A couple is interesting to everyEnglishmau."
of servants sprung from the box and back  The dawn of freedom,, which the. new
seats: Another half 'dozen issuedf1rm the commotions in their land of love and song
side doors of the house. All was in.a Ro- seemed to indicate was hailed by the friends
ment bustle and activity. Sir Arthur ad- of mankind with, the greater enthusiasm,
vaneed -through the avenue of cocoa, ban- the more because -this upble people had

1
b
I
It
f
0t
w

3

K
i

'i
i
s
.
:
_gj
-1
k
i
1
f

(


ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.

£
- .
$d
t.
. .

g ronned for centuries tnder the most de-
grading mental and physical bondage.
"If, gentlemen," he continue, with lofty
ease and politeness, n"tyu will do Sir Ar-
thur and Lady Graham the honor to alight,
Bnd repose from the fatigues of the journey,
it will give us great pleasure."
A short conversation ensued between the
two strangers ; marked, however, by a sub-
misivo tonz on the part of him who bad
hitert' spoken. Arthur felt a little net-
tIed, to have addressed himself, as he found,
to a  ec'ndary personage.  A complying
sign on the part of the one who had hitherto
been silent, brought the speaker and two
servants in a moment from their seats. The
humble alacrity with which they hurried to
let down the steps, and to lift the gentleman
out of the carriage, bespoke a man of rank.
Don Juan, Chevalier d'Aranza, Count
de Montgornez, is pleased to accept of Sir
Arthur Graham's hospitable invitation,"
said the principal person, with loftiness and
a low bow; which latter, however, was
changed into an obeisance towards the lady

who now entered the gate.                 "Chevalier d'Aranza," said the latter,
Don Juan, Chevalier d'Aranza, Count de "will certainly be excused by the ladies;
Montgomez, the guest of our family, was a but, should he wish to change his dress, the
nobleman, who had already passed the me- apartments are ready."
ridian of life. He was of a middle size, and The nobleman bowed, and followed Sir
'slender. His pallid countenance, tinted with Arthur into his apartment.
an olive hue, his brow deeply furrowed, the "Strange !" niuttcred t'he young baronet,
conpressed eye and lips, and a certain con- as he again entered the saloon, where ho
posed, dignified, but scrutinizing air, gave .found his mother and his wife waiting for
to his interesting countenance an expression him. "It seento me as if I had seen the
of reserve that bespoke a man who had chevalier somewhere."
wielded high, if not absolute power. When  "Arthur," said Lady Rosa, "you have
he was ushered into the .splendid saloon, he no idea what a crowd of strange sensations
examined, while bowing round, the elegant his appearance has created in me."
assembly, with a slight but respectful glance.  "Silva Valdes plantations," interjected
The silvery voice of Lady Rosa, who bade the old lady, "are said to be among the
him welcome, seemed to startle him a little' most valuable plantations in Jamaica."
but without betraying the least emotion, he Colonel Howard and his wife entered, end
turned again to the young baronet, to whom shortly afterwards the chevalier, dressed for
he once more made a slight bow, less, as it dinner. His dress was simple, but under
seemed, for the sake of compliment, than to the waistcoat shone forth a red silk riband,
have an opportunty of surveying him.   thatattracted eventheattcntion of the young
"Is it the first time," demanded Sir Ar- baronet, little as he was inclined to overrate
thur of his guest, who had taken the offered the distinctions of foreign orders. The

92

seat, "that the Chevalier d'Aranza honors
Jamaica with a visit ?"
"The house of Aranza has for more than
a century been in the possession of the Silya
Valdes plantations."
"The Chevalier d'Aranza," interjeeted,
the lady mother, "does not intend to reach
Silva Valdes plantations to-night ?-they
are seventy miles from Kingston." #
"I am rather afraid I shall not be able
to reach them," returned the nobleman.
" If Chevalier d'Aranza will honor our
house with his presence, it will give us great
pleasure," said the young baronet.
"My suite is rather numerous," returned
the chevalier.
"We shall find room for them," returned
Sir Arthur.
"It is but seldom  that the Chevalier
d'Aranza obtrudes himself; he is, however,
happy to make an exception in the present
case."
The second gentleman, who seemed a
secretary to the nobleman, came into the
saloon, and spoke a few words to the bar-
onet.

i
;
t
:
S"
e
ti
- x
r
?
:
:l
I
,y
z
3

ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE-

f
{
a
'f
4.
i
I
r
t.
ss
{
..     }'.
a
«?
i=
3
rt

93

golden fleece, he knew, was only bestowed
on noblemen of the highest rank. The six
members of the party proceeded into the
dining-room.-
"You will'find your 'neighborhood very
much improved," said the old lady to the
chevalier, after the first arrangements for
the dinner were over. "From what I un-
derstand, the Langdales, you know," inter d
jected she, with a glance at Arthur, "and
Colonel Howard, hive purchased there.
Silva Valdez plantations are in a most flour-
ishing condition. It is seldom the case with
possessions whose proprietors are absent."
The chevalier bowed, but gave no answer.
"Is it long since you have been from Ja-
maica, chevdier ?9" demanded she, in a
shorter tone, doubtless displeased at his. si-'
lenee.
Nineteen years, madam."0
"And have you not, during the whole
time, seen your plantations ?"
"The service due to myovereign, or
rather the disobedience of his children, left
me but little time to think of my own af-
fairs. But," added he, with a melancholyI
smile,  were even my servants less faithful,
there are certain cases where one becomes
indifferent towards objects that have only
these charms, when we can divide them with'
others ."
"Not married, then ?" said the old lady,1
with an accent which betrayed that bachet
ors stood not very high in her opinion.
The chevalier raised his eye in a manner l
which seemed to indicate that he was but1
little accustomed to similar investigations.
Instautly, however, he resumed his former t
melancholy reserve.
" I was, madam," replied he--his eye fell
involuntarily upon Rosa.Ef
There is, in a questioning of this kind,Yf
a feeling of iferiority, extremely pleasant a
to a refined mi'.d. Lady Graham begar4 to e
be aware how little her short acquaintance f
gave her clbim to a confidence on the part C
of her guest, that might open a barbed
wound. A long pause ensued.             s
"The Cortes of Spain !" said Sir Arthur, r

-4i

4;
I;
I,-
_"

I

rising fom his chair, and lifting the glass
filled with champagne. Colonel Howard
followed his example. "May they regain
that oyal liberty which they have once en-
joyed, and which made the Spanish mon-
archy happy and respected ih the eyei of
the world."
A bitter smile passed across the county.
nance of the nobleman. "The Chevalier
d'Aranza," said he, rising at the same time,
"is infinitely obliged to fir Arthur and Lady
Grahamn for the interest they take in the af-
fairs of his country. The ladies !" said ho
giving a toast in his turn.
"And Old England !" subjoined Colonel
Howard.
"And our friends in Louisiana !" con.
eluded Sir Arthur.
"Louisiana?" demanded the nobleman,
with a vivacity that contrasted too strongly
with his reserve not to excite the attention
of the family. "Has Sir Arthur been in
that country?"
"It has fallen to my lot," replied the bar..
onet, "to be thrown into those muddy re-
gions, and to be lost there. I may say
with truth, that I. have served my appren-
ticesaip to the Yankees."
"i hope it had a happy result," said the
nobleman.   "The face of the country,"
added he, without waiting for the baronet's
reply, "is very much changed since it came
under the dominion of the United States, I
understand. I am afraid none of the fami.
lies have remained who resided there when
I saw it last."
"! Pardon me, chevalier, but how long is
that ?"
"Nearly nineteen years."
"Then; chevalier, you would, find it dif-
icult to recognize .this cuntry. Even in
our years it has changed very much. My
acquaintance is very limited ; should, how-
Aver, the Chevalier d'Aranza desire any in.
rrmation,,.I dare engage myself for Senator
Gentillon's promptitude."
A slight -declining bow was all the an-
wer. The refineddndifference and guarded
eserve of the nobleman became painful to

w

!           '

-
-a


9d                      ROSA, THE INDIAN CAPTIVE.
our not less polite, but somewhat blunt hands of the nobleman-" Chevalier d'Ar-
hero. There was something preying on the auza has lust his lady and his child ?"
mind of the Spaniard-ho saw it plainly,  "Yes, sir," replied the nobleman.  "It
yet delicacy forbade further enquiries.  is nineteen years since I Iwas sent lby my
"The Chevalier d'Aranza seems to take royal master to regulate some¢affairs in the
some interest in Louisiana ?" said Lady government of the colony. My wife ac-
Rosa.                                    companied me; she gave me, during our
" I have, indeed, a melancholy reason for short stay in the /pital of that province,
it, my lady," replied the chevalier, in a cor- a daughter. Olthe day after her birth an
responding tone.                         order from  my sovereign arrived, which
1cr glance fell upon him, as if desirous called me instantly to London. My wife
of further explanation. His eye met hers.  shuddered at the thought of crossing the
"Excuse," said he, in an imploring tone, boisterous Gulf of Mexico. She remained,
"an old man from touching a chord which .h New Orleans. She was to'leave the city
might create unharmonious sounds in yoiir as soon as she recovered, to travel by land
gaily tined hearts."                    to New York, and to embark there for Lon.
" And yet," said she, "it is so 'sweet to don. Four male and two female servants
feel that there is a heart that sympathizes remained with her."
with us, an eye that has a tear for our    "Go on, sir, for Heaven's sake!" ex-
woes. We should not regret the healing claimed the baronet.
balm of friendship,"                       " My tale is short," contin ned the noble-
"Friendship !" repeated the nobleman, man.   "After ia stay of four weeks in Lon-
fixing his eye with increasing interest- on don, I was nominated governor in South
the young lady. "I nam lone and friendless. America. My orders were peremptory, and
The very country of which he spoke-that I was not even' permitted to touch at the
unfortunate Louisiana-has cost me both a port in the United States, where my lady
wife and daughter."                      was to embark. I had already been sx
"Louisiana 1" exclaimed Lady Rosa, months at my post in South America, when
with a voice whose trembling sounds roused I received the information' that she had left
the whdle party.                         New Orleans, with her servants, under a
The sympathizing, melancholy expression convoy of soldiers. They were exchanged
of her countenance, flashed into a beam of for a convoy of Indians when she arrived in
the brightest radiance. She sprang from  their territory. It was the last and only'in-
her seat and hurried through the saloon-  formation I was abJe to obtain. The snb-
her mother followed her. The nobleman sequent wars rendered all my efforts fruitless
looked after them astonished.           --she was lost."
Hais my lady ever been in Louisiana?"  "Lost !-where?" demanded LadyRosa,
demanded he, in strained suspense.       who now rushed into the room.
"Fourteen years, chevalier," said the  " Lost among the Indians on he road
baronet, rising from his chair and approach- from New Orleans:"
ing his guest.                             " Father !" exclaimed Lady rosa, sink-
'rAnd the name of her family ?" demand- ing before'the chevalier on her knees, and
ed the chevalier, eagerly.              holding up his own portrait.
"Is unknown ?" repeated the baronet,    The Spaniard snatched it from her hands,
qu ekly.                                east a glance at it, and with the words, "My
" Unknown." repeated the nobleman.    daughter " fell upon the neck of his recover.
"Will the Chevalier d'Aranza honor us ered child.
with his confidence 1 It is of the utmost               pHE END.
importance," said the~ baronet, seizing the

1i
l
x"
r
a
r3
F;_=
F
f
d
r
Y x
r

I
g

OPOUAATALOUE.
POPULAR NOVELS

These novels, as.now presented to the public, fort one of the most admirable series of popuir
1ation that has ever been issued. They are marked by their faithful delineation of character, their
naturalnesa and purity-of sentilaent, tho-drapiatie interest of :their plots, thcir beauty and force
of expression, and their elevated' moral tone. No current novels can be more highly recomnended
for family reading. These novels are hlandsomely printed on the finest parr, from clear pew typ
-with illuminated covers, of the most startling and gorgeous designs. Each book contains  .
pages, and is sold at the remarkably low price of twenty-five cents.
The unitiated and unmarried will most undoubtedly stare, their blood will rise and their hair
and on end when they read this very thrilling novel. The story is of the most marvelous nature,
cud show all the romance and realities of.a pretty actress' life behind the scenes and beforetho
curtain. To those who delight in reading love stories this work is especially adapted, as it shows i
a the most expressive manner, serious truths on that very interesting subject.  Price 25 ets,
This is a rich, wild and fanciful romance of the most intense interest; so much so, that you
cm not drop it until you arrive at the end. Your mind is excited with emotions of 'pleasure, and
theni melted to tears ; and again you feel happy to ind virtue and manliness meet with its just re-
ward while villany and meanness are crushed to the earth.' Like all charming novels by the author
af "fose 'eymour," yoiwill not find a character over drawn, or a'single touch of nature sariiced
in effect. To those who want a very interesting and delightful book, send for this. Price 25 et ,
4                                The Young                dy Thief:
This beautiful, entertaining and fascinating work, from the pen of one,of the most gifted
authors, abounds in the most intensely exciting scenes and incidents in the life of one of the pret-
tiest and most accofanlished ladies of the present thus, a lady of noble descent. Her education,
. ravels and early life are pencilled, in the most glowing terms. Hler after life, love, seduction,
betrayal, are'in'the loveliest and most eloquent words. 1cr wild deeds, her taking things, he.
~athi and escapes, and her end, are written in-a style whieh would do honor to Hugo or Buhwer,
Cl!ara           John;1  yste                    Sold
This li a sort of sequel to the novel of "  ose Seymour," in which not only the mystery ru re-
gard to that young. and beautiful Ballet Girl is solved, but it is a sound, vigorous, exciting and
entertaining narrative in which the finest style of writing is made subservient to the eliminatiena
of one of the grandest plots with which we are acquainted. It is a novel in which old and young
aiAfnd abundance of unalloyed pleasure. Send for Itd                       Price 25 eta.
an         ; r he  e o Cn&amp;l ak
This is, perhaps, the most exciting work ever written. By the English press it is pronounced
superior to 'Charley Bray, the Fireman.'"  It is one of the most spirited and romantic novels.
iull of life and ire, it excites the reader and carries-him onward as the details of the wild and
romantic adventures of the Belle Fanny are vividly recorded. It is with mingled sensations of
terror and delight that he persues this volume, and sees the hardships of virtue, and how the beam- .
tiful who have no homes get along. It Is ae rich and highly entertaining story and is especially
.1teommended for its peculiar style.                                      Price 25-es..
. is truly one of the'moat charming stories of the kind ever written. There is not  g
piege in the book. If you once begin to read it you cannot leave off. The incidents are often,
Most absorbing character,and the storythroughout is of such an interesting nature that a coa
fimed novel reader will set up all night to read its Get a copy.          Price
This is a rich, wild and fanciful stOry by one of the most gifted authors. The thrilling and en-
citing doings of this beautiful young lady will hold the reader "spell-bound" until the -end 1
sttached, leaving a direct and pleasant sensation on the mind. - The, exciting and.ehaiming scenes
in this book will ehain the attention of the reader to its very last words.  Price 2 sgg
Copes of any books in      h   C atogue engfr       o p    a     p     eae
Vf the   r pn .       lcas ordered.

.J
9
i
I
y
J
1
c

x
4

:


}I
i  1
I'
I,

CATALOGUE.
The Parricides; or Doom of th                            Asssis.               .
A most powerful novel, written in Buntlin's best style, founded upon the assassination of
eident Lincoln; portrays the plot of the conspirators from its incipiency to its consummation,
o revealing the secrets of that mysterious order known as Knights of the Golden Circle, and
oti's initiation, for the first time made known to the public.          Price 25 at
Agnes, the Beautifu l                    illiners
This is one of those soul stirring, out and out, stiffish books which reveals all the points and
enter points in the lives of young and beautiful Milliners,'their virtues, lovely forms, sweet
ords, short aprons, enchanting ways, and the hardships through which they pass to make " both
rends meet" are vividly described in thia thrilling noveL  To read this book is to be "held fast.
e not fal to get a copy.                                         ' ,     Jrice 25 eta .
Charley Bray; or Fireman's                          ission.
..   This is another of Mr. Buntline's vigorous productions. To give a srynopsis of the plot would
to destroy the interest which the public must anticipate in It. Sufhee it to say hint it is one
f the most absorbing, exciting and delightful plots that ever emanated from the brain fd the
practice romancist. Its interest commences in the first chapter and is unbrokenly sustained to
e last. Some of the scenes Introduced are touching and almost beyond imagination. Price .:. ets,
The Bootmaker of Fifth Avenue;
OR A FORTUNE FROM PETROLEUM.
The plot of this story is one of the most absorbing interest, and bold and startling Ineidentn
'occur in almost every page. The reader's attention is not allowed to slumber for an instant, but
i hurried through with railroad rapidity from the rest to the last chapter. It Is one of the most
4hrlling productions we have ever read, and yet the incidents are so true to nature, so life like
)that the reader can scarcely realize that he is reading fiction.          Price 25 eta,
H I QHW AY S E R IE S
This thrilling new series of novels embraces the romantic exploits and adventures of "lRed
Eph," "Leonore, Ills Bride," "Black Wolf,' ani the "Boys of the Yellow Band," "Mary
Turpin," etc. All the wild, daring and dashing scenes of robber life, from the most perilous and
satonishing adventures on the highway to the most exciting and curious Incidents in the h'wer
love are portrayed by the author of these thrilling narratives with a vividness of description that
ba never been excelled. The following are contaied in the New Series:
Red Ralph; or Daughter of Night.
This a lively, dashing work-the record of the marvelous deeds of one whose romantic aclyn
s and daring exploits on the highway throw even the feats of the celebrated Turpin or Davalt
4nto the shade. 100 pages.                                            ,. Price 25 ets
Leonore; or Highwayman's Brids
Leonore, the heroine of the tale Is one of the most interesting characters ever delineated and
Mexploita surpass In boldness and brilliancy the most gallant exploits ever performed. The siorg
gas unknown charms which those alone who have read tue wirk ran comprehend. Price 25 es.5
Black Wolf; or Jonathan Wild and Dick Turpi
. narrative of the strange exploits, daring crimes, and extraordinary adventures of a
atain, showing how he managed to get money from his victims when they had none,.ad other
bndous and cruel maneuvers, for which he became distinguished and dreadedi. Priec 2 eta.
The Yellow Band; or Jack Shepperd's Feats
this Is a narative of the principal events in the career of a famnas highway robber whoa e
never seen even by his comrades. It was first thought that Dick was a gentleman in di;uiso-
helproved himself at last to be only a clever villain born, brought up, and educated to c rhno.
Price 25 eta
Co ies of ansy books in this catalogue sent free of .postage upon; recept
~the price. Send cash order&amp;,

rY
I'
St

CA TA LOGUg
tIL T ON'ST EN CEN T B0KS.
I.LU1INA TED CO 1Es.
'mes Novels earmarked by their faithful delineation of character, their nturalncss and purty
r sentiment, the dramatic interest of their plots, their beauty and force of expression, and their
elevated moral tone. No current novels can be more highly recommended for family reading.
None but the best Stories by the most Popular Authors.
No. L-The Dead Boxer, or secret Blow ALTO..
BY CARLETON.
This is one of the most charming, exciting and interesting atorlea ever issued. It is exceed
f ly interesting to travel through this beautiful story with such a descriptive writer, anti to follow
the hero of the tale through all his manly bearings. Those who have not read this book have in'
dead missed a most delightful and interesting entertain'ent,- Do not fail to get a copy at once.,
rPcc14) cent,
2 ii~rdO' obidn Love,,
BY MISS BRADDON.
There is not a single person who, having once taken up this book will willing lay It down .1R
hey have read every line. The plot is thrillingly interesting-the language full of fiery eloquence
the love passages will had responsive echoes In every loving heart-the more impassioned por~
ono have no superior even in the pages of Bulwer or Wilkie Collins.        Price 10 cents.
-o 3TeMidight6am;orLe'nthEmpire Citys
BY NED BUNTLINE.
This well known and talented author needs no encomium; those who have tead his works
kuow that they are compiled from the author's own personal experience, and ca 'not be surpassed
n truthfuldepietion and interesting incidents. This admirable romance far surpasses any sumi-
lar work, in the rapidity with which incident follows lucident, in the bold and strikingly fainted
eharacterities of each actor, in the graphicportrayal of the varied passions that sway the human
heart, and above all, in the consummate skill displayed in the weaving and unravelling of the
ot. It is drawn from city life, every character is real and most of them are known to the pucle.
Frie10 edats,
No. 4.Mark Myrtle.
BY NED BUNTLINE.-
This story is unsurpassed. Mark Myrtle, the hero, Is one of the moat Interesting characters
dier delineated, and his exploits surpass in boldnes and brilliancy, the most glowing exploits
everperfornmed. This hook is aekno edged by all who have read it to be tho very best romm.
stirring incidents ever written.                                          Bri-ee10 cents.
-       -    Price 10 cents.
n no-Price 10 cents.
9                               Price 10 cents,
W      W     S            ook,               -               Price 10 cents
Copies of any~ books in thzin CJatalou       sent free of nostage upon.'
pf Rhe pra     nd catsh orders

4
I

-
  _
-Y s
4
&amp;   r
d
=g #
s
2       P
f
s'   2
a$ #
n 4_  r
,#
y           ,
_     -
"
k


" An Excellent New Noyel !
The  diamond Cross-
A Tale of American Society.

4$

lt~mo., EznaLrone~y  oumndin cloth,  -

Capital

New   Books ' Brilliant New Books

GRIFFITH GAUNT; OR, JEAtOUSY.
BY CHALRLES nEADE.
" Grith Gaunt" is superbly written. Its
style is clear, incisive and epigramatic, and its
situations are worked up with the utmost en-
ergyand power.
It may be pronounced one 'of the finest of
tragic writings produced forunany a day hi the
lriglsh language.......Price;75 cents.-
WHAT IS THIS MYSTERY.
Br MISS M. E. BRADDoN.
This last work of the. brilliant authoress
whose name isfamiliar to both the old and new
world, is just the style of book to please most
readers, dealing largely in mystery, and replete
with love and horrors, Some of the characters
are loveable and-natural others, by way of
contrast, human monstrosities in league with
powers of D yness.... , ..Frice, 75 cents.
THE SECOND Ms. TILLOTSON.
BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
This novel Is written by a regular contribu-
tor to Charles Dickens' periodical, "All the
Year Round," and is exceedingly brilliant.
The best voucher for its merits is the fact that
ts author has "passed muster'with the great-
et living novelist. It will be eagerly sought
after.......Price, 75c ents.

BRI3U    H    T i  LIGHT.
BY TfOMS SPETOLIT.
'his story, published as a Serial in America
and England, has created intense interest by
the thrilling character of , its incidents, and the
power and beauty with which they are ds.
scribed. It is a-story of old days in Englan ,
tnd is a graphic picture of ;ideas and customs
then prevalent....... Price, 50 cents.
CLEMENOEAU; en, WiFE URDER.
lY ALEXANDER DUMAS, FILT.
This' novel is a chef 'r;vvre in its display of
the motives which actuate the human mind
under peculiar influences. Every speech is
characteristic of the sensual, insensible and
voluptuous beauty of Paris life, to whom all
idea of feminine purity is unknown....Prce,
60 cents
Ready March~ 21st
S LIN   IN  THE PAT       .
:s JOJIN AUDRS
This isjan excellent new novel by the popu-
:tar author of" Bfound to the Wheel." In press,
Price, 75 cents.

These books are sold everywhere, and will be sent by mall, postagefre, on rep
prike:    ,

5
z
s
g
M1
[                             R

4v

L

We need iot say a word to the readers of the WzEK HYlRA 1a in praise of this
capital story of American life. They aie all familiar with it already, in the form
under which it first appeared as a prizedtale, and they will now gladly welcome it
again in its attractive book form. Not only is the plo ingenious and fall of thril-
hag interest, but the author has know so well the ark of concealing art, as to give
the whole a charm of iiaturalness and reality. The characters are real and alive.
We recognize them at a glance as just such persons as "live and move and have
their being" in actual American Society. In fine, aside from  the romantic story
which is lit up by Laura's "Diamond Cross," we find that neither Dickens nor Mrs.
Beecher Stowe,,nor even De Tocqueville has gLven a better an  more truthful picture
of American scenery, life, manners and ideas than is presented in this new Novel of
Mr. Philips.-N. Y Herald.

a
A
.;
,#

t$

4

Y

Prie  75.


                                                  
             
         
       
   
