
    ----CITATION----
        Denison, Mary A. (1826-1911). Opposite the Jail .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6260
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  "Opposite the Jail." Page 20. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               OPPOSITE THE JAIL. 
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "CARRIE HAMILTON," "GRACIE AMBER," "THE CHILD ANGEL," ETC. 
            
               BOSTON: 
               HENRY HOYT, 9 CORNHILL. 
               CHICAGO: 
               WM. TOMLINSON.
             
            1859. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858, by HENRY HOYT, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. 
            
               LITHOTYPED BY COWLES AND COMPANY, 
               17 WASHINGTON STREET, BOSTON. 
               Printed by Bazin & Chandler.
             
          
       
      
         
            Opposite the jail 
             
            OPPOSITE THE JAIL. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE DEAD OF NIGHT. 
                
                  
                      
                        "There crime stalks haggardly and gluts his eye 
                        On deeds of vengeance: God looks on and metes 
                        Just recompense." 
                     
                      
                        "Now black and deep the night begins to fall, 
                        A shade immense. Sunk in the quenching gloom, 
                        Magnificent and vast, are heaven and earth. 
                        Order confounded lies; all beauty void; 
                        Distinction lost; and gay variety 
                        One universal blot: such the power 
                        Of light, to kindle and create the whole." 
                     
                      
                        "Quiet night, that brings 
                        Rest to the laborer, is the outlaw's day, 
                        In which he rises early to do wrong, 
                        And when his work is ended dare not sleep." 
                     
                   
                
               THE clocks had all chimed the hour of midnight, and the city was still. As dreams upon the people so fell the black shadows on the long, deserted streets. Outwardly all was peace, but in how many homes struggled ghastly disease, and pale death triumphed? The quiet was not broken by the ringing of the steel of the assassin, neither was the ear startled by the cry of murder; but murder was being done. The stars, each with a single eye to God's glory, looked calmly down and saw, if they could penetrate the crowded roofs, unholy mirth, horrible revelry, crime of all hues, despair, and long between whiles the sweet sleep of the innocent. 
               Such was the slumber of Alice Graylynn. 
               Her chamber was one of a handsome suite in the elegant residence of the rich widow Westerly, and Alice was an orphan niece who had been taken into the family some five years previous to the time at which our story commences. A shade lamp burned dimly on the marble stand, throwing an uncertain light over parts of the room, revealing immediately around it, pen, ink, and paper, a note neatly written but not folded, a delicate muslin collar and sleeves, wrought with exquisite taste, and a pair of gloves, as yet unshaped by palm or finger. A trunk stood near, with one or two packages on the closed lid, as if they had been placed there the last thing before retiring. 
               The furniture of the room, as far as it could be seen, was handsome, though not profuse. The outlines of a marble fire-frame sprang up from the shadowy hearth, and to the right stood a bed, draped with white, on which, sleeping sweetly and peacefully as an infant, reposed Alice Graylynn. One hand was under her cheek, a curl or two had strayed on the pillow, and her breathing was so gentle it could scarcely be heard. 
               Over a chair at the foot of the bed, a grey travelling dress was carefully placed, as if to shield it from crease or wrinkle. All things looked as if the fair sleeper had been preparing for a journey, and the lines traced in the note ran thus:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR DE WITT:-Uncle Harry has sent for me, and will not take no for an answer. If you should receive this before the week is out, will you not meet me in Melville? Aunt is sick and low-spirited, and needs me to soothe and comfort her. 
                           
                              ALICE GRAYLYNN."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The modest little missive lay where the rays of the lamp fell unshaded upon it. It did not seem to be the same lamp that Alice had carried to her room on retiring, that stood on the table nearer to the wall; this had apparently been just brought in. Soft and stealthy footsteps had moved through the darkened chamber; there had been a smothered cry, and quick, frightened movements, and the noiseless steps were again nearing the room. At the door appeared a beautiful but haggard face, looking in, oh! so cautiously. The hair was caught up with a comb, but the locks, half-curling, still hung down the neck, touching the polished shoulders. The eyes, distended and glowing, were fastened upon the bed where Alice slept. The night-dress, carelessly open at the throat, hung loosely over the graceful limbs, and, strange to say, a chain of exquisite lustre was fastened to the girdle that confined the robe. One hand rested against the frame of the door, the other just touched the door itself, and thus standing in the aperture between, she gazed and listened, and the darkness beyond fell round her like a cloud. Then cautiously, very cautiously, she advanced. Her feet, white and bare, sank in the yielding carpet, and broke not the silence. The strange flashing of the jewels almost brightened the dimness as she walked, and still her eyes were turned fearfully towards the bed. 
               But the cheek pressing the pillow moved not; the hand was not withdrawn, for Alice was, constitutionally, a heavy sleeper; yet, strange to say, the face of the dreamer was overspread with a sad, foreboding look, and the sweet mouth now and then quivered. At last the guilty interloper reached the table, and a mocking smile curled her lips as her burning eyes fell on the simple note. Quietly she detached a key from the few trifles among which it was placed, and, kneeling down, made preparations to open the trunk. 
               First she slid the lamp gently along, so that its directer rays should not fall upon her; then she fitted the key tremblingly to the trunk, turned it after many efforts with but little noise, lifted the packages, gently swung the lid back, and pushing the neatly folded articles of apparel one side, opened a delicate pen-knife and cut the lining. Then cautiously seating herself on the floor, she unloosed from her night-dress the chain, took from her bosom a package of bank-bills, thrust them tightly within between the lining and the trunk, covered the place carefully with the clothes again, and shut the lid. Sinking down after this exertion, her face grew white like marble. She pressed her hands together, and her bloodless lips, and seemed to contemplate with horror the deed she had done. The agony lasted but a moment; for rising, she saw again the little note beside the lamp, and the color rushed back to brow and cheek, while a fiendish gleam leaped from her eyes. Her work, however, seemed not to be finished yet. She turned to the bed, gave another fixed and anxious glance towards the sleeper there, then crept to the gray travelling-dress, and finding the aperture of the pocket, dropped something in, and, shivering, turned, caught up the lamp, hurried from the place, never once now looking in the direction of the bed, fled across the passage, and sprang, cowering, a heap of guilt, in the centre of her silken-draped couch-but not to sleep. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE ACCUSATION. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Where find you guilt upon this gentle face? 
                        Where read you crime upon this open brow?" 
                     
                      
                        "He whom censure singles from the herd 
                        To brand with infamy-whom envy loads 
                        With blackening colors, to the Omniscient judge 
                        Whom nought can bias, and whom nought deceives, 
                        May otherwise appear." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "I've done a deadly deed, dear Maud, 
                        I've done a deadly wrong; 
                        And an accusing multitude 
                        To my soul's portals throng. 
                     
                      
                        "They point their fingers pale, at me, 
                        And ever look the same; 
                        And the cruelest face that I think I see- 
                        Is the cowardly face of Shame." 
                     
                   
                
               "MY love, how pale you look!" exclaimed Mrs. Westerly, pausing in the act of pouring coffee, as Belle entered the breakfast-room and sat down at the table. 
               "No wonder, mamma; the loss of my chain and ring, father's last gift, wears upon me so that I can hardly sleep; and, besides-"she glanced at Alice, bit her lip, and was instantly silent. 
               "Do you suspect Lorine in the least?" asked Mrs. Westerly. Lorine was a favorite dressing maid. 
               "I did till last night," replied Belle; "and I am very glad we sent the officer for a warrant. I mean to have every nook and corner, and every trunk in the house searched," she added with emphasis, lifting her eyes and suddenly letting them fall again. 
               "Not mine, I hope," said Alice, lightly, looking very pure and delicate in her well-fitting new travelling dress. 
               "I shall have somebody's trunk searched, in whose possession I saw my diamond ring and a fifty dollar bank note last night," returned Belle, her voice trembling slightly. 
               "Why, daughter! what do you mean?" exclaimed Mrs. Westerly; and that reminds me, she added, suddenly, plunging her hand in her pocket, "I put my portmonnaie carelessly in my dressing-gown after I came home yesterday; and, heavens! it is not here-five hundred dollars I got at the bank-merciful heaven! are we surrounded by thieves?" and really pale and frightened she gazed stupidly at Belle. 
               "Perhaps Alice can account for at least one of the fifty dollar bills," replied Belle, steadying her voice with great effort. 
               Alice spoke not, but stunned at this accusation, turned from daughter to mother, unable to comprehend. 
               "I did not intend to be a spy on you, Alice, when I came to your chamber door last night, and saw you examining my costly diamond ring, and also saw the bank note, as you held it up to the light," said Belle, her tones strangely blended with firmness, grief, and reluctance; "but of course you will have no objection to our seeing the inside of your pocket." 
               "My pocket!" exclaimed Alice, her hand resting tightly against the folds of her dress. "O, Belle! I have forgiven you insult after insult, but I cannot, I cannot forgive this! Me! with your diamond ring and a fifty dollar note-you saw me! Belle Westerly, how dare you speak so deliberate a falsehood?" 
               "Alice, empty your pocket," said Mrs. Westerly, firmly, as Belle gave her a sidelong glance of assurance; "of course, if you are innocent, there will be nothing there." 
                
               "If-I-am-innocent!" slowly articulated Alice, growing deadly white, and almost gasping. "Aunt Westerly, do you think, after such an accusation, I will turn my pocket out? Never. If you can-if you have the courage to outrage a poor orphan dependent-no!-one working like a slave for the little bounty she receives, put your hand in-I will not resist you." 
               "I couldn't be mistaken!" said Belle, not so firmly, however; "if nothing is found upon you, I am willing, of course, to beg your pardon." 
               "My pardon!" just passed the lips of Alice, so low as scarcely to be heard, but scornful enough to be withering. "Aunt, I am going at nine; it is eight now, and I have many things to do. If you intend to search me, please to be quick as possible. If you insist upon it, I shall of course allow it; but it is an insult that you will some day pay dearly for; remember my words." At that moment her own hand fell against her side; she started, crimsoned, and turned pale again, then sank powerless upon a chair. Mrs. Westerly did have the necessary amount of assurance, for she deliberately emptied the pocket of the poor girl and out rolled the ring, while at the same time a bank bill, on being opened, proved to be one of the ten missing from the porte-monnaie. 
               "Why, Alice!" exclaimed her aunt, flushing red to the temples; "wicked, wicked girl; I never could have believed it, never! Why, Alice Graylynn, to think that I am related to a thief!" 
               A slight shriek burst from the lips of the orphan, and for a moment her face, of a marble paleness, lost all expression, while she seemed fainting, but presently throwing off the stupor, she sprang to her feet, exclaiming, "aunt Westerly and Belle, so help me God! I never touched that ring; I never had it on my finger-in my hands-oh, my Father in Heaven! this is some cruel, cruel dream-me!-me!" and bowing her head upon her hands, she gave way helplessly to a wild burst of grief. 
               "Please 'm, an officer be here!" said a servant, opening the door of the breakfast room. 
               "Aunt! aunt!" shrieked Alice, wringing her hands distractedly, "what are you going to do? Why have you sent for an officer? Oh, aunt Westerly, you do, you must believe me!" 
                
               "Hush, child! it will take even more than this to make me think you guilty as you look; the officer has come to search the house-the trunks of all the servants; of course you will not object to his searching yours?" 
               "Oh, no! no!" sobbed Alice, drying up her tears; 'but I am so bewildered, so distressed-Belle"-but Belle had vanished, unable to bear the sight of the misery she had caused. 
               "You can stay here, then, unless you wish to go with us; I hope"-and Mrs. Westerly shook her head, as her fingers pressed again over the ring she had taken from the pocket of her niece. 
               It was a glorious morning early in June. The trees were leafing, the eaves dripping, the ground smoking, and over the window the pretty canary sang its loudest and its sweetest, but desolation reigned in the guileless head of Alice. She had never been so happy as on that sweet morning, never so full of animal life, for her lonely, unloved lot had imparted a tinge of melancholy to her nature, but how had darkness fallen! how cold the sunlight, how discordant the bird's gentle music! how sad the sound of the dripping water! She strove to think calmly, but she was bewildered. Again and again she searched the pocket, wondering if by any chance Belle's ring could have fallen in there-but the note! the fifty dollar note. And suddenly it occurred to her that Belle had accused her; that she had dared to say she saw her looking at the ring and the bill. 
               "False! she knows it is false!" she exclaimed, excitedly; "what motive had my cousin to tell a deliberate lie. I never harmed her. I have loved her and toiled for her since her father died; I have almost been her slave. Oh! my father; my father in heaven, pity me-deliver me." 
               "Alice!" Mrs. Westerly appeared at the door; "where is the key of your trunk?" 
               "I left it on the table," replied Alice, stepping a few paces forward. 
               "It is not there; perhaps you put it in your pocket." 
               "No, I left it on the table last night; I have not touched it since. Aunt Westerly," she exclaimed, with sudden indignation, "how can you-how dare you suspect me?" 
               "I miss five hundred dollars, Alice, and one of the bank bills was found in your pocket," replied her aunt, sternly; "now, strangely enough, your key is missing, but the trunk will be searched. I will send for a locksmith. If I see nothing there I will overlook what I have found against you and call it an accident; but if I do find the missing money in your trunk, I shall do by you just as I would by any other thief who had abused my confidence." 
               "Aunt Westerly!" gasped Alice, and the room seemed to reel-the door was shut, and the poor girl fell to the floor unconscious. Her fainting fit did not last long. So great was the excitement that all the inmates of the house were up stairs; thus she had not been discovered in her weakness. She came to consciousness; lifted her head-her temples were beating fearfully-remembered that last, shocking sentence, and staggering to the door, groped her way, almost blind, up the stairs and to her own room. The locksmith who had been summoned, was just removing the lock from her trunk. Mrs. Westerly stood near; Belle, with a pale, half scared face, behind her; and a little further off, the policeman-a stern rather rude looking man, wearing the badge of his office. The servants, three or four, were grouped about the door, and with faces in which the predominant expression was pity, they made way for Alice to pass. 
               She stood there, white, weak, trembling at this indignity, mazed at the recollection of the morning's strange scene, her hands clasped, her eyes drooping, her whole attitude expressive of the deepest misery. The lid of the trunk was thrown back; Belle crouched away yet farther from the place; the officer moved the clothes lightly, as if he had formed no opinion of the matter, but went through the form merely as a form, but suddenly he paused, dropped on one knee, moved the contents more hurriedly, and pointed to the incision in the lining of the trunk, drawing therefrom the necklace, that flashed a thousand hues in the rich sunlight, and a package of bank-bills, consisting of nine fifties, the very money that Mrs. Westerly had deposited in her portmonnaie the day before. The policeman stood gazing towards Mrs. Westerly, holding the necklace, while she examined the package, and Alice, white as marble, remained motionless and speechless, her eyes staring like those of a maniac. 
               "You can get a warrant and take her to jail," said Mrs. Westerly, in a voice of angry excitement; "I cannot abide such unblushing wickedness; thank God! that none of my blood runs in your veins, artful, wicked, lying girl. If you wanted an outfit for your visit, it would at least have been more honest to earn one." 
               Alice neither spoke nor moved. Her eyes were fixed with the same strange glare upon her trunk. How like a very wonderful dream it was! She could have cried, it seemed so real, only she felt it could not, must not be real. Was that the trunk she had packed with so much care? how came that fearful rent in the lining? and why was the rough looking man holding that costly necklace? and why were they all gazing towards her? 
               "Get her bonnet Belle, or you, Lorine; no wonder she can't speak-the wicked creature." 
               They tied the bonnet and veil over the passive face, wrapped a shawl over the pretty new travelling dress, and led her pitifully-for she did not seem to realize what was going on. A carriage stood at the door; mechanically she entered, still in that horrible trance-nor did her numbed faculties awaken till she saw the gloomy precincts of the jail. The servants of the household gazed on in stupid wonder during the scene enacted above; only Lorine's eyes flashed as with indignation, and her hand trembled violently while she fastened the bonnet strings, and she bit her lips till it seemed that the blood would start through. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               A FRIEND. 
                
                  
                     "I was sick and in prison, and ye visited me."
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "A grim old building with grey, gloomy walls, 
                        Seamed as with tears, and echoing to groans. 
                        The white head bows within its awful close, 
                        And woman weeps-and youth, in curses vents 
                        His guilty anger; while the ragged child, 
                        Hardened in sin, with bleared and hollow eyes, 
                        Looking through guilt on guilt, hears ribald songs, 
                        And laughs with horribly unchildish mirth." 
                     
                   
                
               THE county jail was well located, and, architecturally speaking, rather a fine building. Opposite stood a handsome house, known as the residence of old General Littlejohn. He was one of the richest citizens and first settlers; had held almost every position of influence; was to all else besides his wife, obstinate as a Chinaman and opinionated as a Turk. 
               He had once owned the land on which now stood the jail, but through some flaw which I have not the legal knowledge to describe, his park, as he ambitiously named it, was proved to be the heir-loom property of a very poor man, in fact, a town pauper, and but little removed from an imbecile. General Littlejohn came near losing his life in a fit of anger that induced an attack of apoplexy, and during a sickness consequent upon this calamity, the town had contracted with the pauper, bought his land, and placed him under the care of judicious persons, who made it their constant business to look after him and furnish him comforts out of his own money. Upon the knowledge of this, the poor general collapsed again and ruptured a blood-vessel, that laid him snugly in his back chamber while the odious jail walls were surely and slowly rising from his beautiful park, while its heavy bolts and bars were being forged, and until the massive doors swung groaningly upon their hinges. So by the time that the old general recovered, there stood the edifice within which so many tears were to be shed so many sighs to sound dismally through the narrow passages. But the general was too weak to storm, and too much changed by sickness and serious contemplation to swear; he only gazed in mournful silence; and gave up his cherished plans, perhaps the more readily, that he felt the infirmities ties of age, and his illness presaged a something to which he had given but little thought hitherto-death. 
               Mrs. Littlejohn was much younger than himself, a handsome, or, perhaps I should say, a pretty woman, with so little dignity that the very children in the street turned from their mud pies to catch her gentle smile. She was just leaving the jail, where she was chaplain, comforter, and friend, as Alice was led in, and through the thick veil she discovered the pretty, delicate features and soft curling locks of the stunned and bewildered girl. 
               "I wonder who she can be!" she murmured over and over again. "I wonder who she can be!" and thus she kept repeating till she entered the sitting-room of her own house. A beautiful retreat was this same sitting-room; it seemed like a walled garden transported from the sunny climes where the oranges grow in clusters in the open air. The carpet was green; its pattern an interlucing vine running its length along the mossed floor of a wood, and spotted with white flowers, so frail in appearance that one instinctively avoided them in walking lest the foot should crush them. The walls were lined with paper traced with the delicate offshoots of the cactus, and the pale pink blossoms formed the prettiest contrast in the world with the shining leaves that seemed heavy with dew. The curtains were white lace over shades of cool green; the chairs were of bamboo of the same emerald shade; it was, in truth, a green-room, imparting the freshness and coolness, and the soothing influence of a conservatory. 
               "Well, madam!" said a hearty, heavy voice, as the old general rolled in, and overpowered one of the fragile-looking seats, "so we may expect the young fellow home who has been doing such prodigious feats," he continued, spreading the paper over his knee, and slowly taking from a leathern case a pair of spectacles. "Fine young fellow! fine young fellow!" he repeated, lifting the paper, after throwing open his shirt bosom, and dropping the handkerchief that had confined his neck too closely, on the floor at his side. 
               "I really don't remember now," said Mrs. Littlejohn, thoughtfully; the sweet face she had just seen had driven all recollection of other events from her mind; "I really don't remember." 
               "What! why don't you know I read it last week, little wife? why the young supercargo who saved the captain's life, ship, cargo, and all; and the Britons, you know, made such a fuss over him-young De Witt Gildersleeve, of"- 
               "I know, I recollect now-that is, not the particulars, but"- 
               "The general's!" put in her husband, with a nod and a smile, as if he had said a good thing. He was a hale, florid old gentleman, with a large head, bald at top, and crowned with silver hairs that fell white and fleece-like over his temples. His Roman nose and firm-set lips gave token of decided characteristics, but the wide benevolence of his massive brow, and the sunny, almost child-like smile that pervaded his face, making it all aglow when he did smile, relieved the fire and prominence of the other features. When he did a strong, self-willed, uncompromising act, it was laid to his mouth and nose; but when the poor and the suffering felt the blessings of his good deeds, and needy genius the aid of his kind heart and ready purse, the sweet smile and the great, expansive brow came in for a full share of appreciative applause. But his moods were antagonistic, and he often commenced an act of benevolence by tearing its object all to shreds. Still, as the violin, shattered and patched together again, gives forth a richer tone, so the obligations he conferred were doubly enhanced by his previous unwillingness and declarations of inability. He threw rough stones in the road of benevolence, but afterwards cleared them away and laid down slabs of marble. 
               "H'm! the Britons made a lion of him," muttered the general, looking like a great lion himself, as he sat crouched down, his white locks curling on his shoulders. 
               "What did they do, dear?" murmured Mrs. Littlejohn, rising and holding bonnet and shawl in her hand, as she prepared to go up stairs. 
               "Why! they gave this young fellow, De Witt, a dinner, and made speeches at him and all that fal-de-ral; if they'd given him a thousand pounds, that would have been something substantial-words are cheap." 
               "If he had been an Englishman," said Mrs. Littlejohn, going towards the door- 
               "He wouldn't have done it," growled the general, before she could add-"they could have given him money, probably." 
                
               "Oh yes, my dear." 
               "Oh no, my dear," he exclaimed, jerking off his spectacles. 
               "Englishmen have great courage, you know, general"-his wife was now on the threshold of the door. 
               "Nobody doubts the courage; but, my dear, an Englishman would have taken a week to consider, and finished his conclusion among the fishes," and with these words the paper was folded, the head thrown back, and the old general settled himself for a nap. 
               "I wonder who she can be?" so mused Mrs. Littlejohn, as she stood in her own chamber, looking out of the blinds opposite the jail. "I suppose," she continued to herself, "they will put her in the room occupied by the witness in the forgery case. Poor thing! so young and pretty! and so decidedly lady-like! and then how pale and suffering she looked! It seemed as if I had seen her somewhere, though I can't remember where. Let me think-however there's no use; an artful, wicked girl can assume any thing. I'll hunt up some reading for her, and go over there to-morrow." The gentle woman went into the library, and took therefrom a much-thumbed Pilgrim's Progress gress, a small edition of the Penny Magazine, and a few strictly religious tracts, and put them aside for her benevolent purpose; but do what she would that face stood always exactly before her, with tears upon the pallid cheeks. The day wore on, and ever and anon Mrs. Littlejohn would go to one of the front windows, and cast an anxious look at the gloomy walls over the way. Often, how often, she contrasted her pleasant home and life, so free from other than ordinary trifling cares, with the sorrowful fate of the many inmates of the jail. She did what she could for them; whatever their crimes, their station, their characters, she labored with them all. At stated periods she obtained access to the jail, and her presence was hailed with delight even by the desperate and long hardened. It was not a pleasant task to her, save as it gave her opportunities of doing good. Often she met with discouragement; the good seed sprang up slowly, sometimes not at all, to human observation. Men were there from the twenty year old stripling to the hoary-headed veteran in sin. Women were there also awaiting their trial, or kept as witnesses. All grades of criminals taxed her sympathy, from the robber of a hen-roost to the red-handed murderer. At this time the jail was unusually full; almost every cell was occupied, and several dangerous prisoners laid the utmost vigilance of the jailor and his aids under tax. Into any and all of the cells Mrs. Littlejohn was never afraid to venture, and the most rigid brow soon relaxed under the influence of her soft voice and soothing words. The general, in the first era of the new jail, had violently opposed the course of his Christian wife, but now he seldom ventured a remonstrance, and sometimes accompanied her, but not to soothe and comfort; he had too strict views of the dignity of the law to do that, but more than once he came away with tears in his eyes. 
               "Well, my dear, and what did you find new at the jail to-day?" 
               This the General said at the cozy supper-table. At tea time he was always communicative and in his best moods. 
               "No new prisoners," replied his wife. "Yes, I forgot," she added, immediately, "a sweet looking girl, not more than sixteen, I should think; a pretty, lady-like girl." 
               "Ha, ha! your female jail-birds are always ladies," said the General, jocosely. "Now, this creature, I suppose, has picked the closet of her mistress, or tried on some of her fine clothes; and yet, you know, that don't hinder her from being a pretty, lady-like girl." 
               "I don't believe she's a thief," persisted Mrs. Littlejohn, stoutly. 
               "Oh no! of course she isn't; and if she is, why, she's so much the more to be pitied because she's good-looking and lady-like. How does Hervey appear now?" 
               "Hard as a rock," said Mrs. Littlejohn; "all I can get from him is that if he ever gets out they won't catch him again." 
               "From which you infer," replied the General, "that he considers the crime to consist in being caught. How's Leonard?" 
               "Still half crazed, and wishing he had never been born." 
               "Well he may; well he may," muttered General Littlejohn, swallowing his tea; "good father, good mother, good sisters, brothers, relations and friends; well to do, too, and yet he must dirty his fingers with the tools of a forger. Well, let the law take its course. You do not know who this young girl is, nor what she is in for, I suppose," he said, rising from the table. 
                
               "No; for she was just going in as I came out; but oh! I shall not sleep for thinking of her face; it haunts me." 
               "Tush, tush! I daresay it was some withered old woman. We shall know all about it to-morrow, I suppose." 
               Again it was the dead of night. The General slept soundly, but Mrs. Littlejohn, stealing from his side, went softly and sadly to the window. It was the mid-beauty of a summer's moon, and the light, as she raised the blind, flooded the apartment to its remotest recess, rendering the lamp superfluous. So beautiful was the lustre of the night, so inky-black and sharply defined the shadows, so distinct the very grasses on the road-side, it seemed as if she could almost see the wild flowers grow. The masses of foliage, softened by the distance, took graceful shapes, and even the gloomy walls, where crime slept uneasily, were almost cheerful in the moon-beams, save where they fell upon the iron gratings. As her eye roved from casement to casement, she fancied she saw a white hand, grasping the bars that secured the window exactly opposite. She gazed more eagerly, and soon the outlines of a figure, and then a face with flowing hair, became dimly visible; but as she fastened her vision keenly, the object grew more and more distinct, until the features of the young girl she had seen-the head leaning despairingly against the side of the window frame, her eyes upturned-were plainly distinguishable. For many moments she stood thus, sometimes appearing white and mist-like, and again as palpable as if she were close beside her; but gradually the arm fell down, there was a blank at the window-she was gone. 
               "What does interest me so in that girl?" murmured Mrs. Littlejohn, seeking her pillow. "I can hardly wait till morning that I may see her. Poor thing! guilty, or miserable, or both, I wonder that she cannot sleep. Perhaps she may have done wrong; her path may have been beset with many and strong temptations, she may be fatherless, motherless, friendless. Lord, help her!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               IN JAIL. 
                
                  
                      
                        "I like him not-oh! bid him leave me- 
                        I want no food." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "O! ye whose hearts in secret bleed 
                        O'er transient hope like morning dew, 
                        O'er faithless friendship in your need, 
                        Or live to all its vows untrue; 
                        Who shrink from persecution's rod, 
                        Or slander's fang or treachery's tone, 
                        Look meekly to the son of God, 
                        And in his griefs forget your own." 
                     
                   
                
               NEITHER Alice, nor the officer who accompanied her, spoke on their way to the jail. The poor girl sat back passive, helpless, broken-hearted. Her veil was down, and the tears came slowly, one after another, rolling over her pale cheeks, and she seemed unconscious of a tear. Her hands laid in her lap, sometimes moving nervously, and there she sat till the jail came in view. Gazing despairingly at its heavy stone walls, Alice shuddered and gasped; then turning suddenly to the man beside her, she exclaimed, in a choked voice, "Oh! sir, have pity on me! don't take me to the jail; my aunt surely did not mean that; it is only to frighten me. Take me back, oh! take me back! I have suffered enough." 
               "I am very sorry, Miss," was all the man would say; and sorry enough he looked; pity lighted up his dull features, and shone from his impassive eyes. 
               "You don't mean that it's all true-no-no"-she cried, wildly, thrusting her hands under her bonnet and pressing her temples, while her breath came short, and her face grew of a stonier white; "it can't be-not to jail-oh! mercy, mercy-not to jail-you're not going to take me to jail?" she asked, in a dry, hard voice, suddenly ceasing to weep, and putting on a frightful coldness till she looked like a corpse animated by something besides life. 
               "I'm sorry, Miss," replied the man, and the carriage rolled nearer and nearer the place of doom-"I'm very sorry, but there's no help for it; we must obey orders." 
               "Oh!" cried Alice, in a tone so thrillingly low, so prolonged and fearful, that the man for a moment seemed horror-struck; then falling on her knees, she grasped his hands, exclaiming ing, "I am innocent! I am innocent! You are taking one to that awful place, who never stole even one little pin. Oh! my dear sir! Oh! if you are a father pity me-pity me; I have no father, no mother, and my cruel aunt has ruined me. Oh! for the love of heaven, let me go; it will kill me! it will kill me to go inside that place! I am innocent-oh! my God, soften this man's heart." 
               As she clung to him there, the carriage was just entering the yard. There were tears in the officer's eyes; he believed her, but dared not be merciful. 
               "Oh! sir, pity, pity, pity," she cried with frantic voice and tearless eyes, clinging to him with the grasp of despair. 
               "Look here, Miss; I feel sorry for you, but it's no use; I ain't got no power to let you go; I should lose my place; if you're innocent, they'll prove it in court, as they will, I believe." 
               "In court-in court!" gasped Alice. 
               "Yes, Miss, now just quiet yourself; the carriage is stopping; you see it will be my painful duty to hold you, if you don't be easy and quiet, and it will be better for you to walk in peaceably; the jailor will be kinder to you." 
                
               "The jailer!" she muttered vaguely, and feeling rather than seeing there was no hope, she ceased her struggling cries, fell back on her seat, and awaited, with feelings no pen nor power could portray, the terrible trial. One portal was swung open and locked with a heavy key; another, the jailor all the time trying to peer into her face, over which she held the veil with a death-like grasp; still another, and she was within the jail. Three or four prisoners in the first stone gallery came forward, eager to see the new comer. Oh, the agony of her soul as she pressed onward with sinking footsteps past cells, out of which bleared and haggard faces looked; past others where some ribald song sounded-up stairs and into one of the women's cells, larger and more cheerful than the rest, down on the side of the rude bed, with all sensation paralyzed for the time. Mockingly the sun shone in; streamed across the oaken floor; fell in a flood over her, enveloping her in its hot, red light; glared in her eyes; lighted the corners of the ceiling, from which hung black, unsightly webs, heavy with dust; laid on the hard, mean looking bed, with its patched coverlet, and in the midst of its warmth and beauty sat the poor, pale figure, without motion, almost without life. How had she greeted that sun in the morning? blessing it; smiling back its cheerfulness; picturing how it revelled in the humble farm house of the uncle she was to visit that very day; seeing it peep in through the fragrant sweet-brier that curtained the kitchen window; watching it playing among the lace-like shadows of the apple-trees; beholding its march over forest-crowned hills and blue lakes; catching its first blush in the east on some fair eminence in sight of the farm. Now its light and warmth were horror to see and feel; she shrank from its embrace and hid her eyes, tearless but inflamed, and moaned, and moaned in the anguish and desolation of her soul. 
               But this could not last long; the troubled heart must find some vent; she lifted her head and gave one wild, shuddering look around her. And this was a jail; something that, in her fancy, had assumed a dim but awful aspect; the rough beams rudely whitewashed, the one window with its heavy grating outside; no carpet, no chair, no table; only one long bench against the wall; a bed covered by a coarse woollen sheet, much patched-nothing else. Poor though she deemed herself, she had always ways lived well, and of late years, with regard to physical comfort, even luxuriously, and this harsh change she could not realize. Again and again she reviewed the past day and night. It was late, she remembered, when she finished her new travelling dress-for she could work only for herself at night, her time being demanded by her cousin and aunt. Then, after placing her purse with its meagre contents and her handkerchief in the pocket, she hung it over the chair. Recalling every thing minutely, as far as her hot, throbbing brain would permit, she recollected that then she packed her little trunk, laid the apparel she was to wear upon the table, wrote the brief note which we have before mentioned, and with a heart full of bright and innocent anticipations, prayed, and composed herself to sleep. How came the ring in her pocket?-the bank note? How came the money and the chain in her little trunk? She shivered as she thought of her cousin's accusation. "She knows it was false!" she cried, with quivering lips; "she knows she never saw me, as she says, with her diamond ring and that note in my hands!-but they were in my pocket; how came they there!" 
                
               An unspoken thought sent the blood in cold sprays through every vein. How did Belle know just where her stolen property, as she called it, had been placed? It came like a cloud specking the horizon; but as memory recalled incident after incident, the cloud gathered density and blackness, and Alice trembled with the weight and terror of her suspicions. "But they have disgraced me-disgraced me forever!" she cried passionately, clasping her hands till every vein stood out, and every muscle grew rigid; "they have ruined me-ruined me for life. I shall die here-die with this dreadful accusation against me, and the world and De Witt will believe me guilty." 
               She looked, indeed, as if she could not long sustain life. Her bonnet she had thrown upon the bed, to relieve, if possible, the fever and the iron weight that seemed pressing on her brain; she had also taken out the combs from her hair, and swept the long glistening locks from her temples. Her face was very white; her lips were pale, and quivering incessantly; beneath her eyes, always so delicate that the veins made a soft blue shade, a circle, purple and heavy had formed, and gave her face an expression of intense suffering. Not a tear dimmed the cold, hard orbs that in the morning had gazed forth bright and lustrous, and tender as the eyes of a dove, but now slight red veins crossed and recrossed their surface, giving their glitter a wildness dreadful in its intensity. 
               For an hour she sat absorbed in painful thought-now pressing her throbbing temples with both hands-now folding her arms tightly over her heart, as if to keep down its bounding pulses, until almost maddened with reflections from which she could gather no consolation, she sprang to her feet and walked the narrow space, giving vent to groans and dry sobs, walking faster and faster, till the sound of a key turning in the lock startled her; the door was opened; a man, who seemed to be a prisoner, his face scarred and rough, his head a great shock of coarse, close curled red hair, entered with a tin porringer and a thick slice of dark looking bread. These he set on the bench, gave a sidelong look at Alice, and shuffled from the room. 
               With difficulty Alice repressed a shriek at sight of the man and the food he had brought. Now, indeed, she began to feel the reality of her situation. She was not hungry; she loathed the sight of the food, entirely unconscious that six hours had passed since she had tasted refreshment. Oh, this insult! this indignity! it inflamed her brain! it maddened her! Her eyes flashed fire! She felt like calling down vengeance upon those who had wronged her. Poor girl! she did not yet know,-gentle, amiable, loving as she had ever been,-she knew not yet the power of Christian love, of Divine forgiveness. But the frenzy wore away, and as the shadows of evening fell upon the city she sat down, calmer than she had been, to think. What were they doing now in the home in which she had been so cruelly wronged? Ah, she remembered! Belle was out with a yachting party. She had finished her dress the day before; had taken the utmost delight in fitting the robes to her beautiful figure; had watched, though without the faintest shade of bitterness, the queenly grace and uncommon loveliness of her cousin. Now she was doubtless gleeful, happy-no, that could not be. Had she even gone? when one who had been her shadow for the last three years; had toiled for her; loved her because she must love; had been, oh! cruel thought, carried to jail, and was now dying of slow torture within its dreadful walls. Yet it was probable after all that Belle had gone. Alice knew her cousin-knew her to be heartless-knew that she could tell the story with frightful particularity-knew that her name would be on every lip in every cadence of pity and contempt, and she cowered as the thoughts went like a sharp and poisoned barb to her very heart. Then, when the first keen agony was past, she looked from the window. Opposite stood the fine residence of General Littlejohn. Its shadow fell across the garden, but obscured not the richly hued flowers that blushed and gently moved to the drowsy breeze. It seemed as if their fragrant breathings were wafted towards her, and it is not strange that they made the dimness of her cell more gloomy still. Here and there the deep green of the tree-branches was spotted with singing birds. All things looked cheerful around the handsome residence. A large, nobly-built man came out and stood leaning on his cane, his silvery locks lifted by the southern winds, the softest whispers of the coming night. Then a lady, slight in figure and sweet-faced, appeared, clipping flowers from different borders and arranging them in a small, bright bouquet, chatting as she moved; it seemed to Alice that ever and anon her eyes were lifted sorrowfully in the direction of the jail, and she shrank back into the gathering darkness. 
               Thus drearily she sat till startled by the heavy shadows that shrouded her cell. She could hear at times the voices of the prisoners below as they shouted to each other, sang and swore. The veil of the twilight drew its folds together, and from the dark depths of the upper air, came out, one by one, the holy stars, looking lovely, mournfully within the barred window upon the distracted prisoner. As she gathered herself up in the gloom and sunk her face within the palms of her clasped hands, so utterly wo-begone, so prostrate and helpless, the very angels must have gazed down with looks of pity. One word only issued from her trembling lips as she shuddered in the dark; shuddered till her teeth chattered from a fear of some danger, unseen but threatening; shuddered at the coarse voices and the strange noises below and around; and that word was "De Witt." Not only was she torn from the comforts of a home; her fair fame assailed; her best feelings outraged; but-agonizing reflection!-she was to be represented to the man she loved, as a thief. 
               Well might she cry out in her keen sorrow, "It is more than I can bear!" 
               Again she heard with a thrill of horror the key turning in the lock. This time it was the jailor who entered, peering through the darkness, and holding a freshly-lighted candle that had not yet burned clearly. 
               "Oh, you are there" he exclaimed; "will you have a light?" 
               "No, I thank you," said Alice faintly. She needed no light to reveal the misery of her doom. 
               "Oh well, I was going to tell you you might have one, if you pay for it. What! not eaten your dinner?" he added, as the wick flared up; "you 'll be hungry enough, gal, by to-morrow, I can tell you; but if this vittles isn't your sort, why, put down the money, and we 'll give you something more tasteable. Have you got any money about you?" 
               "A little," murmured Alice, now thoroughly frightened. 
               "Well, while it lasts, you better buy your meals of me; my wife cooks, and if you like I 'll bring you a bit of beefsteak now." 
                
               "Oh, no, no; I could not eat," said Alice, praying that he might depart, and leave her in her questionable solitude. 
               "Well, if you want any thing in the morning, I'll get it for you," said the jailor, and in another moment the door was locked. "It strikes me she's young and hansum," soliloquized the worthy; "what the dickens did such as she want to steal for? that's what I'd like to know." 
               Hour after hour passed, and Alice sat cowering in the darkness. She had hoped that her aunt would relent; that, as the day wore on, she should be liberated from this dreadful place, but now she had given up hope. Her brain grew dull; feeling, consciousness almost left her, and hardly aware that she was on the objectionable pallet, she was overpowered by sleep, and sank back exhausted. When she awoke it was near midnight, and the moon made every object visible. She sprang bolt upright, gazing about her with a startled mien. 
               "Oh, after all, it is no dream!" she exclaimed, lifting her fevered frame. She had thought in her sleep that she was with her farmer uncle, that her aunt had followed her, and there were enacted over again the dreadful scenes of the day. Her brow was burning, and there was no water to cool it. Oh! yes! she remembered the water brought her with her food, and she laved her hot temples, and drank with feverish eagerness. Then she stood by the bars where Mrs. Littlejohn had seen her, one hand against the side of the window, her eyes upturned to heaven, seeking consolation therefrom. To-night she had thought to be in the little chamber at her uncle's, with the head of a cherub cousin laying over her heart; she had thought to smell the scent of sweet clover, and to lie, too happy to sleep, watching the moon as it climbed the heavens, and thinking that somewhere that same moon was shining on one who was never absent from her thoughts. 
               And here she was in a jail! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE FORGER. 
                
                  
                     "The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God."
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Forsaken, are ye? so was He; 
                        Reviled? yet check the vengeful word; 
                        Rejected? should the servant be 
                        Exalted o'er his suffering Lord? 
                        Nor deem that heaven's Omniscient Eye 
                        Is e'er regardless of your lot; 
                        Deluded man from God may fly, 
                        But when was man by God forgot?" 
                     
                   
                
               IN the morning Mrs. Littlejohn prepared to make her usual visit to the prisoners. The little bouquet which she had cut the preceding night stood in a glass vase on the breakfast table. 
               "You are off early to see your jail-birds," said the General; "what kind of crumbs are you going to give them? 'Pilgrims Progress'-hum-hum-"he continued, reading on; "pretty solid manna for the rascals. Wife  what have you done that you must do penance by going among these carrion crows?" 
               "Oh! hush, General, hush; you know I'm in hopes to do them some good!" replied his wife. A mellow laugh was his only answer, but presently he added, "Well, wife, if good works will carry anybody to heaven, you've got your passport some time ago." 
               "And if good works were to carry any one to heaven, my dear, what have you to show for yourself?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn, assuming a careless air she did not feel. 
               "My wife," replied the old gentleman, taking off his spectacles with a low bow, at which she could not help laughing, but said afterwards, very gravely, "the Bible teaches us that works without faith are of no avail my dear." 
               "Aye! or as your old deacon has it, what's the use of putting your beefsteak over the hearth unless you kindle a fire under it? Well, wife, don't worry. I'm going to make a famous Christian by and by." 
               "Ah, General, by and by!" said Mrs. Littlejohn, shaking her head. 
               "I knew what you would say," he exclaimed, before she could add another word, "by the road of by and by one arrives at the house of never; you see I've got all the old saws by heart; but, wife, don't you really think, now, I'm growing a better man?" 
               His wife smiled faintly. 
               "Come, now, you haven't heard me say 'deuce' for a fortnight, have you? and I certainly don't lose my temper as I used to, do I? come, deal with me as you do with your jail birds; encourage me!" 
               "You improve-slowly;" said his wife smilingly, and tying on her bonnet as she spoke. 
               "There, I knew I did; what, pray, are you going to do with that bouquet, give it to the jailor?" 
               "No; carry it to the poor girl I spoke to you of, yesterday." 
               The General threw back his head and indulged in a hearty laugh. "I wonder what we should do with such tender hearts as you for judges;" he cried, as his wife very collectedly arranged her shawl, and took the flowers in her hand. "You see a pretty girl with innocent-looking bright eyes, and you never believe she's a criminal; you hear the story of some artful gallows bird, and come home with your eyes brimful of tears, as if the rascal was worth one of your tears; you see a double-tongued fellow hug his Bible, or your Bible,-for I guess precious few would get there, if you didn't carry'em,-and straightway you are sure that lie is converted; why, if I had had your faith in my kind, I shouldn't have been worth a red cent to-day." 
               "Lay up your treasures in heaven," replied his wife, with one of her upward glancing smiles. 
               "Oh, yes, you always know how to come down on me with that quotation tongue of yours. Well, do all the good you can, wife; I won't stand in your way," he added more seriously. "I can't say but what if more people had your views, the world would be a better world than it is." 
               "Perhaps if people would look a little beyond the narrow circle of self-interest that bounds their lives, their views might have chance to expand," replied Mrs. Littlejohn; "prisons are not always hemmed in by stone walls and iron windows. 'Sick and in prison,' says Christ, 'and ye visited me.' There are prisoners of pain, of misfortune, of poverty, as well as prisoners of crime. Every person, however insignificant, may fulfil the words of Christ;" and so saying, she left the house. General Littlejohn let the paper fall upon his knee as he exclaimed-"I wonder how I came to possess such a rare piece of womanhood; certainly I don't deserve it." 
               "Am I too early this morning, my friend?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn, as she met Jake Hamburg, the jailor, swinging his huge keys. 
               "Oh no, ma'am; you're always in time," he responded, as the heavy door opened at his bidding; "there's three more prisoners, perhaps you heard?" 
               "I met one coming in yesterday before noon, and I saw the jail cart here last night." 
               "You saw the girl, I guess," said the jailor; "a very pretty young thing too." 
               "And what is she here for?" 
               "Stealing, ma'am; stealing in a large way; diamond rings and jewels, and so forth, and bank bills." 
               Mrs. Littlejohn made a gesture of pain. 
               "The officer who brought her, ma'am, says he don't know what to think of it; she didn't act like a villain; but, laws! you can't tell these pieces, they're so made up; they know how to work on a body's feelings, though they find it hard to work on mine." 
                
               Mrs. Littlejohn thought so, as she looked in his seamed, coarse-featured face, and his eyes that shone like polished steel and seemed as cold; she had often thought so before. 
               "Who are the other prisoners?" she asked, as he was fitting the key to the second door, which he found some little trouble in doing. 
               "Well, there's a boy eighteen years old, committed for forgery; he's in a bad way; and a man for killing his child." 
               "Oh dear!" said Mrs. Littlejohn, with a shudder, "that makes four murderers." 
               "Yes," replied the jailor carelessly, "four that have got to swing for it." 
               "This young girl,-I hope you've put her in a good room." 
               "The best we had Mrs. Littlejohn. I seen she had a watch at her side, and I'm bound to provide well for them that has means, I tell you." 
               The gentle woman shrank from the cold brutality of this answer that betrayed the principles by which he regulated his conscience. A few prisoners were out of their cells, and to each one she spoke kindly, considerately, and they seemed to feel the goodness of her intent. From cell to cell went the words, "Mrs. Littlejohn john has come," and a sudden silence fell upon the place. As the men were first within her range, she went up to the gratings and spoke to them one after another. Most of the prisoners were housebreakers, thieves, and petty larcenists; but there were several charged with graver crimes. Of these, as I have intimated, four were on trial for murder and two for forgery. The jailor indicated the cell of one of the new comers, and Mrs. Littlejohn moved thither and called the prisoner. 
               "May I not speak with you?" she asked, in her sweet voice. 
               "I can't speak with any one." The tones were sullen, but indicated that the young man had been weeping. 
               "I am a friend," persisted the Christian woman. 
               "I 've lost all my friends; I never expect to have any friends again." The voice was now half choked with sobs. 
               "Oh no! I will be your friend if you will let me-come, come here; I wish to comfort you; you are in trouble; will you not let me be your friend?" 
               Moved by her sympathy the prisoner came a little to the light. He was a young, boyish-looking ish-looking creature, of medium height, of a soft, fair complexion, and light, curling locks, possessing that character of countenance that indicates indecision and extreme pliability of temperament. At once, Mrs. Littlejohn was interested in the youth, and asked him his name. 
               "I cannot give my name," was his reply; "I can't disgrace my name. Oh! I wish I had no name, had no father, no mother. Oh! I wish I had died before I was brought here." 
               "My son, there was no need of your coming here." 
               "I know it-I know it; but I was led on from bad to worse; and now I must go to State's prison, never, never, never to be trusted, to be looked up to, to be respected again. Oh, I wish I might die!" 
               "But you have broken the laws of God as well as man. Surely, if you are afraid of man's justice, you cannot wish to meet an offended God," said Mrs. Littlejohn, gently. 
               He was silent. 
               "But God is ready to forgive you, though man is not," she added. 
               "I wish I had been talked to before in that way, but it's no use now; I can only think of my misfortune-my disgrace." 
               "But the deed is the disgrace, my son. You were not ashamed of Satan while he favored you. It was much more disgraceful to covet what was your neighbors and appropriate it to yourself, than it is to be shut up in jail." 
               "I can't help it now; oh! I can't help it now," he cried, wringing his hands in anguish. 
               No; there is only one thing for you to do," said the sweet woman, softly. He looked up eagerly over his clasped hands. The sight of his strained and blood-shot eye, and brow corrugated with wrinkles, was very pitiful, but he seemed to ask the question, "What shall I do?" 
               "Repent!" replied Mrs. Littlejohn, solemnly; "remember that Jesus Christ has said, 'Though your sins be as scarlet, I will make them white as wool;'" and without adding another word, she went on, leaving the glorious promise of the Redeemer, with his sad, sinful heart. Passing on, Mrs. Littlejohn paused, as a new face at once attracted her attention, and chilled the blood in her veins. It was that of a man of thirty, or thereabouts, his locks black and matted, reaching almost to his black and heavy brows. His lips were large and hanging, his eyes ferocious, and his beard standing over cheek and chin like rough-hewn bristles. An aspect of ferocity characterized the whole countenance, and the coarse, heavy throat from which the shirt-collar had been torn in the struggle of capture, added proof to the brutality of the entire man. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE MURDERER. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee 
                        According to the greatness of thy power 
                        Preserve thou those 
                        That are appointed to die." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Hast thou no human friend 
                        To whom in hours like these to turn? 
                        When thine o'er-burdened soul will yearn 
                        Its bitterness to end? 
                        Oh! still despair not; there is one 
                        To whom sad hearts have often gone- 
                        Though rich the gifts for which they pray, 
                        None ever came unblessed away." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "My soul shrinks! 
                        I stand appalled! 
                        My hands are red, 
                        Not so my heart- 
                        Only the portals, 
                        All inside is black, black." 
                     
                   
                
               "I SAY, missis, can't you give a poor fellow something to read?" he asked, as his eye-a black, wicked orb-glared fiendishly in her face. 
                
               "Would you like the Bible?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "Oh, hang the Bible! give us something exciting. We fellows here, dying by inches, don't want your gloomy books." 
               "Did you ever hear of Jesus Christ?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn, unflinchingly returning his glance. 
               The question seemed to take him by surprise; he passed a large, dirty hand across his chin as he replied, "Well, I can't say but what I have, missus." 
               "Did you know that he died for you?" queried Mrs. Littlejohn, still fixing her mild and beautiful eyes upon his face. 
               The man cowed at the question; his huge frame shrank together, and his bold glance grew timid, as he replied humbly, "I have n't had no means, ma'am, of knowing things of that kind, much." 
               "Remember, then, what I tell you now, that wicked as you have been, and little deserving of mercy-either human or divine-as you are, there came a being into the world, Jesus Christ, the Son of the Holy God, whose commandments you have broken; and died that you, if you repented and believed on him, might be saved. Will you think of that?" 
               "I'll try to, ma'am," responded the man, in a tone half careless, half subdued. 
               "Here is an exciting book for you," she said, giving him, through his bars, the "Pilgrim's Progress," which she had brought with her, intending it for another; "if that does not excite and interest you, nothing will." 
               Passing other cells, and stopping with a kind inquiry or a word of encouragement at each, she went up stairs, and, with the key which the jailor had furnished her, unlocked the passage leading to the cells of the women. These were all empty, the inmates either being discharged or on trial, with the exception of the one in which Alice Graylynn was incarcerated. 
               Tremblingly Mrs. Littlejohn opened the door and entered. Alice very pale and haggard, had just finished combing her hair, and sat on the side of her bed with elasped hands as the new-comer came towards her. There had come a settled and terrible expression of grief over her fair face, a look that told its own story, and that spoke of tearless agony that threatened the overthrow of reason. 
                
               "Good morning," said Mrs. Littlejohn, trying to speak carelessly. 
               "Good morning!" said Alice, in her own sweet way, while a faint flush came to either cheek. 
               "I have brought you some flowers from my garden." 
               "Oh! thank you; they are very beautiful. Will you sit-?"then, as the consciousness of her situation came over her, and the bare walls furnished nothing for seats, save the coarse bench on which stood the scarce-tasted meal of yesterday-she faltered; her heart sank and she turned away, while for the first time tears came to her eyes. 
               "I will sit beside you, if you will let me," said Mrs. Littlejohn; and suiting the action to the word, she seated herself beside Alice, who still could not look towards her. 
               "I live just opposite," said Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "Do you? Then you are the lady I saw last night, and oh! I wished-"she was silent again. 
               "Did you wish I would come over and see you?" 
               "Not exactly that," replied Alice, with much emotion; "but I wished I might be as free as you. Oh! madam, if you knew what I have suffered the past night! I felt as if the darkness and misery would be eternal;" and the heavy gasp that followed seemed almost to choke her. 
               "I do pity you, my dear,-pity any one deprived of liberty, and I came over here for the express purpose of consoling you. I brought you some books that may entertain you; some papers that might amuse you." 
               "Oh, how could I read here?" queried Alice, with an agonized look. "Why, I can scarcely breathe; these iron bars seem placed right over my heart." 
               "This is the first time, then, that you have been in such a place?" 
               "Oh, madam!" exclaimed Alice, in tones of grieved rebuke, her eye assuming a fresh fire, her cheeks mantling, and her slight form rising to the measure of wounded dignity. 
               "I beg your pardon," said Mrs. Littlejohn, meekly. 
               "The first time!" repeated Alice, mournfully; "oh, how shall I bear it? what shall I do?" she cried, wringing her hands in the deepest distress. "I never but once saw even the outer walls of a jail, whose gray roughness made the tears come to my eyes. Oh, I am cruelly wronged, most cruelly, most unkindly used!-accused of a crime of which I am as innocent as you, madam. I fear at times my mind will give way, I have such strange sensations. I never felt such emotions before; I never knew what agony, bodily and mental, was before the last night. Yesterday morning I was so, so happy!" and convulsive sobs, hard and dry, shook her frame. 
               "What do they accuse you of? what do they say you have done?" asked Mrs. Little-john, anxious to hear what she would reply for herself. 
               "Oh! a thing so horrible-of which I never dreamed, or could have dreamed, that any human heart could devise it against me. A ring, very valuable, a bank note, were found in the pocket of this dress. How they came there I cannot tell; but the most horrible, the most mysterious of all, was the trunk. In my trunk, which I packed only the night before-for I was going on a visit to my uncle in the country-(she paused a moment, overcome by the recollection of an anticipated happiness) "were found a necklace of brilliants, belonging to my cousin, and nearly five hundred dred dollars in bank bills. Madam," and she fixed her eyes, clear and innocent, and untroubled for the moment, on the face of Mrs. Littlejohn, "when I went to bed that night, my trunk was locked, and there was nothing there but my clothes; my dress I had just finished, and only placed in the pocket this handkerchief, and this purse. That is all my story, only that my cousin professed that she saw me on the previous evening examining the ring and holding the bank note up to the light. God above," and her humid eyes were lifted, "knows that she saw neither." 
               "I believe you, every word," said Mrs. Littlejohn, earnestly, holding forth her hand. There was a straightforwardness, a guilelessness in her manner, a perfect truthfulness in her eyes, a beauty and a grace of innocence about her that would have convinced one more sceptical than dear, unsuspicious Mrs. Littlejohn. Alice caught the hand, held it tightly, while her bosom heaved with emotion; but she only allowed a low, painful moan to escape her. 
               "You have at least," said Mrs. Littlejohn, "the consciousness of entire innocence to support you." 
                
               "I havn't thought much about that," said Alice, wiping a few tears; "I seem to be entirely overwhelmed in the suddenness of the disgrace. Think! Only yesterday morning I was happy, light-hearted, in a home of elegance and refinement, however cold the hearts were round me; and almost in the passing of a second they branded me a thief-me, who cared nothing, who never cared for jewellery or money, except the barest pittance to clothe myself with decency. And, oh! this is not the end. There is to be a trial, and whichever way it turns, it seems to me I cannot bear it. A mark for the public scorn; branded with guilt-oh!" and with one long wail of woe the poor girl fell back fainting on the bed. 
               For some moments she laid as if there were no life in her; but after the simple restoratives applied by Mrs. Littlejohn began to take effect, she slowly revived, and looked sorrowfully in the sympathizing face bending over her. 
               "My dear, you must try and be calmer; cannot you raise your thoughts to heaven? cannot you ask submission of God, and trust that he will fully prove and establish your innocence?" 
               "I have always prayed," said Alice, faintly, "from the time that I knelt at my mother's knee, but last night and this morning I felt as if-shall I say it?-as if it was unjust for me even to be suspected, when I have all my life long lived for others, with scarcely a thought of my own comfort; when I have been so willing to bear with the caprices and selfishness, and even the insolence, of those who protected me. I seemed to feel that God might have averted this terrible doom." 
               "And so he might, if it had pleased him; and so he will if you put your trust in him. My dear, are you truly a Christian that you murmur thus against God's providence?" 
               "If to be a Christian is to be resigned, I am afraid not. I have often thought how much I loved God when I have been by myself, singing and happy, but I cannot recall my emotion now," she said, sadly. 
               "I won't reason with you just at this time," replied Mrs. Littlejohn, whose rare insight into character led her to see that argument could not convince while the heart brooded over its own bitterness; "have you any objection to telling me the name of your relatives?" 
               Alice was silent for a moment; then, in a low voice, she said, "I do not know why I should have-my aunt's name is Westerly. She lives at the east end of the city, on Ellison avenue. 
               "Westerly!" exclaimed Mrs. Littlejohn, in tones of the extremest astonishment; "why, I know the widow Westerly very well; though, since the death of her husband, I have seen her only occasionally. But now I remember you; your face struck me as being very familiar. Two years ago I called on your aunt. She sat, I remember, in a room furnished with crimson; she was not well, and a pale girl with golden locks sat near her, sewing busily. I remember, too, when I asked about you, she made some very prejudicial remark that struck me then as singularly out of taste, if not positively unkind." 
               "Oh! how her words stung me," said Alice; "I can recall the feelings they gave me at this moment; I seem to experience the same icy chill; but I dared not look up from my sewing, because my tears blinded me. Yes, that was me, poor me! an orphan, and, in that family at least, friendless, and treated often with indignity. But while he lived, my uncle loved me,-he had dearly loved my mother, who was his half sister,-he would never believe what they said, especially Belle, against me. Ah! you can never imagine what I have borne from Belle." 
               "My poor child, yes I can. I was once intimate with your aunt, and my whole knowledge of Belle leads me to say that she was cunning as an infant, deceitful as a child, and I believe her to be as deep and deceptive a woman as her antecedents presaged; her heartless education has made her what she is; but did the ring and the chain belong to her?" 
               "Yes," replied Alice, "the ring was given her by her father while he was very sick for some disappointment she suffered in waiting upon him, and that alone would have made it holy in my eyes, for he plead for my kind treatment on his dying bed." 
               "And the money?" 
               "That was my aunt's; she said she put it in the pocket of her dressing-gown for safe keeping, and it was found in my trunk, adroitly placed between the lining. Oh, for what could I undergo the torture of that scene again! It crazes me to think-to think!" 
               "Think of Christ, my child; he suffered, even to death, innocently; never having cherished in his heart even the faintest thought of sin. He knows your sorrow; he pities you in a greater degree in that you are betrayed, like him, by guilty hands. He looks upon his own mighty grief, and yearns to take you in his arms, that he may wipe away all tears from your eyes. Will you try to think of him?" 
               "Oh, you have comforted me so much!" said Alice, and the tears that anguish had locked in their cells burst forth, flowing freely and silently. She needed the tears; they cooled the burning brain, and soothed the stricken heart, and as they came quicker and more copiously, and sob after sob shook her frame tremulously, Mrs. Littlejohn forbore to speak, but let the channels be filled to their uttermost. 
               And long after, when the tumultuous beatings of the frame were lessened, quite exhausted, Alice sought protection by leaning against Mrs. Littlejohn, and she placed an arm about the sorrowful girl, and talked low and gently such words as were suited to her case; while Alice, in the sweet rest of sympathy, feeling not wholly alone, learned to think upon her fate with less agitation, and promised that in this great affliction she would strive to look towards her Saviour, and ask assistance of and protection by him. 
               "I will send you over a little sewing if the jailer is willing, that may amuse you; and, do you draw?" 
               Alice said "Yes," something of her old animation lighting her pretty face. 
               "Then you shall have pencils and paper, and pen and ink. Don't be downcast. I shall come and see you every day, and I will call upon your aunt to-morrow that I may judge by her and Belle what their motives could be for this shameful deed. I will send or bring you fresh flowers, too; have you money with you?" 
               Alice replied she had five dollars. 
               "I will arrange with the jailor, then, for your meals. You shall not have jail fare, nor yet jailer's fare. Keep up a good heart; remember that I am praying for you, and, my dear Alice, pray for yourself." 
               A shadow, oh, how full of gloom! fell on the room as Mrs. Littlejohn left-the old, dreary shadow of yesterday and the preceding night. Again came tantalizing visions of the cool, country lanes, where, by this time, she had been roving, gathering flowers and shouting with her cousins, but for the dread misfortune that had overtaken her. Again wild, anguished thoughts of one now, perhaps nearing port, overwhelmed her. He anticipated the delight of meeting his betrothed, but no dark spirit dared to whisper to him that the pure-minded, the good and gifted girl of his love, dwelt in the confines of a jail. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               A TROUBLED CONSCIENCE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Behold the sorrowful change wrought upon a fallen nature! 
                        He hath lost his own esteem and other men's respect." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "But conscience, in some awful, silent hour, 
                        When captivating lusts have lost their power, 
                        Starts from the down on which she lately slept, 
                        And tells of laws despised, at least, not kept; 
                        Shows with a pointing finger, but no noise, 
                        A pale procession of past, sinful joys; 
                        All witnesses of blessings foully scorned, 
                        And life abused, and not to be suborned. 
                        Mark these, she says; these-summoned from afar- 
                        Begin their march to meet thee at the bar; 
                        There find a judge inexorably just, 
                        And perish there as all presumption must." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                     "If your heart condemn you, God is greater than your heart."
                   
                
               It was late at night when Belle Westerly took leave of her gentleman escort of the day, at the door of her mother's house. As Alice had conjectured, the heartless girl had spoken of the theft and the scene that followed in a manner that, on account of its strange levity, shocked even the thoughtless creatures around her. 
               "Why, Belle Westerly! you didn't send your own cousin to jail?" more than one exclaimed. 
               "I-of course I had nothing to do with it; mamma was determined to let justice take its course. You can't tell how many valuable things we have missed. Besides, she was not my own cousin." 
               "Why! wasn't she engaged to De Witt Gildersleeve?" queried another. 
               A guilty flush suffused the face of Belle as she replied, leaning over the side of the boat to dip her hand in the waves, "She was very willing to have it believed so." 
               "Then she was not in reality?" 
               "Of course not. De Witt Gildersleeve never would have thought of her. She is low, cunning, artful, and mean; and after all, she was the daughter of my father's half-sister, so, in reality, none of our blood runs in her veins." 
               But when she had returned home she shuddered at the stillness of the house. After the servant, Alice had always met her, to unbind her hair or in some trifling manner aid her in undressing. To-night, as she encountered the large, evil black eye of her maid, Lorine, her own glance was instantly averted. The girl seemed to read her thoughts. 
               "It has seemed so strange here all day," said Lorine; "much like the day after your father's funeral." 
               "Don't talk about any thing gloomy now, just as I'm going to bed, I beg of you," exclaimed Belle uneasily, almost angrily; "where is mother?" 
               "In her room. She had the headache after tea and laid down; I haven't seen her since." 
               "Well, you needn't disturb her. I'll go right to my chamber; I am very much fatigued. One always must pay for such kind of pleasure;" so saying, she followed the girl to her own apartment. 
               "Where is to-night's paper?" she asked, after she had thrown on her dressing-gown, preparatory to having her hair adjusted. Lorine had anticipated the question, for she already held it in her hand, and as Belle took it the dressing-maid stationed herself behind her mistress and began combing the luxuriant locks, black as ebony. 
                
               After glancing lightly over the first page, Belle turned to the shipping list. This she regarded earnestly, running her eye down, first with impatience then seemingly reading over the names of every ship separately. Lorine's eye travelled after that of her mistress, and a sinister smile curled her lip as, apparently unsatisfied, Belle dropped the paper listlessly. 
               "Where do you suppose Miss Alice is now?" queried the maid, intent upon her task. 
               "Where she ought to be," replied Belle, biting her lip and trembling a little in spite of herself. 
               "She didn't seem like such a one," repeated Lorine, cautiously. 
               Alice had been kind to her. 
               "People are not always what they seem," answered Belle, growing impatient. 
               "Do you believe she stole them things?" Lorine asked. 
               "What do you mean, girl?" Belle had confronted her, and with staring eyes and cheeks blanched white, glared in her face. 
               "La! Miss Belle!" Lorine exclaimed, frightened at the strange guilty look; "I thought if any of the servants had intended to make off with them, and then found you made a fuss about them, you know they might have fastened the thing on her." 
               "You have a remarkably ready imagination," said Belle, composing herself with an effort, but still shaking visibly; "if you don't take care, you'll get yourself into trouble." 
               "La! I know I 'm innocent, so I haven't the least fear in the world. Innocent people," she added, looking direct towards Belle, "always comes out right in the long run, and the guilty gets punished sooner or later; anyhow, it seems to me Miss Alice couldn't have done such a monstrous wicked thing." 
               "Alice was a very crafty girl," replied Belle, busying herself to hide her agitation. "You can go now; I'll attend to the rest. I have a note to write." 
               Left alone with her own thoughts, Belle threw herself on the side of her couch, and lay perfectly still, her eyes unclosed, her face still pale. Sleep she could not, for guilt had laid its heavy hand upon her, and chained her fancy to her crime. "Why does Lorine talk in this way?" she thought, her mind reverting to the girl's manner; "she surely could not--"Springing upright, she gazed about her with a cowardly glance, quailing before the dreadful fear that possibly she had been detected; but, reasoning with herself, she grew calm again, and strove to compose herself to sleep. But sleep refused to come; the pale face of her outraged cousin interposed; the jail, the solitary cell; Alice grieving, sobbing, shrieking, dying, robbed her pillow of repose, and with a cowardly, crouching step, she went to the dressing-table and trimmed the lamp till it grew brighter, and filled the room with its cheerful light. Then seating herself in her luxurious rocking-chair, she hoped its motion could lull her to repose. Not so; she could not close her eyes; with a wild, unwinking steadiness, they met every object in the room. 
               "This is frightful!" at last she muttered, and going to a little escritoire, she dropped a small portion of liquid upon her tongue, and again essayed to sleep. For a moment she lost herself, but presently awoke with a strong grasp on her shoulder. 
               Lorine stood over her, stooping, shaking her by the shoulder. 
               "It is I, Miss Belle; you were screaming in your sleep. Bless me! but I thought it was robbers in the house, and hardly dared to come, Wake up; you are sick, Miss Belle. Going fishing don't agree with you. 
               "Only a dream," said Belle, rousing herself; "a frightful dream. I thought I was in jail." 
               "Poor Miss Alice!" murmured Lorine, with a sigh. 
               "There, go, go!" exclaimed Belle, impatiently, "I am very sleepy; I shall sleep without dreaming this time." 
               Just then Alice was standing at the bars of the jail window; it was twelve o'clock. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE LETTERS. 
                
                  
                      
                        "A sweetly written letter- 
                        Showing the fair style of her thought-her purity- 
                        Her simplicity." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "The pen flowing with love, 
                        Or dipped black in hate, 
                        Or tipped with delicate courtesies, 
                        Or harshly edged with censure, 
                        Hath quickened more good than the sun, 
                        More evil than the sword, 
                        More joy than woman's smile, 
                        More woe than frowning fortune; 
                        And should'st thou ask my judgment of that 
                        Which hath most profit in the world, 
                        For answer take thou this- 
                        The prudent penning of a letter." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Now, if I wrote a letter, I would not tell such simple things." 
                        "Nay, but if you had a child's heart you would." 
                     
                   
                
               THE next day Belle complained of indisposition, which of course, was passed to the account of the fishing party. Mrs. Westerly seemed uneasy, and nervously passed from one part of the house to the other, with no other aim than to be seemingly employed. Neither mother nor daughter appeared disposed to speak of Alice, until a letter directed to her was placed in Belle's hands. 
               "It is post-marked Melville," said Belle, biting her lip; "probably from her uncle or some of her cousins; what shall we do with it?" 
               "Why, I don't know; you might as well open it; it could only make her feel bad to get it, and you, in a few words, can inform these people of the fact. It will shock them very much; they believed Alice such an angel of goodness." 
               Belle opened the letter, and glanced her eye over the childishly-written page. "Oh, it is only a sort of regret that she didn't come," she said, folding it again, and, going towards her writing-desk, she busied herself in finding a pen. Thus read the letter:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR COUSIN ALICE,-We waited for the stage at the end of the green lane one whole hour; and when we found you had not come, Mary cried, and I could hardly keep my tears back. We expected you so certainly! Pa said, "Alice always keeps her word; she must have been taken ill, but perhaps she will be here to-morrow." It was foolish in me to go away and write this letter to you, for I know you'll come tomorrow, but I felt as if I must do something. Our garden does look beautiful, though we gathered some of the best flowers to greet you with, but there will be a few more out to-morrow-the buds look forward. The hill you loved so well is standing yet; papa says he is glad the town did not have it taken down this year, although a great many folks want it for building lots. 
                           "Dear Alice, we have put fresh ribbons round the old cat's neck and all the little kittens'. Your chamber does look sweet; and the tinniest red apples are on the apple-tree, quite against your window. We have been drying clover to make the drawers smell sweet, and putting up some new lace curtains that Mary and I earned with our own hands; every thing about the farm is new whitewashed, and I know you will be so happy. Poor mamma, too, is longing to see you; she is not quite so well to-day, but we do every thing for her. Tom and Harry were, oh! so disappointed last night when they came in from the field; they thought you would certainly be here. Now, I should laugh to see this letter back again; that is, following you, for I am very, very, very sure you will be here to-morrow-Yours, 
                           
                              "COUSIN HATTIE."
                            
                         
                         
                           "P. S.-Linda sends her love." 
                         
                      
                  
                
               And this was the reply sent by Belle:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "I am sorry to inform you that your cousin has been detected in a very serious theft, amounting to some thousand dollars, and she is at present in the jail of this city awaiting her trial-Very respectfully yours, 
                           
                              "BELLA WESTERLY."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               No words of sympathy, no softening of the dread news that was to throw a whole family in sudden and awful anguish-thus cold, cruel, heartless, was the note sent in return for the warm, gushing, soulful message of the sweet country maid. 
               "What have you written, Belle?" 
               She read the unfeeling lines to her mother. 
               "Oh dear! I wish this thing never had happened. "What could have got into the girl?" 
               "I almost wish you hadn't sent her to jail, mother." 
               "Why! I should have sent one of the servants, or any common thief. No, no; I have done right. Let guilt be punished though it sits on a throne." 
               "But the impression is abroad that she is an own cousin," said Belle, striving in vain to compose herself to her work. 
               "Oh, we can soon set that right; besides, I'm not sure but I should have done the same thing to an own cousin. I'm very inflexible in my ideas of justice. Your poor, dear father used to say that the just judge would punish his own son or daughter, were either a criminal, to the extent of the law. Your father thought a great deal of justice, Belle." 
               The door opened, and Belle started like a guilty thing as the card of Mrs. Littlejohn was placed in her hand. 
               "It's for you, Mamma. Lorine, have this letter sent to the post-office immediately," she added, handing the note she had just written. 
               "Mrs. Littlejohn! why, I haven't seen her in an age. I do wish she had come any other day, I have such a headache," murmured Mrs. Westerly. "I wonder if it wouldn't be as well to ask her up here," she added, glancing towards Belle. 
               "Why, if she isn't very fashionable, you know-I presume it won't make any difference to her. I, of course, may be excused." 
               "No, Belle, you must stay and help do the talking. I declare, if my head keeps on in this way, I must go to bed. Ever since that shocking revelation, I have been miserable. Lorine, ask the lady to come up stairs into the sitting-room." 
               Much show of gladness and welcome was expended upon this visitor. Mrs. Littlejohn glided into the room, took the extended hand of her friend, and was soon seated by her side. The contrast between the lithe, graceful figure, charming face of the General's sweet wife, and the stately mien and haughty visage of Mrs. Westerly was apparent at the first glance. Even Belle,-cold, quiet, and dignified as was her habitual manner,-almost forgot the courtesy tesy of good breeding in the long, unaverted glance she bestowed upon Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "We have not met for many months," said Mrs. Westerly. 
               "It is two years, I think," replied Mrs. Littlejohn; "we have certainly not been very neighborly." She paused wishing to approach the subject that rested on her mind, but hesitated as she glanced from the hard-faced mother to the proud-featured Belle. 
               "My jail-friends take up a great deal of time, you know," she added, by way of an introduction. The color deepened again on the cheek of the young girl, as Mrs. Littlejohn glanced that way. 
               "Ah, yes! I have heard that you are parson there," replied the other, lightly. 
               "Not exactly that," replied Mrs. Littlejohn with a smile; "I visit them often, however, and try to do them some good by means of conversation and books." Belle bowed lower over her embroidery. "I saw by to-day's paper," continued Mrs. Littlejohn, "that an unfortunate occurrence took place here recently." 
               "A very sad thing," replied Mrs. Westerly, "it has quite unnerved me. I have been nearly sick ever since. Quite a dreadful-quite an unfortunate thing; and done by one whom, as it were, I had nurtured in my bosom-poor miserable child. It is a dreadful trial, but I could do no other way." 
               "She sewed for you did she not?" 
               "Yes; she was in the habit of doing little jobs, helped our dressmaker, and sometimes made herself useful; but she was a dreadful trial to me the first few years after my husband died. Indeed, I could scarcely do any thing with her till I had, as it were, broke her in." 
               "I remember her. I came here once and she sat in this very room, sewing; I remember you spoke then of some trouble you had with her." 
               "Yes, ah yes! trouble indeed," said Mrs. Westerly, in an eager manner, half checking a rising sigh. 
               "But if this was her first departure from the path of rectitude would it not have been better to say nothing about it, she being a relative? You could easily have sent her from your house," said Mrs. Littlejohn, watching every movement of Belle, whose face was somewhat shaded by her long, glittering black curls. 
               "It was not her first departure, I have reason son to believe," said Mrs. Westerly. "Last month I missed a gold thimble; it was sent me by my brother from California. Yesterday, Belle found it hidden under the bed in the chamber that Alice slept in, with some lace collars and costly handkerchiefs. There's no knowing how many pieces of jewellery the girl has sold. No! I'm naturally very quick-tempered, but if I had been ever so calm at the time, which I wasn't, I should have sent her to jail; the good of society requires it, I am satisfied of that." 
               "She is a remarkably sweet, innocent-looking creature." 
               "Oh, artful, artful! do you believe! why, Mrs. Littlejohn, with all her weakly, gentle appearance, she has the depth and subtlety of a practiced expert in other things; young gentlemen who have called on Belle have noticed it; and really, we found a note on her table addressed to a friend of my daughter, that was so free it quite shocked me; Belle, as long as she has known Mr. Gildersleeve, would never have taken such liberty with him, never!" 
               "Mr. Gildersleeve! De Witt Gildersleeve?" ejaculated Mrs. Littlejohn, in great surprise. 
               "Yes; you have heard of his great exploit in quelling a mutiny, or rather preventing one, in which the captain and passengers were to be murdered in cold blood; he has been a visitor at our house for the last two years." 
               Mrs. Littlejohn stole another glance at Belle, who had inadvertently looked up. Her eyes were flashing, but the fire that kindled their luminous depths seemed not pure and holy. Her cheek had reddened to an intense and almost painful crimson; her lips had parted, and a strange, indescribable expression had taken possession of the whole face; another moment, and the long curls and bending head hid all from sight. 
               "But are you very sure your niece was as guilty as appearances seem to indicate? It is a serious charge, affecting not only the respectability of your family, but the prospects of a poor girl, who is robbed of all when she loses her good name." 
               "As to the respectability of my family," said Mrs. Westerly, with a touch of pique in voice and resentment in manner, "I flatter myself that we have too long taken our place among the best circles to have that questioned on any grounds; but, Mrs. Littlejohn, Alice belongs to a low set of relations. She is not an own cousin to Belle, but her father was half-brother to my husband, and he always took a foolish fancy to the child, because she had such an artful way of getting round him. He spoiled the child before he died by treating her as the equal of Belle. She had much better have been put out to earn her own living as a seamstress." 
               "Ah, how much better!" exclaimed Mrs. Littlejohn, with emphasis. 
               Mrs. Westerly looked as if she herself knew how to take this assent, but kept silence. 
               "Are you very certain that none of the servants could have done these things, out of some spite they owed her or you? 
               "Why, my dear Mrs. Littlejohn, I'm very certain none of my girls could have managed so cleverly. I'm sure they don't for me. Why, you can't think how neatly the thing was done; besides, Belle here-Belle herself saw her just the night before examining one of the bank notes; she felt sure it was one of mine; or rather, she thought very strange that she should have a bill of that amount-didn't you, Belle?" 
               "Yes," said Belle, trying to speak with case. "I am very sorry I did, too. I never should have dreamed of accusing her if-I-I had not seen the note and the thimble." 
               "The ring you mean, dear?" 
               "Yes, of course-I mean the ring. Finding the thimble since has grieved and confused me. I don't know how Alice came to do such a thing. Both mamma and I have treated her with uniform kindness, I am sure." 
               "She protests innocence," said Mrs. Littlejohn, much pained at the insincerity evident in Belle's manner, and studying her every look and movement. 
               "Oh, she would deceive even the very elect, as the Scripture says. She has, in fact, a way with her. I do dislike these people who have a way with them." 
               This was a favorite expression of Mrs. Westerly, when she wished to individualize any species of delicacy, grace, or refinement. If people were generally believed on account of their suavity of manner, they had a way with them, in her estimation-that is, all sweetness that was the result of natural good qualities, and that gained admiration and friends, was art consummate, and to be condemned; and Mrs. Littlejohn's color was heightened a little by the recollection that once Mrs. Westerly terly had accused her of "having a way with her." 
               "You have seen her, of course," said Mrs. Westerly, after a moment of silence. 
               "Yes, and I almost regret it. The circumstance of her being an orphan, without brother or sister, gave her unusual interest in my eyes. Then her sweet face, and perfectly lady-like manner have won upon me, if they have not, in fact, prejudiced me in her favor. And really, I must believe her innocent of the deed which you impute to her. There is a directness and straightforwardness in her account of the matter that weighs much with me, and I know that the God of the fatherless will shield her if she is innocent." 
               "Mrs. Littlejohn, you surely don't mean to say that I would have sent an innocent girl to jail!" exclaimed Mrs. Westerly, her eyes flashing, her cheeks reddening, while Belle had suspended her work, and grown suddenly pale. 
               "No, madam," replied Mrs. Littlejohn, rising with dignity; "I surely would not imply in word or thought such dishonorable motives to any lady of my acquaintance, but I would have you remember that however strong protection you may, and doubtless have afforded her, she is an orphan. God has taken away her father and her mother; she is alone, as a tender sapling stands, in a bare and open field, subject to the full blast of the storm, helpless from shelter. I would have you also think what would be your feelings, if your own daughter, Belle, were the reputed criminal at the mercy of her relatives, alone, a poor, frail girl, and whether you would not-" 
               "I prefer not to listen to my daughter's name coupled to so foul an act," exclaimed Mrs. Westerly, trembling with suppressed anger at the implied rebuke; "I did in the case as I thought best, and I seldom or never allow any one to question my conduct. Good morning, Mrs. Littlejohn," and with a dignity quite overwhelming, Mrs. Westerly parted with her friend, more incensed against Alice than ever. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               A VISIT TO ALICE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Kindliness enkindleth love; 
                        Thy soul is athirst for sympathy, 
                        And hungereth to find affection." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "By all the tender mercy 
                        God hath shown to human grief, 
                        When fate or man's perverseness 
                        Denied and barred relief; 
                        By the helpless wo which taught me 
                        To look to him alone, 
                        From the vain appeals of justice, 
                        And wild efforts of my own; 
                        By thy light, thou unseen future, 
                        And thy tears, thou bitter past, 
                        I will hope, though all forsake me, 
                        In his mercy to the last." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "The bird is free; the flower lends 
                        Its incense to the breeze; 
                        But I!-O, Heaven!-can only hear 
                        The rustle of the trees." 
                     
                   
                
               MRS. Littlejohn wended her way directly towards the jail. Alice sat by the window, her eyes intent upon some delicate needlework as her friend entered. Her face was paler than it had yet been, and her large gray eyes seemed troubled to their very depths. More beautiful than ever seemed the gleamy hair, carelessly rolled back; more perfect than ever, the white, broad brow. 
               "You are not well, Alice," said Mrs. Littlejohn, tenderly, smoothing back her hair-a sweetly affectionate manner of hers when any one was in trouble. 
               "Only a little weaker," replied the young girl, with a faint, wan smile; "I think I have in some measure conquered the horror of staying in this place, but oh!"-she paused to command the choking voice-"the worst is to come." 
               "It may be the worst is past, my child," said Mrs. Littlejohn, soothingly; "never forget that God is stronger than man. Place all your confidence in Him, and who can tell by what mysterious means he may clear you from suspicion and exonerate you before the world?" 
               "O God help me!" murmured the pale lips; a few tears-then the sewing was resumed. 
               "Since I was here yesterday, I suppose none of the Westerlys have been near you?" 
               "No," Alice said, shaking her head mournfully. 
                
               "I was there to-day." 
               The work dropped from Alice's hands as she started and looked eagerly into Mrs. Littlejohn's face. "And did you see my aunt?" she asked, with hurried accents; "did you see Belle?-Oh, what did they say?-will they release me?-can they release me?" 
               "Mrs. Westerly is very strongly confirmed in the belief that you are guilty. (Alice cowered at that word.) As for Belle-" 
               Alice looked up again, a wistful, questioning glance upon her features. 
               "She is, I fear, a wicked, perfidious, cruel girl." 
               "Mrs. Littlejohn! why do you say that? What do you think of her?" 
               "I think she would ruin you if she could. She has been bred up to folly, has dissipated her young life in fashionable society, been indulged to the utmost. Her mother is weakly fond. She has had no religious instruction whatever. She is ripe for any wickedness." 
               "Alas! why should she hate me?" murmured Alice; "I have been almost her shadow; nursed her in sickness, borne her caprices, waited upon her more than her own servant. Why should she hate me? O Mrs. Littlejohn, what could have been her motive? She so beautiful, surrounded with luxury, an heiress, and I only a poor orphan, with no portion, but, hitherto, an unspotted name. I cannot think such wrong of her-why should I?" 
               Mrs. Littlejohn bent forward and whispered in her ear. For a minute Alice sat, bending forward, her hand pressing the table till the veins stood out, her large eyes dilating. Then the crimson tide rushed over neck and brow, and hiding her face in her hands, she burst into tears. When she lifted her head, her strength seemed almost gone, and she said, with an effort-"How did you know? Did they tell you? I did think of that, sometimes. She grew so strange to me then. O Mrs. Littlejohn! if God would but take me to himself! It seems as if I could bear no more;" and sobbing violently, she sank upon the bed. 
               "Are you ready to die, Alice?" 
               The question was gently, softly, tenderly put, and Mrs. Littlejohn placed her arm about Alice, and whispered, as she endeavored to dry her tears, "Are you quite ready to go, Alice?" 
               "Ready to go-ready to die, do you mean?" murmured Alice, checking her grief, and gazing thoughtfully downward. "I-I have never thought much of death, and when I did, the dark, loathsome grave appeared before me with its corruption, shut up in darkness. I don't know that I have been very wicked. I have always read my Bible-always prayed, and yet-"She paused. 
               "And yet, Alice?" 
               The firm, sweet tones reassured her, and she continued- 
               "I find there is nothing I long to die for, except to hide from my trouble. I confess I do not, and have not, thought much of God and heaven, and yesterday I was reading the passage, 'Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through and steal.'" 
               "Let me ask you a simple question, Alice: why did you want to go to your uncle's in the country?" 
               "Ah! if you knew what an uncle and aunt I have there!" exclaimed Alice, her tears streaming afresh; "so good, so lovely; if I had been with them always, I might have been a Christian." 
                
               "Then you love your uncle and aunt, otherwise you would care nothing about going there." 
               "I see," said Alice, her face brightening, "I must love God if I would see heaven, and be happy there. Ah! I do not love God. I have a feeling, a general feeling, of gratitude when I think of his blessings. I should say, I have had; and on gazing on the works of his hand, my soul has been momentarily raised; but when I search my heart, I see that I do not find an emotion so warm as even that I bear for my aunt and uncle. And at times I am ready to accuse him; my heart rebels against him, and I feel that he has been unjust in allowing this trial. Oh, no! I am not a Christian; I ought not to wish to die." 
               "My dear child, oh that you were a Christian!" exclaimed Mrs. Littlejohn, with deep feeling, "then how sweet would sound the words of Jesus, 'Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest.'" 
               The lips of Alice quivered again; her eyes filled with tears. 
               "He offers you eternal life!" pleaded Mrs. Littlejohn; "and, in comparison, what are the trials we may endure in this? Come; he has sent me here to teach you the way to Christ. Believe in him." 
               "You speak as if it were an easy matter," said Alice, still much affected. 
               "My child, it is as easy as this-look and live. You have read of the serpent in the wilderness lifted up for the healing of the Israelites." 
               "Yes," Alice murmured, seemingly struggling with herself. 
               "That look was faith, as your belief will be. Hate sin; turn from it; never practice it again; begin to live near to the Saviour; ask him to pardon you, and believe that he does, because he has said he would. Accept the Saviour, my dear Alice." 
               "I will-I do," exclaimed Alice, a holy purpose shining in her face. "O Mrs. Littlejohn! pray for me now. I know there is a want in my heart still unsatisfied. I have often longed to feel, as you say, a Christian feels; but, oh! I have been so strangely placed in the very midst of adverse influences, gaiety, worldliness, and fashion, all around me. I do want a new and different hope to sustain me here; without it, I feel I cannot bear this unmerited disgrace. Oh, teach me! pray for me!" 
               The request was complied with. On rising from her knees, Alice said gently, "I thank you, my dear friend, that you have been so faithful to me; already I begin to feel new aspirations; a longing to have heaven near me, and Christ reconciled. I have heard of these things all my life, but you have put a new meaning in them." 
               "Ask and it shall be given to you, Alice." 
               "I will-oh! I may not then feel this dreary loneliness longer; there may be angels here, even now;" and she leaned on her friend, while slowly the tears rolled down her cheeks. 
               "Yes," said Mrs. Littlejohn, "heavenly inhabitants; for are they not ministering spirits sent to minister to those who shall be heirs of salvation?" 
               "Oh, my mind grows calmer and clearer!" cried Alice, with animation; "Oh, I do, I do believe; a new life has entered my soul!-why, Mrs. Littlejohn, if this was a palace of gold I could not be happier." 
               "Thank God!" said Mrs. Littlejohn, fervently. 
                
               "Why, I never knew this sweet, sweet love before; these walls seem white and shining; this sunlight like the glistening wings of angels. Oh, my aunt!-my cousin!-if they were only here-I do forgive them!-whom could I not forgive, since Christ has forgiven me?" 
               So rapid had been the transition from despairing despondency to a rapturous joy, that Mrs. Littlejohn was as much astonished as affected. She stood gazing at Alice, with feelings akin to awe, for her face had assumed a spiritual loveliness that made it almost transparent. "Why have I been honored thus?" she mentally exclaimed, raising her thoughts to heaven. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE GREAT CHANGE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "For I said, surely, oh, life! 
                        Thy name is love and beauty, 
                        Thy joys are full, 
                        Thy looks most fair, 
                        Thy feelings pure and sensitive." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "So when she rose from prayer, 
                        A light serene shone in her countenance; 
                        Her face was before, fair, 
                        But now it did all lookers-on entrance; 
                        Her mild blue eye, 
                        Full of heaven's holy joy, spake peace and love, 
                        While angels hovered nigh, 
                        And the glad tidings bore to courts above." 
                     
                   
                
               "ALICE," said Mrs. Littlejohn, touching the rapt girl lightly on the shoulder, "I am going now." 
               "Going!-forgive me, I was thinking!" and the smile that broke over her face made it absolutely luminous. "I was thinking!-oh! it is so sweet to think now!" she added, clasping her hands, and pressing them to her bosom; "there is no darkness here now; I can leave all to Him." 
               "Why, Alice, I can hardly realize this great blessing," said Mrs. Littlejohn, much affected. 
               "It is wonderful, wonderful to me!" replied Alice, her whole face still beaming-"wonderful-most wonderful!" she repeated, lingering on the words. "I have seen times when I thought I was happy, but this"-her rare smile and shining eyes told more than words. "This morning," she continued, "I could scarcely breathe for the choking grief that filled me. The very light of day looked hateful, and I hid my face, praying for the darkness of the tomb. These bars I could not look at without a shudder; they don't trouble me now. This bed I loathed; a queen's couch would not seem better to me this moment-infinitely beneath it, indeed-unless I felt this mysterious presence. O Mrs. Littlejohn! how have I lived all my life without it? how can the world live without it?" 
               "Were your parents Christians?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "My parents!"-a transient shadow passed over her fine face-"my mother died before I could pronounce her name: my father was lost at sea. I do not remember any thing of him save that he was very noble looking, and loved me dearly. It is nearly twelve years since the news came that the vessel was given up, after months of hopeless watching and waiting." 
               "And this uncle with whom you were to visit?" 
               "My mother's brother," replied Alice; "ah!"-and a new light overspread her face-"I know my mother must have been a Christian; I have heard my uncle talk of her. Will you furnish me with paper and a pen? I would not have this news reach them through any other medium. My uncle will believe me; I must write to-day. Such a strange letter it will be-such a blending of the sad with the joyous. Did they say any thing at my aunt's? had they any news from my uncle? Indeed, they must be anxious." 
               "The servant passed out with a letter as I was entering, which I should suppose Belle had written, as she was giving directions," replied Mrs. Littlejohn. For a moment a cloud passed again over the fair face; but in another moment it was gone, and the words, "He will make it all right, won't he?" escaped her lips. 
               "Yes, indeed, my dear girl," replied Mrs. Littlejohn, a delightful smile answering hers. "I see you are putting your armor on; equipped in the shield of faith and the helmet of salvation you have nothing to fear." A moment after she added, "I did not send you drawing materials yesterday, as I intended to; perhaps you were disappointed?" 
               "A little," said Alice; "but no matter now, any other time." 
               "I could not send down town for them by the servant, and the General was not well enough to take his usual walk yesterday. I shall, however, be sure of them to-day." 
               "Thank you!" replied Alice, with a sweet smile. 
               As Mrs. Littlejohn left Alice, a prisoner met her outside the iron door that separated the women's cells from the debtors' room. "The young man down stairs wants to see you, ma'am, he's in a bad way;" he said, in a low, indifferent tone. 
               She hurried to his cell; the youthful prisoner was prostrate on his rude pallet, his frame violently shaken by emotion, giving vent to the most heart-rending groans. Applying to the jailer, Mrs. Littlejohn obtained leave to enter the narrow home of the prisoner, and was accordingly locked in with him. He turned towards her as she spoke to him. It seemed as if the anguish of the preceding night had done the work of years. His eyes were bleached with tears, his face swelled, and his long hair laid in tangled, half-curled masses on his cheeks and temples. With a hysterical sob he answered to her inquiries about his health, and then exclaimed, "Oh, for a breath of the fresh air of heaven! Oh! I'm dying, suffocating here!" 
               "Why don't they let you out as they do the other prisoners?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "He tried to break jail, ma'am;" said the man, who was watching at the door; "they had to iron him." 
               "I'm sorry for that; it has only increased your punishment." 
               "Oh, don't talk to me of punishment! Bring me a knife, poison, a rope!-I'm in hell!-I'm in hell!" 
               "Does your mother know of this?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn, after a few moments of silence lence. She was unwilling to leave him until she had probed his heart. 
               His answer was frightful. He turned and gave her a look of such horror, such anguish as the human face but seldom assumes, as he said,- 
               "My mother! I would be torn in pieces, inch by inch, before my mother should know of this. My mother! "he repeated, with a swelling sob, "oh! mother, mother!" and fell like one lifeless, wailing that dear name. 
               This was something; she had touched his heart; he had then love and respect for the being he had dishonored. She waited till the first force of his anguish had spent its strength before she said,- 
               "Let me know about your mother; surely she never thought her boy would come to this." 
               "Don't, don't," he sobbed; "don't speak that way. Oh, mother, mother, mother! I will not tell you her name, nor where she is. I will not be known-the knowledge would strike her dead." 
               "Then you do still love your mother?" 
               "Love her!" he exclaimed in a tone of passionate earnestness; "I would die for her." 
               "Say rather. I would be virtuous because my mother taught me to be. I will honor her in obeying her commands." 
               "She did teach me right. I know what to do, and that's what condemns me," he replied; "oh, if she knew I was here-if she knew I was here! Madam, destroy your infernal saloons where men are drugged and lured into villainy, and boys of my years will never come here." 
               "When did you leave your mother?" 
               "I left my home three years ago. A friend of my father offered me a situation in another city, where I was to have good wages as a draughtsman. Mother cautioned me what places to avoid, and so did my father. I was very young, gay, and fond of excitement; but if I hadn't fallen in with one bad boy, who ruined me almost, I never, never, should have been in this situation. Little by little he lured me away. He was strong and could stand a good deal. I, on the contrary, am weak-headed; a glass of liquor crazes me. He prevailed on me to go to the theatre, and I became, after the first night, crazy to go again. I would cry and laugh and leap, while he would sit still perfectly impassible, or sneer at me for what he called my silly enthusiasm. Nothing could keep me from the theatre. At last I forgot every good thing; was introduced to actors of the lowest stamp of character, and treated till I was drunk. Oh! I don't know why I'm telling you this, unless it is to relieve this awful burden pressing me down; but I kept going on from bad to worse. And still I was cunning enough to seem good; for, when my father came to see me, he never suspected wrong, and my employers never thought to ask how I spent my money or my nights, or whether I would go to church, or do any good thing that might in the first have kept me from evil. What did they care about me, or any of the clerks, except to get work out of us; no, no! they worshipped the almighty dollar; it's greater to them than a human soul," he continued, in an under tone of deep bitterness. 
               "And what led you to forge, my poor boy?" 
               "Oh, don't ask me; it all came of that theatre! you people never know what snares there are set in those places for boys; oh, no! you never dream how artfully they watch, to fasten on an unsuspecting fellow. On every hand drink can be had in a fashionable way at a small cost; if you become acquainted with the actresses, as I did, you must have money. That's all I can say; I paid my money away for one of them, and was obliged to get more to keep up appearances. That's the way I did what has brought me here;" and covering his face with his hands, he gave a groan that chilled the heart of the listener. 
               "And are you not sorry for all this?" 
               "God knows I am sorry!" he replied, his hardness melted down. 
               "And are you not willing to confess your contrition to your heavenly Father, abandon your vices and live as one destined for immortality should live?" 
               "Ay! but that's not going to save me from State prison," he said his face growing rigid again. 
               "No, nothing can save you from State prison now, I well know; but had you not rather go there willingly, with the love of God in your heart, than in this awful, despairing frame of mind?" 
               "Willingly!" he ejaculated incredulously. 
               "Yes; if the mind is at peace you well know a prison is a palace. I doubt if you were happy while living in the state you have described. No one can be happy who is a sinner." 
               "No, truly I was not happy," he replied, mournfully. 
               A long silence ensued. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE MOTHER IN JAIL. 
                
                  
                      
                        "A mother's love 
                        Is an undying feeling. Earth may chill 
                        And sever other sympathies, and prove 
                        How weak all human bonds are-it may kill 
                        Friendships, and crush hearts with them-but the thrill 
                        Of the maternal breast must ever move 
                        In blest communion with her child, and fill 
                        Even heaven itself with prayers and hymns of love. 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "The mother's love-there's none so pure, 
                        So constant and so kind; 
                        Nor human passions doth endure 
                        Like this within the mind." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "And say to mothers what a holy charge 
                        Is theirs: with what a kingly power their love 
                        Might rule the fountains of the new-born mind. 
                        Warn them to wake at early dawn, and sow 
                        Good seed before the world has sown its tares." 
                     
                   
                
               THE key was heard to turn in the lock of the great door in the first hall, and the voice of the jailer, always loud and harsh, exclaimed, "Evans, show them number fifteen." 
                
               An expression of anguish passed the lips of the unhappy young man. "Who is it? tell me-tell me, who is it? I can see no one; I will not see any one;" and he flung himself face downward on the bed. 
               Just then there appeared at the grating a gentle, almost beautiful face, bathed in tears. It was that of a woman of thirty-five apparently. A deep green veil was thrown back over the bonnet so that only the features and the edges of light, soft hair were visible. 
               "Where is he?" she asked, in a voice of deep distress. 
               The form on the bed shook from head to foot; and as the voice again said, "My son, Charles," he sobbed as if his heart would break. 
               Mrs. Littlejohn came to the gratings, saying,-"You had better come in here with him; I will come out; I have been trying to console your poor boy, but you can fulfil that office best;" and making a motion to the man outside, as the agonized mother dropped her veil, she was soon on the corridor, hastening from the scene of anguish-a mother meeting her criminal son. A harsh "Halloa!" greeted her as she passed the next grating. She looked up. The black eyes, hair, and beard, hanging lip and ferocious brow of the murderer greeted her. 
               "Well, my friend, did you wish to speak with me?" she said, pausing for a moment. 
               "Ha! well, that's good now! My friend! Guess you ain't very choice in your selection of friends, if you can call me friend. Look! here's your book; I've read it all through, an' ef you've a mind to leave it, I'd like to rush over it the second time. It's a mighty queer book, though I don't see how the old gentleman remembered such a long dream." 
               "Keep it till you have done with it," said Mrs. Littlejohn, mildly, "and remember that you may not only call me, but Jesus Christ, your friend, if you will repent of the evil of your ways, and turn to him." 
               "Yes, ma'am, so-so; but Jack Mystic has been too hard a fellow for you or him, neither," he replied, coarsely. She was moving on, disgusted at his manner, when he exclaimed,-"Stop a minit, ma'am; now don't you think it may do all very well for the chap what's making that rigmarole of a fuss in the other cell to think of 'ligion; he's soft, and a youngster; but, bless you, Lord or nothing else wouldn't think Jack Mystic's soul worth a brass farthing; why, he's be'n a reg'lar pirate." 
               "Oh yes, if you were willing, God could pardon you just the same as He could the most tender child. The thief on the cross was pardoned by saying, 'Lord remember me.'" 
               "Who?" queried the man, his gross face growing more stupid. 
               "The thief on the cross who was crucified with Christ." 
               "Well, I disremember every thing, dreadfully," said the man; "but you'll tell me some day, perhaps." 
               "Oh yes, with pleasure, the next time I come," said Mrs. Littlejohn, readily. She would have paused even then, but body and mind were wearied, and she felt faint with the exertions she had already made. The villainous face before her waxed into something like a grim smile at her answer, and she left the jail sad, very sad, but still thanking the Father of mercies for the great blessing he had vouchsafed sweet Alice Graylynn. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE GENERAL'S INDIGNATION. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The private path-the secret arts of men, 
                        If noble, far the noblest of our lives." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Is there a spark in earthly mold, 
                        Fraught with one ray of heavenly fire? 
                        Does man one trait of virtue hold 
                        That even angels must admire? 
                        That spark is pity's radiant glow- 
                        That trait the tear for others' woe." 
                     
                   
                
               THE General was at home. As soon as he saw his wife, with the courteous manners of the old-school gentleman, he took her hand and led her into the sitting-room. Exhausted with her long walk and her arduous labors, the gentle woman did not for some moments seem capable of motion, but sat with bonnet on, thankful for the refreshing rest and cool atmosphere of the darkened room. 
               "Are you so much fatigued?" asked the old General, as he occupied a seat near her, after gallantly handing her a fan. 
                
               A nod and a smile was her only and expressive reply. 
               "Zounds! I beg your pardon, wife, but this comes of living opposite the jail. Now, do you suppose I'm going to let you waste your precious time, and ruin your more precious health, among those scape-gallow's-birds over there? No, no; it's out of reason. Why, you're pale as a water-witch; you're white as bleached cloth; I won't have it; doing a good deed is one thing, and doing it to your own injury is another;" and the hot-headed old man struck his walking-stick against the side of the cane-bottom sofa with such vim that it trembled from back to castor. 
               "Suppose we move away, my dear," said Mrs. Littlejohn, recovering her breath, and speaking with her calm, even-toned manner, smiling as she spoke. 
               "Move away," he cried, more choleric than before; "move away. I'd see them-"by a warning glance of his wife, he added, "happy first, every one of them. Do you know they want to make this the warden's house? These rooms where my father's feet have trod-that is, before they were new planked and improved to the extent of a thousand hard dollars. Move away; don't you know me better than to propose such a thing?" 
               "Well, General, I don't see what you will do. I must go to the jail." 
               "Must, to be sure you must. Your will is as strong as oak timber full of knots. Go, to be sure you will, and there's another thing you'll do; you'll lose your health and die." 
               "Well, then, I shall go home to my Father's house," she replied, sweetly and solemnly. 
               "Tush!" exclaimed the old man, uncasing his spectacles, but a tear stood in his keen blue eye. 
               "And how do you suppose this momentary fatigue in his service will appear to me then?" 
               The General gave a loud ahem as he spread the damp sheet of the evening paper upon his knee. "Look here!" he exclaimed, a moment after, "the owners and underwriters of the Flying Cloud are going to give young Gildersleeve a public reception. Upon my word, I must shake hands with that brave fellow." 
               "I feel more interest in that poor girl in the jail yonder; she is no more a thief than I am," said Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "Tush, there it is again, the jail! I have to breakfast on jail, dine on jail, sup on jail, and sleep on jail. Let the jail alone, pray good wife, while you are with me. As for the girl, she's a cunning baggage; and let me tell you, wife, that good, great, and glorious as you are, you don't know any more about human nature than a baby. I say, let them be punished, pretty or homely, young or old; a thief's a thief, and-come"-he added, stopping abruptly, "if I go on I shall say some hard words; let the jail be, wife." 
               "But what if I should tell you that this young Gildersleeve, this brave, great-hearted fellow, is under engagement of marriage with yonder young lady in jail?" 
               "What!" exclaimed the old gentleman, with a prolonged stare, in which wonder and incredulity were blended. 
               "It is the truth; she hath fallen into the hands of enemies;" replied Mrs. Littlejohn, with feeling; "so deep and cruel a plot has been laid, that the poor, fatherless child has fallen innocently into the hands that would work her ruin." 
               "Wife! what do you say?-the girl to whom De Witt Gildersleeve offers marriage, in jail? She shan't stay there another night!" he exclaimed with energy, springing to his feet, while the frail bamboo chair in which he had been resting, turned a summerset with the violence of his movement. 
               "Ah! but take care; don't be too soft-hearted; one of such kind in a family is enough," said Mrs. Littlejohn, laughing a little. 
               "Soft-hearted or hard!" exclaimed the General, standing erect, with his spectacles dangling from one hand, and his paper from the other, "no girl who is worthy of such a love, or, I should say, can inspire such a sentiment in the bosom of a man like that, could possibly be guilty of a mean act, not to say a criminal one. Who's put the girl in jail?-what's it all for?-what's it all about? I'll move in this matter. I'll see if an innocent girl must be thrown into jail on bare suspicion." 
               "You read of it yesterday, General-a cousin, not by blood, but by relationship, of the Westerlys, is this poor girl-her name is Alice Graylynn." 
               "Graylynn! I had a captain once by that name. Captain Graylynn-yes, the first unlucky ship I ever had any thing to do with-the 'Water Queen.' It was lost at sea with all hands, and carried down about ten thousand hard dollars of my own money." 
               "It must have been her father," replied Mrs. Littlejohn; "she says he was lost at sea twelve years ago, when she was a little child." 
               "One of the noblest, best-hearted fellows that ever lived!" exclaimed the old General; "and one of the most unfortunate. Never could get a dollar ahead; always sick, becalmed, wrecked, or unlucky in some way or other. So, so; this is his child, is it? She inherits her father's fatality. Poor girl! poor girl! it shall be seen to. Why, she's a mere child yet, is n't she?" 
               "Only seventeen," replied Mrs. Littlejohn, her eyes full of tears. 
               "Only seventeen-poor little girl!" ejaculated the General, with abstracted vision. "I remember when her mother died. The captain came home; unlucky, as usual; had been sick in Cuba; took all his wages to pay doctor's bills, and I advanced for him, besides a little on my own private account, for I pitied the poor fellow, and I liked him-I liked him! Poor child! Without father or mother, brother or sister, and those hard-hearted, fashionable Westerlys her enemies. I'll see what can be done. Well, well; this will dash the triumph of young Gildersleeve, poor fellow!" and with these words the General left the room. 
               Mrs. Littlejohn lifted her heart in thankfulness for this sudden and powerful interest. She knew that to her husband time and money were nothing in the prosecution of a just cause. Throwing off her outer clothing, she moved to the front garden, and stood watching the window of Alice, eagerly waiting, as it seemed, for her appearance; and when Alice came, for it was her wont to stand much by the window, she plucked a pure white rose and held it forth. Alice knew not the meaning, but she felt that it portended good, and she still lingered to gaze upon the southern beauty of the hour. The garden was thrown in shadow, and its symmetrical walks covered with a glistening brown sand, showed in bright contrast with the low borders of box with which all were edged. The beautiful flowers, each in its own little parterre, and each throwing its soft and tremulous shadow before it, seemed as they bent before the light breeze, preparing for the visit of the dew. Through the wide hall of the General's old-fashioned home, could be seen the outer door leading into the vegetable garden. Chairs and tables stood in this hall-pictures hung around it. A light matting covered the floor, and the marble steps in front were ornamented with two couchant bronze dogs, who seemed to guard the inmates, though dumbly, from intrusion. The bending sky held not a cloud the bigness of a man's hand, but its deep translucent azure seemed the fitting drapery for the footstool of the Creator's throne. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               A MORNING IN THE COUNTRY. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Hath not God strewn our weary way with flowers? 
                        And clothed with robes of many a hue 
                        The fragrant meadows and the woodland bowers, 
                        Feeding their beauty with his dew, 
                        Making them glad with sunshine and with showers? 
                        Is it not written that he knew 
                        Himself a joy divine, 
                        Amidst young Eden's holy trees, when walking 
                        There, his children sought his love, 
                        And the pure spirit still may hear him talking 
                        Such words as drew rapt Enoch's soul above. 
                        So ask him to draw thine; 
                        Seek him for he is near thee; 
                        Sing to him, he will hear thee." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Up, sleeper! dreamer, up! for now 
                        There's gold upon the mountain's brow- 
                        There's light on forests, lakes, and meadows; 
                        The dewdrops shine on floweret bells; 
                        The village clock, of morning tells. 
                        Up, man! out, cattle; for the dells 
                        And dingles teem with shadows." 
                     
                   
                
               LET me take my readers back to the day on which Alice Graylynn was arrested. At that time in the morning the early teamsters were seen wending their way along the principal road from the town of Melville. A pretty place was Melville, situated on rising ground, in the midst of bold hills, and flanked on the north and the south by thick woods, yet spared by the hand of civilization. Thriving farms and substantial farm-houses, if not handsome, dotted the country, and the blue smoke curled contentedly from the square, black-mouthed chimneys, skyward. Bushes skirted the roads, barberry, blackberry, and the luscious whortleberry. Here and there a cluster of fine flowers threw their sweet perfume on the fresh air. The wild roses, too, filing along sometimes for whole rods, unbroken by any other growth, gave rich display of yellow and crimson. The long grass rustled, and as it waved, the diamond tips that laid upon the glossy, emerald surface vanished, exhaled by wind and sun. Silver-like shone the leaves of the maple; the elm swung its graceful branches in light festoons; the hardy oak rejoiced in its strength and its new robes of beauty, while birds sang on every bough, perched on hedges, and even the little brown chip hopped about among the new twigs, close to the ground, hardly scared from its search for food by the heavy wheels of the farmer's cart. Broadly shone the sun along the goodly road, the fields laughed in its beauty, and the grain, in glittering ranks, bowed to the light, as the breeze moved up and down among the hills. The morning was very quiet, very beautiful: so said a blue-eyed girl, clapping her hands, as she stood at the open window of her chamber. 
               "Do look out, Mary; why, it's the very best day that ever was made!" she exclaimed, turning to her sister, who had just opened her eyes. "And our sweetbrier has bloomed;" she added, looking down into the garden, "and ever so many other flowers are out; won't we make the grandest bouquet for Alice? Come, we've got to finish putting up the curtains in her chamber, you know, and bringing in some flowers for the stand, and ever so many things, besides getting breakfast. I'm going out for radishes; when I come back you'll be dressed, won't you?" 
               "Yes," yawned Mary, and Hattie Latimer bounded out of the room, singing. As she passed her mother's door, she grew silent, as if through fear of disturbing her slumbers; but as she gained the kitchen the voice swelled forth again, mocking the merry songster in his cage. A beautiful Maltese cat sprang up, and rubbed her sleek fur against the dress of the pretty girl. 
               "Ah, Beauty! good morning!" exclaimed Hattie, pausing a moment to caress her favorite. "Beauty, do you know you're going to be dressed up to-day in honor of my cousin Alice? She's a stranger to you, to be sure, but you'll love her, everybody does; and you shall have a blue ribbon round your neck, and a formal introduction. So when I say, 'Cousin Alice, this is Beauty-Beauty, cousin Alice,' you must put on your best behavior, and hold out your paw, gracefully." 
               After bringing in a handful of radishes, with rosy tops graduating to a fine, faint crimson, and a lettuce of an emerald color, and placing them both in water, Hattie proceeded to her duties. The "help" was absent, with the two hired hands, milking; the fire burned brightly on the hearth, the windows were raised on opposite sides of the room, the painted floor glistened, the paper curtains rattled crispily as the wind drew them back and forth, the kettle hummed and bubbled, and sang over the fire, and Hattie sprang nimbly to her task like a girl who loved labor for its own healthful sake. 
               Hattie was a pretty girl, with complexion between blonde and brunette. Her eyes were dark blue, and expressive; her face had that winning, confiding look that is often found in persons of ardent, sanguine temperament. A linen apron was pinned round her waist, her sleeves rolled up to the elbow, and already, after having placed a large pan over the coals in which the hot gravy frothed, she was mixing butter for some breakfast cakes. 
               "Good morning, Hattie." 
               "Good morning, sis!" exclaimed Hattie. cheerfully, as a tall, mild-faced young lady entered, and, going to the table, prepared to cut some slices from a loaf that laid there; "how is mamma?" 
               "Quite weak this morning, dear. She passed a restless night. I think you talked too much yesterday in anticipation of cousin's visit. Be as quiet as you can, when she comes to-day. You know Alice is very gentle, and, beyond a hearty, cordial welcome, wishes for nothing demonstrative. I have no doubt she will do mamma great good." 
                
               "Oh yes; I'm sure she will," said Hattie, smiling to herself. "Here comes Katty. Dear me, how Alice will enjoy the milking, after being cooped up in the city two whole years. Won't she be happy?" 
               "I have no doubt but she will," replied her sedate sister, taking the toasting-fork from its niche and placing a slice of wheat bread inside as she spoke. "Well, Katty, what kind of a yield this morning-how does the new cow work?" 
               "Laws me!" said a heavily built country girl, spreading down her blue-check apron, "the new cow's the best of the hull. She fell to my milking, and I was a little skeery at first, but she did well-the bucket to the brim, see!" 
               "That's good news, Katty. Why, Mary! lazy sister of mine-just up, and sleepy even now!" 
               "I sat up so late," replied Mary, "or, rather, I kept awake so late, talking with Hattie about cousin Alice, that it was the hardest work to get my eyes open." 
               "Cousin Alice is a nun, such I be thinkin'," said Katty, good-naturedly, as she busied herself about the fire. "Do she keep school like you do, Miss Linda?" 
                
               "No, Katty, she is not a school teacher. Pour out the tea for mother, and get breakfast ready as fast as possible. Here comes father and brothers, hungry enough." 
               The farmer, a hearty, hale man, whose grand head and face reminded one of the old Roman dignitaries, entered the room from without, followed by Harry and Tom, two sun burnt, handsome young men of nineteen and twenty-one. The butter cakes were placed smoking upon the table, already furnished for a meal, and with pleasant, hearty tones wishing good morning, the family, with the exception of the mother and eldest daughter, sat down to breakfast. 
               "Poor mother! I wish she was well enough to eat with us," said Harry, a look of deep concern passing over his fine features; "who stays with her while Linda is in school, today?" he asked. 
               "I" replied Hattie, "till Linda comes home; then Mary and I are going down the lane to meet the coach on the turnpike. 
               "It is a lovely day for her," said Tom, helping himself plentifully to batter cakes; "I expect she will hardly know what to do when she gets in this fresh air, among the hay and the flowers. I do hope she will have mercy on our countryfied manners; I expect she is as much a lady as her cousin, who did n't know me last summer, although she had spent a week here, not six months before, for the benefit of her health-ha, ha, ha!" 
               "Did n't know you? I am sure she might have been proud to!" exclaimed Mary, whose favorite Tom was. 
               "Seven o'clock," she exclaimed, as the great corner clock twanged the hour; "I suppose by this time she's just getting up-at nine she will start, and at half-past eleven be here, the very same Alice she always was." 
               "Do n't depend too much on your calculations, child; they may disappoint you," said her father. 
               "But cousin Alice," exclaimed Hattie, on whom this speech had dashed cold water- 
               "Never disappointed us, I suppose you would say; but remember how many things may happen in the course of a few days, or even in one. She may be sick, or this gallant gentleman, about whom all the papers are talking, may detain her." 
                
               "But we should have certainly heard, father; she would have written us yesterday in time for us to have got the letter to-day." 
               "Well, well, daughter, she will probably be here; I hope so, at any rate. She's a dear girl. Alice is a dear, good girl, and very like her mother at her age. She'll be here, no doubt." 
               "Shall we get some bouquets before prayers?" whispered Hattie to her sister Mary, as they arose from the table in advance of the rest. 
               "Yes!" and the sisters opened the door and ran through the hall into the pleasant yard. 
               "For years had their father, Harry Lattimer, struggled to keep his head above water. The farm was his but nominally, for there remained a large mortgage to lift, and the raising of the sum necessary, from year to year, to pay the interest, laid him under a heavy burden. The expenses of a large and growing family, and a sick wife, had borne hard upon him. But he labored on manfully, keeping his brave heart trusting in God-serving his Maker through evil as well as good report, and paying the most strict and careful attention to business. The house was not very large, but he had improved it from time to time, added good out-buildings, and a substantial dairy. A fine yard in front was planted with a large and tasteful variety of beautiful shade trees, among which were conspicuous the larch, elm, and chestnut; and near the dwelling several beds were handsomely laid out in flowers and shrubs. The garden on the south was well stocked with choice fruit trees,-all of which had been planted by the farmer's own hands,-and contained large plots of vegetables arranged with the symmetry of a flower-garden. From the front porch of the house the view was very beautiful; gentle hills rose gradually from three sides; on two, the deep green of the thick woods rested against the sky, and and the little river, rolling at the base of the nearest hill, added its sparkling beauty to the picturesqueness of the scene. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               ANTICIPATION. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Beautiful daughter of hope! 
                        Let me crown thee with flowers. 
                        Beautiful daughter of joy! 
                        Blessing the swift passing hours; 
                        Telling sweet tales of to-morrow, 
                        Banishing sighing and sorrow. 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "There sits the maiden singing, 
                        Merry her wheel is whirling, 
                        Now she is looking outward, 
                        Locks o'er her fingers curling; 
                        Smiling, thinking, forgetting all sorrow- 
                        One that she loves is coming to-morrow. 
                        Beautiful daughter of hope! 
                        Let me crown thee with flowers." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Thus I dreamed on and might have dwelt 
                        Still on that rapturous dream, 
                        When hark! a raven's luckless note 
                        (Sooth't was a direful scream) 
                        Broke up the vision of delight; 
                        Instant my joy was past." 
                     
                   
                
               THE girls had gathered their flowers and adjourned into the house, for the bell called them to prayers. The table had been cleared off, and the family Bible placed thereon, around which most of the household were assembled. Alas! as the solemn voice of prayer ascended, and a petition went up to God on the wings of faith and love, Alice was undergoing the terrible trial of her life. Despairing, dying almost, she knew not that her name was carried to the Deity, coupled with petitions for his grace to fall upon her like the gentle dews. In her distraction she forgot the arm that was mighty to save; not so those who loved her best. 
               After prayers, the girls wended their way to the chamber destined for cousin Alice. Surely, never fairy had a sweeter bower. They had spent weeks upon its decoration, determined it should outdo all its former pretensions. Every bijou article in the house-and to be sure they were not many-was brought into requisition. A straw matting, white as snow, covered the floor, and before the fireplace and at each door a beautiful home-made rug, rejoicing in the reddest of roses and the greenest of leaves, was squared according to the exactest rules of mathematics. The fireplace was the principal point of interest in Hattie's eyes She had great fondness and taste for painting, and had touched the white jams here and there with groups of leaves and flowers; and in the centre of the parted drapery festooned over the opening, was to be placed the famous bouquet at which they were busy. The little toilet table, covered with white damask, whose long fringe was the work of busy fingers, the bed, the curtains, the white delf, the vases in the window seats, the light chairs, the home made lounge, draped with bright chintz, mad it really a sumptuous retreat. 
               "Isn't it beautiful?" exclaimed Mary, clap ping her hands; "won't she be pleased?" 
               Poor child! she little dreamed that, instead of the snow-white couch, the pleasant look-out upon fields and hills and flowers, the loved companionship of her cousins, and, above all, her gentle aunt, Alice would lay upon the pallet of a jail, with no companionship save that of her own sad thoughts; no prospect of release except through the horrors of a public trial; that, instead of the light and tasteful matting, prepared with so much gentle care, her feet would tread the rude boards of a cell. It would have broken their hearts to think of it, and well it was that no cloud had as yet fallen upon their innocent anticipations. 
               From the front of the residence could be seen, not far off, a little school-house on the green. Happy, buzzing children were already wending their way thither, and Linda, as she hastened to her pleasant toil, had her hands grasped now and then by chubby fingers as she drew near the school-house. The gentle, eldest daughter rejoiced as deeply, though more silently, than her younger and more volatile sisters. Alice had always been her best beloved cousin; till within three or four years she had grown up with her, side by side. But the superior advantages offered by her city uncle, Mr. Westerly, had prevailed over their better judgment, and Alice felt that though they all loved her dearly, still they were struggling, and she was a burden, so she accepted with thankfulness her uncle's offer; and while he lived,-not quite a year after her advent among them,-she had no reason to regret the change. Pride afterwards sealed her lips, and she became the unaspiring sewing-girl in the presence of her aunt and cousin-though many a night was spent in solitary study over the midnight lamp-never repeating to her country relatives the story of her wrongs. 
               Hattie remained in the sick room of her mother. The invalid, a wasted yet spiritual-looking creature, sat in a large arm or bed-chair, supported by pillows, gazing languidly forth upon the glorious scenes without. A smile brightened her pale face, as she glanced from meadow to hill, from forest to church spire, all laying in glad beauty under the sparkling veil of sunshine. 
               "What time will Alice be here, my child?" she asked, turning her eye to the little corner clock, whose brass pendulum, confined by a long metal chain, swung freely back and forth. 
               "The stage will be along by twelve; see, by this moment-it is now nine-she is getting on the steps of the stage, perhaps. Won't it be a delightful ride? and she will enjoy it so much." 
               "I think her coming will do me good, and brighten Linda's eye. Linda is going beyond her strength, I fear, in her constant care of me. I thank God for Linda," and her lips quivered. 
               "For us, too, mamma!" said Hattie, who never spoke in the singular number; "for Mary and I." 
                
               "For all of my dear ones," replied the mother, with a smile; "I cannot be too thankful for my good children." 
               "Do you suppose, mamma, that Alice has grown proud or fashionable in her city home?" 
               "No; it is impossible to spoil a girl like Alice; she has her mother's meek spirit. I am only afraid that since her uncle's death she may have been imposed upon; she was the most willing and obedient child I ever saw, with the exception of Linda." 
               The door opened and Harry and Tom entered to pay their daily visit to their mother. A flush of maternal pride crossed her wan cheeks as she looked upon her stalwart sons, with their dark eyes and clustering raven locks. Each taking her hand, bent and imprinted a respectful kiss upon her forehead, inquiring tenderly of her health, and how she had passed the night. There was a touch of the old Puritan precision and delicacy in their manner towards her, as they stood one on each side of her chair, answering her inquiries as to their labors for the day. To complete the group, the farmer himself came in, and drawing a seat right opposite the invalid, he took her white, attenuated hands in his, brown with toil, and with hearty smiles and pleasant words, rallied and cheered his sick wife. 
               "We'll have a new face here before night, my dear," he said; "a face almost as welcome, nay, quite, as any of these. With her stories of city life, and her ringing laugh, if it is like that of old, she'll make a new creature of you, mother!" 
               "I am quite impatient for her arrival," murmured the wife; "if Linda herself had been gone a year, I don't know as I should be more eager to have her return." 
               "Then, my heart! a year is it since she came to visit us?" exclaimed the farmer pausing in deep thought; "why so it is; well, time goes swifter than we reck-"and he sighed lightly, but presently arose, saying, "Come, boys, we go to the marsh to-day; there is no time to lose, for if I mistake not, a northeast storm is brewing;" and having caressed lightly, with lip and fingers, the pale forehead of his wife, he went out accompanied by his boys. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               A GREAT DISAPPOINTMENT 
                
                  
                      
                        "Cold thy mien and hard thine eye, 
                        Disappointment passing by; 
                        Why thy glance upon me cast, 
                        Clouding all the pleasant past? 
                        Why the shadows of thy wing 
                        Throw above me while I sing? 
                        To the cottage comest thou, 
                        Tracing deep the humble brow; 
                        To the palace, proud and high, 
                        Dimming oft the haughtiest eye. 
                        Is there no remote retreat 
                        Sacred from thy threatening feet? 
                        No; to all thou metest out 
                        Care and sorrow, grief and doubt. 
                        Bearing here the weed and pall, 
                        Following the funeral; 
                        Bearing thither bitter fears, 
                        Smiling when thou bringest tears." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "He spreads his kind, supporting arms 
                        To every child of grief; 
                        His sacred bounty largely flows, 
                        And brings unasked relief." 
                     
                   
                
               "I SUPPOSE the story that Alice is betrothed to this young man, the sailor of whom we have been reading, is true?" said Tom to Harry, drawing a wisp of straw between his fingers. The brothers sat in a rude box thrown into the farm cart; their father driving on the front seat. 
               "Why, yes, likely;" answered Harry, looking attentively towards the sky. 
               "Well!" sighed Tom, after a long silence, during which he had tied an admirable knot in the straw, "I hope he'll make a good husband; she deserves one. I almost wish she wasn't coming out here, though if it was gunning season I"-he paused abruptly, colored and bit his lip, for he had caught the impression of a faint smile on Harry's face. 
               "Why, Tom, Alice would be no more fit for a farmer's wife-" 
               "Who said she would?" queried Tom, in a deep, low voice. "I was only"-he hesited-"only thinking"-he added, colored again, and was silent. 
               Meanwhile, Hattie sat and sewed diligently in her mother's room only leaving it once to go and admire the arrangement of the vases now completed by Mary in the little chamber designed for Alice. At half-past eleven, Linda having returned, the younger girls threw on their sun-bonnets, and each taking a small but fragrant bouquet, went down the lane to the right of the farm, in the direction of the turnpike. That lane, fringed with maple trees was nearly always in shadow. The sun came only in a golden line, creeping through the thick mosses, now and then, straggling to the roots, where the summer violets grew in blue clusters. The rustling winds moved gently among the leaves of the trees, waking their lumbrous music. Wild flowers grew in rich profusion, paler in bloom, perhaps than was their nature, because of the shade of the thickly planted trees. It was not an oppressive day, though warm for the season, and the girls, moving slowly, swung their white sun-bonnets in their hands. Of course they gained the turnpike before the coach had come; four wheels are slow to human wishes; a dog straying from his home passed them, snuffing suspiciously. The highway was thick with dust, and in the glare of the warm sun looked uncomfortable; but the sound of farmers in the fields reached their ears, and now and then an ox cart moved by. It seemed full an hour to them when, ten minutes after, the coach appeared coming at full gallop. 
                
               "Why, Mary, it certainly is going right by!" exclaimed Hattie in consternation; she surely knows where to get out." 
               "No, don't you see its going to stop there? I told you so!" said Mary, triumphantly, as the coach moved more and more slowly, and at last stopped at the corner. But in vain the girls looked to see the sweet face of Alice; an old gentleman alighted alone, with the aid of a stout cane, and stared at them a moment curiously; the coach rolled on, and two disconcerted faces remained gazing at each other, and from Mary's eyes rolled the tears of disappointment. 
               "Oh, she'll be here to-morrow," repeated Hattie, who was the most of a philosopher; but there was a choking in the throat that was not easy to subdue. 
               "It's too bad; I do wish father hadn't said she might n't come," exclaimed Mary. 
               "Why, Mary, what has that to do with it?" 
               "Why, most always what he says comes true," half-sobbed Mary. 
               "But it's only for a day," suggested Hattie; "she'll surely be here to-morrow. Perhaps she got late, or has a sick turn, or her aunt and cousin may have detained her. Come, don't feel so bad. I'll go right home and write a letter to her; it will divert our minds and may be make us feel better-but won't mother be disappointed, though! and Linda, oh dear me!" 
               "She might at least have sent us word," said Mary. 
               "Yes," replied the other, "I should have thought so. But worrying won't help it; she hasn't come. See how hot and withered the flowers look. I've half a mind to throw them away." 
               "And I've a whole mind;" so saying, Mary tossed the poor, unoffending nosegay among the bushes on the edge of the lane. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               TERRIBLE NEWS. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Afflictions sore obstruct my way, 
                        And ills I cannot flee." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Since memory's birth, no year but took 
                        Something the heart held dear; 
                        Each page of life on which we look, 
                        Is blotted with a tear." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Heaven but tries our virtue by affliction; 
                        And oft the cloud which wraps the present hour 
                        Serves but to brighten all our future days." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "If misfortune comes, she brings along 
                        The bravest virtues." 
                     
                   
                
               THE day that was to have been so bright and happy, closed upon sad hearts and anxious faces. Even the farmer said over and over again, it was unaccountable. Alice was a girl of her word, and the invalid, if possible, felt the privation more than any one else. The next day the girls went eagerly to the turnpike-again the coach rolled by, the sturdy driver giving his beasts an added impetus as he came to the corner, and silently Hattie and Mary wended their way home, for they were full of sad forebodings. 
               "She has forgotten us," murmured Mary; "she has learned the convenience of dropping country friends in the city. You hinted as much this morning at breakfast." 
               "No; I know better than that," Hattie replied. "I would not dare to think that of Alice. Oh dear! I am afraid she is sick, very sick; what shall we do to know?" 
               "It was strange," the farmer said, and his wife grew feverish with anxiety; "could she be ill and they not let us know?" 
               Silently Hattie and Mary sat in the pleasant chamber in which the flowers had faded on the third day. They were rearranging some fresh bouquets. Hattie was pale, and Mary now and then brushed a tear from her cheek. 
               "Tom says he shall go to the city to-morrow, if we don't hear any thing about her," said Hattie, folding her hands and gazing absently from the window. 
               "Did he? oh! I'm so glad; mother says the suspense is dreadful. If she was dead, I don't know as the folks there would think it worth while to tell us." 
               "Dead!-cousin Alice dead!-what a thought!" said Hattie, with a shudder. 
               Tom and Harry looked at the matter from their stand-point. Harry believed the young supercargo, Gildersleeve, had returned; Tom, that Alice cared no longer for any of them, and found it convenient to break the engagement without having the politeness to inform them, because they were country people. 
               "A letter at last!" shouted Harry, coming in to supper, and throwing the delicately tinted paper on the table; "a letter for Hattie; of course it's from Alice." Tom's cheek grew red, as Hattie with trembling hand, broke the seal. Her eye glanced over the contents. She started up white as a shroud, gave one wild glance about her, uttered an unearthly cry, and sank faint and quivering on her seat. 
               "What can it be?" passed from lip to lip. Tom alone preserved self-possession enough to read the note. He, too, turned deadly pale, clenched his hand, and growled between his teeth-"a black lie! a cowardly lie! Father, Alice Graylynn is in jail." 
               The consternation of the whole family was now complete. Linda alone mastered her emotion, and bade them all remember the sick mother. Farmer Harry, as the father was sometimes called, sat for some moments in indignant surprise; his usually colorless cheek now flushed, now pale, his hand supporting his head as he slowly comprehended the matter. 
               "It's a mistake-of course it is!" exclaimed the old man, a few moments after. "Why! are you sure you have the right letter? who is it from?" 
               "From that conceited Belle Westerly," exclaimed Tom, who was walking the floor to and fro, with the letter crumpled in his hard hand. "Here has been foul work. Alice-Alice Graylynn in a jail-a common jail! Just heaven! it unmans me." 
               "Oh! let me go and stay with her-poor, poor, innocent Alice!" sobbed Hattie, whose tears had been flowing unrestrainedly; "let me go, father-oh, she will die! our Alice-our cousin in jail." 
               "It is indeed heavy news," murmured the farmer. "Your mother must not hear it; but gather about the table, children, we will talk the matter over and see what must be done. It is plain she is falsely imprisoned." 
               "Don't ask me to eat, father," said Tom in a choking voice. "I couldn't taste of bread this night." 
               "Nor I either; I can't eat a mouthful!" rejoined Hattie, while Mary sat down dejectedly at the side of her father. 
               "Well, all sit down who will; Linda, my child, you look very pale; don't take this trouble to heart so; it will all come out right. I am afraid your mother will notice something amiss, and I wouldn't dare to let her know." 
               Linda did indeed feel an oppression, a sinking, a deathly faintness at the thought of this disgrace. To her pure mind, the word jail was associated only with criminals and outcasts; the veriest wretches on earth; and to think that one so gentle, so delicate, so spotless in life and conversation as she had always deemed Alice was, even now lying within its grated precincts, locked in with bolts and bars, thieves, and perhaps murderers about her, gave her sensations of unmixed horror. 
               "I'm off to the city to-morrow, father!" exclaimed Tom, at last, pausing abruptly in his walk. "I'll see this Belle Westerly, and hear the thing from her own and her mother's lips. In jail!-our little Alice in jail!" 
               "Oh, let me go!" pleaded Hattie; "please, Tom, do let me go! I shall be company for you, and I can comfort Alice; I am only two years younger, you know, and think if I was there, and none who loved me came to visit me and tell me how much they believed me innocent, it would kill me." 
               "Well, sis, you shall go if father and Linda say so; what says father? 'tis a Christian deed-a deed of charity." 
               "I'm willing," said Linda, smiling through her tears at Hattie; "if it was not for mother, I would go myself." 
               "Well, Hattie; if you can get yourself ready, go in God's name, my daughter, to the stricken and afflicted. My sister's child in jail! What stony hearts could have put her there?" 
               "Oh! Hattie, we needn't make any fresh bouquets," said Mary mournfully, going by herself to cry. Hattie followed her, and during prayers they both sat in a recess, crying softly; and the tears gave way to sobs when the old farmer, in his petition, put up fervent prayers for Alice. 
                
               "Do you suppose there are iron bars to her windows?" whispered Mary, after prayers. 
               "Oh, don't! it sounds so dreadfully; a jail! Why, a jail, Mary, is the blackest, gloomiest, most awful place in the world. They only have iron bedsteads so large, without pillows, or any decent covering; they are locked up with a great iron key-oh, Mary, Mary! it seems as if I couldn't wait till morning to fly to Alice." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               SELF-CONDEMNED. 
                
                  
                      
                        "'Tis fearful building upon any sin; 
                        One mischief entered brings another in; 
                        The second pulls a third, a third draws more, 
                        And they for all the rest ope the door. 
                        Till custom take away the judging sense, 
                        That to offend we think it no offence." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Oh, the dangerous siege 
                        Sin lays about us! and the tyranny." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Guilt is the source of sorrow; 'tis the fiend- 
                        The avenging fiend-that follows us behind 
                        With whips and stings: the blest know none of this 
                        But rest in everlasting peace of mind, 
                        And find the height of all their heaven in goodness." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "If only some warning voice had whispered! 
                        If only some unseen arm had held me back 
                        I had not done it." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "The voice sounded in thine ear; 
                        The arm grasped thy conscience; 
                        Thou woulds't neither hear nor feel." 
                     
                   
                
               THE morning proved dull and threatened rain, but early in its grey light Hattie stood ready attired to take the coach, waiting on the front step for her brother. A thick fog shrouded the air and rested the edges of its folds half way down the hills, while in some places the tree-tops pierced through, giving a weird expression to the landscape. Joined by her brother, who swung a small carpet bag in his hand, the two wended their way slowly to the turnpike road to take the coach. There seemed no beauty in the green lane now. The mist enveloped the trees and the shrubs; the grass was heavy with dew; the sounds abroad were harsh and unpleasant. Hattie looked very neat in her grey linen dress, and her plain straw bonnet out of which peeped her bright curls. Her form and her manners were graceful for a girl of fifteen, and her face one that would command attention for its expression of intellectuality. She was very resolute, and her brave little heart longed to be lodged in the dreary jail, if it might but give some solace to the dearest earthly friend she knew aside from her own family. The coach came rattling along, nearly empty, and Hattie and her brother were on their way to the city. 
               Belle Westerly had grown pale and nervous since the day of her cousin's arrest. It was impossible for her to remain in any position of quiet. Her nights were disturbed by fearful dreams, her days and evenings, as far as practicable, were spent in company; especially, of evenings, did she entertain friends. She grew afraid of Lorine; for it seemed to her that the girl threw out many strange hints; that she had grown very bold in asking favors of late, with such an air and mien, that her mistress dared not refuse her. If the crafty Lorine wanted a dress that Belle had worn often, but that was nevertheless quite good, yet, she she had but to hint and it was hers. Belle had bestowed presents very rarely, as a general thing, but lately her liberality seemed suspicious. Lorine, when in full dress, displayed a handsome gold bracelet that had often adorned the wrist of her mistress. A chain, also, depended from her slight waist-the French girl, like all her race, followed the fashions-and collars of costly workmanship sometimes found their way around her neck. She had also become quite too free in conversation-a matter the proud Belle had always resented, save when she wished to put her maid in particularly good humor; but Belle had grown as strangely meek, as she was haughtily imperious before. 
               "La, yes, Miss Belle, I took the liberty of looking at the shipping list myself; but I didn't see nothing of the young man-what is the name of his ship?" asked Lorine, pertly. 
               "What do you mean?" queried Belle, looking up in unfeigned surprise. 
               "Why, that handsome Mr. Gildersleeve, that liked Miss Alice so well, you know, or seemed to, at any rate. These sailor men have a taking way with them; he'll feel bad for Miss Alice, won't he?" 
               "I should think he would; he liked her as a friend!" said Belle, biting her lip with vexation. 
               "La! we all thought it was settled between them; but here's the paper. Now, what did you say his ship's name was?" 
               "The Flying Cloud," Belle returned, shortly. 
               "Oh yes! what a pretty name; but, dear me, how badly he will feel. I could always see he took to her, and acted very fond like; and he doesn't seem fickle-minded like most young men-far from it." 
               "Lorine, my head aches," said Belle, as gently as she could, for she felt as if she might, if she dared, let loose the passions that revelled in the deeps of her soul. Unaccustomed to subdue her tongue, the trial cost her a mighty effort, and she could not fail to observe the malicious sparkle of Lorine's fiery eye. She went to breakfast in an ill humor, and answered her mother's kind inquiries so shortly that Mrs. Westerly at last said, "Belle, you are growing intolerably cross; what is the matter with you?" 
               "Matter enough. Lorine is impertinent; I can hardly endure her insolence!" uttered Belle. 
               "Discharge her, then. There are plenty that will take her place, and be glad of it. For pity's sake don't make me the scapegoat of Lorine's sins any longer, I beg of you; I have trouble enough in managing my household and my servants, and taking care of company. Now Alice has gone, a double weight seems resting upon me; to be sure she wasn't much help, but she did better than the servants." 
               "I wish we'd let her gone to her cousins, and said nothing about the theft-it worries me!" exclaimed Belle, with difficulty restraining her tears. 
                
               "Why, you were the first and the loudest in condemning her, Belle; how you do run on. I'm sure you urged me up to it from the very beginning. I can't think what has got into you." 
               "Well, I have thought, mamma, that if Lorine or any of the other girls had fastened the theft upon Alice-"she looked up. Lorine stood before her with a sealed note, and as she met the glance of the girl's eye, all power left her. She motioned her to place the billet on the table; then, as she went from the room, Belle, the elegant, polished, self-sustaining lady of fashion, dropped her head on her hands and burst into tears. 
               "Well, well; if I would take on that way, Belle. I'm ashamed of you. Why, like as not the girl didn't hear a word you were saying. If she did, she knows that I suspected the same thing, and spoke of it, and had had her trunk searched." 
               Throwing off her momentary weakness, Belle recovered her habitual calmness, and read the note-an invitation to a select party of pleasure-then, with somewhat drooping manner, she followed Lorine up to her room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               A SHADOW FRIGHTENS GUILT. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The hint malignant, the look oblique, 
                        The obvious satire, or implied dislike; 
                        The sneer equivocal, the harsh reply, 
                        And all the cruel language of the eye; 
                        The artful injury, whose venomed dart 
                        Scarce wounds the hearing, while it stabs the heart." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Serv. 
                        -They're from the country, ma'am. 
                     
                      
                        "Mist. 
                        -Poor dolts, then let them in; I'll soon dispose of them-frighten them with a glance of the eye. But first remove that chair, and that one. If they sit down they'll leave the odor of the barn, perchance; hand me my smelling salts that I may not faint, and now, let them come in." 
                     
                   
                
               "LORINE," she said, as she entered, feigning to have just perused the billet she held, "did you hear what I said as you were coming into the breakfast-room?" 
               "I should think that I shouldn't have ears if I didn't," replied the girl, pertly. 
               "Well, Lorine, I ought not to have spoken so; but I do feel so badly for my cousin in jail, you know"-happening to catch Lorine's eyes, she was again struck dumb by their expression. 
               "We all know you feel bad," said Lorine, pleasantly; but there was a malicious under-current in her steady voice which could not be concealed. "I was saying to Susan, the chambermaid, yesterday, when she was talking of your lightheartedness, says I, 'that's put on; you may be sure she spends many an hour grieving and sorrowing over Miss Alice;'" and again that strange expression gleamed out from the covert glance. "Says I," she continued, "'Miss Belle may seem to be happy; she has a deal of company and has to conceal her feelings as it were; but depend upon it,' says I, 'there's a worm at the root grieving for Miss Alice.'" 
               "Thank you," said Belle, faintly, chilled to the heart by some undefined fear. "Lorine, I don't think I shall wear my flounced glace silk any longer; take it and fit it for yourself." 
               The French girl's black orbs sparkled with pleasure. "Thank you, thank you," she repeated, with a seemingly repentant expression; and her eyes wore the ominous glance no more for that day, at least. 
                
                   
                  THE INTERVIEW. 
                  "Two strangers in the hall, ma'am; I told them that you wasn't at home, and then they asked for Miss Belle. I told them she wasn't at home neither, as Miss Belle always wishes me to in the morning; and they asked when would you either be home. I said about dinner time-four o'clock; and they said they could very well wait the four hours; they were strangers, and didn't know where else to go." 
                  "Dear me!" exclaimed Mrs. Westerly, in great perplexity; "I can't see anybody now. What kind of people are they, that they are willing to wait four hours?" 
                  "Why, sort of common folks that won't take no for an answer; I expect, vulgar, as the saying goes. Shall I tell them to leave the house?" 
                  "Well"-Mrs. Westerly hesitated-"who can they be? What can they want? Would you run the risk, Belle, and let them come up? We must, I suppose, get rid of them civilly, whoever they may be; so many awkward mistakes are happening; tell them to come up," she added, to the servant, who smiled and went to do her errand. 
                   
                  "You can see Mrs. Westerly; she happens to be in," said Lorine, with an insolent manner, turning to leave them. 
                  "Well, won't you tell me where we can see her? Lead the way, if you please," said Tom, rising with dignity and turning his keen glance so reprovingly upon her that the girl yielded instantly, and walked on humbly before him to the room where sat Belle and her mother. Neither of the latter arose, or made the least motion as Tom entered with his sister, but regarded them with an indolent glance. The young man reddened as he stood in the richly appointed apartment; and Hattie, notwithstanding her large stock of self-command, let her eye rove from picture to picture, from the gaudy carpet to the blue and gold ceiling overhead, and the blue and gold paper that covered the walls. 
                  "We are the cousins of Miss Alice Graylynn," said Tom, almost angrily, feeling himself insulted by being permitted to stand. 
                  "Oh! good morning, sir; good morning, miss. Won't you be seated?" exclaimed Mrs. Westerly, her eye now riveted on the noble face and form of the young man. 
                  "Thank you, madam," he replied with an indifferent bow, but not availing himself of a seat. "Sister received a note, yesterday," he added, glancing at Belle Westerly; I hardly need say that we were all thrown into consternation; neither need I repeat to you my firm conviction that my cousin has suffered a great wrong." His voice and lip trembled now. 
                  "What do you mean, sir?" exclaimed Mrs. Westerly, sharply; "the girl stole my money. I would have put any one-you, in jail, if you had done the same thing." 
                  Hattie clung to her brother. He was very white, and his full, dark eye gleamed strangely as he said, "You may think, madam, that the orphan has no friends, but let me tell you she has; those, too, who will stand by her and protest to her entire innocence; and above all, rich woman, she has the orphan's God." 
                  "I shall be very glad if she can clear herself," said Mrs. Westerly, violently excited; "if you cannot talk like a gentleman, sir, before my daughter and myself, we can dispense with your company." 
                  "Oh! brother Tom, hush-hush; do go from here. Don't say any more!" pleaded Hattie, alarmed at her brother's stern brow and flashing eye. 
                   
                  "Don't be frightened, Hattie; I shall go from here when I have said my say. Madam, I was not aware that my language was disrespectful, but this thing goads me almost beyond my ability to bear. My father's family have had a reputation for honesty, both in this and the old country, that no light charge can blacken. Alice, my cousin, was the purest being I ever knew. I would as soon think of guilt in an angel as in her. Alice Graylynn steal! Alice Graylynn a thief? Repeat her name calmly, madam, and then see if you can couple it with theft!" 
                  "I have told you that she has an opportunity of clearing herself," said Mrs. Westerly, more calmly; "but I tell you also, it's my deliberate opinion that Alice Graylynn is- 
                  "Silence!" shouted Tom, hoarsely. Belle and her mother both started from their seats at his vehemence. "I say I will not hear her called a thief: you know in your heart it is false. And you, Miss Belle; had you no compassion, that you could see this innocent, motherless girl ruined? Had you no word to say when, like a common felon, she was carried to the jail? Do you hate her that you have done this thing?" 
                   
                  Belle shrank from his look, trembling from head to foot. "Mother," she said, turning her face, which had grown pale, from the light, "I must leave the room." 
                  "You will stay here, Belle; this person must leave the room. Sir, I will hear no more of your insolent language." 
                  "Madam, I shall say all I think proper," said Tom, firmly; "I have not been, yet, nor shall I be, insolent. I appealed to your daughter, because I can't see how any one could live under the same roof with my cousin Alice and not love her. A more spotless being than Alice Graylynn never lived; she would scorn a mean action; she would sacrifice herself to bless another. I have been with her-till within two years-ever since her mother was put in the ground;" his lip quivered, and he shut his eyes hard as he said this; "and in my very soul, Mrs. Westerly, I know Alice never took the value of a farthing from your house." 
                  "I wish she had never come here!" exclaimed Mrs. Westerly, with vehemence. 
                  "So most devoutly do I; it would have saved a foul sin somewhere," replied Tom, drawing his breath hard. "I see, too," he added, "there's a ship been spoken near here, and if the man who was to marry her comes to the rescue, as he will, if he is a man, he'll leave no stone unturned. I warrant you." 
                  Belle started as if stung when he said this, and her face grew yet more ashy; her fingers trembled; she bit her lip, and shut and opened her eyes violently. Mrs. Westerly lifted her head also, in quick surprise, as she asked, "What do you mean?" 
                  "I mean that my sister Linda has been the confidante of Alice; that Alice told her she should be married to Mr. Gildersleeve in the fall, and she was to get her bridal outfit ready then." 
                  The needle dropped from Belle's powerless fingers, but Mrs. Westerly exclaimed, "Well, well, she was more artful then, than I ever gave her credit for. Absurd! Mr. Lattimer, most absurd! De Witt Gildersleeve is a friend of my daughter-a particular friend of my daughter; he has been coming to the house years before Alice ever saw him. Well, well," she added with a faint laugh, "this is the most cunning thing she has done yet." 
                  "I will not hear my cousin's name coupled with artifice!" exclaimed Tom, his brow growing dark again. "When Alice said she was engaged in marriage to this young man, she told the truth, and I shall stay in the city till he returns; we will see whether an innocent girl can be, with safety, branded a criminal; come, Hattie," and without speaking another word, the brother and sister went out. Mrs. Westerly sat in a sort of stupor for some moments, then turning to Belle, she exclaimed, "Belle, did you ever hear such an absurd story? What does it mean? It can't be possible that that artful girl really ever had any thing serious to say to De Witt Gildersleeve!" 
                  "I'm tired of the whole affair!" exclaimed Belle, hoarsely, while her features worked with inward agitation; "I wish you would n't say any thing more about it." 
                  "But, Belle, this begins to look serious. If Gildersleeve should stand in this relation to Alice,-and I have heard hints before, but have been too stupid to give them heed, it seemed so absurd,-if it is so, I assure you, it looks serious." 
                  A smothered cry was Belle's only answer. She gathered up her work and hurried out of the room, leaving her mother's question unanswered. She was dizzy, sick at heart, wretched beyond all description. Having sold herself to Satan, she was the servant of sin, and Lorine little knew what a thorn pricked the heart of her mistress, when she said, "there's a worm at the root." 
                  "Well, what in the world has got into Belle too?" soliloquized Mrs. Westerly, sitting in serious astonishment. "Poor girl; it hurts her feelings to hear such things about young Gildersleeve. She always liked him, and I thought he always liked her. It can't be;" and again she relapsed into a posture of mazed contemplation. Meanwhile Tom and Hattie went on their way to the jail. 
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               PAINTING A MINATURE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Look again on this fair girl, 
                        The orphan of a village pastor 
                        Who is dead, and hath left her his all,- 
                        His blessing and a name unstained,- 
                        And friends with busy zeal, 
                        That their purses be not taxed, 
                        Place the sad mourner in a home, 
                        Poor substitute for that she hath lost. 
                        A stranger among strange faces, 
                        She drinketh the wormwood of dependence: 
                        She is marked as a child of want,- 
                        The world hateth poverty." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Yes, happy in a prison cell, 
                        If Jesus meet me there- 
                        They cannot rob me of my trust, 
                        My hope in him-and prayer." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Only a sweet and virtuous soul, 
                        Like seasoned timber, never gives, 
                        But though the whole world turn to coal, 
                        Then chiefly lives." 
                     
                   
                
               LORINE had taken the liberty of listening at the door during this interview, appearing only in the hall, as if very accidentally, when Tom and his sister had descended the broad staircase. 
               "Look here," she said, in an undertone, beckoning as she spoke; "do you go to Mrs. Littlejohn's; Mrs. General Littlejohn's, right opposite the jail; she's a real good woman, and you'll hear all about Miss Alice. Don't you worry, she'll get clear. 
               Tom looked steadily in the cunning face of the Frenchwoman. "I tell you she'll get clear," nodded Lorine, and then placing her finger on her lips, opened the door for them. "Remember now, General Littlejohn, exactly opposite the jail," she repeated, and thanking her for the information, Hattie and her brother were left on the marble steps. While they are patiently moving from street to street, breasting the high wind that has just risen, and in momentary fear of a shower, we will look in upon the jail. 
               The rain falls in torrents now; the thick clouds, black and grey, drive over the sky that yesterday looked so blue through the grated window. Alice sits at a table which has been brought in for her accommodation, a box of water colors on her right hand, and paper spread before her. She is intently bent upon her task, and has not noticed that the rain is pouring through the thick air. The face growing into beauty under her hand is that of Mrs. Little-john. She is just touching the cheeks with a spot of crimson, and now softening down the too vivid flush. Yes; there are the gentle eyes, the low forehead with the wavy hair parted in the centre and banded over the ears, the almost infantile mouth, the pure complexion. Alice loves her task, for she smiles almost every moment as she gazes. Her own cheek is pale, but a serene content sits on her brow. Her hair is pushed back in the absorbing interest of her work, and her forehead looks broader, paler, and bluer-veined, giving to her appearance more strength, so to speak, of expression. 
               The room seems,-how different! Two chairs, and by their color we know from what particular room in the house of Mrs. Little-john, they were brought hither. Two or three cheerful pictures hang on the grim stone walls; books and papers are scattered about; the Bible lays open upon the window seat, a boquet of fresh flowers beside it; and the bed is handsomely furnished with snowy counterpane, sheets and pillows, while before it lays one strip of fancifully colored India matting. 
               Since the day of her great and sudden joy,-since the day on which the heavens wore a new beauty, and light sprang up even in the cell of the prisoner,-when all things without and within were renewed, she has worn that calm, happy, spiritual look. And what the tenor of her thought has been, still is, we may see by unfolding yonder sheet that lays beside her inkstand; and while she gazes at the face she is picturing, we will read what her soul said yesterday. 
                      
                        "Pure as an angel I would be, 
                        And spotless as the drifted snow; 
                        No other knowledge would I know, 
                        Of heaven above, or earth below, 
                        Save Christ was crucified for me. 
                     
                      
                        "Pure as the angels! ah, no sun 
                        The brightness of their robes can wear! 
                        White as the light, their garments fair 
                        With pearls of faith embroidered rare, 
                        And they and Holy Christ are one. 
                     
                      
                        "Pure as an angel I would be, 
                        Nor ever thinking thought of sin- 
                        Watching this cleansed heart within, 
                        That Jesus suffered so, to win; 
                        My Jesus! crucified for me. 
                     
                     
                      
                        "Pure as an angel! surely He 
                        Who gave these yearnings will fulfil; 
                        Yes, now I joy to do His will. 
                        I hear his sweet voice-'small and still:' 
                        Child, Christ can ALL THINGS do for thee." 
                     
                  
                
               No one knew, but God and her own heart, how rarely gifted was Alice Graylynn. The unsympathizing natures of her aunt and cousin had fostered the more surely the genius of the orphan; heaven had compensated her for all her sorrows. In a little trunk left in her room were many sweet effusions, that had been made sacred by midnight toil and study. These, since her cousin's imprisonment, Belle had found, and with a burning cheek and envious spirit, read, astonished but not delighted. No; every new proof of the nobility of her rival struck her unworthy heart like an edge of steel; stung her like an adder; crushed her like a hand of iron to the very earth in angry humiliation. 
               But see; Alice has arisen, and lifting the paper, she holds it off a little, a bright, sun-like smile making her gentle face most beautiful. 
               "Oh! how much it is like! how glad I am! I shall prize it all my life-dear, unconscious image of one I love, if you knew how precious even you are to me! why, it surely rains," she adds, looking up in astonishment; ah! if I could paint that sky! those ragged gray clouds, and those of sombre black, yonder. The blush on this one, as if somewhere the sun had touched the storm with his crimson fire; how grandly they roll up, terrace upon terrace, and none but the feet of God have ever walked upon them-oh, mighty being! oh, glorious Creator!" and instinctively Alice bowed the knee, and her soul melted into prayer and praise. 
               At that moment Tom and Hattie alighted from a carriage which they had taken as the rain grew heavy, and went towards General Littlejohn's house. Hattie stood trembling, fearful of a like reception with that of Mrs. Westerly, but Tom bit his lips till the blood nearly came, as he threw one glance over backwards to the heavy stone walls of the jail. A servant led them into the room where Mrs. Littlejohn sat sewing, and the General reading as usual, with spectacles on his nose, tied on by a blue ribbon that his wife had lately added for his convenience, and that contrasted prettily with his nearly snow-white hair. Mrs. Littlejohn arose immediately as they entered, and the General, forgetting the string, snapped it in twitching the spectacles from his forehead. Hattie felt reassured by one glance from that gentle face, and sat down immediately on one of the fairy-like chairs placed at her disposal. 
               "Cousins of Alice!" exclaimed Mrs. Littlejohn, in a tone of great pleasure, "I am truly glad to see you-and yet-"she paused, her thoughts diverted by Tom's sorrowful face. 
               "It has been a sad journey to me;" he said, speaking in a low voice. 
               "I don't doubt it;" responded Mrs. Little-john; "it must indeed have been; and a sad occasion, also, to call it forth. This is my husband-my dear, Alice Graylynn's cousin; and this sweet girl?" she asked inquiringly, taking the hand of Hattie. 
               "My sister, madam." 
               "And you have come to cheer poor Alice-but I should tell you that she is contented, even happy." 
               The General greeted them in his hearty, bluff manner, and added as he made them welcome-"as for the young lady over yonder, she's as innocent of theft as I am." 
                
               "Thank you, thank you, sir;" exclaimed the grateful Tom, a tear or two gathering in his eyes; "it's a comfort to hear you say so. How does she bear it?" he asked, turning to Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "You shall see;" replied the lady. "I will go with you immediately; excuse me for a moment;" and she went out to prepare for a visit to the jail. 
               "Yes, innocent as I am; and she shall be cleared; the thing shall be sifted to the bottom; I have spoken to the best lawyer in the county, and I'll pay him out of my own pocket;" said General Littlejohn, rapidly. 
               Tom held out his hand again; the General shook it heartily the second time, not seeing, or feigning not to see, the tears in the young man's eyes; and Hattie, tender child, was weeping silently, with her handkerchief up to her eyes. 
               "I am ready," said Mrs. Littlejohn, appearing; "the rain has ceased, though I think we shall have more. We will go right over there now. You had better stay in the corridor, while I prepare her for your visit;" she continued, as they entered the jail, Hattie shrinking close to her brother as a feeling of horror came over her; the jail was so dark-the walls so thick and gloomy,-the prisoners so repulsive in looks and bearing, the few they saw. Tom, too, trembled perceptibly in going up the stairs; Mrs. Littlejohn heard her name called softly as she passed along, but she did not pause. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               ANOTHER CONVERSION IN JAIL. 
                
                  
                      
                        "How beams his face! some wondrous change 
                        Hath given him beauty, new and strange; 
                        And dungeon walls, without a gleam, 
                        To him, like gates of pearl would seem. 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Oh! pure religion, dove of peace, 
                        How soon discordant earth would cease 
                        To wage its wars of guilt and crime, 
                        Wert thou her head, her king sublime. 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "The sullen prisoner feels no more 
                        The warring passions, that before 
                        Like hell's dark legions held control 
                        Of every impulse in his soul." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "I believe thee, heavenly spirit- 
                        I embrace thee, gentle dove, 
                        Not of mine, but Christ's great merit, 
                        Shall I this pure bliss inherit- 
                        This sweet fount of heavenly love." 
                     
                   
                
               ALICE sprang forward to meet her friend, joy in every feature. 
               "Do you think of any one you would like particularly to see?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn, affectionately. 
               Alice grew serious again, as she inquired if her cousin Belle had come. 
               "No, dear; a cousin I think you would much rather see," replied her friend, gently. 
               "My cousin Linda? my cousin Tom, I wonder?" asked Alice, her expressive face brightening again; "oh! where are they? let me see them." 
               Mrs. Littlejohn beckoned them in; Tom took the hand of Alice with a strong grasp; his quivering lips, the muscles about which he strove in vain to steady, betraying how much he felt; but Hattie sprang towards her cousin, and hung upon her neck. 
               "Cousin Tom, this is kind in you," exclaimed Alice, entirely forgetting, for the moment, what place she was welcoming them to; indeed, for the last two days, her mind had been in so exalted a condition, that she hardly thought of her imprisonment. 
               "Cousin Alice! you can smile, then." 
               "Smile, yes indeed; Hattie, dear Hattie, don't sob so my darling, you will be sick; come, sit down here by my side; and you, cousin Tom, take that chair; ah! you can't think how comfortable Mrs. Littlejohn has made me here. Tell me how are aunt and Linda, uncle Harry, cousin Harry, Mary-all." 
               "All well, but suffering for you; they little think you wear so pleasant a face," said Tom, half reproachfully, as if her cheerful contented air galled him to witness. 
               "Why cousin Tom, I have good reason to be happy," said Alice, gazing upon him with her soul-lit eyes; "Jesus Christ has met me in this cell, forgiven me my sins; renewed a right heart within me, and made my place of torture a little heaven on earth." 
               Tom gazed at her for a moment, then his eyes fell; there was something in that face he could not fathom, though he thought he could not gaze at its sweet beauty sufficiently. 
               "Do you understand me, cousin Tom?" asked Alice softly. 
               "Yes," he answered, in a tone as low as her own, and then was silent. 
               "And you, Hattie, do you understand what I mean when I speak of having a new heart! a cleansed and purified spirit? oh! my sweet cousin, and you, too, cousin Tom, if you have not done so already, come to Jesus now." 
                
               "How dared they bring you here?" murmured Tom, gazing around the dingy room. 
               "I don't understand that myself, cousin Tom; but I know I am innocent, and I am not afraid to trust my cause to Him. He who shut the mouths of the lions, cousin Tom, will not let the orphan suffer; I fear not; in Him is my trust. Oh! I am so happy to see you," she added, serenely smiling, placing one arm around her cousin Hattie and pressing her to her side. 
               Mrs. Littlejohn had left the cousins alone, and gone down stairs. At the door outside his cell sat Charles, the young forger, but oh! how changed! His face had grown human again: his light hair was combed smoothly from a fair brow, and a mild, calm light shone in his blue eye. 
               "Well Charles!" and the good woman held forth her hand. 
               "O Mrs. Littlejohn, I'm very glad to see you again." The bright eye shone with added lustre as he spoke thus. 
               "Charles, you look so pleased and happy; I hardly dare to ask the cause of this change;" she said, scanning him very closely. 
               "My Bible, and the blessed words you have said, Mrs. Littlejohn," he replied; "I have no language to tell you my great joy." 
               "Thank God!" ejaculated his friend; "tell me all about it, Charles; tell me with the best words you have." 
               "After my mother came you know," he paused a moment, then added, conquering an emotion that made his eyes humid-"I was almost in despair. I cursed and struck my head against the wall; I was absolutely on the point of insanity, and the keeper threatened me with heavier chains. Devils, it seemed to me could not be in greater torment than I; for I had controlled myself while my poor mother was near, so the rage was worse than ever after she had gone. Her kindness, her gentleness, almost killed me; I should have taken my life at the thought of the disgrace she must feel, if I'd had anything to do the deed with. Well, the night wore on; it became very dark but I was in too awful a frame of mind to sleep. I thought of all my past life; it seemed to me as if I had been a fiend from my cradle, and now I had ended by breaking the hearts of my father and mother. My brain burned; I tried again and again to get a breath of air at my grating; I thought as the Bible says the flames of hell had got hold upon me. At last when I had arrived at that state that I could endure it no longer, your words came to me, all suddenly, so suddenly I thought they were spoken then-'no one can be happy who is a sinner;' and all at once the meaning came clear to my mind. 'She said I might be happy even here, even now,' I said to myself; and oh! if I only knew what to do with this misery, oh! if I knew what to do!" 
               "Here again your words came to me; 'go to Jesus,' so I laid there awhile, calmer, trying to realize what I've little thought of before, that Christ was somewhere near; that he could see just how I felt, and then I began to pray to him, first calmly, coldly, but as I went on, I got to be in earnest. Hour after hour I prayed and never stopped no, not so much as a second; I didn't dare to stop; I couldn't stop till at last I got clean worn down and fell on my face from sheer faintness. Then I began to despair again; thinks I, I'm too bad; my heart is too wicked; I've been too great a sinner; it's no use. And then I cried out in my heart mightily, but, I will not give it up; no; I'll die before I give it up; and no sooner had I said that, than oh! such a bright light seemed to shine into me-clear through, it seemed to go, and all the darkness and guilt and misery went before it. Oh! I was happy, happy, happy; too happy to speak or move; yes, thinks I, this is like a palace; oh, I'd rather be here than where I was two weeks ago to-day, with my liberty." He ceased; the tears were running rapidly down his cheeks, but his very face was radiant with holy joy. 
               "And how do you feel toward the prisoners, Charles?" 
               "Feel? why, as if every one of them was the dearest friend I had; oh! if they only could feel as I feel! Oh! if the whole world felt as I feel, there 'd be little sadness here, I'm thinking." 
               "And what have you to say to those who arrested you, Charles?" 
               "I have to say that I shall bless them through all eternity for snatching me from ruin when they did;" he replied, smiling again. 
               "And how do you feel about State prison?" 
               "I know I must go," he said, a momentary shadow flitting over his face; "but," and the light came again as he added in a tone of ecstasy stasy, "I shan't go alone; thank God! Jesus is with the poor convict if he loves him." 
               His look, as he said this, was sublime; he did not appear conscious that two or three of the prisoners were watching and listening to him, with wonder-struck countenances; he was talking of the Saviour-he did not care who listened. "My only regret," he added, a moment after, "is that I must keep silence during my long confinement. I want to talk of Him; to tell others how easy it is to find the way; oh! the love and mercy of Jesus Christ!" 
               "How long do they suppose your term of imprisonment may be?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "From three to five years," he repeated. 
               "And have you thought, if you should live to come out, what course in life you should pursue?" 
               "Go right to the place where I sinned, Mrs. Littlejohn, and live like a Christian. I know you would encourage me-I know all good people would encourage me." 
               "That's the spirit, my son; you are a child of God, a true Christian. Oh! the mercy of my Father! what hath he done for you and me? Do you talk to the prisoners here?" 
               "Those who will listen without oaths and imprecations, most gladly do I tell them what Christ has done for me; and oh! the little Bible that you gave me, if it was the only one in the world, and this place were heaped with jewels, I would not change it for them-no, no, no! blessed book!" 
               "Dear God! I thank thee," murmured Mrs. Littlejohn; "these two souls repay me for the many years I have labored in tears." 
               "Mrs. Littlejohn, don't stop!" said Charles, earnestly; "talk to all of them just as you did to me. Oh! if I knew what to do for them; oh! if I only knew how to bring the knowledge of Christ to them. 
               "Pray for them, Charles." 
               "I do, moth-"he started and looked up with a smile; "I was going to call you mother," he said; "you do seem indeed like a mother to me." 
               "I am very willing," she answered, smiling back, "you seem like a son to me-God bless you! You have written of this to your mother, I hope." 
               "Oh yes, this very morning; by this time she may be reading it. She is a few miles out of the city, and if my father is not too sick she will come here to-day or to-morrow." Mrs. Littlejohn passed to the cell of Jack Mystic. He looked up as she stood there, and the first expression of intelligent welcome that she had ever met in his face, shone upon her. 
               "Well, ma'am; good morning, ma'am; here I be at the old book." 
               "And how do you like it?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "Well, middling. Look here, now, I don't believe in all these things. I think that God's too merciful of his creatures to do what this book says." 
               "Do you believe God made you kill that poor little boy?" 
               He dropped the book and sprang to his feet with an expression that alarmed her. "Come, now!" he exclaimed, "I ain't going to have nobody twit me of that thing;" and his features worked convulsively. 
               "You have many times broken man's law," said Mrs. Littlejohn, solemnly, "and man can punish you; you have broken God's law, 'thou shalt not commit murder;' and do you think if man is so strict to keep his word, and his law, that God will let you go free? No, no, poor sinner, not unless you repent for all the sin you have committed, and obtain the pardon of the great Being whom you have disobeyed." 
               The man stood glaring at her, but little by little his look softened, he picked up the book, threw it with savage earnestness upon the bed, and sitting upon the iron edge of his bedstead, he cowered down, holding his shaggy brow with both hands. 
               "I knows it's States prison for life or the gallus," at last he muttered with something like a groan; "but I didn't go for to harm the boy; my temper overcome me, and I laid on harder than I meant to;" and he began to whimper as he sat there, his coarse black hair falling over his hands. 
               "You are trying to excuse yourself, but God will take no excuse from man; 'the soul that sinneth it shall die.'" 
               "Well, then, I must die, I 'spose," said the man, despairingly. 
               "No, for Jesus Christ came to save just such as you; and she went on explaining, in the simplest language, the death and mediation of our blessed Lord and Master. Becoming interested as she proceeded, Jack Mystic raised his bushy head, and fixed his repulsive eyes on her face. By his questions he was not, evidently, thoroughly imbruted, for all this seemed new to him. He appeared like one who had never been inside the church door in his life-probably never heard the name of Jesus save in oaths-and thus, wicked as he was, he was more ready to receive the gospel than those who sit from Sabbath to Sabbath and listen to the man of God, whose judgments have been long convinced, but whose hearts are Bible and sanctuary-heartened. 
               Returning to the room of Alice, after she had prayed with Jack at the door of his cell, Mrs. Littlejohn found with surprise that an hour had passed. Alice still sat with her arm about Hattie, the latter leaning her head against the shoulder of her cousin. The young Christian was talking with shining eyes and animated gesture, and Tom sat looking at her, as if she were nothing less than an angel. 
               "You must make my house your home while you stay in the city," said Mrs. Littlejohn to Tom, "and you and your sister can come over every day." 
               "O! do let me stay with Alice, please let me stay with Alice; I came on purpose; I can't leave her here all alone in this dreary place. Do ask the jailer to let me stay." 
               "My dear cousin, I cannot deprive you of your liberty," said Alice, softly; "besides, I question whether they would let you stay. Look at my pale cheek; it would be a pity to pale your roses so!" 
               "Oh! let me stay-do, do!" cried the child, bursting into tears and sobbing violently; "do let me stay-I will go and beg the jailer." 
               "Stop, dear, I will see the jailer and do the best I can for you; still, I do not think it possible he will allow it, and perhaps it is not right. What do you think, sir?" turning to Tom. 
               "That as her heart seems so set upon it, if she can she had better stay," replied Tom. "I'm not sure but she would pine more out of jail than in," he added, with a sad smile, glancing toward Alice. 
               The jailer was astonished; said it was a teetotal new kink-must be a queer girl-but seeing it was Mrs. Littlejohn, and if she 'd answer that the motive was perfectly proper, why, he didn't know but he might as well say yes. So the overjoyed Hattie threw off bonnet and shawl, and snuggled up again against Alice. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               ENLIGHTENING IGNORANCE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Come unto him just as I am? 
                        I am very poor." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "He will make you rich even 
                        To the half of His kingdom." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "I am gray in sin, though young in years, 
                        I have committed every iniquity." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "He knows all your wickedness, 
                        He will cleanse you of all your guilt." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Ah! but I know not how to come to this Saviour. 
                        I am very ignorant." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Christ will be your teacher; 
                        He will give you to read in the book of his love." 
                     
                   
                
               "WHEN you coming agin, ma'am?" asked Jack Mystic, in a softened tone, as Mrs. Littlejohn stood, on her return, near his cell, talking with another prisoner. 
               "To-morrow-every day, if you wish to talk with me." 
                
               "Well, I wish you'd explain this thing to me,-what has I got to do?" 
               "Leave off your sins; hate your sins, and believe on Jesus Christ; believe that he will give you a new heart." 
               "Yes 'm, you've told me all about the heart, and so on, now what has I got to do? I ain't got no sins here to leave off." 
               "Why yes, your heart is sinning every moment that you don't give it to Christ. Christ wants you to be saved. Holy as he is, and wicked as you have been, this great and divine being loves you. He is holding forth his arms this very moment towards you; he is saying to you, 'Come unto me.' He is calling you his son; he is saying 'though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as wool.' All he wants of you is to give him your heart." 
               "I wish he 'd take mine!" cried Jack Mystic; "but I've committed wickedness enough to sink a city, and what could he do with such as I?" 
               "You forget you are speaking of God-the highest power in the universe; greater than princes and kings; he who made you and all created things." 
               "That's true, ma'am," replied the man, humbly, fumbling over the leaves of the book which he had taken again; "but I 'm a poor, ignorant cretur." 
               "You are not ignorant of the way of salvation, for God has sent me here to tell you all about it. If you die now, without repentance, you have no excuse," said Mrs. Littlejohn, solemnly. 
               "No more I haven't ma'am," replied Jack, all his ferocious bearing gone; "but it seems such a stretch to think that he can make me a Christian like you've been talking about." 
               "Did you believe I would lend you that book when you asked me for it?" 
               "Why, yes, in course," he answered, looking up. 
               "What made you?" she queried; "what caused you to believe I would let you have it?" 
               "Why, you give the other prisoners books; besides, you promised me." 
               "Well, now, exercise the same feeling towards Christ. He has promised he will receive you if you go to him; pray, believing that, or else don't pray at all; and just as sure as you got my book for the asking, just so sure you will get the love of your Creator in your soul. Believe he can do it for you, because he has done it for others. Charles," she continued, "will you come here a moment?" The young man advanced quickly. "Charles, this man says he wants to be a Christian; will you tell him how?" 
               "Come to Christ! oh, come to Christ!" repeated Charles, pressing his hand through the grating and siezing the great brown hand of the other. "O my friend! Christ died for you. I came here hardened and wicked, but God has heard my prayers, and pardoned me; forgiven me all my sins, and made me-ah! happier than I can tell. O my friend! perhaps you are to die; don't run the risk of God's displeasure; he gives you time to repent-repent now." 
               "I'll try," cried the man, wholly broken down. 
               "No, no; I will; that's the word to say. The minute you say that, as I did, and never leave it, that minute he will come right in your heart." 
               "O God! O God! forgive me! oh, forgive me!" moaned the man, in broken accents. "I've been the worst wretch that ever lived. O God! my heart is black clean to the core; my heart is rotten, O God! I'm not fit to be forgiven-but I'm sorry-oh! I'm sorry for every thing I've done; O Lord! I'm rotten to the core; O Lord, have mercy!" His voice was lost in sobs. Not a dry eye was there near the scene; some of the hardest prisoners wept aloud, and one of them ran violently away to hide his emotion; Tom looked on with wet eyes; Mrs. Littlejohn in vain attempted to speak. Just then the clouds parted; the grey gloom of the prison gave way to the full, bursting splendor of the sun; the very prison bars seemed changed into gold. Jack Mystic sprang to his feet, and saw his cell illuminated with the beautiful beams that came streaming in. "Is it the sun?" he asked, with a look in which amazement, and fear, and a strange pleasure were blended; and then drawing a long breath, he sank down on the side of his rude couch. 
               "Has God forgiven you?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "Something has happened," replied Jack, solemnly; "I feel as the man that dreamed says he felt when that great burden fell off; my shoulders is light. I told you," he continued, "that I hadn't never been inside of a church; but I recollected, when I were on my knees there, that I did go to a Sunday school twict; that was twenty years ago, and I was the matter of ten. It was a girl as met me in London, when I was playing ball, one Sunday, in the streets, and as she was a pretty, neat-figured girl, thinks I, I'll go to have some fun. So I went, and she sets me to learning a verse; and I learnt that verse; and when I war on my knees just now, that very verse comes to my mind; and I ain't thought of it before for twenty year; and this is the verse if I don't disremember: 'Come unto me all ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest.' It seemed as if somebody said it." 
               "And now will you read the Bible?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "Bless you, kind madam, I've been reading it all this while; I kind o' wanted to brave it out and not tell you of it. I don't know," he continued, "I think as how I might have been cut out for something better than the man I've been, and, if you won't laugh at me, I'll tell you that I've been writing some things down, as far as I recollect them. I learned myself to write, ma'am. I ain't never had no eddication; as it were better for me, doubtless, could I have had an eddication, and therefore the writing is of the poorest. If I 'm to swing," he added, mournfully, "I 'd like you to read what I've sot down, so you may see that I've had mighty hard times in my short life, and what the treatment of people has driven me to." 
               "Let me have it now, Jack," said Mrs. Littlejohn, "I may be able to do some good with it; give it to me now." 
               "It's spelled bad, and writ bad," said the man, turning his back in order to reach the manuscript, "but here it is; if it leads you to pity poor Jack, why, so let it be; it's all very right." 
               "Jack!" 
               "Well, ma'am," responded the man, reaching out his hand to grasp hers, which was extended. 
               "You believe I'm a sincere friend?" 
               "Believe it! indeed I does, ma'am; I knows it. It's not many would come among such creatures as us, and talk and do as you have done;" and drawing one hand across his eyes, the man half turned away. 
               "Well, Jack, then if you believe me and respect me, I want you to promise me that you will worship God, earnestly, in your heart. I don't want you to love this religion just because you will die happier, or bear your troubles with more composure. Death is only one of the tests of religion, and sometimes not a reliable one. 'Life is the time to serve the Lord,' and the Christian religion is given us to be lived from moment to moment, and from hour to hour. Now, Jack, I don't want you to neglect prayer, nor forget to exercise your newly found faith. If you do these, Jack, though in prison and expecting sentence of death, many a man living in his palace, with no thought of care, exulting in health and strength and revelling in pleasure, might envy poor Jack Mystic in his dark and narrow cell." 
               "I will pray, ma'am! Every thing looks changed to me now; it seems as if a light had come into me to show me what was aright and what was wrong. If it ain't bad to speak so ma'am, I've been in torment, and I'm just in heaven, now; I don't feel no wicked thoughts-not one, ma'am; and last night I was full of 'em. I thought to myself what I would do to the man that helped get me in jail, and I went to killing him, in my mind, ma'am; killed him dead, and then went to the grog shop, and did just what I've done before. I seemed to love to think on them things; and my companions-the wickedest set of men you ever heard of,-I seemed to be with them in mind, being just as wicked as I could be. But something frightens me now, when I think of it; their faces all look changed-dark and scowling like; I want to edge away from 'em; I don't want my mind to rest upon 'em even for a minit. And when I think of Christ, seem 's if I 'm all full of a new feeling-a clean, light, easy feeling-and oh, dear! if I didn't have no stain of blood on my hands!" 
               "Though your sins be like scarlet," whispered Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "I know; blessed be the words! Don't you think Christ will pity me for having never been taught the right way from my cradle, ma'am?" 
               "He pities all his erring creatures;" said Mrs. Littlejohn. "He pitied Cain, after he had killed his brother." 
               "Oh! then he pities poor Jack," cried the man, breaking down, and sobbing heavily. "O ma'am, heaven's thanks be on you for what you said to me, for what you've done for me. Everybody despised me, and I hated everybody for it; I was mean and low and dirty; not fit to speak to a Christian woman, not fit to be spoken to, and yet you came here and took these hands in yours,-these bloody hands!" 
               "You forget, Jack, that Christ has washed out the blood." 
               "Yes'm; but how will I be happy if I've sent that boy unprepared? Oh, he was a good little thing, ma'am; he always said his prayers night and morning-"he paused, entirely overcome by his emotions. 
               "And then he loved me, ma'am-oh yes, he loved me. He'd blister his fingers a working for me; he 'd go out in the snow without shoes to do a good turn by me; he'd beg for me; he'd set by me when I've laid down sick on a cellar floor; he was a kind little feller-oh, he was a kind little feller-I didn't go to kill him-it was that cursed rum! oh, my little Jack! And when I come to and seen him dead," continued the man, working his hands convulsively, "when I seen him laying there, with his clothes tore from his back, on the old fire place; when suthin' said to me, 'there's the boy as has been your best and innocentest friend; who's took all your hard knocks jest as if they was in course, and he didn't expect nothing else; there's the boy as smiled at you after you'd give him a beating; there's the boy as curled round your feet like a dog, to keep 'em warm; there he is, laying like a log. You can't kick him no more; you can't beat him no more in your drunken tantrums; he ain't got no feeling now in that blue face-O Lord! such a feeling came over me, that I just tore my hair out by the handful. So, when they told me how to git clear, says I, at the first, 'No! I'll hang for it; I ought'r hang for it; I killed the boy, and I aint a going to tell no lie about it-oh!-if that boy ain't in heaven, can I go there?" 
               "Leave that with God," said Mrs. Littlejohn, after a moment, wiping her eyes as she spoke-for the man's emotions were terribly earnest, and thrilled her to the very heart's core-"he is a merciful and pitiful Creator. Little Jack, I have no doubt, was prepared to die; it is for you, now, to make your entire peace with God." 
               He was silent, sitting with both elbows on his knees, both hands covering his face, sobbing, trembling, weeping. Thinking it best to leave him with himself, Mrs. Littlejohn and Tom wended their way from the jail. 
               The old General was walking the floor with his hands behind him, his spectacles depending from his forefinger. 
               "I'm very anxious about the return of this young Gildersleeve," he said, as he walked, turning to Tom. "Well, wife," he asked, "how are your jail-ahem!-the, the prisoners to-day?" checking himself, as he thought that Alice was among them. She recounted, in a pleasant way, what she had that day witnessed. 
               H'm! h'm," said the General; "I suppose you believe 'em all!" 
               Mrs. Littlejohn did not reply, but gazed with an imploring glance at her husband as she left the room. 
               "The murderer too!" he ejaculated; "h'm! well, if such hardened cases are getting religion, it's time for young folks like you and me," he added jocularly, turning to Tom. 
               "I can only answer for myself, sir;" replied the young man, in a quiet voice; "I felt it was time for me years ago; and I sought and obtained it, I humbly hope." 
               "H'm! h'm!" hemmed the old man, taken aback by the unexpected reply, and the solemnity of his manner; and he winked his eyes hard, and puckered up his mouth, whistling apparently to himself; then turning, he gazed thoughtfully a moment from the window, and left the room. 
                      
                        "Oh! listen, man; 
                        A voice within us speaks the startling words, 
                        'Man, thou shall never die!' Celestial voices 
                        Hymn it around our souls; according harps 
                        By angel fingers touched, when the mild stars 
                        Of morning sang together, sound forth, still, 
                        The song of our great immortality." 
                     
                  
                
               "Thou shall never die!" the thought had fastened on the old man's soul. 
               Meanwhile Mrs. Littlejohn had repaired to her chamber to examine the manuscript given her by Jack Mystic. It was a curious compilation of rough paper, and rude spelling, and the writing was a scrawl. Still, with much painstaking,-after she had laid bonnet and shawl away, subdued the intense light of the sun that streamed in a flood over the apartment, drawn up an easy chair before her own writing-desk, and patiently sat down to her task,-she found it decipherable, and sometimes the falling tear told with what feeling and interest she read. It is not needful that this rough story should be given to our readers in its crude, illegible, ungrammatical state, so we shall take the liberty of presenting it in our own way, only striving to assimilate the style sufficiently to the character, to make it as interesting as it seemed to us. 
                
                  JACK'S STORY. 
                  I WAS born in London, in a black, smoky street, or rather, a narrow court. The sun never got into them miserable places, nor into the houses; and poor children didn't have to put bonnets or hats on their heads to keep them from being burned. I guess there was forty children in the court where my father and mother lived. Some of 'em was in cellars, some in garrets, and some all over in the great, black houses that stood so close together they leaned on each other. I never remember of going into a room that wasn't full of rat holes, or that had any paper on the walls; if it had it was mighty soon tore off. Some of the women in the court didn't do nothing but set with their arms on their knees all day; some of 'em took in washing; some was always sick, and others drunk. My own father and mother lived on the first floor of a great house that had once been very handsome; indeed, they all had been, and there was some colors all round it, where they had been paintings, I expect. My mother was always sick, and my father very cross and ill-tempered. I had one little sister; her I loved as I never loved any thing else. She was so little that people laughed at her, and so weak that she couldn't walk right well when she was three years old. When I was nine, and she was six, there was hard times in London. People begun to get sicker and grow paler, and the men staid at home in the day time, and smoked their pipes, and kicked the children round. They gathered in corners to talk, and shake their heads, and smoke, smoke, smoke, as long as the tobaccy lasted. When that was gone they was crosser than ever. 
                  There was lots of shops jest round the street from where I lived, and I'd often seen the men a comin' out after they'd got their drinks. They was nice looking shops with yeller lanterns and red lanterns and green lanterns-all sorts of colors. And the lights looked very bright and cheerful out into the street, and I used to think before my father sent me there, they was strange places, for the men never did any thing very bad till they had come out of one of them gin-shops. 
                   
                  "Well, the times kept getting harder and then the sickness broke out-a great fever. My mother took it first, and she jest wasted and wasted, till one day she called me to her bed-it was a heap o' straw in the corner, and she was covered with some old clothes, for we had sold almost every thing, to get somethin' to eat. Says she, 'Jack I'm a going to die, and leave you and Nellie, and I want you to promise me you'll take good care of Nellie.' I didn't hardly know what she meant, but it was just atween twilight and the dark, and her face looked so white and changed like, that it set me to crying, and that set Nellie to crying, and then mother began to cry, though it seemed as if she could n't hardly, her breath came so hard; and her face frightened me; it seemed as if I couldn't get out of the way of her starey eyes. But presently I see that she  didn't cry any, nor move-nor the clothes didn't move atop of her as they had been, so me and Nellie crept to a corner; and it grew darker and darker, and Nellie fell asleep on my knee, and I didn't dare to whimper for it was so dark. 
                  When my father come home he was drunk, as he had been every day for a long time, and as soon as he got a light he begun to look for me, and when he found me he struck both me and Nellie till my little sister cried and screamed; but for all we made such a noise mother didn't wake up. 
                  "Then my father went and looked at her, and gave a great cry, and run out of the room. Pretty soon somebody come with a coffin and put my mother in and carried her off. We didn't have no funeral. By that time, Nellie and I was very sick, so we was carried to the hospital. She laid in one bed, and I in another right by her side. I don't remember how long we both laid sick, but I know I got well first, and had to leave Nellie in the Hospital. I lost sight of my father then. I went back to the old place but he wasn't there, and most everybody had died, so they couldn't tell me any thing about him. I don't know how I lived then; I slept anywhere and begged my food or took it out of the barrels by the side of the rich houses, where they put their swill, and every day I went to see Nellie. 
                  "She got better at last, so she could come out, and then I didn't know what to do with her. I couldn't find my father; I expect he had died in some hospital. Nellie was very sickly; we used to walk round the city, and sometimes I'd sing, by which way we got some pennies once in awhile. So it kept on-we lived anywhere and slept anywhere for years and years; she never learning nothing-me never learning nothing but wickedness. But bad as I was, I wouldn't let her be bad; and when she was twelve and I fifteen, I got us both places; she in a factory, and I on board ship. 
                  "Well, I couldn't begin to tell you what I suffered on board the ship. The captain used to lash me, and cut me with a marlin' spike, and swear at me and kick me till he almost killed me. So when I went home to Nellie again-a year had passed-I wasn't like the same boy; I'd growed very wicked. Well, Nellie was thirteen now, and a good looking girl though she was pale and very small, yet. She was a good creature too,-a good, pious girl, for she had got to going to meetin's, and she used to talk to me about my ways; but bless you, I didn't understand. I'd been so much with wicked people, and been cuffed and kicked and treated so, that it seemed as if there wasn't nothin' decent in me; but I loved her.
                   
                  "Well on coming back from my third voyage, I found my sister married, but looking sicker and badder than ever; and it almost killed me when I knew that poor Nellie had got an awful wicked husband. She never dreamed of it till she had been married some time and he had come home drunk and beat her. Then I wanted Nellie to go away from him and I would take care of her, and I'll never forget how she looked when she said-'O Jack! you drink and do jest as bad as he does.' 
                  "Well, poor girl, she had a hard life of it. I used to carry her some money once in awhile, but I mostly spent it wickedly before I got near her. She never told her troubles but they was killing her. Four, six, seven, eight years went on, and she had buried six of her children, and had only one left, and that was poor little Jack. I had come home and hadn't left the ship, when somebody come aboard, and says he, 'your sister's dead.' 
                  "It was a dreadful shock and it kept me sober too. I went to her house in a worse court than where we had been born, for she lived in a cellar. There she laid, a smile on her poor patient face, and a baby crying beside her. I never shall forget it; she looked as if she had suffered something wrong every minit since she'd been born; it was written all over her. I paid for a decent funeral, and I put the boy in a decent home. Oh, if I had only let him stay there! But no; I must take him over here to 'Merica, and leave follering the seas to become a gambler on shore, and a decoy for sailor boarding house keepers. I treated that child well enough when I was sober; he loved me and followed me whether I was good or bad; he'd a died for me, same's his mother did for that brute she called husband; he was just that meek, loving thing. 
                  "Well I come home one night crazy drunk. The little feller tried to do every thing to please me but I wouldn't be pleased. I kicked him and cuffed him, and threw him about like a dog. Then I told him to go to bed, and he crawled into his bunk. I overheard him saying his prayers which the good woman he used to live with had taught him. That put the devil in me-to hear the child pray. I pulled him out of bed, and whipped him for it, and give him one unlucky blow that killed him. 
                  "And now I've got to die for it; it seems a strange sort of life I've led, when I look back. Nobody ever cared for me, nor respected me, and I never cared for myself, nor respected myself. I felt somehow as if I couldn't help being wicked, and it was'nt till the lady came into jail here, and talked with me as nobody ever talked before, that I begin to see what I might possibly have been. Well, it's all over now; I'm a man only thirty years old this month, and here I've got to die with a rope around my neck. But I trust the few days I will live, I'll be a different man. I feel different; I feel as if there hadn't been no excuse for me. I didn't need to be a drunkard, for I seen what way my father and other men went. I didn't need to be a gambler, for something always told me it was wrong, and I could a' got an honester living. This is my life, a short and a bad one; and may the Lord have mercy on my soul." 
                  "Amen!" ejaculated Mrs. Littlejohn, as she refolded the manuscript and laid it carefully away. 
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               HOMEWARD BOUND. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Oh! it gladdeneth much my very soul 
                        The smallest ship to see; 
                        For I know where'er a sail is spread, 
                        God speaketh audibly." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "See how, beneath the moonbeam's smile, 
                        Yon little billow heaves its breast, 
                        And foams and sparkles for awhile- 
                        Then murmuring, subsides to rest. 
                        Thus man, the sport of bliss and care, 
                        Rises on time's eventful sea; 
                        And, having swelled a moment there, 
                        Thus melts into eternity." 
                     
                   
                
               GO back with us, reader, a period of some twenty days. 
               Our scene changes now to the wide expanse of waters, and a solitary ship, ploughing her way from gently rolling billow to billow. It is nearing twilight. The blush of the sun is touching the tops of the waves for the last time; the blush lingers yet in the mid-sky, and crimsons the swelling sails. To the east, the ocean in the distance changes from blue to a rich sea-green; from that, to a dull gray, and thence melts into the sky, which on that side of the horizon cannot be distinguished from the far waves. Two men stand on the quarter deck, looking intently at the distant clouds; one of them the youthful commander, the other a passenger, an old and somewhat weather-beaten man, who came on board just as the vessel was getting under way. The western sky presents a series of magnificent pictures; the grand masses of vapor are rolling up in their floating veils-the choicest splendors of the day. The one on which they gaze is matchless in beauty-a feast which may linger in the vision years after it has faded. As if to give the mariner one glimpse of the land upon the wide waste of waters, this scene discloses hills, rivers, and winding roads, so substantial in appearance, so frail in reality! Another is a bleak and mountainous region; but a plain spreads in front, and one white tent gleams there, with a shadow like a maiden standing in the opening. 
               "It is well worth an ocean voyage to see sights like that, sir," said the younger man, raising his straw hat as he spoke, and allowing the breeze to lift the brown curls from his temples. 
               "Ah! indeed it is; I have seen many like it on these same waters," replied the elder man; but for the finest sunsets in the world, give me America, and the coast of Australia. It is wonderful, the variety of shapes the clouds assume in the land I have but just left. The brazen lustre of the sun tinges the whole heavens, and covers the whole earth; and sometimes seems descending in showers of gold from heaven to the hills and fields below. You have never been to Australia yet?" 
               "Never; my calling has taken me, hitherto, only as far as England. If, however, I should keep the command of this vessel for the next six years, I shall see more of the world yet." 
               "Pardon me-how old are you, sir?" asked the elder gentleman, as he seated himself. 
               "Twenty-four in December next." 
               "At your age, young man, I took command of my first vessel," replied the other, with his air of habitual sadness; "but I was one of the unfortunate kind. Providence, sir, saw fit that I should meet with shock after shock; disappointment after disappointment. But it has been right, young man, all right; I can truly say He has guided me by a way I knew not. Till within one year, my young friend, I have hardly known what it was to have a dollar in my pocket." 
               De Witt Gildersleeve, for it was he, looked his surprise at this announcement. 
               "Yes, sir; wrecked the last time near the shores of Australia, I was the only person out of nineteen that survived starvation, and was saved by a passing vessel. They landed me on that barren country, friendless, and penniless. Then I said to myself, 'I will not follow the sea again, God's hand is on me;' and I wandered into the wilds, wretched beyond description. For many weeks I lived upon berries and the game I could contrive to snare, and at last I fell in with a company of herdsmen, all of the worst possible stamp of character, and then God seemed to say to me, 'stay.' I did stay. For nearly twelve years I worked with those men. They called me their teacher. I instructed them; I established daily worship and Sabbath service, and the place where I first fixed my lot a wanderer, and seemingly an outcast, is now a flourishing colony, with two churches, three school-houses, and an orderly and Christian population of nearly seven hundred men, women, and children." 
               "And this was all your work?" exclaimed young Gildersleeve, turning towards him with a manner full of respectful attention. 
               "My Master's work," said the other, impressively. "How often I have thanked Him that I was led thither through a way that I knew not-a mysterious way! The people all love me as their spiritual guide; revere and consult me; and, sir, those with whom I began this good work, and who have since labored with me, were every one of them State prison convicts, sent from the English hulks; depraved to the very last degree; more like animals in their tastes and habits, than men, and almost destitute of the knowledge that there was a God." 
               "Shall you return to Australia, sir?" asked the young man, respectfully. 
               "I left a daughter in the United States; if, on my return, I find her yet living, and in the same good hands to which I entrusted her, I shall leave with her that which will render her independent; or she may wish to take her life in her hand and return with me to become a missionary. Ah! what hopes and fears agitate my breast by turns, when I think of the chances of meeting with my child! Alas! she may be no more." 
               For some moments the stranger was silent, plunged in deep meditation; then said, abruptly, "Have you heard of the gold discoveries in Australia?" De Witt replied that he had. 
               "I, sir, was one of the first to find the rich veins, cropping out here and there in the valleys, and along the river sides. I have with me, now, some splendid specimens of gold, weighing-" 
               The young man bent over, whispering, "be cautious, if you please, how you speak of money-we nearly had a mutiny on our passage out in consequence of the large quantity of gold carried by one of the passengers." 
               "I heard of that brave exploit, sir," replied the elder stranger, gazing with a look of admiration at the young captain; "are the mutineers on board?" 
               "Oh no; I sent them by a homeward bound brig, and, as directed by the owners, took charge of the ship. You should know, sir, the captain died when we were but nine days out, so I assumed the responsibility of the station, having before gone out in the capacity of master." 
               "And did you have a sick captain on your hands with the rest of your trouble? pray, how did you manage?" 
               "Among the crew," replied the young man, "was one Christian Portuguese sailor, a long resident in America, though; he has sailed in this ship seven years. Sir, do you see that gray-headed man busy on a bit of iron, aft?" 
               The old gentleman peered through the gathering twilight, and saw an odd figure, with a conical woolen cap perched atop his head, in a blue shirt and leathery white trowsers, intently engaged upon some trifle he held in his hand. 
               "He is one of the most devoted Christian sailors, sir, that ever lived. The crew saw that he was not fit for a tool, and they determined not to take him into their councils. The old man declares that God told him of the conspiracy in a dream, and I don't know but he did. After he became convinced of the horrible plot, he devised several methods by which to make me aware of the ship's danger. Sometimes times-he is very cunning at carving-he would drop a chip in my way with a representation of one man killing another. This awakened my curiosity, and seeing that he looked at me much, I began to watch him. He frequently fixed his eyes steadily upon my face, then turned to the crew with a mournful shake of the head. I saw that others watched old Antonio, as well as myself, and my suspicions were roused. The captain's mortal sickness made me more guarded, while it rendered them careless. We had three mates, strong, athletic men, with whom I consulted, and we soon saw that what was to be done must be done quickly. 
               I went to the captain one day when he was evidently dying, told him the danger I thought him in, and asked him if he would like to bid his men farewell. He signified that he would, and-I don't like to dwell on the particulars, sir; suffice it to say that I stationed one of the mates at the cabin door, thoroughly armed, one by my side, and left the strongest and stoutest for action. Then I addressed the men; told them that their captain would, in all probability, die before the next day; assembled them in the after cabin, and directed that they should come one by one and take their last farewell of their dying commander. He who came first was this Portuguese, and he seemed struggling to communicate something. 'Not now, my man,' I whispered, 'leave all to me.' 
               "One by one the wicked sailors came out, suspecting no evil, and chuckling, no doubt, at the thought that the captain's death would advance their cruel designs, and one by one they were led by an armed man, and forced calmly but sternly into the hold of the ship. We secured them all; set a watch; fastened down the hatches, and my mates, myself, and the faithful Portuguese were the masters of the ship, for the captain died before the last man had disappeared. So quietly was it done that he heard no noise, no resistance; and the men, stunned by the suddennes of the action, hardly attempted to defend themselves. There were twelve of them down there, sir, and then we found how deep laid had been their designs. Every one of us was doomed-three mates, six passengers, myself, the captain, and the good Christian Portuguese sailor, were all to be murdered in cold blood-the ship to turn her course and become a pirate vessel. How often have I thanked God that he gave me the courage to do this act; and it was not a moment too soon; that night was to consummate their rebellion." 
               "O my young friend, how should this great deliverence have led you to God!" 
               "It did, sir, I humbly trust; my ship is under Christian colors, and now, if you will join us below, sir, it is our hour for evening worship." 
               The two walked down into the cabin. It was as luxuriantly furnished as a parlor; the panels of the state rooms were richly gilt; the crimson sofas were not yet hidden by their sea-coverings, for the ship had started only that morning from London. The carpets were of the finest and brightest Brussels pattern, and the rest of the furniture corresponded. A handsomely stocked library, full of standard works, gave both eye and intellect a feast of good things, for the bindings were as beautiful as the interior was entertaining. De Witt Gildersleeve took from thence a Bible, and as all but the man at the wheel were summoned to prayers, the stranger in deep, hearty tones, read from the sacred word, and then they all knelt down together, the sailors, the passengers, and their commander, and offered up prayer to the Most High. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               FATHER AND CHILD. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Oh, it is life! departed days 
                        Fling back their brightness while I gaze; 
                        'Tis Alice's self-this brow so fair, 
                        Half curtained in this glossy hair, 
                        These eyes, the very home of love, 
                        The dark twin arches traced above 
                        These red ripe lips that almost speak 
                        The fainter blush of this pure cheek, 
                        The rose and lilly's beauteous strife- 
                        It is-ali no!-'tis all but life." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Clear on the expansion of that snow-white forehead 
                        Sits intellectual beauty, meekly throned; 
                        Yet oh! the expression tells that thou hast sorrowed, 
                        And in thy yearning, human heart, attoned 
                        For thy soul's lofty gifts." 
                     
                   
                
               AFTER the service was over, one of the men still lingered behind; it was the Christian Portuguese sailor. He stood awkwardly twisting his queer looking cap, and glancing over towards the young man, who did not for some moments observe him. At last, seeing that he stayed behind the rest, De Witt accosted him pleasantly: "What is it, Antonio; did you wish to speak with me?" 
               "If you please," said Antonio, twirling his cap more violently, "I like to say someting to the other gentleman." He had never spoken good English, notwithstanding he had been in America so many years. 
               "Certainly, come this way, Antonio; I was going to introduce you, but had nearly forgotten it. I have been telling him of your good services, my friend Antonio. Captain Wake-field, this good sailor taught me what a Christian was; many's the time he prayed for me down in the dark forecastle." 
               "I pray, always pray for somebodee;" said the sailor, his tawny face glowing at the praise bestowed upon him. "But, sir-capting-I know you-you have not remember me?" 
               "I can't say I remember you, my friend," replied the tall, grave old gentleman. 
               "You remember when de boy fell from de yard arm? eh! You no remember that I catch him? You was Captain Graylynn then; I no forget you." 
               "Antonio!" exclaimed the old gentleman, grasping the sailor's hand; "why, yes, Antonio, I remember you now, indeed I do. Yes, you saved the life of my daring nephew; I do remember you, brave fellow!" and he shook the tawny hand while tears stood in his eyes. "I see, now," added the captain; "your hair is short, your beard is gone, and that's the reason I didn't know you, my brave Christian brother!" 
               "Sir, did I hear the name of Graylynn?" asked young De Witt Gildersleeve. 
               "That is my name, my friend," said the captain, though I have gone by my given names ever since I have been in Australia-Henry Wakefield Graylynn, is my whole name." 
               "Ah! he was fine, good, pious capting!" exclaimed Antonio, his eyes sparkling with animation. 
               "And-you spoke of a child-a daughter-"resumed the other; "may I ask if her name is Alice?" 
               "The same, my friend!" exclaimed the captain turning eagerly towards the young commander; "You know her-my precious child!" 
               "I know a Miss Alice Graylynn," replied the young man, his cheek growing more crimson; "she stays or was staying when I left home with a family by the name of Westerly." 
               "My brother-in-law," said the other; "yes, you have seen my child; tell me, how does she look? what is her stature? did she ever speak of me? my dear child! my Alice!" 
               "Come with me if you please sir; you can go, Antonio; to-morrow you will have another opportunity of speaking with the captain; come into my state-room if you please, Captain Graylynn." The apartment in which they were both seated a moment after was like a room in a palace, with regard to its appointments. There was scroll work, thickly gilded, panels painted with elaborate scenes from history, a rosewood desk and table, a box of polished nautical instruments, and a bed draped with much grace and a delicate taste. The young man opened a drawer near him, and took from thence a miniature of Alice. The sweet face seemed to smile upon him, as the captain gazed in wonder and admiration. 
               "Is this my little Alice? is this my baby-girl?" he said in tones of much emotion while tears dropped from his eyes; "Can it be possible my little girl is so grown-so beautiful! Oh! sweet child! her mother's sainted face is there;" and he pressed it to his lips, then looked again, then half-smiling, half-weeping, pressed it once more to his lips. 
               The young man, still wearing the rosy flush that had mounted to his cheeks as he first spoke of her whom he loved, said softly, "It is a good likeness, though Alice is a lovelier girl than hand of limner could paint." 
               "You knew her well then? you--" he paused for the eyes of the young commander sought the ground. 
               "I love her sir," replied De Witt, modestly; and if it is God's will, and yours, she will be my wife, when I return." 
               "I could not wish a better fortune for my child," said the old captain, his lips and hand trembling as he spoke. "Oh! Alice, my darling! how dreams of thee have cheered my exile! Sometimes I have thought of thee as in heaven-with the mother who bore thee-at others in the home where I left thee. God has kept thee my child-harm has not come to one so lovely. O sir!" he added, looking up quickly, "is the dear child a Christian?" 
                
               "I have always thought so;" replied De Witt. 
               "I trust her young heart is given to God's keeping," said the other fervently; "she has I know, been gently nurtured, for everybody loved Alice when she was a babe, and a young child; how much more now, so beautiful as she must be-but I forget! a father must not talk so of his child." 
               "She is all you say sir, and much more," replied De Witt; she is every way lovely." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               THE RETURN HOME. 
                
                  
                      
                        "I love that dear old home! my mother lived there 
                        Her first sweet marriage years, and last sad widowed ones. 
                        The sunlight there seems to me brighter far 
                        Than wheresoever else. I know the forms 
                        Of every tree and mountain, hill and dell; 
                        Its waters gurgle like a tongue I know:- 
                        It is my home." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Bright is the beautiful land of our birth. 
                        The home of the homeless all over the earth." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "He entered in his house,-his home no more, 
                        For without hearts there is no home,-and felt 
                        The solitude of passing his own door 
                        Without a welcome." 
                     
                   
                
               THE captain was left alone in the state room with the image of his child; the young commander having gone on deck at a summons from the mate. Long and earnestly, with most delighted attention did he gaze at the sweet counterfeit; then falling on his knees, he returned heartfelt thanks to God. 
                
               The ship was neither detained by contrary winds, nor deterred by calms; the sun seemed to shine on the whole voyage. De Witt and his passenger often walked the deck together, when at night the heaven-lighted stars gave their reflection to the silent deep, and the water brightened with a thousand phosphorescent gleams that flashed and danced along the bows and in the wide white wake left behind. 
               It was a glorious morning on the twentieth of June. The tall masts in the harbor glittered in the first beams of the rising sun; ropes and cordage, sails and pennons, hung idly flapping in the soft delicious breeze that swept the ripples into gems, and lazily the straws and bits of bark floated from the docks on the black, shining surface of the water. The Flying Cloud had come up in the night, and was now warping in to her berth. A great crowd stood observant of all her motions, and every moment there went up a hearty shout for young Gildersleeve. The vessel came gallantly on, the sailors in clean frocks, and glistening tarpaulin's flitting from place to place; the gangway was thrown open, and a crowd rushed to the vessel's side. It was found almost most impossible to keep off the throng, and one of the gentlemen present shouted that none were to go on deck but the owners and a few personal friends. De Witt's heart beat high as one after another, of those whose property he had rescued from the merciless grasp of the mutineers, gathered about him with eloquent thanks for his courage and bravery. Among them was General Littlejohn. Pressing forward to the captain, he said, "I have arranged it with these gentlemen; Captain Gildersleeve dines with me to-day. What! do my eyes deceive me?-Henry Graylynn, are you living or dead? speak man! after lying at the bottom of the sea these twelve years?" 
               "Living, General, thank God! for the sight of my native country and an old friend!" 
               The General stood looking at him like a man demented-then for a moment a strange expression came over his face, he turned away like one over whom a fearful reflection rushes; but again seizing the hand of Captain Graylynn, he shook it as if sure of feeling flesh and blood. 
               "Come," he added hastily, "come right to my house; live in the old place, Graylynn; never changed, you know; here is my carriage." 
                
               To both Captain Graylynn and young De Witt, the manner of the General appeared strange-almost startling. First he would rattle on, with a forced mirth, talking of almost every subject in the same breath-then he would relapse into a moody silence, while his eyes and his meditations seemed wandering from each other. Then seeming to start from a trance, he would turn to Graylynn, doubt his identity, ply him with questions, look incredulous, and again relapse into silence. When they arrived at the house, Mrs. Littlejohn was waiting to receive them; and the General dashed in, whispering in an undertone to Tom, "keep cool-he's here-don't you say a word-let me tell him-poor fellow! I expect he'll shiver every thing in the house to pieces; these sea folks take things hard. But-zounds, I forgot; I've brought home your uncle, sir-yes, the father of Alice over there; your uncle, dead and drowned these twelve long years; here, Captain Graylynn, do you know this young man?" 
               "Uncle Henry!" exclaimed Tom, in tones of the deepest astonishment. 
               "Tom, Tom!" said the old gentleman, holding him at arms length-"well, this beats all! a great man, with a beard; and Alice, my Alice! have you seen her lately, Tom?" 
               The young man grew pale; he almost gasped, as, turning towards the General, he articulated, "yes." 
               "And why do you turn away? Tom, don't deceive me; is my child ill?" 
               "No, no! well and-and happy," murmured Tom, and he moved forward to speak to young Gildersleeve, who awaited his answer with an interest keenly alive to his strange demeanor. 
               "Can you send for her? must I go to her? it would be well, though for some one to tell her first-or you, Mr. Gildersleeve, perhaps, will--" 
               "I am going just to give her a call, if General Littlejohn will excuse us-will you go along?" 
               "No, no; I won't excuse you," cried the General, hastily; "put down your hat, Mr. Gildersleeve; I can't have you go away before dinner; besides, she is n't-you can't see her if you go; you'd better stay away," he added, nearly losing his self-control. 
               "My dear!" said Mrs. Littlejohn, calmly, though her face was exceedingly pale, "you really frighten these gentlemen-they-I-"here the poor woman broke down; for the radiant face of the young man, when the name of Alice had first been spoken, smote upon her heart; and thinking of the fiery trial that awaited him and the father so recently found, she burst into tears. Captain Graylynn, with a face of consternation, sank on his seat, trembling in every limb; young Gildersleeve turned from one to the other, apprehension darkening his fine features. 
               "My friends, I can bear the truth, whatever it is; for pity's sake, give it me! Has Alice gone away?-is she married-ill-dead?"-his lips were white, as he spoke, his voice weak. 
               "You say you can bear the truth," murmured Mrs. Littlejohn; "then listen, and nerve yourself. Alice has neither married nor gone away; she is not ill; she is well, and very happy-but-but-she has been sadly betrayed-falsely accused-in fact-can you bear it?" she asked, with streaming eyes. 
               The young man stood paralyzed, his brow corrugated, his eyes fixed, his lips parted, his manner that of one whom horror and incredulity dulity have suddenly startled by some frightful vision, or appalling certainty. 
               "She is in the jail, yonder, on a false charge." 
               "Aye, false! Gildersleeve, don't rave, don't threaten, man; it will all come out right. Don't lose your temper; keep calm, keep calm, Gildersleeve. I'll stand by, to the extent of my fortune. It's a black lie from beginning to end-keep calm! keep calm!" 
               He might as well have spoken to marble; the young man neither raved nor moved, but the father bent his gray head on his hands and groaned, "Oh, my child! my Alice!" and the anguish of a stricken heart trembled in moans through his lips. 
               "In the jail, yonder, did you say? Alice Graylynn in yonder jail?" at last young Gildersleeve slowly articulated, as if he but just comprehended what had been spoken; "it is simply false!" and he drew his breath hard, and pressed his lips firmly together. "Strange!" he added, with a bitter laugh, "that some fancied resemblance, some well devised tale should have worked upon your imaginations-very strange. Pray, when did you first become aware of this remarkable hallucination?" 
               "I don't wonder he can't believe it," exclaimed claimed Tom, in great anguish; "it is too hard;" and he moved to another part of the room to hide his tears. 
               "Believe it!" ejaculated the young man, with another half insane laugh; "I wonder what else you would make me believe? Man is a credulous animal, truly; but when it comes to exaggerations as ridiculous as this, I believe I must be disposed to question their accuracy. But come-tell me all about this hoax? who first set it in motion? what is the origin of this ridiculous affair? who has been imposing upon you?" 
               "The accusation was made by Miss Westerly,-Belle Westerly," said Mrs. Littlejohn, with compelled composure. At the mention of that name, the young man started from the seat he had cooly resumed; a flush crossed his features; he stood for a moment in deep, perplexing thought. 
               "This is terrible!" he exclaimed, as Mrs. Littlejohn repeated the whole story; "this is terrible, terrible news to meet me, where I had expected so much happiness. It is a most base, infamous, and cowardly charge; a most cruel, unfeeling thing! My poor Alice! is she utterly stricken down, poor lamb? God give me strength to rightly bear this blow! And yet," he added with passionate vehemence, "I had rather be there, my head pillowed within a cell, than to lie on the costly couch on which her cousin dreams. Captain Graylynn, compose yourself, sir. I am ready to stake my life on the innocence of our Alice. I must go now to the Westerly's-"and hurrying from the room, he left the house, casting, as he went forth, one shuddering glance up to the heavy stone walls, within which the gentle girl of his betrothal was shut from the pure air of heaven. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               LORINE AND CADDIE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Oh! think what anxious moments pass between 
                        The birth of plots, and their last fatal periods; 
                        Oh! 'tis a dreadful interval of time, 
                        Filled up with horror, and big with death." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Corruption is a tree, whose branches are 
                        Of an unmeasurable length; they spread 
                        Everywhere; and the dew that drops from thence 
                        Hath infected some chairs and stools of authority." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "I will tell what I saw, though it make me enemies for life. 
                        I know the hour and the action-lead me to a court of justice." 
                     
                   
                
               "YOU know you saw the whole matter, now, just as much as I did." 
               "I know it." 
               "Well, then, you'll have to go into court to testify; you and I can clear Miss Alice." 
               "I want to clear Miss Alice as bad as you do, but I don't want to go to court; and besides, it seems mean to inform against Miss Belle." 
                
               The speakers were Lorine, Belle's dressing-maid, and a girl of some sixteen summers; a sort of go-between dressing-maid and chamber-maid; a servant dedicated to errands, the cook, and plain sewing. 
               "Why, you foolish thing! don't want to inform against Miss Belle, when you know what a wicked act she did; how she convicted a poor, innocent orphan girl; how that poor, innocent girl is in jail this moment, almost dying, and she not having done nothing, either? Well, at any rate, you'll have to tell, for I shall tell against you, and I know you won't dare to lie." 
               "I wish I hadn't seen it," said the girl, beginning to cry. 
               "Well, I don't; I'm glad I've seen it, for if I hadn't, and you  hadn't, poor Miss Alice would have been sent to State prison. And that poor young man coming home, too; besides," added the crafty girl, "no doubt they will feel so grateful to us, that they may give us a smart sum of money." 
               "You know we were both doing wrong that night, ourselves; and we shall have to tell." 
               "Great wrong that was, coming home just to borry Miss Belle's bracelets and two or three other things to make a show of; besides, I should have brought them back after the ball, and Miss Belle never have been the wiser. Then you know, silly creature, we are Catholics; and if it's wrong, why, if we confess to Father Mahan, we can get absolution, any time. That's the way I do; I never go to confession unless something hangs on my conscience, and then I'm made all over; just as bright as a new button." 
               The younger girl's face lighted up at this, but nevertheless, she made reply: "Miss Belle says that the Catholic religion is a sham; that Catholics are poor, priest-ridden creatures; that they're afraid to say their soul's their own, for fear they will have to confess to a priest." 
               "Miss Belle!" exclaimed Lorine, with a sneer; "she'd better make fun of the Catholic religion, I think. Do you know I have told Father Mahan every thing she says and does; every thing everybody says and does in this house. I'm a spy," she whispered, assuming an air of mystery, "and Father Mahan told me himself, that my devotion to the Church would earn me a high seat in heaven; perhaps keep me altogether from the flames of purgatory. Do you not know you are doing the Holy Mother Church service, when you tell all you hear and know to Father Mahan? And I hear that he writes them down in a book, and puts my name there, and sends them to Rome! Just think of the honor of having one's name sent to His Holiness the Pope!" and the girl crossed herself devoutly. 
               "Need we tell what we came back from the ball for?" asked the young girl, timidly. 
               "No, foolish one! of course not; we can say we were tired, sick, any thing-and went in Miss Alice's room to light our candle, when we heard the door open, and somebody coming, so we just slipped into Miss Alice's closet, we were so frightened, you know-as indeed we were. I had as much as I could do to keep you from screaming right out when Miss Belle came in in her white night dress. But you know you saw every thing she did, as well as I." 
               "Yes, but I wish I hadn't though. Don't you think Miss Belle grows strange?" 
               "I should think strange if she didn't," replied Lorine, "after doing such a wicked thing. I don't wonder she cries out in her sleep and dreads to be alone. But what a pity now she wasn't a Catholic! The priest would save her if she only could confess to him, and neither you nor I would testify against our own. She little thought when she made fun of the Catholics that I'd have a chance to give back her insolence some time, with interest. I tell you what, I hate the Protestants; it's only your half-and-half, milk-and-water church-people that pretend to see any good in a heretic. The bible tells us we musn't hold faith with 'em; so does the priest; so does the church; and if we  don't obey the church we shall lose our souls." 
               The young girl made the sign of the cross with great haste, and then said, "What will I have to do in court?" 
               "Tell the truth, and nothing more; no matter for Miss Belle's feelings; she's a heretic." 
               "What! then you would ruin one heretic to save another," said the girl, in some surprise. 
               "If either has got to come to harm (and one must)," exclaimed Lorine, harshly, "it shall be Miss Belle. Miss Alice never laughed and made sport of me, throwing water at me, and telling me it was holy; Miss Alice never made the sign of the cross to mock me, and told all sorts of stories about the priests, to get me angry. Miss Alice talked to me, to be sure, but not in her way; no, she acted as if I had a soul, and was human; and more than once, when Miss Belle had worked me up almost to madness, I've seen Miss Alice grow red in the face for shame, and get up and leave the room; and then Miss Belle would make fun of her, and call her a half-way Catholic, and a Miss Mock Majesty. And then, look how Miss Alice has been treated in this family! kept at the needle like a slave; snubbed when she spoke; having to be the scape-goat of all Miss Belle's meanness. Oh! I've seen enough; I've jest waited for this time." 
               "But think of the pretty things Miss Belle has given you!" 
               "Yes, but what for? She never gave me any thing before, except now and then an old cast-off bonnet, or a faded ribbon. She's afraid I know something-that's the reason; she thinks I've heard her in her sleep, or have my suspicions. And when my poor sister's baby died, and she so poverty-stricken and sick that she had no heart in her, she give me fifty cents to carry to her, while that very day she paid seventy-five dollars for a bracelet. And what did Miss Alice do? why, she put on her bonnet and went to the mean place where the poor baby lay, and she got clothes for it, and she gave money to my sister, and words and advice and tears, that was better than money. I'll never forget that if I grow ever so wicked." 
               "But why didn't you tell on Miss Belle that morning?" 
               "I couldn't; I hadn't the courage; besides, I should a been turned out of my place, and they would have said or done something to disgrace me; and it was a great deal the best way for me to wait till the trial. Besides, Miss Alice is innocent, and, I'll warrant you, happier where she is than Miss Belle. Even to this day, Miss Belle screams out in her sleep." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
               A STRANGE CONVERSATION. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Unpunished 'scape for heinous crime, save one, 
                        But, unavenged in mind or body, none." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "If either vice or virtue we abandon, 
                        We either are rewarded as we serve, 
                        Or else are plagued, as our deeds deserve." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "How just soever 
                        Our reasons are to remedy our wrongs, 
                        We've yet to leave them to their will and power 
                        Who to that purpose have authority." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                     "The wages of sin is death."
                   
                
               "THERE'S her bell," said the other, resuming her work. 
               "She wants the paper, I suppose; she's early;" and so saying, Lorine went up stairs to her young mistress, first taking the morning paper from the hall and reading as she went. 
               "It seems to me there's a wretched light here, Lorine," exclaimed Belle, as the girl entered tered. "Do fix that curtain; it makes me look as blue as indigo." 
               Lorine gave the paper into Belle's hand, and then ascended the broad window-seat, and adjusted the rich damask folds that fell in graceful sweep to the floor. The young lady sat in a luxurious easy-chair before her mirror, and around her were scattered the various implements of her toilet, in cases, boxes, and gold-tinted vials. Her heavy locks of lustrous ebon hung far beneath her girdle, but purple-tinted and glossy as they were, and soft and fair as was the complexion and the face over which they hung, there was yet a haggard look, out of place in one who should be young and innocent, healthful and virtuous. 
               Scanning the paper, her cheek flushed, her eye lighted, and she pushed the heavy tresses back that she might read again. But the joyous color faded, the brow grew heavy almost instantaneously, and as Lorine adjusted her hair in its accustomed folds, she gazed forward dreamly, her brow dark with the forebodings of her heart. 
               "He will ask for her, of course," she soliloquized, while Lorine left her at a summons from Mrs. Westerly, for the girl divided her time between both Belle and her mother in the early part of the day; "and when I tell him, he will be shocked and incredulous-but he will never doubt my word. He must have seen how bold and forward she was. Finding her unworthy, even if he had thought of loving her, shame will compel him to abandon the idea. Still, I confess I tremble for the result; but having commenced I will not scruple to go through-I could not now, if I would. But oh! peace, peace, peace is gone; I am guilty. I loathe myself, and if my mother knew it would break her heart. I shall never be happy again; I have sold myself-sold my honor-sold my integrity, and have been the cause of ruining poor Alice beyond reparation-but why did she rob me of him?" 
               For some moments she sat with rigid features and hands clasped so tightly that they seemed locked in stone. Then rising she went to a little box, took from thence a small vial containing opium, and touched it to her lips. Then she moved around her chamber till the paleness had given place to the crimson of excitement, and until the servant summoned her to breakfast. 
                
               O guilt! once touch the soul with thy leprous finger-once let thy shadow even fall upon its whiteness-and earth turns to a hell. Every pleasant object takes the hue of a sepulchre, whited without, within, all corruption. The light of day is tainted with the gloom of the charnel-house. The pleasure that in prospect glittered with gold and jewels, turns to ashes, amid which the worm that dieth not riots ceaselessly. Young men who read these pages, and you, fairer women, shrink from the first guilty thought. You know not where it may lead. Touch not the fruits of the dead sea of sin! They will be more than bitter to the tongue-they will be destruction to the soul-destruction to all holiness and purity. 
               "So young Gildersleeve is returned;" said Mrs. Westerly. "I wonder where he will stop." 
               "There will be places enough, I fancy," replied Belle, striving to speak cheerfully. 
               "I wonder if that country boor and his sister are still in the city?" queried Mrs. Westerly. 
               Belle shuddered in spite of herself as she remembered Tom's threat. 
               "You know he said he should wait till Gildersleeve returned." 
                
               Belle was silent. 
               "How do you suppose he will take the tidings of Alice, and her disgrace? Belle, do you believe there was any engagement?" 
               "I never thought so," replied the young girl, after a moment; "others must have been more observing than we." 
               "I'm sorry the thing was ever done," said Mrs. Westerly, thoughtfully; "but I'm sure I did it for the best, and it can't be helped now. For my part, I think we've done the young man a favor; it would have killed him, with his nice sense of honor, to have found it out after marriage, and then-dear me, some people have an unfortunate tendency to steal. Alice must be one of those, for I'm sure she had every thing she wanted here." For some moments there was silence, then Mrs. Westerly spoke suddenly. 
               "Belle, did you notice what our minister said yesterday about reading the Bible." 
               "I'm sure I don't remember, mother," replied Belle, quite startled at the unusual turn the conversation had taken. 
               "Well, I have strange thoughts and feelings lately. I have waked out of sleep with very singular sensations, and, to tell you the truth, I did think, last night, that I might not be going to live long." 
               Belle stopped eating, and stared at her mother with unfeigned astonishment. 
               "Why, I can't live a great many years in the natural course of things; we've all got to die sometime-and I don't know as I've any thing in particular to reproach myself with. I've always done my duty by society-that is, I've done the best I could as far as I knew how. Everybody comes short, for you know the Bible says "there is none good," so I think, upon the whole, I've earned my right to heaven. I've always lived respectably, and followed the fashion no more than was expected of me. Of course society demanded some things of me, with which I have been obliged to comply; certain things are always required of certain people who have a certain income, you see. I've helped to support the gospel in heathen lands, having given, as you know, Belle, the sum of sixty dollars last year, and heading the subscription list at that, in which, for a widow, I set the example of liberality. On the whole, I think I've done as much for the cause as any other member of our church, having for the last fourteen years made and presented the surplices to our minister with our own hands, besides giving five hundred dollars towards the new cathedral." 
               "Why, mother! what are you going on so for?" exclaimed Belle, in uncontrolled surprise. 
               "Well, I was thinking that I've done every thing required of me, but to read the Bible. I'm afraid, Belle, I've been rather neglectful about the Scriptures; I'm afraid, Belle, that we haven't either of us done our duty as we ought to, in this respect. Now, when did you read the Bible last?" 
               The young girl's eye turned instinctively to the bookcase, where the back of a splendid Bible, radiant with gold and azure velvet, was observable, surrounded with other conspicuous bindings, then to a volume less massive, but equally guiltless of use, that always laid for show on a table under the mirror. 
               "Why, I read the responses at church, isn't that Bible? I'm sure it's tiresome enough too; I wish the minister would do all the talking, as they do in some other churches; for my part, it seems very stupid to me." 
               "O Belle, Belle! you don't talk reasonable: you don't talk like an immortal being, child; you must remember that we've got to die-I, you, all of us." 
               "You'd better have begun with me long ago!" exclaimed Belle, with a light laugh, and a disrespectful manner; "I'm sure I never heard you speak of the thing before, to my recollection-and my memory goes back nearly eighteen years; what makes you so conscientious all at once?" 
               "Ah! Belle, Belle, don't trifle; I'm not sure but you are right in reproving me for not having talked of these things before; but the truth is, society has made so many demands upon my time that it has been nearly impossible. I took great pains with your catechism, Belle-you were only five years old when you could answer every leading question-and there  isn't much danger of a child's going astray who has learned the catechism thoroughly. And I must say, Belle, that you've been a good child-a little heady-but outbreaking sins, such as lying, stealing, and staying at home from church, I have never found you guilty of." 
               "Especially the latter, when I had new spring and autumn styles," sneered Belle beneath neath her voice. "Well, mother," she added, aloud, "you've given me quite a lecture this morning, and (rising as she spoke) what is the particular drift? As I've been so very moral and good-I can't see." 
               "O Belle! we must begin to read the Bible more; I feel really self-condemned about it. If I were to die now, that would be the only sin on my conscience, and I feel as if I ought to wipe it out. Come, now, Belle, suppose you get the Bible and read a chapter." 
               "I! why, do call Lorine, mother, I've a bad headache." 
               "You know Lorine wouldn't touch our Bible." 
               "Oh yes! I forgot; she's a Catholic; well, then, I suppose I must, but I'd rather be whipped," she muttered, going slowly towards the table; taking the Bible she sat down to what was to her too truly, a task. "Where shall I read?" she asked, lightly. 
               "Oh, anywhere," replied her mother, a smile of satisfaction brightening her features, and composing herself complacently to listen; "anywhere; it's all Bible!" 
               Turning over the leaves hurriedly, Belle chanced to begin at the sixth chapter of Matthew thew; "Take heed that ye do not your alms before men." This she contrived to repeat the second time, glancing somewhat maliciously towards her mother as she did so; but continuing, the words of that inimitable sermon smote her heart as she read, and like Felix, before she had finished the chapter, she trembled. 
               "Thank you, Belle," said her mother, rising; "now my conscience is clear. Of course it is the same thing as if I read it myself, besides saving time. I've three or four calls to make this morning, and I shall be sure to speak of my new custom-for I mean to make it a custom, and get you, Belle, to read for me every day." 
               A dark and almost fiendish expression overspread the girl's face, as her mother went out. "Hollow, hollow, hollow!" she exclaimed; mere pretence-mere profession. Oh, if I had been taught from that book! I know I could not have read such chapters as that from day to day, without learning how to be just-how to be good-how to get good and do good. Oh! I wish I had had any other than a fashionable education; it has made me wretched." 
                
               "It is not too late now," whispered the holy spirit, as she sat there with her face buried in her hands; "get the Bible again; read on; it will tell you your duty; it will set before you your sin." 
               "It is of no use; I have gone too far, too far," groaned the wretched girl. 
               But still the gentle spirit pleaded tenderly with that erring heart; again and again it answered her objections, condescending in its lofty majesty; its immaculate purity to stoop to her puerile excuses, and brush them aside like chaff. In vain; she would not yield, would not throw off the influences of the tempter that bound her like a spell. God, Christ-the Holy Spirit, the Holy Word-four against one, and all to help her if she would but resist sin-but no; she hardened her heart, and as she arose from her seat, even laughed at herself for having, as she called it, yielded to a momentary weakness.
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
               A STARTLING INTERVIEW. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Thereto when needed, she could weep and pray, 
                        And when she listed, she could fawn and flatter, 
                        Now smiling smoothly, like to summer's day, 
                        Now glooming sadly, so to cloak her matter; 
                        Yet were her words but wind, 
                        And all her tears were water." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Hypocrisy, the only evil that walks 
                        Invisible, except to God alone." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Think'st thou there are no serpents in the world 
                        But those who slide along the grassy sod, 
                        And sting the luckless foot that presses them? 
                        There are who in the path of social life 
                        Do bask their spotted skins in fortune's sun, 
                        And sting the soul. Ay! till its healthful frame 
                        Is changed to secret, festering, sore disease, 
                        So deadly is the wound." 
                     
                   
                
               THE day was wearing towards noon. Belle sat in the parlor with a cringing curiosity-hiding herself behind the lace curtains, and scanning every passer-by feverishly. Her toilet was elaborate-a rich dressing-gown of white, embroidered almost from the bottom of the skirt up to the throat, and girdled by heavy tassels and cords of silver thread. One white rose peeped carelessly from the massy folds of her hair, and bracelets of plain gold adorned her wrists. But oh! what an aching, heavy heart laid beneath that beautiful exterior! that worm at the root-how it gnawed and gnawed and gnawed, while she composed her face to smiles, and smoothed the folds of costly lace over her fluttering heart. 
               "There he is!" The blood rushed to her cheeks and receded again; a momentary faintness caused her to catch at the frame of the window for support; but before her visitor was announced, she had glided from the parlor-only, however, to glide back again with a sweet smile, holding out both hands, as she exclaimed, "Captain Gildersleeve, I am happy to meet you; when did you arrive?" 
               He took only one hand, courteously, almost coldly, for its touch felt like that of a snake to him. He seated himself at her request, answered her trifling questions; but there was in his manner that frozen calm that tells of a strong will mastering emotions almost stronger than that. 
                
               "How are your mother and-cousin?" at last he asked in a strange voice. 
               "Mother is well-Alice-is-well-I hope;" her tones faltered in spite of her great self-control. 
               "Alice is not at home-perhaps you would say;" he said again, determined to make her tell the utmost. 
               "No-I-I am sorry to say," she commenced, and her lips quivered and tears stood in her eyes, tears of agitation-vexation-of guilt, fear, and trembling, not of grief; "Alice has been unfortunate. It is a very sad thing, and has nearly distracted us-and-of course you know-mother is very inflexible and peculiar in her notions of justice, and so she-" 
               "Sent her to jail-perhaps!" exclaimed the young man, his stern, determined eye seeming to look through to her false heart. 
               "Yes, but Captain Gildersleeve, it was an outrageous theft. I never would have believed if I had not seen-"she hesitated, playing with her bracelet. 
               "Seen what!" said the young man with that eye, cold, and, to her it seemed, remorselessly cruel, fastened upon her face. 
               "Why-seen her with some of the articles in her possession; believe me, Captain Gildersleeve, I would have done any thing to save her; I would indeed;" she continued, alarmed at his steady look. 
               "And you did do all you could?" 
               "Sir!" 
               "You said-'she did not do this thing; she has been deceived' and you then of course fell upon your knees before your mother, saying, 'mother, have pity upon her, even if she has done us this wrong; remember, mother, she is an orphan; she has no mother; no father; few friends-oh have mercy! for my sake, let her be at liberty; don't take her to that cage of unclean birds it will break her heart; it will break the hearts of those who love her;' speak Miss Belle Westerley, did you plead thus for your cousin?" 
               "She was not my cousin save by marriage;" replied Belle, who had grown white and frightened during this speech, the passion and fever of which glittered through the ice of his manner. 
               "Oh! not your cousin save by marriage; then it did not matter that she was poor and homeless and an orphan. Not your cousin save by marriage; not a connection of the rich and fashionable Westerlys-only a young, fair, friendless girl with none to defend her-too fair, perhaps," he added with another rapid, searching glance. "I wonder not Miss Belle that you had no heart to plead for her; I cease to wonder," and he made her a low, chilling bow. 
               "Sir!" said Belle, with her usual haughtiness, and struggling to regain the self command she had lost under his stinging sarcasm. 
               "I beg your pardon, Miss Westerly; I was only supposing a case of clemency, of womanly mercy; but let me ask you, are you certain Miss Graylynn committed this theft?" 
               "I have said it;" replied Belle with dignity keeping down the choking sensation in her throat; this meeting was so unlike what she had imagined it would be; she felt sick and dizzy; fearful that she might betray herself. 
               "And this you are willing to declare in court, on oath?" 
               "On oath!" exclaimed Belle, starting, while a cold sweat broke from every pore, "in court!" 
               "You were certainly aware that you must bring your accusing testimony before the justice of the land; you know that there before the tribunal, you must meet Miss Graylynn face to face, and there with your hand on the Holy Bible, protest that you believe, or that to your certain knowledge Alice is guilty of the theft with which she stands charged. You certainly were not so deficient in the knowledge of common law as not to know this thing." 
               "I did not think I needed to go to court; I thought my deposition would be taken"-gasped Belle, for she was really ignorant in the matter. "I-I would not go into court for the world." 
               "Ah! your deposition might be taken were you too ill to attend, and allow me to say that you appear to be in excellent health;" he added rising and walking the floor; for the effort to keep calm, the struggle to be like himself while he thought of Alice, and saw and felt that Belle had been her mortal enemy, was not to be carried on in passiveness. 
               "When is the trial to come off, Miss Belle?" he asked pausing for a moment almost in pity, for her face was nearly the hue of death. 
               "Trial!" she exclaimed excitedly, "there will be no trial; there shall be no trial; I will not appear against her-oh! is there any way she can be set at liberty?" 
               "If this was not intense selfishness," exclaimed the young man, "I should be very unhappy to see you suffer thus; but remember Miss Alice Graylynn is not the poor, friendless creature you thought her; remember her honor is at stake; you have played with her reputation and must pay dearly for it. If you could in any way procure her discharge, she should immediately sue you for false imprisonment. Some way the truth must come out; some way she must be vindicated. My wife, must have no stain upon her reputation." 
               The words "my wife" fell like cold iron on the bewildered senses of Belle Westerly; but a sudden transformation took place. Drawing her form proudly up, she said haughtily and with the most freezing politeness, "I shall hold myself in readiness to do whatever duty lays before me, even the fearful one of convicting Alice-Gildersleeve, shall I say?" she asked with a proud inclination of the brow. 
               "You may say it, some three months from now, when Alice, unspotted in her innocence, shall come forth from this trial like purified gold, and the guilt shall be fastened upon the real perpetrator, who has dared to do this fearful injustice;" replied the young man calmly. Belle stepped forward-reeled for a moment, put her hand to her brow, then indignantly declined his offered aid, repeating. 
                
               "Even the painful one of proving Alice Graylynn, a-" 
               The word was lost; the young man had gained the door and was already on the street steps. 
               As she found herself alone, Belle sank, white, motionless, and with staring eyes upon the lounge, ejaculating with awful earnestness, "I have lost my soul for nothing-for nothing-for nothing!" For many moments she sat thus, overwhelmed with the burning anguish of a guilty conscience, terrified by the accusations implied rather than spoken by De Witt Gildersleeve. She lived over the scene that had stamped her soul with the black seal of ruin. She saw her cousin sleeping the sleep of innocence; again she was moving with bare feet and dishevelled locks, her hand shading the flickering flame of the night lamp, her eyes glaring with the blank stare of guilt towards the bed-now creeping, now standing still, now fitting the little key-turning it-starting and shivering at the sound, holding her breath, ripping the lining, re-arranging it, locking the trunk with shaking hands, then flying and burying herself in her bed, covered with the dew of cowardly terror. She felt certain tain that young Gildersleeve knew all this-had divined it, and the thought almost froze the blood in her veins. To stupor succeeded the ravings of passion; she leaped to her feet striking her forehead convulsively; flinging her carefully arranged locks in wild confusion over her face, and with smothered cries bewailing her lost innocence. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
               CONSCIENCE AND THE HOLY SPIRIT. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The spirit of God, 
                        From heaven descending, dwells in domes of clay; 
                        In mode far passing human thoughts, he guides, 
                        Impels, instructs; intense pursuit of good, 
                        And cautious flight of evil he suggests." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "If yet the Holy Spirit deigns to dwell 
                        In earthly domes, 'tis not in those defiled 
                        With pride, with fraud, with rapine, with lust; 
                        Midst the rough foliage of the thorny brake 
                        The clustering grape not blushes, and the fig 
                        Decks not the prickly thistle's barren stalk: 
                        Even thus shall all be measured by their fruits." 
                     
                   
                
               DE WITT GILDERSLEEVE had gone from the house but a few streets when he felt a touch upon his elbow. So wrapped in his own moody thoughts was he, that he deemed it the pressure of some person walking by, but another and stronger push caused him to turn his head, and then he paused. A woman stood there, with a light bonnet put on somewhat what carelessly, and a thin shawl wrapped about a not ungraceful person. 
               "Your pardon, sir," she said, with a certain air of politeness; "you are Captain Gildersleeve; you have just left the house of Mrs. Westerly." 
               "Both of your assertions are correct," he answered, wondering where he had certainly seen that face before. 
               "You have forgotten me, sir. You never spoke to me; I am Lorine Lecouvin, the-companion," she said, with an emphasis, "of Miss Belle Westerly. If Miss Alice, who we all love, is going to have a trial, sir, I have got some testimony, I and another young lady, that we hope will clear her." 
               The young man grasped her hand with a strong pressure and renewed confidence, as she said this. "If you do that," he exclaimed, vehemently, "I will give you five hundred dollars." Lorine's black eyes danced, and instantly he repented that he had tempted her cupidity, but the words were out of his mouth and he could not recall them. Fortunately they were near a lawyer's office, and the young man, craving permission, entered, and there Lorine told him her simple story. Yet his soul recoiled from the monstrous revelation. He had surmised that Belle was engaged in the plot, perhaps that she had connived with servants; but that she should deliberately do a thing so wicked, a deed that called for such moral and malignant hardihood, he could scarcely credit. Dismissing her, however, after she had told all, with strict injunctions of secrecy, he hastened home to inform those who were anxiously awaiting the result of his visit; while Lorine, hurriedly, and by a back way, entered the house of her mistress, slipped off her bonnet and appeared just in time to hear Mrs. Westerly calling her name like one frantic. "Come here, Lorine; Belle is dying!-come quick; she's in convulsions." 
               "I am not-I am well-quite well!" cried Belle, springing up from the lounge on which she had fallen, and biting her quivering lips as she caught the long hair in her hand and wound it about her temples; "I'm only a little weak-I have had a raging headache. For pity's sake don't stand looking at me that way, mother-do take off your things; you frighten me more than you did when you asked me to read the Bible-ha, ha! Here, just give me your arm, Lorine; I declare, I must have caught my dress against something," she continued, recklessly, holding up the tattered part of her costly dress, torn to shreds; and with an indifference that seemed like the freak of delirium, she hummed a gay opera air as she left the room. Once in her chamber, the never-failing opium, the frightful concomitant of many a fashionable lady, gave her a short respite from her anguish. But when the effect of the drug was over, there came thronging to her recollection all the past misdeeds of her life. It seemed as if they wanted but a shape to become bodily fiends, hissing, pointing, tormenting. Even now there was time for repentance; never was soul more beset by the agents of evil than hers, in that black hour. But the mind was free; the will to choose or refuse in active power, waiting but the balance of her decision. She saw the consequence of the evil, the result of the good, as it were, mapped out before her. 
               "No man can serve two masters;" the words had burnt into the very soul, henceforth to live there through all eternity as witnesses to the truth. She even thought of Christ as the Mediator, and more than once her knee was bended to confess to him-to confess and save her soul; for it seemed to her that only confession and worldly disgrace could lift the awful load that laid on her heart. 
               "Oh, that I were in the place of Alice, today, with her integrity," she groaned, clasping her hands in despair. 
               And again the still small voice whispered, "There is yet time for repentance-you may save yourself yet-think of the worth of that immortal spirit." 
               "Yes, yes," replied agonized conscience, "I never thought of such things before, but now I see, as it were, heaven and hell." 
               "Though you have done a guilty deed," urged the gentle monitor, "there is yet time for atonement; only turn from evil-abhor it-confess it-repent of it; surely you will perish with your own free will, if you perish." 
               "Oh, spare me-spare me!" groaned conscience, lashed almost to madness. 
               "If I spare you, ruin is the consequence. No! while you listen I must plead, and not unless you harden your heart and turn deliberately away, will I leave your presence. My mission is to the erring, the suffering, the repenting. Never man did a deed so dark but I talked with his soul afterward, urging every reason for his repentance-giving every hope for his salvation; but, alas! crime locks the human reason in a cell more dreary than any the prison holds, and throws the key in the hell of his master. You have done wrong-you know it. Every fibre in your frame repeats the accusation, and you know that only through confession and repentance you may blot out the consequences of the sin in yourself, and live a new life." 
               "But the disgrace! oh the disgrace! I cannot meet that. I am willing to clear Alice-I am willing to confess that she did not do the deed, but I cannot-I cannot implicate myself. I cannot say to the world, 'See, I have tried to ruin the reputation of a poor girl who never harmed me.'" 
               "If there was a way," reasoned the Holy Spirit, "in which restitution might be made, and your implication known only to God, willingly would I accede your right to do so; but there is no possibility of your agency in the matter unless it be full, direct, and self-sacrificing. But what is the world's scorn when weighed in the balance with the eternal happiness or misery of your soul? The deed was a great and deliberate sin; no sudden temptation that found you off your guard; therefore your confession and reparation must be large and broad, even to the forfeiture of the whole world's good opinion. God is greater than the world. He will smile upon you; hear him." 
               "I cannot-I will not seal my own degradation; nobody knows of the deed, at least, it was seen by no human eye," added conscience, shuddering again. "I will not say I saw her, I will not criminate her; she may go free, let the world say what it will; I will feign sickness, any thing, to clear her. I know I have staked my soul on the result, but I am sorry; God is merciful; he will pity the poor heart led astray by its own weakness, and that has not the courage to confess. Yes, now that it has gone so far, let it go on to the end." 
               Alas! the door of that heart shut to with a mournful clang-the Holy Spirit had departed, and, smiling at her fears, Belle roused herself to dress for a walk. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
               AGAIN AT MELVILLE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "'Tis a goodly scene- 
                        Yon river like a silvery snake, lays out 
                        His coil i' th' sunshine lovingly-it breathes 
                        Of freshness in this lap of flowery meadows." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "The fields did laugh, the flowers did freshly spring, 
                        The trees did bud and early blossoms bore, 
                        And all the choir of birds did sweetly sing, 
                        And told that garden's pleasures in their caroling." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Why, how now, gentlemen! 
                        What see you in those papers that you lose 
                        So much complexion? Look ye, how they change! 
                        Their cheeks are paper. Why, what read you there 
                        That hath so cowarded and chased your blood 
                        Out of appearance?" 
                     
                   
                
               WE left the pleasant family at Melville in much distress and consternation. They dared not hint why Tom and Hattie had gone to the city, to the invalid, nor the sad, sad news about Alice. She had tended and loved the young girl from the time she was an infant, and felt for her a true, pure, unselfish affection. But a letter came, was delivered to Katty, who thoughtlessly took it up into the sick room where Mary was sitting with her mother. 
               "It must be from Alice!" exclaimed the invalid, a hopeful smile lighting up her pale features, as she lifted herself a little in the bed; "open it, Mary, and see." 
               "But it's directed to father," said Mary, alarmed at the excitement visible in her mother's manner. 
               "Your father always trusts his letters with me, my love; open it and just look at the signature, and if it is not from Alice, close it and leave it on the table for him." 
               Mary knew not what excuse to render; how ardently she wished Katty had kept the letter, as so indeed did the poor girl herself, when she saw the blank look in Mary's face; she did not know how to disobey, but her hand trembled and her heart misgave her as she broke the seal and ran her eye over the page until it rested on the well-known signature of Alice. It was from her, she said, falteringly. 
               "Then give it to me, Mary." 
               "But, mother," pleaded the child, distressfully fully, "perhaps-there-may be something unpleasant; please leave it till father comes." 
               Goaded by the irritability of sickness, and overrating her strength, her mother said, in a decided tone which the girl dared not disobey, "Mary, hand me the letter, immediately; I am not so weak but that I can sympathize with sorrow. If Alice is sick, she cannot be dangerously so, or she never would write herself; give me the letter." 
               Mary, all in tears, did as she was desired, and then crouched down in the great armchair by her mother's sick bed, shaking with fear. It was very quiet; the letter rustled once or twice, the birds twittered near the open window, the air came breathing against her cheek-how very still the day seemed, particularly just now. Her mother did not move-there was no more any rustling of the letter-it was strange. The child looked timidly round to see if the invalid might be weeping she saw a white hand on the counterpane-the letter underneath it-she started up in deadly fear; the face upon the bed was blanched to the hue of the pillow beneath it-her mother had fainted. 
                
               With one wild cry that her mother was dead, Mary flew from the room, wildly imploring Katty to go up stairs, for she had killed her mother; then never ceasing her shrieks, she sprang across the green to the little school-house, out of which the children were just flocking, to give Linda the alarm. Breathless with haste, and pale with fear, the young teacher soon stood beside her mother. Katty had been chafing her hands, and she seemed returning to consciousness. Seeing Linda hanging very pale over her, and Mary weeping violently, the sick woman gazed about her for a moment in extreme surprise, then shuddering, asked, "Is it true? can it be true? is that where Tom has gone? I see all now." 
               "Tom writes us that there will be no trouble, he thinks, mother, in proving her innocence," said Linda, softly. "We tried to keep it from you, mother, for we were very certain of seeing her out here soon; it has all been a plot against poor Alice. I'm sorry you read the letter, mother." 
               "So am I; it has made me very weak-very faint. Mary should have left it down stairs; but don't sob so, my poor child, you did it for the best; it is all over, and perhaps better that I know it; I can pray for her now,." and folding her hands her lips moved gently. 
               "Mother, did you read all the letter?" asked Linda, looking up from its perusal. 
               "No, dear, only the first few lines; I am calmer, now; I have laid the case before my Father; I can hear the rest." 
               "Yet do not think, dear uncle and aunt," Linda read, beginning where her mother had left off, "that I am very miserable here; I am not, I assure you. I was, the first few days, tortured beyond endurance by the dreadful accusation, and the awful conviction that I was in jail; but to-day I feel as happy, as peaceful as a child. If you could see me now, I know you would think so. There are flowers on my window-seat, and books upon the little table that has kindly been furnished me. The jailer seldom comes here, and when he does, speaks kindly and softly, for which I thank him, for I am sure it is not his nature to do either. My Bible is open before me as I write; and oh! if I could but tell you in the language that my soul would express, what a comfort and a joy it is to me. 
               "Dear aunt, do you remember how you used to talk to me about my own mother? I can see you now, in that neat morning-dress, your knitting-work in your pale hands, and Hattie sitting at your feet, as you told me of her blameless life and pleasant death-bed. And then you would ask me if I would not like to love and serve my mother's God. I answered lightly, though there were tears in my eyes, but forgot my promise ere it was scarcely formed. To-day-blessed be that Holy Name-I can say I both know and love my mother's God, for he has come within these gloomy walls; his glorious presence has been with me-I am just as happy as I can be! What more can I wish, or you wish for me? I am singing of Jesus all the time; his bright, blessed, pure spirit, flows through my heart, and this morning I found myself thanking him even, that he had brought me here, for perhaps in no other way so well could I have been led to see him. Do not fear for me. Sometimes I grow a little nervous-a little timid, when I think of the ordeal possibly waiting for me-but I have only to look upwards, and strength is borne down to me on strong wings. This living a child's blameless life! how sweet it is; this leaning upon an arm so great, so powerful! This feeling that if every earthly prop was taken, God and heaven would still be ours-an inheritance that nothing above or beneath can deprive us of if we only keep near him. I never knew nor even dreamed what joy, true, elevated, innocent joy was before. I have wondered often at the light that played over your face as you sang those sweet hymns about Jesus-dear Jesus-my Saviour! my blessed, blessed Saviour! the orphan's God! I wish I knew how to tell you all I feel, but it is not possible; I can only write the word love; it is a golden word-the watchword of eternity. Dear uncle and aunt, I have strong faith to believe that I shall see you before very long, and tell you that which I find it impossible to write. How sorry I am for poor Belle Westerly; if she has lent herself to a plot for the purpose of my destruction, must she not be miserable? I often ask myself, If I find it so, shall I be able to forgive her? and the answer is, Yes, yes, a thousand times; and shield her, if possible, from the punishment that might, that must, in that case, await her. And now, for the present, good-by. I know you must feel deeply anxious on my account; but be sure this trial is wisely ordered. I hope aunt is not ill. I hoped by this time to be reading by the bedside, or doing some little loving thing for her, but it is easy for me to say now, 'Thy will be done.'" 
               "Dear girl!" exclaimed the invalid, tears shining through the smile that broke over her wasted face,-"I am glad you read the letter, Linda; it's refreshed me beyond the power of medicine; still, I cannot throw off that first horror, altogether," she added, striving to smile again; "poor Tom!" 
               "Why do you speak of him, mother?" 
               "Because I am sure he loves his cousin more deeply than we think. I have always felt so, and that made me more willing to let Alice go to the city. I could not bear the thought of cousins marrying; I cannot feel that God looks upon such unions with approbation." 
               "But, mother, if Alice had never gone to the city, this would not have happened." 
               "I know," replied the invalid, "but," and a sweet smile broke again over her face, "all things shall work together for good to them that love God." 
               "Poor Tom!" said Linda; I thought he acted strangely when the news first came. But he certainly knows that Alice is engaged," she added. 
                
               "Yes, he knew it,-my noble boy!-he has gone to the city, you say. I have no fear for him; he can conquer himself; has already done so, and his hurrying to her side, proves the strength of his will. He will be even stronger and better after this trial. Dear Tom! may it result in making him more decided as a Christian; I pray for that." 
               "Amen," murmured Linda. 
               "I am so well," said her mother, a moment after, "I would write a few lines myself if you could manage to rest the desk on the bed." Linda placed a little rosewood desk before her mother-her hardly earned New Year's gift-and sat down, re-assured by the bloom on the sunken cheek, and the preternatural brightness of the eye. The invalid wrote as rapidly as her strength permitted, but again the exhaustion came, and she laid motionless upon her pillow, in another and a longer fainting fit. For several days, the poor body, weak to emaciation, felt the effects of the rude shock that had almost snapped the slender thread of life, and Linda bent above her, leaving her school to the care of a stranger, and hovered round her like an angel of mercy. When she found time at last to write to Alice, Tom and Hattie had been in the city ten days; De Witt Gildersleeve had returned, and the trial was being hastened on by the parties most interested. 
               Thus were the consequences of Belle Westerly's fearful sin acting upon the innocent: first an evil thought; then the thought harbored, growing and strengthening as it was nursed, bringing revengeful impulses; then the thought acted; the suffering consequent;-but the end is not yet. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
               A FATHER FOUND. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Still gentle, loving, mild, 
                        With so much of thy childhood's loveliness 
                        Around thee yet-and with the sweeter grace 
                        Of spirit, beaming from thy radiant face- 
                        Though thou art changed, I cannot love thee less, 
                        For thou hast kept the freshness of thy heart 
                        Untainted by the world. Oh! evermore 
                        Guard thou that treasure, till thy life is o'er, 
                        And be as pure and gentle as thou art." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Has he come-my father? 
                        Has he come? 
                        Now will life be sweeter-dearer 
                        Our home. 
                        Let me haste to meet him, 
                        Let me go to greet him- 
                        Father's come." 
                     
                   
                
               "SEE, Hattie, here is the blue all mixed; now draw your brush steadily from left to right; carefully! that is well done;-soften here, and there; a beautiful sky! Why, you have an admirable talent for painting!" 
               "I always thought if I only had some help," said Hattie, modestly, "I could do well by and by; teach school, perhaps, like Linda, and so help father pay that heavy mortgage that makes him so much trouble." 
               "Well, I will teach you all I know, and that's not much, for I never had instruction; but then I can draw and paint tolerably well, I have the vanity to think; I don't know as I should say 'vanity,'" she added, correcting herself; "to estimate one's powers correctly is not to be vain, neither is it any harm to say we can do a thing well in which we feel we really do excel. But Hattie, had you not better go out with Mrs. Littlejohn to-day, when she comes? I am sure you grow pale." 
               "Oh! no, no; don't ask me;" said Hattie, hurriedly; "I am very well, and well contented, only a little worried that we don't get a letter from home; that perhaps makes my cheeks pale. But I am very happy here, with you; I don't know but I love you every whit as much as I do my own mother." 
               Alice kissed the confiding brow, and bade her go to the window and breathe the fresh air. The bars could not keep out the summer perfume of the flowers, nor the sweet songs of the birds, nor the blue beauty and golden sunlight of the heavens. A slight shower had fallen, and it seemed as if they could smell the scent of the mignonette that in large beds grew before the residence of General Littlejohn. 
               "There's a carriage stopping opposite," said Hattie, looking childishly over the way. 
               Alice started to spring to the window, but checking herself, she sat still, listening to her cousin. 
               "There's the old general getting out;" continued Hattie, "and now a younger man, and now, perhaps-I should think-an older, or quite as old; they are all going into the house, and now the carriage is driving away." 
               Alice pressed her temples with both hands; her heart beat with painful throbs as she thought it might be De Witt Gildersleeve, returned. 
               "Did you see-any-that is either of their faces?" asked Alice still seated. 
               "No, yes, just as they went in, the older man turned half round; he had a beard and long gray hair." 
               She still stood at the window, humming, watching the birds and the clouds, till half an hour elapsed, when she exclaimed again, "There! the young man has come out with his hat in his hand. Now he puts it on and walks away in a hurry; once he turned and looked directly in this window." 
               Alice grew cold and faint for a moment; but lifting her heart in prayer to God, she was strengthened. 
               "And he, what kind of an appearance had he?" 
               "Oh! young, dark, handsomer even than brother Tom-that is, you know-rather genteeler-more showy, perhaps; not like a farmer; and here, oh, here comes Mrs. Littlejohn and brother Tom." 
               Alice did not move and Hattie came from the window, smoothing her brown hair with both hands, and humming still, taking up the melody where she had left it before; as she saw the quiet, downcast position of her cousin, she started, then going softly towards her, she laid one arm over her neck. Alice looked up-there were tears in her eyes; but she tried to smile. 
               "Why cousin, dear cousin, have I said anything to make you unhappy? you look so sorrowful." 
               "Never mind dear-I did feel a little gloomy just now, but it's all gone-I am very quiet again, quiet and happy; don't be disturbed on my account." Hattie was silent, for suddenly she thought who the young stranger she had seen coming from General Littlejohn's house, might be; and she felt perplexed with herself that she had spoken at all. Just then Mrs. Littlejohn and cousin Tom entered both looking flushed and excited. The former with her usually gentle manner gave welcome, and sat down for the first time apparently embarrassed. Alice turned towards her with trembling solicitude, longing to speak, yet striving in vain to form the words that hovered on her lips; she noticed the strangeness both of her cousin's and Mrs. Littlejohn's manner, and turning again to the table she bowed her head on her hands. 
               "Alice!" 
               She looked up; Mrs. Littlejohn's arm was passed quietly around her and she laid her head on her bosom and sobbed. 
               "Alice, we all feel deeply, just now; can you bear news, good news I hope?" 
               "Oh yes," replied Alice, lifting her head and shading her eyes with her hand, "I think I can-yet-I am very weak and very foolish to behave in this manner; it is not because I am unhappy. Some-friend has come;" under her head and above it the crimson color that rushed over her cheek and brow could be seen; Tom, moved softly to the window. 
               "Yes, Captain Gildersleeve came home this morning-and oh! my dear girl, such fortitude! such Christian command of temper as he showed, I have never seen equalled. How firm he was in his protestations of your entire innocence; no harsh language you know-bewildered at first, stunned; that was to be expected my dear; and ready to defend you to the uttermost. He's a noble young man-a man after my own heart; a Christian-ah! my sweet girl, all things shall work together for good to them that love God." 
               "What did he think? what could he think?" asked Alice in a bewildered way. 
               "If he had said it-that you were dearer than ever;" whispered Mrs. Littlejohn, in a voice meant only for the ears of Alice. A bright smile rewarded her, and yet it was a half painful smile. Mrs. Littlejohn sat regarding her steadily, before she said, "Did I not tell you Alice, that sometimes our heavenly Father tries us when he is about to give us a great blessing." 
               "Welcome all trials from his hand," murmured mured Alice; the new faith brightening her face. 
               "And suppose God has been preparing some great blessing for you; something you have not dreamed of for years; something that would be like raising the dead from their graves!" 
               Alice had risen and now stood looking earnestly in the face of her friend; "what can you mean?" she asked, every feature working with the new interest awakened within her; "what great, good fortune, or blessing awaits me?" 
               "How long has your father been missing, Alice?" asked Mrs. Littlejohn cautiously, as Tom turned towards them. 
               Alice sank upon her seat again. A gleam of preternatural light brightened her eye for a moment; her breath came and went flittingly-"my father"-was all she could say as an overwhelming thought took possession her mind. 
               "Has it never occurred to you that possibly you might see him again-that possibly-" 
               "Has my father come?-is my father living; O Mrs. Littlejohn!-tell me-my father-my dear, dear, long lost father." 
               Tom was in tears-Hattie joined her entreaties with those of her cousin. 
                
               "You are so much agitated Alice-show how calm you can be; there-thank you; now you look like yourself again, only a little paler; be very calm and patient now; look up to God that he may give you strength-Alice, your father has come." 
               Not a word spoke the young girl, but clasping her hands together, she raised them and her eyes heavenward. A sign passed between Tom and Mrs. Littlejohn; the latter fluttered a white kerchief from the window; it was answered by the old general with a red one, and a ludicrous attempt at hop, skipp, and jump, as he turned towards the house. 
               After a few moments of thanksgiving, Alice turned again to her friend, her eyes suffused with tears, as she said, "shall I see him soon-and alas! in a jail. I do not care for myself," she added hastily, "so much as for him; but I can't realize that I have a father; I am dreaming; I am surely dreaming." 
               "It is a pleasant dream, then," said Mrs. Littlejohn, moving towards the door as she spoke, and lifting the ponderous latch. A tall, reverend figure, with long gray locks, and a gray beard, entered, gazed for one minute in mute astonishment on Alice, then crying out "my child-my daughter-my Alice!" he held forth his aged arms, and Alice flew within them with a wild, sobbing cry of delight, and laid like an infant upon his bosom. 
               "My Alice! my sweet, my innocent child!" said the old captain, with many another word of endearment between; "my precious babe, you must not, shall not stay here long. My darling! how could they send you here?" 
               "Father! is it really you?" murmured Alice, laying her hands fondly on his changed locks; "yes, the same gray eye-the same broad forehead-I have wanted a father so much!" she sobbed. 
               "Be cheerful, Alice; be cheerful dear," said Mrs. Littlejohn, gently; "your father's health is somewhat shattered, he tells us, and excitement is not good for either of you." 
               "Yes," and Alice checked her tears; "I ought to be so thankful-I am so happy; come, father, sit down now and tell me where you have been so many years;" and gently drawing him to a seat, they were soon talking earnestly. Meanwhile Mrs. Littlejohn had passed to Hattie, a letter from home, telling of her mother's improved health, and giving her leave to stay as long as she could be of any service. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
               PERFECT LOVE. 
                
                  
                     "For perfect love casteth out fear."
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "God is love, saith the evangel; 
                        And our world of woe and sin 
                        Is made light and happy, only 
                        When a love is shining in." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "O love, thy essence is thy purity! 
                        Breathe one unhallowed breath upon thy flame, 
                        And it is gone forever, and but leaves 
                        A sullied vase-its pure light lost in shame." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "True, there is better love, whose balance just 
                        Mingles soul's instinct with our grosser dust; 
                        And leaves affection strengthening day by day, 
                        Firm to assault, impervious to decay." 
                     
                   
                
               MRS. LITTLEJOHN passed out quietly, leaving the little group together, and went as she did daily among the prisoners. It was touching to see how they gathered about her, those who were out of their cells, and how eagerly they drank in every word that was spoken by her. Charles, the youthful forger, still wore a smiling countenance, and extreme neatness characterized his dress and person. He shook hands, smiling as he did so, and a very rare smile it was. 
               "Still happy as ever, I suppose," said Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "Oh! a great deal happier," replied Charles; "it grows brighter and brighter." 
               "And will, if you are faithful, even unto the perfect day," rejoined Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "I was very much cast down, a little while ago," said Charles, taking courage from her gentleness; "a man, a good man, no doubt, came here this morning, and as I told him how I felt, he exclaimed, 'ah! this is your first love; enjoy it while you can.' Now, what did he mean?" 
               "Some people have a very mistaken theory," replied Mrs. Littlejohn, seating herself beside him, "that religion consists entirely in feeling. They are wrong; very far wrong; religion should be the governing principle of every day life; not dependent at all upon feeling. Suppose, in the state of mind you now are, you should hear of your mother's death? would it not cast a chill and a gloom over your soul? would you not weep, perhaps, and mourn with much lamentation? but would that sorrowful face of yours, that heavy heart, be an indication that you had lost your religion?" 
               "No, indeed," said Charles. 
               "The feelings you have this moment, have had ever since your heart has been renewed, you may have twenty years from to-day, if you live so long. That love towards God and man need never grow less-never. God is able to keep you just as happy, just as holy, as you are to-day. Does he not say, 'I will put my Holy Spirit in you that ye may keep my commandments?'" 
               "Yes, I see," said Charles, with a brightening face. 
               "The first great law is love-love to God and your neighbor. Now, if you continue loving your neighbor, you will not sin against him, because you do not wish to do him any thing but good; and if you love God with all your heart, you surely will not sin against him, because you know that sin is an abomination to him; that he hates it, and cannot look upon it. Is this plain?" 
               "Oh, thank you-thank you; very plain." 
               "And if you are tempted ever so much, you need not yield if you look to God, for he has said he will provide a way of escape." 
               "It's a blessed life to live, isn't it?" asked Charles. 
               "I have found it so for forty years," replied Mrs. Littlejohn. 
               "That's a long while." 
               "Yes, when I was a child of seven, a disciple of my Master, a meek, angelic-faced gentleman, who had spent his life in doing good, talked to me about the Saviour, and asked me if I would like to be a Christian. I told him yes, and then he showed me how to yield my heart, my best affections up to Christ; and as he talked, he asked me again if I had given my heart to the blessed Lord. I remember I thought a moment, and said, 'yes;' and he placed his hand on my head, and blessed me and still keeping his hand upon my temples, he knelt with me beside him, and dedicated me to the service of Christ. From that very hour, I have never missed my closet a single day; and never have I entered it, but what I seemed to feel that good man's hand upon my head." 
               "That is beautiful!" said Charles, his face quite radiant. 
                
               "Is Jack Mystic here?" 
               "No, madam; he is in court to-day, on trial. I think he 's a changed man, Mrs. Littlejohn; I heard him pray earnestly, last night; he remembered you and all the prisoners." 
               "He will doubtless be hung." 
               "I believe there is no help for him," replied Charles, with a slight shudder. "He told me himself that he 'd rather die, as he feels now, than run the risk of doing any more wickedness." 
               "Poor fellow! I wish he knew what a great being God is, and how easily he can keep men from crime if they only have sufficient faith to believe it," said Mrs. Littlejohn, sadly. 
               "I don't believe much in my own strength," said Charles; "but I do believe Christ will do all he says he will, because he is from God." 
               "A blessed belief," replied the prisoner's friend as she shook hands with him, and moved on towards some other of the prisoners. Two of these were boys, not much over nine and ten years of age, and they were at large as much as they could be, going from cell to cell, listening to all the wickedness that old and corrupted hearts poured forth from their treasury of iniquity. Oh, how it made the heart of this good woman bleed, to think, that in this enlightened century, the law allowed the child of tender years to mix with degradation and crime, and learn to do deeds of darker shade and deeper villainy, under the pretence of a reasonable punishment. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
               THE WITNESSFS. 
                
                  
                      
                        "The story hath an even, straight-forward weh; 
                        I warrant me it's true." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                     "Ply him with questions-tell him black is white."
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Law does not put the least restraint 
                        Upon our freedom, but maintain 't; 
                        Or if it does 'tis for our good, 
                        To give us freer latitude; 
                        For wholesome laws preserve us free, 
                        By stinting of our liberty." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "If we offend the law, 
                        The law may punish us." 
                     
                   
                
               A CROWDED court room witnessed the entrance of the prisoner charged with theft. Rumor had whispered that the alleged thief was young and beautiful; and the strangeness of the committal perpetrated on the person of an orphan and a relative, had brought many of the more fashionable sort-those who knew the Westerlys-to listen to the trial. 
               Alice, simply dressed, with a thick veil thrown over her straw bonnet, came in leaning on the arm of young Gildersleeve, whose sweeping glance defied the assembled throng. Tom and Hattie were both present; and in the witness box, also heavily veiled, sat Belle Westerly and her mother. It was a trying hour, and even to the young Christian, full of agony. Her tearless eyes were closed; her face was like marble, and she was moveless as a statue during the usual preliminaries. The testimony had been heard on one side, and Belle nearly fainting, was forced to leave the suffocating place for a few moments. As she went out, her whole frame shook like an aspen. 
               When she returned, her strength deserted her again, for in the witness-box stood Lorine, and in her eye shone that strange, unnatural look that had so often perplexed and affrighted her. The counsel for the defence was just saying, 
               "On what night, please to repeat, did you go to the ball in question?" 
               "The seventeenth of June, sir." 
                
               A sensation of deathly fear crept through Belle's every nerve, as she listened. 
               "And you returned at what hour?" 
               "At a quarter to twelve, sir; the assembly was held in a place not far from the house, and as I was tired, sir, I thought it best to return." 
               "Did you come alone?" 
               "No, sir." 
               "Well, you can go on now, and state your story briefly." 
               "As I went up stairs, sir, I bethought me that perhaps Miss Alice's lamp was still burning; sometimes she sat up very late, writing; and I went into the chamber, me and Caddie, for the lamp was burning, very low-just going out. Directly we heard a footfall, it seemed, and a door move-creak like-and being naturally a little timid, I was frightened, knowing the folks wouldn't expect me home so soon. So I sprang for the closet; it's a large closet with a half glass door, and all hung round with clothes; and presently I saw what I took to be a spirit, for a moment, so crossing myself, I hid my face, and Caddie almost screamed out. But a little after, I saw it was Miss Belle, all dressed in white, with a lamp in her hand. I pulled Caddie's dress to signify she must look, and we both saw her, sir. A chain, the one she lost, hung at her side, and she appeared to have something in her hands. First she set the lamp down, and went out, looking hard at where Miss Alice lay fast asleep; but presently she came back and crept like a snail to the table, read a note that laid there, took up several things, and fumbled round till she found the key of Miss Alice's trunk. Then she got down on her knees and unlocked it, and took something in her hand; I could not see what she done next, because the back of the trunk hid it; but I saw her take the chain and stuff it in, and then something else; and then she-" 
               The witness was silenced; the court in great commotion. Mrs. Westerly had thrown up her veil, revealing a horror-stricken face, agonized beyond all description to portray; she was endeavoring to unfasten the bonnet of her daughter, for Belle laid against her in a dead faint. 
               It seemed to Alice that she could scarcely breathe; she gasped for air, as the revelation of this great wickedness, this new anguish was made; and as Belle was carried out, the court room was as still as the grave. In a few moments ments the examination went on as before. The girl, Lorine, told a plain, unvarnished, unexaggerated story; she was, indeed, a person of good talents; an honest girl, as far as her education allowed; that is, she would not steal or lie, though she might borrow as occasion demanded, without permission; confess, and receive absolution. It was proved satisfactorily, by two or three persons, that Lorine had left the assembly at the time she named; and Caddie, who had returned with her, gave the same evidence, word for word, though severely cross-questioned, and a timid trembling girl. 
               The trial lasted only for the space of three hours; the jury gave the verdict, "not guilty," without quitting their seats; the crowd cheered; young Gildersleeve's friends thronged about him when he had conducted Alice to her carriage, and congratulated him with hearty voices and genial smiles. Alice, in company with Mrs. Littlejohn, who received her with open arms, her cousin Hattie and Tom, were driven to the residence of General Littlejohn, who had remained at home to cheer the drooping spirits of Captain Graylynn. The old gentleman lifted his child from the carriage, and in another moment she found herself seated on her father's knee, and General Littlejohn laughing over her, as he wiped his spectacles, that perhaps had been somewhere in the vicinity of a tear. 
               What a day was that to Alice. Triumphantly vindicated, her father beside her, her lover more devoted than ever, her soul exalted with the hope of the Christian, care all chased away by the sun of prosperity! it was only saddened when a thought of Belle Westerly obtruded itself like a passing shadow, darkening for the moment, the pleasure of existence. Tom wished her joy, and she knew not why his voice choked as he did so, and that firm lip trembled. Hattie was noisily happy, and constantly repeating, "Now you will go home with us." A festive dinner graced the day, and over it for the first time in his long life of sixty years, General Littlejohn put up a prayer of thanks. It was entirely unexpected by his wife, and for a moment she looked the surprise she felt. He said nothing, however, but maintained a dignified composure, until they were alone together. Then, as he clasped her hand in his, he told her that for many years he had felt that he was living a life unworthy of the wife who had been so faithful to him; that he had at last come to the resolution to begin to do his duty by instituting family worship and the practice of asking a blessing at the table, instead of allowing his wife to do what plainly devolved upon him as the head of a family. "I've been a grey-headed sinner long enough," he added, with much emotion; "but I 'm resolved, with the help of God, to lead a new life for the few years I am permitted to remain." 
               Was it not a joyful day to more than Alice? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
               WHAT FOLLOWED. 
                
                  
                      
                        "His eye no more looked onward; but its gaze 
                        Rests where remorse a life misspent surveys; 
                        What costly treasures strew that waste behind! 
                        What whirlwinds daunt the soul that sows the wind! 
                        By the dark shape of what he is serene 
                        Stands the bright ghost of what he might have been; 
                        Here the vast loss, and there the worthless gain- 
                        Vice scorned, yet woo'd, and Virtue loved in vain." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Try what repentance can: what can it not? 
                        Yet what can it when one cannot repent? 
                        Oh, wretched state! oh, bosom black as death! 
                        Oh, limed soul, that struggling to be free, 
                        Art more engaged!" 
                     
                   
                
               PALE, nearly senseless, Belle was carried to her home, and medical aid instantly summoned. Lying at full length on the richly-draped bed, her long hair streaming over the pillows, she was a ghastly sight to look upon. Her mother stood moaning and weeping above her, half distracted between shame and grief, first lifting the hand, touching the nerveless brow, then moving hastily back and forth with impatient ejaculations for the doctor's arrival. 
               "That wicked, crafty, wretched girl!" she moaned now and then; and then holding her clenched hands hard against her bosom, she almost shrieked as she thought of her over-whelming accusations. Could it be? Had Belle indeed committed a crime so dastardly; Miss Westerly, the beautiful, accomplished Miss Westerly. Then followed the thought that for life her fair fame was blasted; and when the doctor came he knew not which most needed his assistance-the senseless woman on the bed, or the mother, with her vacant look rocking herself to and fro. 
               "She has had some strong narcotic," he muttered, as he gazed on the death-like figure; "was she in the habit of using opium?" he inquired. 
               "Don't ask me, sir, don't ask me anything about her; I don't know what she did; I've had no control over her these twelve years; she did what she liked, she went where she pleased; I've been a strange mother to that girl, sir, and now it's too late, I see it." 
               Remedies were administered, and Belle came out of her death-like trance, but only to rave, for a fever attacked her brain. Dreadful indeed were her imprecations, her self-accusations. She breathed the spirit of hatred towards Alice, never remitting it for a moment, even while she wrote bitter things against herself. 
               "You had no business to be so winning!" she would cry; "you had no business to be so good and gentle! Why do you claim all the love, while I hunger and thirst for one heart to love me? only one heart; you might give me that. 
               "Yes, here are some poems she wrote and pretended to hide! Oh, such duplicity! such hollow-heartedness! This is all for his eye-but after all she is poor, and dependent, and far from beautiful-why should I fear? I, rich, lovely, influential, afraid of this poor sewing girl! 
               "I wonder if she sleeps! hist! Oh, how Satan tempts me! Judas sold his soul for thirty pieces of silver! mine is worth more, I think-ha, ha, a diamond necklace, five hundred dollars and a fine ring! Where shall I put this thimble? Are you sure nobody sees me? Not an eye-nobody hears-not an ear? Is Lorine sleeping, I wonder? Lorine is very crafty; she looks at me like a French girl with that black eye. She is true, though-I will give her a thousand dollars to buy her silence. But pshaw! she saw nothing. O Satan, tempt me not! 
               "How still she sleeps! how very quietly! Can she be dead? Lower the lamp shade-see what strange shadows come and go! Is it twelve yet? and she still sleeping. See, an angel bending over her; I dare not do it-I dare not! Oh, I dare not! Mother, save me, save me-Alice threatens-Alice is killing me!" 
               And so through the weary day and the long, long night, the tortured brain lashed against its tenement, and the house resounded with her cries. Morning came, but brought no balm to the self-condemned sufferer, noon aggravated her wretchedness, and night showed darker shades and more revolting pictures. Her mother was her chief nurse, unwilling that the agonizing cries should be listened to by stranger ears. A new maid had taken the place of Lorine, but she did not stay in the chamber only when some errand made it indispensable. 
               The fever reached its crisis, passed, and the miserable girl lay white and unearthly, a shadow of herself, unable to move or think. Her large eyes grown larger and more lustrous as the flesh wasted away, moved restlessly in in their sockets; her fingers had the tenuity of claws. For many days she lay thus, and it was uncertain whether there was vitality sufficient to restore the spent flame. Little by little she became conscious of all that had passed, and she would not let her mother leave her sight, but kept her eyes eagerly and questioningly fastened upon her face. At last her mother said, "Is there any thing you wish me to tell you, Belle?" 
               A slight nod was the significant reply. 
               "Do you wish me to tell you about the sickness? the weather?-read to you?-tell you-about-Alice?" at last she whispered. 
               To all but the last question a look of disappointment was returned; now an eager nod signified that she wished to hear of her cousin. 
               "Alice is well." 
               A mournful smile lingered on the lips of the sick girl; still her eyes were eager. 
               "Alice is married," continued her mother. A sharp spasm contracted the wasted features for a moment, and her mother sprang up in alarm, but the eyes implored her to remain, and still questioned. 
               "She is in Melville, at her aunt's," continued Mrs. Westerly; "she will go with her husband on his next voyage." 
               Still the look of painful solicitude remained, and her mother felt that there were were yet other questions pressing on her mind, so she asked, "Do you wish me to speak of any one else?" She signified not. 
               "Do you wish me to say something more of Alice?" 
               Eagerly the sick girl assented. 
               "What shall I say? what can I say more than I have said?" queried the distressed mother, still watching those great shadowy, glistening eyes, fixed with such expectancy upon her own; then a sudden thought occurring, she asked, "Do you want to see Alice?" 
               That was it; the eye lost its intensely imploring gaze so affecting to behold, and she seemed satisfied. 
               "Shall I send for her?" asked her mother. 
               An eager assent followed, and Mrs. Westerly immediately proceeded to write a few lines, urging Alice to visit her cousin, who was apparently on the threshold of eternity. 
                
               Then Belle grew calmer and watched her mother with less emotion, though sometimes even now the lip trembled and the eyes were filled, and gradually she could hear reading from the Bible, only from the Bible, though she did not seem to listen with any great feeling. By and by she recovered so far as to speak but little above a whisper, and gradually her voice returned; but, strange to say, she seldom spoke, lying passively, quietly, unwilling to see any one beside her mother. So, wearily, day after day passed on, and Mrs. Westerly, in the sick chamber, had abundant leisure for reflection. Society expected little of her now. It sent, once in awhile, an embossed card, with some elegant name elegantly written, and regrets, etc., but it was very willing to do without her, now that trouble and disgrace had come. The name of her child was on curling lips, and passed from mouth to mouth, coupled with reproach, in rich drawing-rooms. Women who made fashionable calls, said to one another, touching the tips of their kidded fingers together, they always considered Belle Westerly a reckless girl-"but then, you know, one didn't like to say all one thought." 
                
               But she was missed, although she had not been loved. Those who gave parties sighed that Belle Westerly was not present to give additional brilliancy to the scene. There were plenty of regrets, and alas! how selfish they were. Here and there, one paused to think just long enough to give the sleeping conscience time to turn itself, but that was all; the heartless world held out its hand and confidingly they followed. 
               "Wasn't it dreadful?" whispered one pretty girl to another; "so mean! I 'm sure I 'm sorry that I've ever known her." 
               "She's not expected to live," said another. 
               "I should think she would want to die now; of course, she has forfeited all claim to respect; it will be the best thing she can do," replied still another, a heartless, despicable leader of flirtation and coquetry. And thus, while lying helpless, almost despairing, upon a bed of sickness, those whom she had called friends commented upon, and, it almost seemed, exulted over her downfall. 
               All these things passed through the mind of the humbled woman, as day after day, through the hours of her child's delirium and weakness, she sat watching and weeping over Belle. She saw, and not for the first time, how hollow the world was. She had heard the lesson from the pulpit; she had read it in prettily written essays; she had seen the moral exemplified in works of imagination, but now the barbed points of experience pressed against her bosom, and she felt it. She shuddered at the coldness of its touch, the cruel wound it made, and it may be that, as in a glass, darkly, she saw the hand that held the tempered steel. What to her seemed her charities now? her utter absorption in the sensual pleasures of the world? Death was before her, eternity beyond, and the awful conviction pressing upon her, that her child's soul would be required at her hand. She passed Belle's whole life in review; as an infant, petted and made vain and wilful by adulation; as a girl, high-tempered, proud and undisciplined, displaying an inordinate fondness for dress; as a woman, heartless, angling for admirers, and coolly dismissing them when, through her arts, they were betrayed into fondness; and finally, in loving one who had not thought of her, destroying, with a recklessness that seemed insanity, the reputation of a fair, innocent girl, who stood in her way. And had the mother ever checked or warned her child? Never. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
               IN THE COUNTRY. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Mine be a cot beside the hill, 
                        A beehive's hum shall soothe my ear, 
                        A willowy brook that turns a mill, 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        With many a fall, shall linger near." 
                        "Safe-roofed my cottage (red with summer's shine); 
                        Hangs from the twisted elm my clustered vine; 
                        Boughs glow with cherries, apples bend my wood, 
                        And the crushed olive foams with juicy flood. 
                        Where my light beds the scattering rivulet drink, 
                        My simple pot-herbs flourish on the brink; 
                        And poppies, smiling, wave the rosy head, 
                        That yield no opiate to a restless bed. 
                        If for the birds I weaved the limed snare, 
                        Or for the startlish deer the net prepare, 
                        Or with a slender thread the fish delude, 
                        No other wiles disturb those woodlands rude. 
                        Go now, and barter life's calm, stealing days 
                        For pompous suppers, that with luxury blaze! 
                        Pray heaven, for me the lot may thus be cast, 
                        And future time glide peaceful as the past." 
                     
                   
                
               "THEY are all at the foot of the hill," said De Witt Gildersleeve, gazing down on a merry group who were laughing and shouting as they ran from place to place. 
               "So they are; what will they think of us?" and with a half-startled look, Alice essayed to rise from her mossy seat, but a strong arm held her, as De Witt laughingly exclaimed, 
               "What, still afraid to stay alone with me? I must break you of that." 
               "You know it is not that," said Alice, with blushing cheeks, as she resumed her seat. "I am very happy with you, alone, in this beautiful spot." 
               "And they had sense enough to perceive it, good creatures. Alice, are you still just as happy as you can be?" 
               "Yes, thank God-ought I to be so happy?" replied Alice, tears of joy springing to her eyes. 
               "To be sure you had, my darling; you might as well ask if the sun ought to shine out in its broadest splendor, when the sky has been shrouded in storms for days together; you have been happy in affliction, why not in joy? The Christian should always be happy. You will see a joyous old soul in our ship, Alice-I shall call it ours, now-the best sailor I have; Antonio, a Portuguese. Why, the dear old soul is singing from morning till night; and the most hardened salt that ever wore a tarpaulin, loves old Antonio before he has been on shipboard a week. Sometimes, he's in the foretop, shouting away, 
                      
                        "I'm one of Captain Jesus's sailors, 
                        Singing Oh hallelujah! 
                        He is a leader victorious, 
                        Singing Oh hallelujah!" 
                     
                  
                
               "I expect the words and the arrangement are his own." 
               "I know I shall like him," said Alice. 
               "Yes, the queer, kind old fellow, how you will study him; there, the clouds are coming-why that sad look?" 
               "O De Witt, when I think of poor Belle Westerly, and how her mother spoke to me when I went to see her, before we came out here." 
               "The wages of sin is death," repeated the young man; "she had every opportunity to repent-God only can help her now, poor girl-leave her in his hands, Alice-come, come, no tears-now, for a run down the hill, to bring the roses back; your hand-here we go;" and, amid the laughing shrieks of the party below, they arrived at the base, panting and out of breath, yet laughing with the rest. 
               "Tom and Harry have been disputing for the last twenty minutes, about the relative advantages of town and country life," said Linda, looking up from a beautiful wreath she was twining; "come, Mr. Gildersleeve, let us have your views; you live on neither the field nor the paved street, and ought to be an impartial observer." 
               "I'll tell you all about that," said the young man, after he had found an easy seat for Alice, and wrapped her light shawl gracefully about her; "when I was last in London--" 
               "In London! only listen; hear!" cried Hattie, her face lighting all over; "he 's going to tell us about London." 
               "When you give him leave," said Linda, gravely. 
               "Well, when I was last in London, I was invited by a retired merchant to visit his country-seat. His brother and himself, having amassed a splendid fortune, had built them elegant villas, twenty miles out of the environs of the city, and there they lived in as much retirement as they chose. I consented, and was driven to a most romantic spot, and taken to an English house, that for convenience and splendor I never saw equalled. The merchant introduced me to his lady-like wife, and handsome children-carried me through his beautiful establishment, till I was weary of admiring ebony cabinets, superb statuary, pictures by Teneirs and Van Dyke, its gothic windows, richly colored, its broad staircases, with panelled sides, elaborately painted, and its splendid mirrors. Then I went out into his park, and had an admirable view of the fine rolling hills, lined with cedars and oaks, that encircled the valley-his gardens, laid out with great accuracy-and I thought, well, here is a man to be happy; what should hinder? 
               "At dinner time, I observed his wife said little, and seemed somewhat careworn, as if she was accustomed to weariness. His only daughter was dressed with ball-room taste-his sons talked of nothing but sporting, and their grammar was defective. 
               "In the afternoon we walked out, the wife and daughter excusing themselves on the plea of the heat. The sunlight lay along the green bank of the river, and dimpled in its clear blue waters; and the noble hills, sloping from valley to valley, on the far shore, shone with a brilliance belonging only to the midsummer day. We entered an arbor-a very pretty thing, by the way, and so I remarked. 
               "'Yes,' he answered; 'I indulge here sometimes-fine place for smoking-pretty good for an afternoon nap.' 
               "I gazed around upon the magnificent scenery, and with great effort prevented myself from saying, 'pshaw!' 
               "'I've often thought,' he continued, coming to the door and leaning back languidly, 'if I could have this location for a mill, what a fine thing it would be! If I was only a younger man, I'd soon make it the most valuable property, sir, in England. Why, look you here, what splendid woodland, all running to waste, as you might say; timber enough to build a dozen factories-besides the fuel and planks. If I could just get about that sort of business, here, I should be contented; for the fact is, sir-I--' 
               "'You are not happy in retirement?' I rejoined. 
               "'That's it, sir; I can't be contented with this namby-pamby sort of life,' he replied, 'and this monotonous scenery is quite wearing me out. There's my brother Marshal, now, he'll tell you another story; I don't think he ever had the passion for enterprise that I have. I don't like the country, that's flat; business and bustle is my life. But come-let's step over to brother's; you see his house from here.' 
               "Marshal, as the old man called him, was in the garden, superintending the removal of some choice plants. He was attired in linen jacket and straw hat, and his cheeks were as red and fresh looking as those of a youth. He sprang forward to meet me, his beaming smile attesting his pleasure, and led me through his beautiful garden, his orchard, and to an arbor similar to the one on his brother's premises, and through the trellis-work of which, emerald clusters of unripe grapes hung. 
               "'There! isn't this a place fit for a monarch? I tell you, sir, I take a favorite author, on a glowing day, bring wife and daughters here, with their work-table and basket, sit them down beside me, and if a man isn't happy then, why, he don't deserve to be, that's all!' 
               "I cast a side-long glance at his brother; he had taken out a daily paper, and was earnestly nestly engaged in reading-the advertisements." 
               At this, as De Witt looked round, the whole party laughed, and Linda murmured, "I should expect it." 
               "'Does not the sameness of the country weary you?' I asked. 
               "'Weary me!' he exclaimed, with a flashing eye; 'sameness! why, look you, young man-the sun is near setting now. Look at the hills! did you ever see such a glorious royal purple-so bright a crimson? How softly the bright-edged rays of light fall upon them-and how rich and vivid the brown in the hollows, and the shadow-shapes of the clouds, rolling grandly down. Sameness! behold the sky!' and with an almost inspired look, he pointed his finger towards the heaven, that, all burnished and crimsoned, was reflected in gorgeous colors in the still river beyond. 'See,' he cried, 'how it is dipped as it were in a golden baptism. In the morning, think you it is the same? No, no; I often come by myself to watch the darkness away, and behold that mighty sun brightening the wide horizon, flash by flash, blaze after blaze, until the great vault seems fitly called heaven. And then at night, young man, I take my children and loosen yonder little boat, and while the white moon silvers tree, shrub, and hill-top, and the water breaks into jewels as the oar cuts through-I tell you it is a change, and a glorious one. We all take healthful rambles, beside-up with the lark, we are as merry, and as happy-sketching from nature, drinking from the brook, eating from the trees, and on the whole, we are pretty good specimens of what nature can do; very different beings from what we were when we led an artificial life in the hot city.' 
               "Here his brother who had been sauntering off, returned. 'There,' said he, pointing his finger-speculative-as his brother had pointed his finger-spiritual, 'there is the best site in the world for a mill-a lumber mill I mean. The tide rapid and strong; and just strike off those useless elms, there would be the finest spot for operation. What on earth are trees good for besides firewood and shingles, I want to know? They don't benefit anybody, standing uselessly here, a dime's worth," 
               "Ah!" said Alice, "he had no eye but for mills and factories; I wonder if he ever thought of another life?" 
                
               "Doubtful!" replied De Witt smiling; then he continued-"I walked into the country-loving brother's house. His daughters, sweet, gentle girls, attired with charming simplicity, gave me a pleasant greeting, and with graceful, easy manners conversed with me almost as if I were an old friend. His wife, a youthful looking matron, was as busy as her domestics, but her often remarks indicated a cultivated mind and deep, strong powers of thought. 
               "The first brother the moment he had said 'how d'ye do,' caught up a paper, and turned, as usual, to account of stocks, with as anxious a face as the veriest fear-fraught speculator. While Marshal took me to his well-furnished library, named over the choice books, and carefully commented on each, though with the manner of a very modest man. Now you see, here is the summing up of the whole; one had studied books in his leisure, and men and circumstances when occupied with business. The other had cramped a mind originally noble to the mere object of money-getting-and yet he had amassed no more than his wiser brother. Now in their old age one was a nervous, restless being, seeing more beauty in a ledger than in green fields and babbling streams, and happier in a little dingy counting room than in his country palace, surrounded with every good gift of God; the other, an open-handed, large-hearted, intelligent, contented man, blessed in his life 
                     "Exempt from public haunt,"
                   finding 
                      
                        "Tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, 
                        Sermons in stones, and good in every thing." 
                     
                  
                
               "Hilloa! what what are you doing now?" he cried, as Linda, standing up, threw the crown of roses over his brow, and then laughed at him for blushing. 
               "I think you deserve it, sir, for your excellent lesson; but you haven't told us yet which you like best-the city or the country?" 
               "Oh! as to that," said De Witt, playfully, "when Alice was there, I liked the city best; to-day, I think the country rather takes the precedence. But see-here comes poor Katty, red with running. 
               "Mother!" exclaimed Linda, with pale lips-what is the matter, Katty?" she asked, hardly able to stand with sudden terror. 
               "Matter, why miss, supper's be'n ready this 'alf an hour; and Mr.'s at home, all three of 'em, and here's a letter jest com'd for Mrs. Gildersleeve." 
               Alice took the letter, opened it-and with the words, "we must go-poor Belle;" handed it to her husband. Together, and in more quiet mood they all returned to the house. The invalid mother, now able to sit in her great easy chair by the sitting-room window, greeted them pleasantly, chiding very softly for their long delay. That pleasant table with its white covering and the pure China tea-set! And the happy faces gathered about it! First the farmer made independent by his newly found brother, who had paid the mortgage to the last farthing, then his wife, smiling, cheerful, her heart lightened of its heaviest load, then Alice, her father and husband on either side, and all the members of the family, including Tom whose face and manner told that he had conquered himself, while Katty, the good-natured girl smilingly waited upon them all. 
               Blessings on the tea-table, where love and sympathy and innocence gather around it, it is the choicest meal of the day, hallowed by repose from toil and followed by prayer and thanksgiving. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
               A SUMMONS. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Dearly pays the soul 
                        For lodging ill; too dearly rents her day." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Throw years away! 
                        Throw empires, and be blameless. Moments seize, 
                        Heavens on their wing; a moment we may wish, 
                        When worlds want wealth to buy." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "The man 
                        In whom this spirit entered, was undone. 
                        His tongue was set on fire of hell, his heart 
                        Was black as death, his legs were faint with haste 
                        To propagate the lie his soul had framed." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "For pleasures, vanities, and hates, 
                        The compact we renew, 
                        And Judas rises in our hearts; 
                        We sell our Saviour, too. 
                        How for some moment's vain delight 
                        We will embitter years, 
                        And in our youth lay up for age 
                        Only remorse and tears." 
                     
                   
                
               ALICE had been ill, for a short season, in consequence of the reaction following the exciting scenes in which she had been a participant. The morning on which she left the pleasant country, in company with her husband, she was still pale and the sorrow she felt for her unfortunate cousin impressed her sweet face. Her husband, for Alice was the bride of a week, said but little to her on the way, rightly judging that she was preparing her mind for an interview of more than usual interest; but when the carriage stopped at the great house, so gloomy now, he ventured to say, "Alice, for my sake, be careful; you are not well yet, you know." A slight pressure of the hand was her only reply, and choking down a sob, she entered the lonely parlor. How vividly came up the recollection of the last time she had seen that room, lighted up with a scene of lustre; and Belle in her magnificent beauty robed in the rich satins and laces with which her mother loved to deck her, standing there the queen of the goodly company. Now she looked-she dare not picture to herself how-perhaps ghastly with the dews of death. And the morning on which she herself had been thrust out, came back upon her memory, that awful morning, and the scenes that followed with quick recurrence; but suddenly her musings were startled by the appearance of Mrs. Westerly. If she was so changed, the lofty bearing gone; the form once so erect, stooping; the hair so dark, whitened by her deep sorrow, what must Belle be? She advanced towards Alice and essayed to speak, but instead, she burst into tears and turned her head away. De Witt walked to the farther corner of the room; Alice was weeping too. It was some moments before the poor woman could compose herself sufficiently to speak, and when she did she only said-"come." 
               Alice followed, silently; up the broad staircase, across the upper hall, and into the front chamber, which was Belle's room. How changed the appearance of the once bright apartment! The blinds excluded the sun; the heavy curtains were thrown down, and gave a twilight dimness; and there, raised on pillows, her large eyes glittering with unearthly light, laid Belle, pale, wasted, hollow cheeked, and lying in a position that made her nerveless form look like the dead. 
               "Here is Alice, my dear," said Mrs. Westerly, in a gentle tone. 
               The sick girl turned and gazed eagerly at Alice, who knew not what to say; then, her lips quivering, her eyes swimming with tears, she slowly turned her head to the wall. 
               "Belle, Belle-don't turn away from me!" cried Alice, going close up to her bedside; and stooping tenderly over the pale forehead, she kissed it, shutting her eyes to keep the blinding tears from falling. 
               "How can you?" murmured Belle, turning towards her again. 
               "How can I what, dear?" 
               "Treat me with any tenderness-I who have wronged you so." 
               "Dear Belle, don't speak of it; oh, I pray, don't speak of it. Or, if you will let me, I will tell you what a blessing my trial has been; how Jesus visited me, and how I gave myself to him in a covenant never to be broken." 
               "I might once;" said Belle, with a low, moaning voice, "but it is too late now; O, my lost soul!" she shrieked, in a voice of the fiercest agony. 
               "Don't, dear, don't have one of those turns again!" cried Mrs. Westerly, rushing towards her; "speak to her, Alice; tell her there is mercy; tell her that her soul is not lost; that while there is life there is hope." But in vain; wildly, with staring eyes, and hands uplifted, the unhappy girl continued to shriek in the most harrowing tones,-"O, my lost soul!" Mrs. Westerly sobbed, entreated, held the wan arms down, but it was not till Alice fell on her knees, and in the voice of supplication prayed for her, that she would be quiet. 
               "It will do no good to talk to me," said Belle, hollowly, "only to tell me you forgive me, not only for that, but every thing." 
               "I do, Belle-I do forgive you, as I hope to be forgiven; Belle, don't, I implore you, distrust the mercy of God. He is willing to save you." 
               "But I have sent him from me, I dare not say how many times; and now I am going to die, I have no hope here or hereafter." 
               "Belle, please don't talk in that way; the Saviour is always ready to be merciful; he is knocking this moment at the door of your heart." 
               "Or was, till I drove him away," exclaimed the young girl, shaking her head in a despairing manner. 
               "O, my dear cousin!" you don't know how long suffering he is; only throw yourself upon his mercy. Don't think of yourself, Belle; does he not say, 'come unto me all ye who are weary and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest!' forget yourself Belle." 
               "No, no; I am wretched and miserable, disgraced, ruined, and dying; I can think of nothing else but myself. I have no hope of, and I don't know as any wish for, heaven. It is my own fault; don't think I blame any one. Did you say you forgave me?" 
               "Yes, a thousand times." 
               "Then my conscience is easier; I have never loved you, though I have often wished I could; I always hated every thing good; it was my nature; but, yet, there have been times-oh! if I had but yielded then, this hard, unnatural feeling would never have taken possession of me-never!" 
               "Yield now, Belle." 
               "Too late," gaspingly came the words. "Too late!'' 
               "Belle, promise me one request; promise me you will try to repent," said Alice, imploringly. 
               "Ah! the repenting part has come, Alice; it has agonized me." 
               "Then promise me you will try to believe." She shook her head. 
               "Belle," said Alice, firmly, standing upright as she spoke; "you must promise me that you will at least try, and I will pray for you." 
               "I cannot, Alice; I have tried for the last time;" replied Belle. 
               "I must exact the promise, Belle; I will not leave you till you promise me." 
               "Then you must stay till I die." 
               Prophetic words! Alice sat by her cousin till she slept; then going down stairs, she, with her husband's advice, decided to stay through the night and watch with the victim of her own sin. So she returned to the chamber, and persuaded her aunt to retire to rest-she should be sleepless, and would call her if she needed her. Longer and blacker grew the shadows, touched with an uncertain motion, and all tending towards one point-the couch of the sick girl. Late in the evening the noisy streets grew still-there was silence without, silence within-a dead and heavy silence hard to bear in the room where Alice sat reasoning with herself upon death and eternity. She had so placed the lamp as to send a softer gleam upon the face of the sleeper, for it was too ghastly before to keep her glance upon. She marked the wan, white throat, its round beauty all gone; she could not touch the hollowed cheeks, the thin temples, the wasted lips, with a re-animation of their former loveliness, though she brought her memory powerfully to bear upon it. The hair, only, was unchanged; that lay in heavy, glossy masses, streaming from beneath the cheek, the throat, the temples, all over the pillow. 
               But as she gazed, Belle moved and opened her eyes wildly, then closed them. 
               "Belle," Alice murmured, softly. 
               The eyes flew open again. "I will try," came mournfully and faintly from the pale lips-she moved her hands, her arms, restlessly, caught at the collar of her white night-dress as if to pull it apart-gave one wild glance towards Alice, another towards heaven, and the spirit of the beautiful, the once-envied Belle Westerly, passed into the long eternity. 
               We dwell not on the anguish of a worldly mother who had no hope in her death-the cries, the shrieks, the mad prostrations and accusations against heaven.-The shroud, the coffin, and the pall! 
               Dust to dust! Ashes to ashes! there to lie till the resurrection. 
               A shaft of white marble, and Belle Westerly beneath. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
               THE DEPARTURE. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Look how the gray old ocean 
                        From the depth of his heart rejoices, 
                        Heaving with a gentle motion, 
                        When he hears our restful voices; 
                        List how he sings in an undertone 
                        Chiming with our melody; 
                        And there where the smooth wet pebbles be 
                        The waters gurgle longingly, 
                        As if they fain would seek the shore 
                        To be at rest from the ceaseless roar, 
                        To be at rest forevermore." 
                     
                   
                
                
                  
                      
                        "Where'er thou journeyest, or whate'er thy care, 
                        My heart shall follow and my spirit share." 
                     
                   
                
               "WELL, so we must say good-by to you to-day, I suppose," said General Littlejohn, the next morning, as he passed his cup for coffee the third time. 
               "For awhile, at least," replied Captain Gildersleeve. 
               "I wish I were going with you to the tropics ics. Wife, come, will you pack up and go if I say so," 
               "Not this time," rejoined Mrs. Littlejohn, smiling. 
               "There it is; you see, Gildersleeve, these women take the 'yea' and 'nay' right in their own hands-or rather I should say right in their own mouths-and we must do exactly as they decide," said the general, putting on a ludicrous earnestness. "But seriously, if you go out again, we go with you; what say you, wife?" 
               "I am very willing, if you give me time to prepare," she replied. 
               "Oh, you shall have plenty of time; will six months do?" 
               "Yes, indeed," she answered, quietly. 
               "Gildersleeve, you hear that; we go with you in January. 
               "Very well," he said, quietly; "I'll book you. But, Alice, we must be moving. Let's see; your trunks were all carried aboard on Saturday, I believe." 
               She nodded, moving with alacrity towards her father who just then entered the room, and who was to sail with them. 
                
               Mr. and Mrs. Littlejohn prepared to accompany the young commander and his wife, to see the appointments of the vessel. At the wharf to which the General drove them, they met Lorine and Caddie, the latter standing by a little trunk, and holding a carpet bag in her hand. 
               "Good morning, Caddie," said Alice; "so you have consented to go with me." 
               "Oh yes; I've been telling her it's the best thing she could do," said Lorine, volubly; "she ain't very strong, and the voyage will do her good; besides, I don't think she can get with a lady that will be what Mrs. Gildersleeve will; I'm sure of that." 
               "And what shall you do, Lorine?" asked the captain. 
               "Set up shop, sir," she replied, with a courtesy; "sister and me together, now her husband's dead; and many thanks to you, sir," she added. 
               "Don't forget, Lorine," said Alice, in a low voice, "what I told you." 
               "Oh, no 'm," replied the girl, "though I couldn't go to be any thing but a Catholic, you know; but I thank you for that you said; I never had anybody talk so to me before, and I thank you." 
                
               "Here comes the boat," said Captain Gildersleeve, as the rapid strokes of the oars brought the handsome little craft nearly to the wharf steps. 
               "Jump in, Alice-now Mrs. Littlejohn-Captain-General-you, Caddie-good-by, Lorine, you will probably see us when we return-row, men, row." 
               In a few moments they had reached the ship, and were standing in the spacious and elegant cabin. "Why, it's as handsome as a parlor!-and here is a piano and a library! Beautiful! beautiful!" exclaimed Mrs. Littlejohn, as, leaning on the arm of her husband, she moved around the Flying Cloud. 
               "Yes, every thing is in fine order; my little wife will be comfortable and happy," said the young captain, turning smilingly towards her; "I expect she'll be a famous sailor." 
               "Then I may promise Charles, that when he comes out of prison, you will take him and make a sailor of him?" said Mrs. Littlejohn, holding the hands of Alice, preparatory to leaving the vessel. 
               "Yes, I'll do that with great pleasure," replied the young man. "You said, I believe, that poor Jack Mystic got off with imprisonment for life." 
                
               "So I heard," rejoined Mrs. Littlejohn. Then commanding a cheerful look, she kissed Alice, as also did the General, and they took their leave of the ship. 
               None of the family from Melville were present; they had long ago said their adieux. Linda was preparing to be married to a prosperous young farmer, and Hattie was to accompany Alice, if she wished, on her next voyage. The invalid mother, now that the affairs of the farm were straightened, had taken, it seemed, a new lease of life. 
               Blue was the summer sky, and blue the ocean, on the day that Alice and her husband sailed. Some sad hearts remained, and sad eyes gazed through tears to see the gallant vessel go down the harbor. It was like the departure of a missionary ship. At some future time we will follow the fortunes of the sweet missionary spirit that dwelt in Alice Gildersleeve. For the present, reader, adieu. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
