
    ----CITATION----
        Cummins, Margaret.. Leaves From My Port Folio, Original and Selected .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6200
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Leaves from my port folio, original and selected
             
                 LEAVES FROM MY    PORT FOLIO, ORIGINAL AND SELECTED, TOGETHER WITH A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. BY MISS MARGARET CUMMNS.  ST. LOUIS, MO.: WM. E. FOOTE, BOOK AND JOB PRINTER, THRD ST., OPPOSITE P. 0. 1860.      PREFACE. In presenting this little volume before the Christian public, the author will regard it as no small favor that the mantle of charity be thrown over its imperfections. It had not been her design to bring it before the public until a few months since, being induced as a means of support to do so, as well as an humble aim to aid the sincere seeker in the way of holiness, by a simple narrative of her Christian experience of some years past. Should such be the case, and but one soul is benefited, her labors will not have been in vain.     I t, I   LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO. SUGGESTED ON WITNESSING A SCENE ON THE MISSOURI RIVER. It was in the beginning of the autumn of 18-, when I was journeying up the Missouri river on one of our steamboats, that, feeling rather wearied with the monotony of sitting in the cabin, where there were but few passengers, and but little to interest; the river, too, being very low, we made but little headway, being detained two or three days between St. Louis and Boonville on sand-bars. I therefore walked out on the guards, towards evening, to look at the scenery, and see if there was anything on which the eye might rest with pleasure. The first scene that attracted my attention, was the most glo- rious sunset I had ever witnessed. Clouds of the most brilliant red near the horizon, and others, of the same bright hue, fading away with the twilight, until the darkness of night hid them forever in its bosom. I was loth to bid adieu to the beautiful scene, which to me was fraught with so much plea- sure, until reminded by the thought that the most     6     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, beautiful things of earth must fade. Here and there we meet with a green spot in life's journey, to cheer us onward in the performance of its duties, and here and there a dark cloud gathers of adversity, sick- ness and sorrow, death and disappointment, to re- mind as that we are not to be too much wedded to this life; that we are only probationers on the shores of time; that we are placed here to fulfill life's duties faithfully, and take for our guide the Star of Beth- lehem, until it leads us to our desired haven, where no storms arise, nor clouds gather--where the sun of righteousness never sets, where night never ob- scures His matchless brilliancy, and where the song of the redeemed is ever sung: "To IIim who has loved us, and washed us in His own blood; to Him be glory, and honor, and power, and might, and do- minion, forever and ever." A SABBATH AFTERNOON IN TENNESSEE. It was on one of those bright and beautiful after- noons in Autumn, before the " sear and yellow leaf" had tinged the glowing forest, when Maggie J , was sitting alone in her room, Ida Maywood came in, exclaiming: "Why, Maggie, all alone! and writing a letter,   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     7 too! I suppose to that old lover of other days, that paragon of perfection I have heard spoken of." "My dear girl, you have addressed me in the form of two questions, both of which I cannot answer at once; but allow me to begin with the first clause. You say I am alone. No, Ida; I am not alone, al- though the family, of whom I am a member, are absent for the day. I am never alone. How could I be alone with such company as good books, or engaged in anything that is useful-and more especially on this holy Sabbath afternoon? Raise your eye and look out on that beautiful landscape. Not a leaf bears the stamp of the northern blast, nor the nipping frost. All is fresh and green as the sweet spring-time. Not a leaf quivers; naught but the gentle breath of the fragrant honey-suckle, or jessamine, which the busy bee has stirred, perfumes the air. Look at the glorious sun riding in the heavens. Not in the majesty of his noon-day brightness, but not the less beautiful, as he nears the western horizon, tinging the clouds with tint after tint of his ever changing hue. See! how bright, and yet brighter the clouds become, as his last parting ray bids us good night, and he is hailed with a cheerful good morning by the inhabitants on the other side of our world. Are not these the foot- prints of Deity? and how could I be alone? And when these are gone from my sight, and night throws her sable wing around our homes, and in- vites us to slumber, I can first bow the knee in     8    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, humble prayer, and invoke God's protection for the night, and meditate on his Providences, and see and adore his hand, which daily dispenses to me so many blessings, whether it be by the rod of affliction or the gentle gifts of his love. ",You suppose I am writing a letter to an old friend of other days, that paragon of perfection of whom you have heard? I AM writing a letter to my old friend of other days! And could I write aught but my kindest regards to ONE so noble, so gifted? A man, or a woman who is incapable of the Divine principle of a holy love, and holds it not sacred, ought to be put on an ice-berg and sent float- ing (if old Boreas will let him float), to the North pole." SUGGESTED FROM A DEW-DROP FALLING IN MY CUP, AND ONE ON MY HEAD, WHLE AT THE BREAKFAST TABLE AT A CADIP-MEETING NEAR - STATION, MSSOURI. I stood beneath an oaken tree, In one of nature's loveliest spots; The soft morning air gently fanned my brow- All was still, except a low conversation At the breakfast table. My heart was somewhat sad, For it is ever with me thus, Unless the Sun of Righteousness Is beaming brightly on me- The glorious sun which God Put in the heavens To cheer the earth:   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.         9 Shed his golden beams Among the waving leaves. A dew-drop wept Beneath his genial ray, As if loth to leave Its dewy nest. I heard a drop: I looked from whence it came, When, lo! a dew-drop fell into my cup, And another on my head. My heart was cheered; I felt encouraged; I thought thus will fall The dews of heavenly grace Upon my heart. And so it was: I went into the altar For morning prayer, For it was one of God's first temples- The grove. And there I looked up Toward the heavenly hill, With my eye fixed On the cross of Jesus. And as I looked, a dew-drop Fell from the Tree of Life, Which stood on the bank Of a pure river, gushing from The throne of God. It hushed my heart to rest, While another fell upon my head, Anointing me with a prayer For Zion's peace.     10     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, WHAT IS HUMAN   LIFE? "Life is a desert wild and drear, 'Midst whose bleak rocks, and herbless plains, And sullen rains, unblest by rains, The traveler faints with thirst and fear; Yet two bright rivers wind and bear Greenness, and joy, and bloom, along. The stream of social thought is there, And there the pleasant stream of song; The way-worn traveler, by their brink, Stoops, 'mid Spring flowers, to drink; Or, 'neath the Chemer's shade, spell-bound, Leans listening to the current sound." "Such is man's life, and all his pride.  Look not thou with envious eye upon the rich or great, the wise or beautiful; neither exult if thou art so thy- self. Beauty, valor, wisdom, wealth, genius-what are any of them?   Combine them   all, and what, even then, is human life?' It is but as a dew-drop on the lilie's flower: small and worthless, though sparkling with light not its own, surrounded by beauty and fragrance, it glitters in tremulous bril- liancy for a moment and is gone. And power, empire, glory-are they more worthy of thy desire? They are the gorgeous pageants of the sun-set clouds, piled, in golden magnificence, mountains high, as though they were the everlasting hills, and splendid as with unborrowed lustre; but when the rays of the True Source of light and life pass from them, they fade into mist and darkness, and are scattered forever by the winds of Heaven." ALBUM.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED,       " TRUE  BEAUTY. 'Tis not the cheek of roseate hue 'Tis not the eye of etherial blue; 'Tis not the neck of snowy white, With which these glowing charms unite. 'Tis not the belle, in gay attire, That can the man of sense inspire, With sentiments refined, And lasting as the mind. But 'tis the beauties of the mind: Good sense and modesty combined, Gentleness, purity, sincerity, and worth, All these will stand the test of truth. "ALL self-complacency is excluded in the experi- ence of holiness.  However deep our peace, how- ever freely justified and uncondemned we stand beneath the cross, abasement before God is the atti- tude of the soul, praising the grace which saves to the uttermost." How soon the bright and beautiful flowers wither and die. No sooner has the soft breath of Spring waved over them than they are gone. Gone, with all their smiles of beauty, and varied hue, and livid     12     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, green, which please the eye, and gladden the heart. How delightful it is to sit in some quiet spot, and gaze on a lovely landscape, when all nature is hushed into silence, and not a leaf quivers; and the lovely forest, clothed in her richest verdure, and the glori- ous sun gilding the western horizon, and the sweet songsters of the grove, straining their little throats in praise to Him who has said, "Not a sparrow shall fall to the ground without my Father's notice." And not only do the smiling flowers wither and die, which our heavenly Father has given us to adorn our beautiful world, and throw a charm around our quiet homes, but we, too, must die. And so do the radiant flowers of hope, and love, and joy. Our friends and loved ones, with whom we have spent so many pleasant hours, have faded and gone. The parental voice is heard no more around the cheerful hearth, in council or reproof. The faithful minister, who so kindly warned us to be reconciled to God by sincere repentance, and faith in the atonement of Jesus, and pointed us to that bright and beautiful land where sin and grief never enters-he, too, is gone: "Gone to a happier shore, A land of. sweeter bliss; More radiant, bright, and beautiful, And lovelier far than this."   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED,         13 "NES DEDICATED TO REV.  Yes! prize him well, We soon will lose him now; We will miss him in the sacred desk, Where he dispensed the Word of Life So faithfully, to saint and sinner. Yes! prize him well, We soon will lose him now; O! let not his heart be saddened With the thought, That, after all his faithful warnings, Not one sinner turned, of late, To seek his soul's salvation. Yes! prize him well, We will miss him in the social meeting, Where he has bowed the knee, And poured out his full soul in prayer, Before the eternal throne, For our salvation. Yes! prize him well, For soon he 'll go To other fields of labor, And his voice be heard no more Within these walls; Nor his eye be seen, which, but of late, Ye might perceive striving to read The feelings of your souls, That he might know if ye Would hear the voice of Jesus. "Tis sweet to pause and think In what a brighter world than this, The pure in heart shall meet again, Where sorrow is not known; How very near they will be to Jesus- For, sure they must be near to Him in Heaven Who did so love his name on earth.     "    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, THE BOOK OF NATURE AND SALVATION. Once, when traveling in a railway carriage, Dr. Robert Newton found himself in the presence of an infidel, who soon began to obtrude his opinions upon his fellow passengers, declaring his contempt for the Bible, adding that he needed it not, the book of Nature affording him all the information that he re- quired on religious and moral subjects. Dr. New- ton observed a young man in the company, who might receive injury from these remarks, and there- fore deemed it his duty to interfere. Looking at the infidel, he said: "The book of nature, sir, that you have mentioned, is a large volume; and he is a very learned man that is acquainted with its contents; yet there is one subject on which I think it gives no information." "Indeed," said the infidel, "what is that?" "What is that?" rejoined Dr. Newton, "it is salvation." "Salvation!" answered the infi- del. "Mysalvation," responded the Doctor. "Every man is sensible, from what passes in his own con- science, that he has done wrong; and that which all people confess to be morally wrong, everywhere meets our sight. To do wrong renders us liable to punishment, and therefore we need salvation. But where do you find anything about salvation in the book of nature? Do you read it in the grass of the field, either when it grows or when it fades away? Do you find it in the ever-varying surface of the sea,   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED,         15 or in the clouds as they pass over your head?    The book that you exclusively admire was written too soon for the purpose of instructing men with respect to the nature and method of salvation.   It was writ- ten before there was sin in the world, and, therefore, before salvation was needed." The infidel started aghast, but said not a word. An opportunity was thus afforded for calling attention to the value of the Holy Scriptures, which are inspired by God, and are able to make men "wise unto salvation, through faith which is in Christ Jesus." SECRET PRAYER AND HOPE. "As down in the sunless retreats of the ocean, Sweets are springing no mortal can see; So, deep in my soul, the still prayer of devotion,- Unheard by the world, rises silent to thee! My God! silent to thee, Pure, warm, silent to thee; So, deep in my soul, the still prayer of devotion, Unheard by the world, rises silent to thee. As still to the star of its worship, though clouded, The needle points faithfully o'er the dim sea; So dark as I roam, in this wintry world shrouded, The hope of my spirit turns trembling to thee- My God! trembling to thee, True, fond, trembling to thee; So dark as I roam, in this wintry world shrouded, The hope of my heart turns trembling to thee."     16    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, A STORY OF REAL LIFE IN KENTUCKY. Not a hundred miles from Lexington, Kentucky, stood a mansion, the residence of Mr. P--, a Vir- ginia gentleman, of considerable fortune, and esti- mable character, with the exception of one fault, which, perhaps, did himself more harm than any one else. He loved strong drink too well. It may, or may not, stand there yet; but whether any ves- tage of its former beauty still remains, or whether time and neglect has left it to crumble into ruins, is not for me to say. It is more than probable that those who once knew it, would know it no more. It is more than probable that the capricious tyranny of fashion has remodeled it-removed the ancient edifice, whose original owner sleeps peacefully near the spot, unconscious of the change. At the period of which we speak, however, the family of Mr. P--   were flourishing in full prosperity. It was a lovely spot. Connected with it, to me, are many endearing reminiscences, which time, place, nor circumstances, can never obliterate. The house stood in a large and beautiful yard, in front of which was as lovely a green carpet of nature's own weaving, as ever glittered in the morning sun. A few yards distant was a grove of as noble old oak and beach trees as ever waved in the gentle breeze of summer, or shook by the rougher blasts of win- ter. Could they speak, how many a prayer have   -ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     17 they heard offered up to the Father of Light, for a blessing on friends and home, and for the heart's richest earthly treasure, long since severed by death, or by the freaks of fortune. Mr. P--, for by that name we will now call him, had several lovely daughters, but one of whom had grown to woman- hood. Scarcely eighteen summers had passed over the head of Fanny P--. I love to think of her. Lovely, bright, and beautiful Fanny. So free from guile, her sunny face ever graced with smiles, happy herself, and ever contributing to the happiness of others. She possessed a fine moral sense, and bright intellect. Although many years have .flown by since we mingled our voices together, and lived to- gether under the same hospitable roof, and roomed together in the same pleasant room, (for she was one of my pupils,) yet her bright face often comes up before me like the morning star of memory, shed- ding a radiance on my pathway, with the sweet thoughts of her piety, her graces, and her virtues. May we meet in heaven! About a quarter of a mile from her father's resi- dence in the beautiful grove of which we have spo- ken, lived the remnant of an old, aristocratic family. Among several sons and daughters, there was one of noble bearing, and notler heart. He was a fre- quent visitor of Mr. P.'s His whole soul was wrap- ped up in Fanny.   His was a fearful love,-too deep for earth. How often I have watched his B     18    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, movements, following her from spot to spot, over the yard, and as if the world was full of smiles and flowers, never to be dimmed by the rough blasts of adversity. About a half a mile distant from her father's resi- dence lived another lover of Fanny's, (if I may call him by that sacred name,) indeed, it is doubtful to me whether or not he was capable of pure, unadul- terated love, but am inclined to believe that his love was mixed with the sordid dust of worldly interest, more than the divine principle of holy love. I intimated to Fanny my opinion of his selfish- ness and urged her to accept Edward B., of whom I have already spoken. Fanny said she never in- tended to marry Charles D., but she deceived me. I thought her incapable of deception, and I believe she was in every other matter. She married Charles D. I never saw Edward B. smile again if my mem- ory is not truant. A fixed melancholy seemed to get hold of him. No one seemed to know the cause. But I knew it, or believed it. I was too in- timately connected with the affair not to be able to divine the cause. He went to a town not many miles distant, and engaged in a lucrative business, but was still melancholy. He was found one morn- inlg dead,-he had committed suicide. And thus ended the life of (to all appearance), one of Ken- tucky's noblest sons. I blamed Fanny for encour-   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED,     19 aging his addresses when she did not intend being his. She, with her husband, moved shortly after to one of our Western States, but I am told she was not happy in her union with Charles D. How important it is for the young to read at least a portion of their Bibles daily, so that when the dark days of sorrow come,-for come they will, in some form,-they may have its sublime truths, its precious promises to lean upon, and be saved in the hour of temptation, and fitted for a brighter home in heaven. CONGREGATIONAL MUSIC.-Do you love music, and do you try to sing sometimes? Poor singer though I am, I love always to hear good music. Let a congregation sing a dull, minor tune, before I commence preaching, and my spirits, like mercury in an old barometer in falling weather, go down with a rush. ' Congregational singing will never become general and permanent, till the Churches employ tunes which have melodies that will cling to the memory, and touch the feelings or the imag- ination." This is the doctrine, the true doctrine. The sci- entific music, which it takes years to learn, and longer years to comprehend, is never going to af-     20    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, feet the world in the way that pure heart melodies must affect it. Let a true tune be sung, and what is the effect? The sensibilities and the feelings are stirred,-the melody clings to the soul. On the road-side and on the hill-side, in the forest walk or in the quiet of the parlor, you hear the snatches of the song playing in echoes, or dying away upon the air. Your little child just beginning to talk, learns and sings the air, and when Sunday comes you may hear it as it is poured forth from scores and hun- dreds of voices, old and young. Does not such music make one feel good? does it not tend to help one's religious feelings? Yes, it does, and cannot help so doing. Give me a people cold in heart, and cold in their love to God, and 1 will give you a people who cannot sing "according to the spirit and the understanding." Put me on top of an ice- berg and let me float to the North Pole and die there, rather than live among a soulless, singing- less, religionless set of professors. IF ministers would preach the Gospel, the world would soon be an Eden again.-SERMoN.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.         21 SUGGESTED ON HEARING A SOFT, SWEET STRAIN OF MUSIC. Hark! what seraphic sound is that I hear? Which floats like heaven upon mine ear; Comes it from whence? it cannot be of earth, Did some fair seraph give it birth? Or did it come with the night winds from afar, Wafted from Arcadian seas with the gleam of one lone star, Or has lEolia touched her gentle string? Say,r did she the sweet music bring? Or did it come from Italia's sunny clime? Where the roses bloom and the myrtle twines; Did she waft it here from her fragrant bowers, With the perfumed air of her scented flowers? Or did it come from Eden's lovelier groves, Where the flowers are sweeter far than those? Nay, nay! it came not from there, For her music's lost, and of tainted air. But it comes in softest, sweetest tones, Of heaven's own sweet melody, With the song of redemption on its wing, This--this is the music it brings. HE who   waits to  do a great deal of good at once will never do anything.     22     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, "' HE that gives alms to the poor," says Jeremy Taylor, "takes Jesus by the hand. He that pa- tiently endures injuries and affronts, helps him to bear his cross. He that comforts his brother in affliction, gives an amiable kiss of peace to Jesus. He that bathes his own and his neighbor's sins in tears of penitence and compassion, washes his Master's feet. We lead Jesus into the recesses of our heart by holy meditation; and we enter into Ilis heart when we express Him by our actions. He that considers with what afflictions of spirit, with what effusions of love, Jesus prayed; what fervors and assiduity, what innocency of wish, what modesty of posture, what subordination to his Father, were in all his directions, is taught and ex- cited to holy and religious prayer. The rare sweet- ness of his deportment in all the agonies of his pas- sion, his charity to his enemies, his sharp reprehen- sions to the Scribes and Pharisees, his ingenious- ness towards all men, are living and effectual ser- mons, to teach us patience and humanity, and real and candid simplicity, and justice in all our actions." "OVE labor; if you need it not for food you may for physic.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.        23 MEMORIES. TO A FRIEND. Dost thou remember where first we met, The grove, the church, the rill? Dost thou remember the lovely path We so often trod together? In Beach Grove. Dost thou remember when first we parted, The clear, bright morn in June? When we lingered on the bright green sod, And loth to say farewell? In Beach Grove. Dost thou remember we hoped to meet again, Ere the Autumn leaves had fallen? But Autumn's past and Spring's returned, And yet thou hast come not, To Beach Grove. Dost thou remember many long years ago, When the lovely Spring flowers were peeping? And their dewy leaves were weeping, In the sunbeams? 'twas then we met In Beach Grove. Ah! dost thou remember, many years have flown? Our heads are silvered o'er with the frosts of many winters, Our cheeks are worn with care, But we have never met In Beach Gvove.     24      LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, Dost thou remember the old log church. Where our feet so often trod together? Dost thou remember the lines you gave me, When we met there? In Beach Grove. 's We have met in peace together, In this house of God again,- Constant friends have led us hither, Here to chant the solemn strain, Here to breathe our adoration, While the balmy breath of Spring, Like to spirit of salvation Comes with a gladness on its wing. "We have met, and time is flying,- We shall part and soon His wing, Sweeping over the dead and dying Wrill the changeful seasons bring. Let us while our hearts are lightest, In our fresh and early years, Turn to Him whose smile is lightest, And whose grace will calm our fears," &c. Thou dost not remember, for I have seen, What thou hast never seen: The old log church is gone, where first we met, And another reared but not more sacred, Nor the song more sweet than first we sung, In Beach Grove.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.       25 And the bright, green sod, Where we breathed our last farewell, Is shorn beneath the plow-share, And the pale, fair moon shines on, As brightly as -in days of yore, On Beach Grove. "AFFLICTION.-Many promises are scattered in the Bible like stars in the firmament; and if it was always day, we should not have known there was a star in the sky; so many of God's promises only shine, or, at least, shine brighter in the night of affliction." SPEAK not well of any unadvisedly-that is sordid flattery. Speak not well of thyself, though ever so deserving, lest thou be tempted to vanity; but value more a good conscience than a good com- mendation. -BURKITT. OUR greatest glory consists not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.     26     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, EXTREMES IN RELATION TO DRESS. BY REV. - "This is no time to encourage superfluity in apparel." In selecting the above from a little book which is not as well known as it should be, as the basis of a few remarks on personal ornaments, I propose to show how superfluity in dress is sometimes encour- aged, and why it is now no time for us to give such encouragement.  Before, however, we consider these questions, there are two or three preliminary ones which should be settled. The first is, whether this subject is really worthy of our serious attention. There are some professed Christians who look upon such discussions as very puerile business; and when their pastor makes pointed allusions to this topic if they do not actu- ally turn his instructions into ridicule, seem to wonder how any sensible well bred man can so far degrade the dignity of the pulpit as to expatiate on matters so trifling. Do such persons realize that thoughts like these not only seriously reflect upon their pastor, but his Divine Master, the Almighty Governor of the universe, who has seen fit to incorpo- rate these small things into His statutes, which He has expressly required His embassadors to publish, and by which all mankind are to be judged at the   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     27 last day? Do they realize that human life is chiefly made up of what are called little things, and that the neglect of, or attention to really small matters often furnishes infallible tests of character? Such persons would do well to consider the pithy answer of a minister to a lady, who, when he advised her in relation to certain points of practical piety, said she thought he was rather too precise; he replied, "I serve a precise God." Another question is, whether there is at the pres- ent time occasion for the agitation of this subject. There certainly is not, if the evil has only an im- aginary existence in the Church, or, if real, is generally disappearing. But is either of these sup- positions sustained by facts? I think not. With- out reference to those times when some of our fathers leaned to the extreme, not merely of sim- plicity, but of Quakerish singularity of dress, has there not been within a few years past an obvious tendency towards excessive show and extravagance, and with certain classes an eagerness amounting almost to a mania for the display particularly of jewelry? If not, I shall be happy to be convinced of my mistake; but if I am correct, should we not avail ourselves of every means to enlighten error- ists on this subject, and show that; although almost inexhaustible mines of gold, have been dis- covered in California, the divine prohibition against     28    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, adorning our persons with it has not been re- pealed? But the most important preliminary query is, what are we to understand by superfluity of ap- parel? This question confessedly is not so easily answered. Even Mr. Wesley is not so explicit upon this point as is desirable. For instance, in his Sermon on Dress-vol. 2, page 259-he tells us that, while the Bible manifestly "forbids ordi- nary Christians, those in the lower or middle ranks of life, to be adorned with gold, or pearls, or costly apparel," he doubts "whether any part of the scrip- ture forbids those in any nation that are invested with supreme authority to be arrayed in gold and costly apparel, or to adorn their immediate attend- ants, or magistrates, or officers with the same." Now, if the reader will turn to vol. 6 page 549, of Mr. Wesley's works, he will find an entirely differ- ent, and I think more consistent view of the mat- ter. He says, "Our Savior once occasionally said, ' Behold they who wear gorgeous (splendid) apparel are in kings' courts;' but He does not say they ought to be even there; He neither enjoins nor countenances it." Whether this last is his most mature view of the point in question, I am unable to say, but I repeat, it seems more consistent and scriptural than the former; for if we admit that one class of Christians, whether their position in society may be without   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     29 sin, array themselves in gold, or pearls, we must, of course allow those "in the lower or middle ranks of life" to do the same. Indeed, is it not more im- portant that Christian simplicity should charac- terize those of highly cultivated minds, and who occupy influential positions in society, than those of more limited advantages? The truth is, what- ever may be the meaning of the apostolic interdic- tions on this subject, they are of universal appli- cation. Though specifically addressed to females, the principle involved applies to both sexes and to all classes. Still it must be admitted that the cul- pability of the use of what are usually termed super- fluous ornaments depends much upon circum- stances. Gold is not, in itself, an evil. It is not the use, but the abuse of gold that is forbidden. We have no proof that it is impossible to wear this or other precious metals without an infraction on God's law. But there can be no doubt of the sin- fulness of their use, when we adorn ourselves with them, and wear them as mere ORNAMENTS. As trivial a matter as we may affect to view this subject, individuals never purchase jewelry and put it upon their own persons or their children without some motive in so doing. The plea of custom, fashion, education, pecuniary ability, or position in community are of no avail, when conscience, on being closely interrogated, unequivocally, though perhaps reluctantly, answers that these things are     30    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, worn not for utility, but only for show, for personal adornment. And is it not to be feared there are too many who, anticipating the condemnatory verdict of conscience, studiously avoid bringing these "trifles" before the tribunal, and hence heedlessly follow the multitude to do evil? Although it is clearly sinful to wear gold and other ornaments when our hearts condemn the pride or other unholy passion which prompted their use, let us not infer that the practice is innocent in all cases when we cannot reproach ourselves for being influenced by such motives. There are other methods of learning our duty in relation to this sub- ject, if this is really our desire. Let us then ask ourselves these questions: 1st, Do we allow our- selves to wear those things that, before we made a profession of religion, we clearly thought were un- becoming the followers of the meek and lowly Savior, and which lessened the influence of such wearers upon us? Have we the right in this way to disqualify ourselves for usefulness to the irreli- gious? 2d, Do we indulge in ornaments which we think improper to be worn by those who make a high profession of religion? But have not we made a high profession? Did not we at the sacred altar, solemnly renounce the devil and all his works, the vain pomp and glory of this world? 3d, Do we dress in such a manner as to give no occasion of offense or stumbling to others? Are we not to   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    31 avoid the very appearance of evil? We may not, perhaps, be vain of our apparel; but will not others have reason to think we are? I say have reason to think we are; for it must be admitted there are unreasonable persons who, being destitute of good taste, and of neatness and decency, are perpetually declaiming against those who are not as negligent, rustic, or antiquated in their personal habiliments as themselves. Indeed suchl querulous people, we cannot, and we ought not to satisfy by yielding to their demands. For if, as Mr. Wesley says; neat- ness is a duty, and slovenness a sin, we are not at liberty to sacrifice the former and adopt the latter to please anybody. But there are those who, not with a captious, but teachable spirit, look to us as examples, and prompt to tread in our footsteps. Can we with confidence say to all such, "Follow us, even as we follow Christ?"In a word do we act in these matters with a single eye to the glory of God, as proprietors of nothing, but as stewards of His manifold grace?  By earnest inquiries like these, sincere searchers after duty, it is presumed, will not long remain in doubt as to what constitutes superfluity in dress, at least so far as they person- ally are concerned. But in what manner is encouragement given, or can it be given, for such superfluity? Let us ex- amine into the question. It is sometimes given by openly advocating the     32l    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, use of external ornaments. It is hoped not many are guilty of this impropriety. Still there have been, and yet are, those who either ignore those passages in the New Testament which forbid their use, or so explain them as to make them of no force, or effect. Thus even the pious Burkitt in his note on 1st Peter, 3, 3, says, "This text does not absolutely forbid the wearing of ornaments or costly apparel by such persons whose quality will answer it, but only forbids pride and vanity, affec- tation and ostentation, in wearing them; it is not only lawful to cover the body, but to adorn the body.  Abraham  had never sent earnings and bracelets to Rebecca had they been sinful in their use." The-fallacy of referring to the example of an Old Testament patriarch to explain away a pos- itive New Testament precept, in which even the "quality" are not excepted, is too obvious to re- quire enlargement. Such pleas, together with those which point to the floral and other embel- lishments of nature, as justification of gorgeous and expensive apparel, are only alluded to as proof that direct encouragement is occasionally given to this indulgence. Superfluity in dress is more frequently encour- aged by example. Whatever, for instance, may be the private views or public teachings, if he person- ally follows slow at the heels of capricious Fashion in the color of fabrication of his apparel, especially   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     33 showy, expensive, and inconvenient trappings are demanded by his goddess, his influence, of course, is on the side of worldly vanity; for " while precept whispers, example thunders." In this connection, perhaps allusion should be made to another source of encouragement to this indulgence. I refer to the patronage too com- monly extended by Christian parents in behalf of that numerous class of periodicals in which the latest " fashions" are pictorially brought forth, and studiously commented upon, with elegant engrav- ings of eminent literary, and even pious females represented in an exceedingly ornate, if not really immodest costume. Let a daughter expend a large portion of her precious time at the toilet, and ha- bitually decorate herself with ornaments, without one word of remonstrance from her parents, or other token of disapprobation, and is it strange if she construes their silence into approval? We must not omit to remark that superfluities have sometimes been encouraged by the injudi- cious conduct of reforms. As one extreme begets another, the natural tendency of fanatical measures to remove this, as well as other evils, is to aggra- vate it. If, in former times, there were zealots who, in correcting violators of the rules of the Church in this respect, violated the still more im- portant rules of the Bible courtesy themselves, and abused instead of reforming, there is little occasion of complaint in this direction of the present day. c     34     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, In these days we very seldom if ever hear of any one laying violent hands upon the head-dress of ladies at the door of the love-feasts, to rudely and censoriously reprove individual females in public places, as though any means, even the sacrifice of the charity that thinketh no evil, is not easily pro- voked, is justifiable in a crusade against trinkets and ribbons; or to arrest the character of a brother be- cause he cannot see it his duty to wear a collarless, buttonless coat, and low-crowned white hat. These one idea men are now scarce who imagine that a good disciplinarian implies chiefly a regulator of female costume, and who seem to think that the grand business of a spiritual 'watchman" is gold- hunting and pearl-fishing. Few if any Christians of such extravagant views are to be seen in these times; indeed, it is feared the tendency is quite the opposite. We are more in danger of conniving at this sin than in manifesting improper zeal ill ar- resting it. Both extremes, however, should be avoided, as over-action and inaction are generally followed by a similar result. But why is it now no time to encourage super- fluity in dress? 1st. The scriptural rule on this point is applica- ble to all times. We cannot sympathize with the views of those who seem to think that the narrow way marked out by the Savior is too contracted for these enlightened times, and that the rules of holy living which were adapted to the rude age of the   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED,     85 apostles are too stringent, if not too vulgar, for this day of refinement. The Bible is made for man, and is adapted to all times and all classes of society. He who is too wise to be taught by the Scriptures, and too refined to obey the word of God, will ascer- tain sooner or later, that unless converted and im- bued with childlike simplicity, his false refinement will exclude him from the kingdom of heaven. 2d. The tendency of the age is strongly toward luxury, display, and extravagance. This is admit- ted to be the leading cause of the present pecuniary distress, at least in our country. What, then, is the duty of the Church? To increase this evil by obse- quiously imitating the world, and competing with the votaries of fashion? or to raise a standard against the corrupting tendencies of the times, and, as the salt of the earth and light of the world, show that there is a more excellent way, and purify all classes of society by the elevating truths of the Bible, illustrated by a consistent example? Surely it is now no time to encourage gayety in dress, es- pecially as the work of reform is beginning to de- velop itself in what is called the BEST society. As great as is the rage of other forms of extravagance, a profusion of jewelry and other gaudy ornaments is, we learn, becoming quite unfashionable in the highest circles. It is becoming untrue that they who wear gorgeous apparel are in kings' houses. The Queen of England, it is said, usually dresses with remarkable simplicity, and the Empress of     36    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, France is following her example. Shall Christians then, eagerly snatch up and put on the cast-off or- naments which the princes of this world have either a conscience too tender, or a taste too pure to wear? 3d. We now have special opportunities to make a better investment of God's gold and silver en- trusted in our hands than to adorn our persons with it. We live in a day of peculiar needs, and peculiar light as to our obligation to the physically destitute at home, and the morally benighted abroad. Missionaries who are now toiling in the darkest places of the earth, tell us that one of the most debasing and inveterate passions of the hea- then is for splendid apparel in general, and jewelry in particular; and that in some cases females carry their vanity so far as not only to fasten gold in some form upon their ears, their bosoms, their wrists, their ancles, and around their necks, but even in their nose, and upon their toes. Hence, Mission- aries in their letters frequently beseech Christians in this country to set these poor pagans a better ex- ample, and use their surplus gold in sending more Bibles and laborers to them, rather than in adopt- ing the barbarous and idolatrous customs which the former are trying so hard to extirpate. Finally, we are not exempt from sickness and death in these times; hence, it is no time to give loose reins to indulgence in personal decorations. However fantastically and brilliantly some persons   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    37 may be inclined to appear while in the enjoyment of health and in the prospect of a long life, none wish to leave the world with their bodies loaded with meretricious ornaments. These things are found to have no tendency to soften the pillow or extract the sting of death. A wealthy lady, a few years ago, met a terrible death by her clothes taking fire. Almost the first favor the dying woman asked of her attendants was the removal from her crisped fingers of the richly jeweled rings, which, though valued at several thousand dollars, now looked so hateful to her that she insisted upon hav- ing them immediately taken off: Let us live as we would wish to die. Let us, then, guided by reason and the word of God, give prayerful attention to this subject; then shall we be enabled to find and keep the happy medium be- tween monastic austerity or Pharisaic singularity on the one hand, and Parisian splendor and princely extravagance on the other. Let us remember that we are not only at liberty, but it is our duty, to conform to the customs of the world, even in our costume, when those customs are in harmony with Bible principles; but when Fashion imperiously commands us to trample under our feet the posi- tive teachings of Scripture, we are unhesitatingly to repudiate her claim, and do right, though a thousand scornful lips be curled at us, and we compelled to stand alone as the mark for ten thou- sand fingers of derision.-[Ladies' Repository.     38     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, FAMLY PRAYER. It is much to be regretted that this interesting and important duty of family prayer is so much neg- lected by many families. This I have observed in traveling through the West. I am  at a loss to un- derstand how Christians, if they have read their Bible, can neglect this duty. For as we are com- manded to "use all manner of prayer," it must be public, private and family prayer.  We have also observed that those families who hold family prayer are more devoted Christians, their children more pious, courteous, kind and patient, and their servants more obedient. There is a sweet, a hal- lowing influence in family prayer. I have thought the very air was sweet in the house where God's name was invoked night and morning regularly for a blessing. And I have been induced to believe that the family who neglects this interesting duty, has backslidden from God, or was never converted. "See how the morning sun, Pursues his shining way, And wil; proclaims his Maker's praise With every bright'ning ray. Thus would my rising soul Its heavenly Parent sing, And to its great original The humble tribute bring."   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    39 WELCOME TO SPRING. "I beg pardon venerable old winter for wishing you away from my door. Hoary though thy locks be, and few thy comforts, though thou dost weep tears of ice, thou must away, for she of the laugh- ing eye and dimple cheek-spring, mild spring has returned. Up and away! Nay, tarry not, but go and take thy fleecy mantle with thee. "And now, fair spring all hail! though I have often sighed for thy return, I will not ask thee whither thou hast been roaming, or why thou hast so long delayed thy coming. 'Tis enough that thou art here to gladden every bosom. "Spring, sweet spring, thou art the fairest of all the seasons; thou art to the year, what youth has been to us, the period of everything bright and beautiful." I cannot but hail this delightful season with pleasure since the change is new and cheering after the departure of a dreary winter, although it too hath its advantages. And when I contemplate the wonders of creation, I am surprised that there are those who can for a moment doubt the existence of a God, while all nature, every tree, shrub and flower proclaim there is an Author of their being. Yes, there is an Author of their being,-one who is infi- nite, whose ways are past finding out, whose love knows no bounds. He has created the heavens     ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.        41 HOURS OF GLOOM. My thoughts are wrapped in midnight gloom, There comes no joyful sound, But silence deeper than the tomb And darkness more profound. Thick clouds in circling volumes roll, And scarce a ray of light, Shines out to cheer my fainting soul, Amid the starless night. But Faith yet lives and Hope survives, Felt deeply, tho' unseen, My soul against Fate's weapon strives, Tho' darts fly thick and keen. Then triumph not ye soulless crew, Restrain your mirth-awhile, Soon brighter scenes shall rise to view, And fortune once more smile. But whether fortune smile or frown, My soul is still the same, And nought on earth can cast it down, Save infamy and shame. The Mighty One who fills all space, And governs every part, Will never suffer foul disgrace To reach a noble heart. Then rail, ye scorners! I am strong, In consciousness of right, With cheerful voice I'll raise my Bong, To Him the source of light.   ALBUM.     ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.         43 A SUMMER HOUR. A summer hour In friendship's bower, Glides sweetly by, With those we love; But like summer hours The phantom flies, And leaves us sad. Such is the stream Of human life, And wealth and fame, With all their train, A joy, a grief, a pang, And hope, the fairest of them all. Crushed like a withered flower, Lies dead. But farther on There lies ahead, A clime where leaves fade not, And hope, the fairest of them all, Is ever fair. And joy is perfect bliss, And grief comes not, And wealth is there, And fame is needed not, To add a charm, For the soft gale Of Eden's bower Blows on forever.     "    LEAVES PROM MY PORT FOLIO,            , FAREWELL TO WINTER. Hoary winter, thou art indeed gone, but thy de- parture is not lamented by one, for since thy reign is terminated, and thou hast finished the work N-which nature assigned thee to finish-'tis enough, go "Far to the North, and call thy ruffian blasts, While softer gales succeed, at whose kind touch, Dissolving snows in livid torrents lost, The mountains lift their green heads to the sky."  % 'Tis said thou art despised and set at naught by many, and that thy follower, spring, is hailed with the most extatic delight; that thou art too great, too mighty to contend for the mere applause of the world with one so feeble; that beauty is the charm which she throws around the earth; and [that a larger portion of the human family being suscepti- ble of this emotion, her charm is perceived by a greater number than thine. At the same time that we acknowledge the grand- eur and sublimity of snow-clad mountains towering high, of the charms and advantages of a long win- ter night, I would say, who that is susceptible of the soul inspiring beauties of spring awaked into new life, bursting forth into all her beauties of buds and blossoms of varied hue, which makes the birds sing, and the beautiful winged butterfly burst its tomb, and the whole creation rejoice; who, I say,   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.       45 can take a survey of them without sensations of delight. Milton has touched upon them twice or thrice in his Paradise Lost, and describes them very beauti- fully under the name of Vernal Delights, in which he represents Satan himself as almost sensible to to them. Providence, says Addison, hasimprinted so many smiles in nature that it is impossible for a mind that is not sunk into more sensual delights, to look upon them   without secret sensations of pleasure. Those beautiful and agreeable scenes which gladden the heart, and shed in it cheerful- ness and joy, must be an admirable preparation for gratitude. The mind is not far from praise and thanksgiving that is filled with this secret gladness, in grateful reflection of the Supreme cause who produces it, sanctifies it, and gives it a true value. Are not these the charms of spring? and can any, other season surpass them? Is it thou, stern win- ter, or thou, fair spring, that greens all the year, and clothes the land with all the pomp of har- vest? It is thou of the laughing eye and dimpled cheek, spring, sweet spring, that doth superintend these things. Then would I exclaim with the poet: "Hail source of being! Universal soul Of heaven and earth, essential presence, hail! To thee i bend the knee, to thee my thoughts Continual climb; who with a master hand, Hast the great whole into perfection touched: By thee, the various vegetative tribes     "     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, Wrapped in a filmy net, and clad with leaves, Draw the live ether, and imbibe the dews; By thee disposed into congenial soils Stands each attractive plant and sucks and swells The juicy tide ; a twining mass of tubes." "How shall the young secure their hearts, And guide their lives from sin? Thy word the choicest rule imparts To keep the conscience clean. When once it enters to the mind, It spreads such light abroad, The meanest souls instruction find, And raise their souls to God." PSALMS, CXIX. Without star or angel for their guide, Who worship God, shall find him. Humble love, And not proud reason keeps the door of heaven; Love finds admission where proud Science fails." Yet graceful ease, and sweetness void of pride, Might hide her faults, if belles have faults to hide, If to her share some female errors fall, Look at her face, and you'll forget them all. POPE.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    47 SPOKEN AT THE OPENING OF AN INSTITUTE OF LEARN- ING IN THE FAR WEST. BY THE AUTHOR. It is with peculiar pleasure that I arise to add another trophy to the modern march of mind,-to add another tribute to the triumphs of learning and liberty. The heart of the philanthropist leaps with pleas- ure at the prospect that a temple of learning, reared at your doors, is about to illuminate the minds of hundreds of children and youths scattered through the vales and villages of the Grand river country. Most glorious undertaking. "There is, herhaps, many a germ of genius in the country destined by the aid of this fountain of knowledge, to rise to the pinnacle of human glory. Go search the records of the good and the great. Dr. Herchelle, who, with the eye of a philosopher, searched out and added another world in the starry heavens, was a fifer boy in the army. Furgason, the very son of science, was a poor weaver. Go search the records of history and our Revolution, and the names of Washington, Franklin, Sherman, and many others may be adduced as evidence of the truth of our position. "Upon the culture of the intellect depends the glory of nations and the stability of empires.     48     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, When' Homer sung and Hesiod wrote, Greece was ascending that pinnacle from whence the flood of her glory gushed, and still gleams upon the minds of men. The destiny as well as the durability of a nation, depends upon the culture of the mind. Rome held, and still holds a respectable standing among the nations for her science; but Greece, un- happy Greece, the very last gleam of her glory was extinguished in the blaze of Byzantium. The last star of her learning, that enlightened the world, went down in the long night of her barbarism, and the last remnant of her renown was annihilated in the ravages of the unrelenting and merciless Mos- lem. The tyrant Turk left her nothing by which she might recognize her former greatness and tri- umphs, but the tomb of her saints and sages and the page of her imperishable fame. But the lumi- nary of her liberty hath again arisen on her shores, and the light of learning and religion again glad- dens her bosom. She may again shine among the noblest of nations. That knowledge is power may be read in every page of history and every achieve- ment of man. The rise and ruins of empires, the flourishing and fall of rulers are pregnant with the truth of this aphorism. We are informed that Arch-: imedes was enabled by his knowledge to defend Syarcuse against the legions of Rome, and to defy the wrath of the world." We hope to see both departments of this school well filled, as a liberal education is of the highest /,   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     49 importance to all of both sexes, and in every situa- tion in life. Armed with its panoply, your sons and daughters may pass through life more happily and more successfully. But should any from stern necessity be deprived of this rich boon, let it be your sons. They can better hew their way through the rough journey of life than your daughters. They can better withstand the rude blasts of ad- versity, and the alluring smiles of prosperity with- out the armor of learning. Home is the peculiar sphere of woman, and in no other situation does she find so much happiness, for in no other place can she so successfully minister to the comforts and happiness of others. Without her society the world would be a dreary waste, a bleak, comfort- less wilderne ss. Without her smile to eradiate the gloomy clouds of misfortune, the vicissitudes of life would wear a darker hue, and their weight be- come insufferable. Woman has been destined by heaven to smoothe the asperities of man's rougher nature, to be the soother of his woes, the comforter of his affliction, the sharer of his joys, and the par- taker of his griefs. When basking in the sunshine of prosperity, she is to rejoice with him, and when the dark cloud of adversity gathers and breaks over him, she is to console him, and in a great measure to dissipate the gloom which hangs around his mind. And is this being, God's best giftto man, to be left in ignorance? Is her reason to be unaided and unenlightened by the light of literature? Is her D     50    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, mind to be uninformed by education? Are her ideas to remain unexpanded, unenlarged by the fountain of knowledge? Are the common rudi- ments of education, the mere surface of it to be her portion? Surely every generous and noble minded person will answer in the negative. For to act thus towards her would he a manifold injustice, a total disregard for the good and well-being of so- ciety. It is to the influence of woman, to her early cul- ture and judicious training that we are indebted for a Washington, who undertook, and so nobly gained our country's freedom. We are assured that this beautiful country produces many a gem which only wants polishing to shine with resplendent bril- liancy. And while we would guide them through the difficult mazes of literature, we would not for- get to lead them from nature up to nature's God. We would beware of instilling in their minds sec- tarianism, but we would teach them no other doc- trine than the pure and undefiled religion of the heart, which sweetens the rugged pathway of life, and illumines the gloom of the grave. The doc- trines which the Savior of the world taught,-love to God and all mankind. "There are those whose lives have been spent in disseminating the light of religion and learning to the sons of darkness. Most high shall be their re- ward in heaven. The pride of ancestry as incen- tive to emulation may be just; to read over a long   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     51 list of predecessors may be laudable, but when man looks back to a long existence devoted to the glory of God, and to the benefit of his country, then it is that life becomes truly illustrious, and the grave glorious. Such are some of those who advocate the meas- ure which I have endeavored to delineate. Such are those who would enlighten the intellect and moralize the minds of one of the fairest and most flourishing portions of our country. When the foam of the last wave of time shall whiten their heads, and the blast of the last trump shall echo in their ears, the recollections of the past shall lighten up the gloom of the grave, and soothe and soften the pangs of dissolution. And when they shall long have slumbered in the city of the silent; when other cities shall arise in the Grand river country, and this Republic shall rival and surpass the ancient glories of Greece and Rome, then shall the memory of their labors still live, and- their monuments be inscribed with, characters of imperishable fame. Ages hence, when some youth shall point to a mod- ern Athens, to another Rome on the rivers of the West, and ask of what manner of people the race- of the forests were, and concerning those who en- lightened the minds that achieved the glorious foundations of greatness; then will some venera- ble sire, some Plato, Seneca or Cicero, point with pride to the catalogue of renowned names, names ;!'                 '  J W,? ,:i?      52    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, of those now living, who disseminated the light of learning in the West. Mind constitutes the majesty of man, virtue its true nobility. The tide of improvement which is now flowing like another, Niagara through the land is destined to roll downward to the latest posterity, and it will bear to them on its bosom our vices, our glory or our shame, or whatever else we transmit as an inheritance. It then, in a great measure, de- pends upon the present whether the moth of im- morality, and the vampire of luxury prove the over- throw of this Republic, or knowledge and virtue like the remorseless stock of time. Let no frown fall upon the philanthropist in the cause of educa- tion. The united efforts of learning may carry in- telligence and virtue to millions of minds; nor does the accumulation cease with their labors, for mil- lions unborn may reap the tenfold harvest. Active education is ever on the increase; like money, its interest becomes compound, doubtless, and in the course of years becomes a vast national treasury.. Give your children fortunes without education, and at least half of their number will go down to the' tomb of oblivion, perhaps to ruin. Give them ed- ucation and they will accumulate fortunes, they will be a fortune themselves to their country. It is an inheritance worth more than gold, for it buys true honor, they can neither spend nor lease it, and through life it proves a friend, in death a consola- tion.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    53 Give your children education, and no tyrant will triumph over your liberties. Give your children education and the silver-shod horse of the despot will never triumph on the ruins of the fabric of your country's freedom." THOUGHTS SUGGESTED ON HEARING REV.  PREACH. I heard a sound sweeter by far than an angel's whisper or the soft gale of a summer evening sigh, or the blush of the first morn that dawned on the garden of Paradise. It came not from the brilliant halls of fashion, nor from scenes of revelry and mirth, nor was it wafted on the wings of worldly fame or ambition, telling of the achievements of a Bonaparte or an Alexander. But it came from the sacred desk in the Temple of God. "Seek first the kingdom of heaven and its righteousness, and all things shall be added." Shall be added. Oh! how these words fell on the heart of the careworn and stricken one, and hushed the storm into a de- lightful calm. Never, while memory lasts, shall these words be forgotten. May their speaker go on, faithfully and fearlessly preaching the cross, with its banner unfurled, waving gloriously over us,     54     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, with the cheering motto, "The victory is won." And when his voice is hushed in death, and the weary springs of life are about to stand still, may he recline sweetly on the breast of the Redeemer, and his smiles illumine his passage through its gloom, until heaven bursts upon his raptured vision. This heavenly friendship will "Forgive the feeble tear that nature drops, Calm all her fears, awake her hopes, animate her faith, Till thy wrapped soul anticipating heaven, Bursts from the thraldom of encumbering clay, And on the wings of extacy upborne, Springs into liberty, light and love." ------ -- THE trappings of dress I most heartily despise, and have always felt inclined to judge the mind from the clothing of the body. The neatness and purity of the one indicates the solidity and purity of the other. In either sex an extravagant flippery ill dress denotes a weak understanding.  ALBUM. "PEDARATUS, when he missed of a place among the chosen three hundred, rejoiced that there were three hundred in Sparta better than himself."   oki\    ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.             55 -  TOO          LATE. Yes, yes, 'tis too late, for love's fetters have bound me, Too strongly and firmly to dream of release; And the angel of hope as she hovers around me, In vain breathes low whispers of promise and peace; For mighty the spell, far too ardent the feeling For reason to sweep from the folds of my heart; Too fervent the flame for a hope of concealing, The struggle 'twould cast could its glow be suppressed. Say, thinkest thou the vine that with tendons extended, Caresses the oak as she stands by her side, Could thrive if the thunderbolt swiftly descended, The king of the wood laying low in his pride? No, no, for without him the earth would be dreary, A lone barren desert, all arid and dry; And stricken by sorrow, heart-broken and weary, She'd sink on the green sod and wither and die. Yes, yes, 'tis too late: e'en the semblance of coldness From one we have loved and must love till we die, Sends a chill through the heart with such vigor and boldness, It freezes the tear ere it reaches the eye. When the gloom of distrust in Faith's atmosphere lowers, And deep persecution our journeyings mark- It is sweet to reflect we can turn in such hours To a refuge of love, as the dove of the ark, Yes, yes, 'tis too late; though to veil thy emotion, Around thy true feelings a mask has been thrown, It but rivets my thoughts on the earnest devotion With which thy warm spirit once turned to my own.     56      LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, Ah! thou canst not deceive, for thy lips now are blushing To utter the cold words that fall on my ear; And the effort it costs thy heart-throbs to keep crushing, Has spread o'er thy features the pallor of fear. Yes, yes, 'tis too late, and though Fate's icy fingers Should ruthlessly sever affection's bright chain, Love's magnet that still in our heart chambers lingers Will gather the links and unite them again. We have only to wait, for such spirits as ours Must learn to rely with unwavering trust, On the glorious hope that in Eden's own bowers, They will mingle in one when our bodies are dust. PORT FOLIO. TO The hour has flown, forever flown, Of sweetest and purest earthly joy, And naught can charm my soul Nor wealth nor fame, Nor beauty's wreath, Nor brilliant halls, Nor scenes of mirth, Nor song of birds, All, all must clog But virtue's brightest charm Of heavenly birth,   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.       57 Can woo my spirit back to peace, And whisper of enduring joy, Beyond the tomb. Then haste my spirit, hasten on, Fulfilling heaven's high commands, Nor waste thy precious hours, In sadness or in gloom, On withered hopes And memories of the past, But rouse thyself to duty, And to God. MARY   BRADFORD. A TRUE STORY. CHAPTER I. The  beautiful village of C--   stands near a prairie in Illinois. Perhaps a more lovely spot never sprung up in that or any other State. It is almost covered with lovely flowers of varied hue. The cluster-rose brought from the prairie and cul. tivated to Adorn the homes of its inhabitants, are surpassingly beautiful.     58    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, You may see them  encircling the windows, doors, and beautifying the gardens, summer houses, &c., with their radiant smiles. I have seen the cluster-rose vine almost reach the top of a two-story house, and nearly cover one side of it, had it not been relieved by a sweet honeysuckle which seemed almost'as ambitious as its neighbor. The house in which I spent a few brief months, (some of the most pleasant of my life, for I love the country,) was beautifully adorned with this prairie rose. One end of the house fronted on a flower gar- den of many different species of the rose and other flowers, some of which were brought from New Orleans, and other parts of our Union, but none of them so charmed me as the prairie rose. I occupied a room which looked out on a yard in which there were mounds covered with flowers; the white smoke-house nearly concealed with the rich trumpet vine, of brilliant red flowers of the form of a trumpet. Underneath my window was a roof which covered a portico below. It was entirely covered with those sweet cluster-roses, perfuming the air with their fragrance all the summer time,- for they do not wither in an hour, but are as luxu- riant in the bright sunshine, as when wet with dew- drops, sparkling in the rays of a morning sun like a thousand diamonds. It was a beautiful sight to view them as they nearly covered one side of the house, hanging in great clusters, perhaps a dozen or more roses on each cluster, some white, tinged with   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     59 pink and red, others red, tinged with .white on the outer edge of each leaf. The inhabitants of C-- were kind, hospitable and intelligent. The greater portion of them were form Kentucky and Virginia. There was a win- ning ease and courteousness in their manners un- mixed with that stiff appearance of aristocracy which dries up the fountain of much of earth's hap- piness. The greatest alloy to my pleasures in this inter- esting village was to find no Church there. But as time with his rapid wing has wafted by eighteen years since that day, I doubt not but the noble- hearted, whole-souled inhabitants of C--  have long since built a house for the Lord, in which they worship together, where the Word of Life is administered, the fervent earnest prayer, warm from the heart, ascends to the throne of the Eternal, and the song of redemption rising high, with no other perfume than through the blood of sprinkling, which speaks better things than the blood of Abel. I thought of spending my days in that quiet prairie home, but Providence seemed to order it otherwise. One would almost have thought it was an Eden home, and that our first Eden had wafted there some of its brightest flowers, and balmy air, i! before they were tainted with sin. But no, death was there. He came with his raven wing, blighting i:  oone of the loveliest of the prairie flowers.     60    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, Mary Bradford-I shall call her by that name- was one of my pupils, (for I was teaching school in C-  ,) and a more interesting group of lovely girls never graced a prairie home, nor, perhaps, any other home. Mary was a brunette, with fine, regular features, black hair and soft black eyes, ra- ther languishing, but bright when animated. Gen- erally, there was something dreamy and sad in the expression of her face, yet very interesting. Many other faces have faded away from my memory, but hers, never. I see her now as I saw her then, the same sweet, sad face, the same fine form, and the same gentle, quiet, unassuming manners. It was near the close, I think, of my first session, when a storm came up, and the rain beat in a room adjoining the one in which I was teaching, and ran in a stream where Mary was sitting. I observed she had a slight cough, and advised her to move her seat, as I feared she might take more cold. She replied that it would not do her any harm, and she did not move. The hour of closing soon ar- rived. It was Friday afternoon; Mary went home, and I heard no more of her until Sabbath morning, when I called for her to go to preaching, which was held in the court house. Mary was ready but de- clined going, as she said she felt very unwell. She went to bed, and I to preaching. I soon heard, per- haps the next day, that Mary was very ill. I hast- ened to her, and was with her as much as I could be between by school hours, as the distance to her   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     61 father's house was considerable the weather very warm, and I much engaged in preparing my school for the examination and exhibition which was ap- proaching. Mary was not a professor of religion, yet her life, as far as I know, was as pure and blameless as many professors. She was attentive to her studies and the rules of the school; and, I believe, generally, or always present at our morning prayers before opening school. I conversed with her during her illness on the subject of religion, and a preparation for death, and advised her to pray and seek the Savior whether she lived or died. She continued to grow worse; I asked her if she prayed, she re- plied she did. I called on her the following Sab- bath morning. Mary was dying, yet I did not realize it until she said, "Oh! I cannot see! I can- not see!"  She held an orange in  her hand for from about five to ten minutes before she died. When she exclaimed, "I cannot see!" a pious lady present said to her, "O, Mary, say "ord Jesus receive my spirit.'"I heard no re- sponse. She sank in death just one week from the time she was taken ill. I always regretted that I did not ask her whether her peace was made with God, or if she was happy. These are questions which I think ought to be asked at every death bed, if not before. It has taught me a lesson which I trust never to forget. And thus passed away Mary     -62    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, B.,-innocent in her life, and I trust, happy in her -death at the age of fifteen years. CIAPTER II. As bright a morning as ever dawned on our beau- tiful world dawned on the village of C.--- on the morning of our school examination. The court house bell rang cheerily, for it was there in its spacious room, adorned with evergreens and flowers, met the young and the old, the chil- dren and their sires. The one to see if the young idea had been trained to shoot aright, the other vy- ing with each other to see who would be victor in the race. The day passed off pleasantly, and I believe satis- factorily, for it was said, it had conferred credit on the labors of the teacher, and far surpassed the ex- pectations of parents and friends. But the star was not there-not more the star of intellect than the star of the graces. We missed its brilliant light beaming forth now and then among its sisters,-for Mary B., was not there. She had gone to that bright world where " there is no need of the light of the moon nor the sun," for the Lamb on His throne is the light of that city. And then came on the evening exercises. The court house was a neat brick one of two stories, handsomely shaded with Locust trees, and bril- liantly lighted. The young girls, and misses too,   A:;?:[ uORIGINAL AND SELECTED.         63 with their smiling faces, in their pure white robes and blue sashes, formed a square in one part of the room, in the centre of which stood a table loaded with the good things of this life, as well as under- "  neath it, while an opening was left for those who were sent from the homes of the inhabitants to pass through and wait on the audience. Then there was the platform so handsomely car- peted, and the young from four to sixteen ascend- ing to rehearse their compositions, dialogues, speeches, and poetry, as the case might be. Then the strains of music greeted their ears and encour- aged their hearts at each successive interval. And then Emma C-, a bright-and beautiful girl, rose with pouting lip and complained that all but she had got a beau. And well she did her part. The dialogues too were well performed, especially one or two by four young ladies. The subject of one of them, I think, was Virtue Rewarded and Vice Pun- ished. But it has been so long ago that I have for- gotten much. And little Clara Bently, a lovely child of only four years old, as timid as a fawn, trembling almost at the rustling of a leaf, rose and spoke distinctly, her little story of the Work-Box, making all the needed gestures, far beyond the ex- pectations of all present. Her father, Gen. B., it was said, went off in a swoon, whether from the extreme heat of the crowded room, or from the rap- turous applause rising from hearing his timid little     "      LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, daughter perform her part so well, I am    unable to say. The joke on him, however, was the latter. May the young be diligent, industrious and stu- dious.  In their reading choose such books as will enrich their minds and improve their hearts, and they will find their labor has not been in vain. T'O MY FRIEND "Should sorrow o'er thy brow its darkened shadows fling, And hopes that cheer thee now die in their early spring,- Should pleasure at its birth fade like the hues of even, Turn thou away from earth-there's rest for thee in heaven. "If ever life should seem to thee a toilsome way, And gladness cease to beam upon its clouded day, If like the weary dove, o'er shoreless oceans driven, Raise thou thine eyes above, there's rest for thee in heaven. "But oh, if thornless flowers, throughout thy pathway bloom. And gaily fleet the hours unstained by earthly gloom, Still let not every thought to this vain world be given, Nor always be forgot, thy better rest in heaven. "When sickness pales thy cheek and dims thy speaking eye, And pulses low and weak tells of a time to die, Sweet hope shall whisper then, thou from earth be riven, There's bliss beyond thy ken-there's rest for thee in heaven." ALBUM.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.        65 WOMAN'S LOVE. Days and weeks glide by, And yet his letter comes not-not one line To tell that I am loved and still remembered. Am I forgotten? The thought is withering! Did he then win my love to throw it by As lightly as he would an unprized gift? Peace, peace my troubled heart, for thou shalt break Ere I complain. I will not think of him. He too shall be forgotten! Woman's pride Shall nerve my soul, and I will proudly deem That he is all unworthy of my love. Henceforth my books shall be my dearest friends; On them my thoughts shall rest. Fair nature's charms Alone shall warm my heart; for her alone I'll breathe my wild untutored lays; her praise Shall be the theme on which I'll love to dwell, And my affection now. shall roam no more, But fold her wearied wing, and calmly rest In my own quiet home. The dove will seek The ark again; but ah! my olive branch, Will it not withered be? Can peace be mine? When I am musing o'er the gifted page, Will it not wake the thought of one afar, Whose converse made the gems of poesy A brighter lustre wear? Will I not dream Of him who oft has pointed out its beauties? When I am gazing on the wild-wood flowers, O ,:-^   Will I not think of one who loves them too, And can I look upon the evening star, And not remember him who said to me: "When we are parted, let that beaming star Remind thee oft of him who is away?" Whene'er I gaze upon the moonlight scene E ,                .     "     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, Its softened beauties mingled light and shade, Will it not bring to memory again The moonlight walk-affection's whispered vow? Did he not say the thought of me was twined Around his very heart, and had become A part of his existence-that no power Could tear it thence, or blight its changing green, Till death had laid him low? He did say this. Iow could I doubt his truth, or e'er have thought I ,as forgotten? I know he loves me still. ALBU; U M. Oh, where can rest be found, Rest for the weary soul,- Is it in earth-born pleasures found, In the sparkling bowl, or the giddy round? Not there, not there. I SEE so much pride and folly that I am sick of it, and  feel something  bordering  on  contempt. Then I turn away to the pure and holy light of re- ligion and am comforted.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     67 WIY is it, that the heart so often sad, crushed with care and grief, perplexities and disappoint- nments, toil and weariness (which more or less is the Sfi   lot of alD, has become calm and placid as the quiet lake? Why is it, that under the most ad- verse circumstances, so different, perhaps, from the bright dreams of youth, the heart is hushed to rest? It cannot be the reward of vice and folly, disobedi- ence and waywardness; but it is the reward of holy souls who have bowed to the mild mandates of the Redeemer of the world, whose sins have been washed in His own blood, whose every motive, de- sire, and act is to please God, whose business and pleasures in every department, whose hopes for the present and future, as well as the depths of eter- nity are sprinkled with the atonement of the cross. "FRIENDSIIP is alone valuable on earth, or wor- thy of record in heaven, when virtue is its basis and candor its support. Dignify it with what name --+:   you please, that is not friendship which requires mystery and secrecy to support it." !     68     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, GOD IS EVERYWHERE. Not only is God seen in the works of nature, in the bud and opening flower, in the lily of the field with its dew-drops glittering in the morning sun, in the waving grass, and the leafy grove, in the field laden with corn, in the mighty ocean's roar, in the vivid lightning's track, in the quiet lake and lofty mountain, but He is seen in His providence direct- ing and controlling events.  We cannot move where God is not. In the street and in the lane, in the chamber of sickness and in the enjoyment of health, in solitude and in the sanctuary. Then, since we are so dependent on God for present, as well as eternal happiness, since he surrounds us on all sides, how careful should we be to have "Him in all our thoughts," and to erect His altar in our hearts, Then shall we be better prepared to wait on Him in the sanctuary, and better prepared for the busi- ness of life and the business of eternity. Then would the business of life and the business of eter- nity be one, all with an eye singly fixed on the glory of God. "Thine all surrounding sight surveys, My rising and my rest, My public walks and private ways, The secret of my breast."   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED,    69 BEAUTIFUL EXTRACT. I know of but one way to fortify my soul against gloomy presages and terrors of mind, and that is by securing to myself the protection of that Being who disposes of events and governs futurity. Ile sees at one glance the thread of my existence, not only that part which I have passed through, but that which runs forward into the depths of eternity. When I lay me down to sleep I recommend myself to His care; when I awake I give myself up to His direction. Amidst all the evils that threaten me, I will look up to Him for help, and question not but He will either avert them, or turn them to my advantage. Though I know not the time nor man- ner of-death I am to die, I am not at all solicitous about it, because I am sure that He knows them both, and that He will not fail to comfort and sup- port me under them.  WHAT is faith? It is simply taking God at His word, and continually and perseveringly believing that word, until the blessing sought is obtained. Pray on, whether you feel or not, and the spirit will be given.     70    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, GOD'S ALTAR. God's altar is not confined to the Church. It is right to worship Him on the holy Sabbath when the labors of the week are ended, and at all other proper times and places. But an altar must be erected in the heart, if we would be the friend of God, and have God for our friend. An heavenly intercourse must be kept up between God and the soul if we would progress in the way to heaven, and be useful and happy. To be revived and quick- nced during a revival season, is great cause of grat- itude, but to relapse into coldness and indifference, and allow our religious enjoyment to decrease, should not be, it need not be; if the altar of prayer is erected in the heart, and faith is in lively exer- cise we may always be happy. Nothing but sin can separate us from the continued light of God's countenance. "In Iim is no darkness at all." We may be " in heaviness through manifold temp- tations;" but we may look up amid the thickest gloom and realize God as our friend. Religion never was designed to make our pleasures less, but on the contrary to increase them, and make us joy- fiil and cheerful under all the trials and vexations of life, "looking forward to that glorious appearing ,f our Lord Jesus Christ," as the end of care, the Ilcdge of everlasting rest. Then only, can we be   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.      71 successful ill winning souls to Christ when the altar of prayer is erected in the heart. "Prayer is appointed to convey, The blessings God designs to give, Long as they live should christians pray- They learn to pray when first they live." ------^ THE UNCERTAINTY OF HUMAN ENJOYMENT. We may imagine ourselves happy in the enjoy- mentof health, wealth, ease and luxury. The en- dearing ties of kindred and friends may be unbro- ken; their smile may sweetly illumine the cheerful hearth; their voices and conversation may fall like soft music on our ears; but what are all these com- pared with the smile of our heavenly Father? They are indeed blessings, but sooner or later the dark days of sorrow will come. They will fall like the leaves of autumn.  Sickness will pale their cheek, their eyes close in death, their voices be heard no more.  Riches too, may take wings and fly away, and our warmest friends become cool, but the Savior changes not; He is ever the same. Hisprecious promises endure forever. His word is a sure support and strong consolation in every     72    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, condition. To the care-worn, and tempest tossed one, He is a haven of rest. Then let my humble faith address His mercy and His power, We shall obtain delivering grace In the distressing hour." ROSE HAYWOOD'S DREAM Pope says dreams denote the grandeur of the soul. The bible says dreams proceed from a mul- titude of thoughts. This, I doubt not, in both cases are true. Yet at the same time, may they not be the precursor of good or ill? We have dreamed of things we never thought of. We have observed too, that when we are sad and desponding we have unpleasant dreams. May not a pleasant dream be given to the pure in heart as a token of good, and may not a dream be given to the erring to lead him back to virtue? I do not mean to say that I would so much confide in a dream as to al- low it alone to impel me to action, but only as an incentive to avoid the evil, and obtain the good. Therefore I think some dreams should not be for- gotten.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    73 I knew Rose Haywood many years ago. She was a pure-minded girl, but had little knowledge of the world. She had genius too, was rather too sensitive, and loved virtue and religion more than anything else. She loved and admired Christian perfection, and had been striving hard for many years to cut off all the " little idols " and evil tem- pers with which she was beset. It was a long time before she got rid of all the little foxes that spoil the tender vine,-longer than need be, no doubt,- but she was not discouraged, she persevered, she believed God and trusted in His word, and found herself a more established Christian, sweetly and unwaveringly resting on that promise, on those words of St. Paul: "I can do all things through Christ strengthening me." Rose H. had been spending a few months in a neighboring State. One -night when wrapped in the arms of Morpheus, she went forth into the land of dreams. It was a shadowy land, It seemed to be about as dark as twilight. She was in a long meadow of rank withered grass, in company with two or three young girls. No moon nor stars were there to gild her path. The young girls went aside into what seemed to be an old loom house. Rose was overtaken by a gentleman of middle size, who seemed to wear a shade of melancholy on his brow, but of calm and quiet deportment. He told her to leave her company and walk with him, as he wished to converse with her. He seemed to have some-     74    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, thing particular to say to her. She did not remem- ber the conversation which passed between them, as they walked together down the path of the long meadow until they came to where two paths met, the one in which they had walked and another from the right. Wlen they came to where the two laths met, he asked her to go with him in the path which led to the right. She refused. He seemed very sad upon this announcement. When she re- fused he gave her a bright and beautiful variagated tulip, so fresh that it seemed almost dripping with dtew, and as he handed it to her, a withered rose fell at her feet. She did not know she had the rose un- til it had fallen. He turned in the path which led to the right, and she in the path in which they had c 0111 0. Again Rose found herself a few months after, at home among her friends in Kentucky, in the sweet springtime, when all nature was bursting forth in lier buds and blossoms. She met the same gentle- man whom she had met in her dream a few months previous, but whom she had never met before nor heard of. They were betrothed, and deeply and ardently devoted to each other. As I have said, Rose was too sensitive. She suf- tfred a trifle, light as air, to sever the chain which lound two true hearts in one. He went to an ad- joining State from whence he had come, became eminent in his profession, was distinguished as a man of profound learning and unflinching virtue,   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    75 and his voice might be heard in the legislative halls of his own State, and I doubt not unsurpassed. Many years have passed by since, but Rose Hay- wood never married. - She said she had no heart to give another. I believe she has spent her life in trying to do all the good she could. IIad Rose re- membered her dream, and given herself to reflec- tion, as she did in after years, she would have, per- haps acted differently. There is nothing done well without reflection. MUSIC. I look upon the great predominance of music in female education, to be the means of more mi.- chief than is suspected; not from any evil in the thing itself, but from its being such a gulf of time as really to leave little room for solid acquisitions. The monstrous preparations, or rather dispropor- tions of life which it swallows up, has converted an innocent diversion into a positive sin. I question if many gay men devote more hours in a day to idle purposes than the daughters of many pious pa- rents spend in this amusement. All these hours tlhe mind lies fallow, improvement is at a stand, if     76     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, even it does not retrograde. Nor is it the shreds and scraps of time, stolen in the intervals of better things, that is so devoted; but it is the morning, the prime, the profitable, the active hours, when the mind is vigorous, the spirits light, the intellect awake and fresh, and the whole being warmed up by the refreshment of sleep, and animated by the return of light and life for nobler services. HANNAH MOORE. "PRECEPT is instruction written on the sand, the tide flows over it, and the lesson is gone. Exam- ple is graven on the rock, and the lesson is not soon lost." "SCIENCE may raise us to eminence, but religion alone can guide us to felicity."   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     " PRAYER. BY SAINT CHRYSOSTRUM. Prayer is an all sufficient panoply; a treasure undiminished, a mine which never is exhausted, a sky unobserved by clouds, a haven unruffled by the storm; it is the root, the fountain, the mother of a thousand, thousand blessings. I speak not of the prayer which is cold and feeble, and devoid of en- ergy. I speak of that which is the child of a con- trite spirit, the offspring of a soul converted, born in the blaze of unutterable inspiration, and winged like lightning for the skies. The potency of prayer hath subdued the strength of fire, it hath bridled the rage of lions, hushed an- archy to rest, extinguished wars, appeased the ele- ments, expelled demons, burst the chains of death, expanded the gates of heaven, assuaged diseases, repelled frauds, rescued cities from destruction; it hath stayed the sun in its course, and arrested the progress of the thunderbolt; in a word it hath des- troyed whatever is an enemy to man. I again re- peat, that I speak not of the prayer engendered by the lips, but that which ascends from the recesses of the heart. Assuredly there is nothing more po- tent than prayer; yea, there is nothing comparable to it. A monarch vested in gorgeous habiliments     7 8    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, is far less lustrious than a kneeling suppliant, en- nobled an,. adorned by communion with his God. Consider how august a privilege it is, where angels are present, and archangels throng around, where cherubim and seraphim enrich with their blaze the throne; that a mortal may approach with unre- strained confidence, and converse with heaven's dread Sovereign. Oh, what honor was ever con- ferred like this! When a Christian spreads forth his hands and invokes his God, in that moment he leaves behind him all terrestrial pursuits, and trav- erses on the wings of intellect, the rpalrnls of light; lie contemplates celestial objects only, and knows not of the present state of things during the period of his prayer, provided that prayer be breathed with fervency. Could we but pray with fervency, could we pray with a soul resuscitated, a mind awakened, an understanding quickened, then were Satan to appear, he would instantly withdraw; were the gates of hell to yawn upon us, they would close again. Prayer is a haven to the shipwrecked mariner, an anchor unto them that are sinking in the waves, a staff to the limbs that totter, a mine of jewels to the poor, a security to the rich, a healer of diseases and a guardian of health. Prayer at once secures the continuance of our blessings, and dissipates the clouds of our calamities. O prayer! O blessed prayer! thou art the unwearied conqueror of human   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    79 woes, the firm foundation of human happiness, the source of ever during joy, the mother of philoso- phy. The man who can pray truly though lan- guishing in extreme indigence, is richer than all beside, whilst the wretch who never bowed the knee, though proudly seated as monarch of the na- tions, is of all men most miserable. Let us then direct our thoughts to Him that was poor, yet rich; rich because he was poor. Let us overlook the enjoyments of the present, and desire the blessings of the future, for so shall we obtain the blessings both of the present and the future. O may we all obtain them through the benificence of our Lord Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever, Amen. THE LIVING AND THE DEAD.-Were we only half as lenient to the living as we are to the dead, how much of happiness might we render them, and from how much vain and bitter remorse might we be spared when the "all atoning grace" has closed over them. GOD gives riches to the world, but stores up his treasures of wholesome affections for his children. WESLEY. !     80      LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, F AM E. I stood upon a dizzy height, Nor dreamed of coming sorrow, I looked with sweet delight, Upon a brighter morrow. But did it come? go ask The winds' low moan- Say did it bring Upon its wing, ambition's call? Nay, but it came With a low, sad train, Like a lute with a severed string, True fame is not of earthly things. But Oh, it is better far, When touched by a heavenly fire, And falls like the gentle dew Upon a heart renewed. And not till then Can it hallowed be, For it comes from the fount Where grace is free. A PARISIAN poet justly says: "The worst of men is the wise man who does not put his wisdom into practice."  A few books, well chosen, are of more use than a great library.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    81 THE PRESERVATION OF THE CHURCH. MASON. The long existence of the Christian Church would be pronounced, upon common principles of reason- ing, impossible. She finds in every man a nat- ural and inveterate enemy. To encounter and overcome the unanimous hostility of the world, she boasts no political stratagem, no disciplined le- gions, no outward correction of any kind. Yet her expectation is that she will live forever. To mock this hope, and to blot her memorial from under heaven, the most furious efforts of fa- naticism, the most ingenious arts of statesmen, the concentrated strength of empires, have been fre- quently and perseveringly applied. The blood of her sons and her daughters has streamed like wa- ter; the smoke of the scaffold and the stake, when they wore the crown of martyrdom in the cause of Jesus, has ascended in thick volumes to the skies. The tribes of persecution have sported over her woes, and erected monuments, as they imagined, of her per- petual ruin. But where are her tyrants and where their empires? The tyrants have long since gone to their own place; their names have descended upon the roll of infamy; their empires have passed F     82    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, like shadows over the rock; they have successively disappeared, and left not a trace behind. But what became of the Church? She rose from her ashes fresh in beauty and might, celestial glory beamed around her. She dashed down the monu- mental marble of her foes, and they who hated her fled before her. She has celebrated the funeral of kings and kingdoms that plotted her destruction; and with the inscriptions of their pride, has trans- mitted to posterity the records of their shame. How shall this phenemonon be explained? We are at the present moment witnesses of the fact. But who can unfold the mystery? The book of truth and life has made our wonder to cease. "TaE "ORD IER GOD IN THE MDST OF HER IS MGHTY." hIis presence is a fountain of health, and His pro- tection " a wall of fire." He has betrothed her in eternal covenant, to himself. Her living head in whom she lives, is above, and His quickening spirit shall never depart from her. Armed with divine virtue, His Gospel, secret, silent, unobserved, en. ters the hearts of men and sets up an everlasting kingdom. It eludes all the vigilance and baffles all the power of the adversary. Bars and bolts are no obstacles to its approach; bonds and tortures, and death cannot extinguish its influence. Let no man's heart tremble then, because of fear. Let no man despair, in these days of rebuke and blasphemy, of the Christian cause. The ark is launched indeed, upon the floods; the tempest   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    88 sweeps along the deep; the billows break over her on every side. But Jehovah Jesus has promised to conduct her in safety to the haven of peace. She cannot be lost unless the pilot perish. THE success of prayer, though promised to all who offer it in perfect sincerity, is not so frequently promised to the cry of distress, to the impulses of fear, or the emergency of the moment, as to hum- ble continuance in devotions. It is to patient wait- ing, to assiduous solicitation, to unwearied importu- nity, that God has declared that He will lend His ear, that He will give the communication of His spirit, that He will grant the return of our requests. Nothing but this holy perseverance can keep up in our minds an humble sense of our dependence. It is not by a mere casual petition, however passion- ate, but by habitual application that devout affec- tions are excited and maintained, that our converse with heaven are carried on. It is by no means that we can be assured with St. Paul, that " we are risen with Christ," but this obvious one, that we thus seek the things which are above, that the heart is renovated, that the mind is lifted above this low scene of things, that the spirit breathes     S4      LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, in a pure atmosphere, that the whole man is en- lightened, and strengthened and purified; and that the more frequently, so the more nearly, he ap- proaches to the throne of God.   He will find also, that prayer not only expresses, but elicits the di- vine grace.             HANNAH MOORE. "M nAN without tears or feeling is like a tree in winter; barren, though strong and stately. It is feeling that robes it in beauteous foliage and makes it efflorescent and fruitful." ,What constitutes a State? Not high raised battlements or labored mound, Thick wall or moated gate; Not cities fair, with spire or turret crowned; No, men; high-minded men, With powers as far above dull brutes endued, In forest, brake, or den, As beasts excel cold rocks or brambles rude- AMen who their duties know- Then too, their rights, and knowing dare maintain, Prevent the long-aimed blow, And crush the tyrant while they rend the chain. SIR WILLIAM JONE S.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED,     85 COMNG DOWN. BY Mr. and Mrs. Leslie began life with a fortune; they had one of the finest houses in town, and of course, it was in the most fashionable quarter, and furnished with all the elegance and luxury which minister to taste and comfort. In short, they had a great house, a great deal of furniture, and a great many clothes. They had fine horses and fine carriages, a fine conservatory and fine pic- tures, and were, in all respects, fine people. They gave splendid entertainments, had traveled at home and abroad, gave and received presents, visited all the fashionable resorts in the summer, and in the winter made life one round of what is termed pleasure. Mrs. Leshe was a beautiful and accomplished woman, and lived as she had been educated to live, and as she supposed was proper for a woman of her position and fortune to live. Her baby was in the nursery-well cared for, she knew, and yet it caused her not a little anxiety, that she was unable to see it oftener than once or twice a day-her engagements were so numerous they would not allow it. Busy, and weary and worn were they, neither happy themselves nor causing happiness to others.     86    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, They were, of course a good deal envied and dis- liked, and suffered not a little from unfriendly sus- picions. It is one of the penalties of prosperity that it enables even our best friends to see all the little defects of our character, and sometimes to imagine faults and failings of which we are guiltless. "Why is it that we are so bored to death?" said Mr. to Mrs. Leslie.  "Nothing seems fresh or pleasant, and surely we ought to be happy if any body is, we enjoy largely the means of happiness." So they turned and overturned their affairs; counted the rooms of their house, and the number of their servants, looked into their wardrobes and scrutinized their furniture; but they were only the more and more puzzled. In all the list of their fashionable acquaintances they could think of but one family who had ampler means, or who lived more stylish than themselves. They had once or twice seen a finer coach than their own, though seldom more splendid horses; a few costher enter- tainments had they attended than they were able to give, but not many, and no lady wore finer jewels or brocades than Mrs. Leslie. They were not ad- mired much, it is true, and she sometimes thought her taste in selecting must be at fault; but not so- that Mrs. Leslie should wear silks and diamonds were a matter of course, and so, of course, they gave nobody either pleasure or surprise, andleast of all herself.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    87 Fires blazing before them, and mirrors flashing behind, they sat in their fine house and won- dered why they were not happy, and concluded that they could not be possessed of that amount of wealth that ensures happiness, for in no other way could they account for the humdrum life they were living. They did not sleep well at night; why, they could not guess, unless it were the fault of their beds; they must have more luxurious ones, if in any part of the world they were to be obtained. They had little appetite; the cook must be to blame, they must employ another; entertainments did not entertain them, and visiting and visitors were alike tiresome. If they had wealth enough to do just as they would like to, they would surely baffle the de- mon of ennui that so tormented them now. The chances of speculation were turned over, and Mr. Leshe was not long in selecting one which he thought promised well. So sure were they of favorable results that they concluded it would be foolishness to wait for the actual realization of the wealth that was almost within reach, and so at once drew upon a visionary capital. To their surprise, happiness refused to come despite their golden bid- ding. From their more splendid entertainments they retired more weary than before, from their softer beds arose more languid and restless, and in their dazzling coach rode with no more ease and comfort than formerly, the French cooks failed to     88    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, suit their appetites, and merchants and milliners were alike unsuccessful in their attempts to meet their wishes. At the end of a year of most extrav- agant dissipation, there came a crash in the affairs of Mr. Leslie. From heedlessness or mismanagement, or both, the late venture proved an utter failure, and dragged after it cooks, coaches, and all. "What can be done?" said Mr. and Mrs. Leslie. And, of course, the conclusion was anything but coming down. Truth must be smothered and credit kept good. So thousands were borrowed, and sent searching after the lost thousands, and for a while the Leslies moved in splendor and gaiety, and were, to outward appearances, greatly to be envied; but in their hearts they felt very much like standing on dry boards, that for a moment suppressed the fires of an earthquake. "What shall we do?" said both Mr. and Mrs. Leslie, when no more money could be borrowed. They did not know; they only felt anything, any- thing but coming down. What would all their fash- ionable friends say, and how they would be avoided, that was what they dreaded more than any priva- tion they would have to endure. They could devise no plan of action, but in their effort to keep up yet a little longer, there came a season of dodging and hiding, of promising and postponing, of evasion and of almost secret star- vation.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    89 They grew thin and haggard; their fine clothes looked like fine-rags, or nearly so, and the pinch of penury showed so plainly in their faces that any further attempt at concealment was hopeless. Poor Mrs. Leslie looked like a little white paper woman with a kind of smile painted on her lips, for you might see plainly enough it did not come from the heart, and it seemed that a breath of wind would drift her away as easily as the froth from a milk-pail. Half a dozen scantily fed fires were burning in the house, when Mrs. Leslie seated herself by one of them in mute and helpless despair. Night fell, and the heavy curtains made it doubly night within the room. The door opened stealthily and her husband, like a snow-drift; still and cold, came to her side. "My dear wife," he said presently, "I would not mind this terrible calamity but for you." His voice faltered, and he put his arm about her neck with a tenderness of manner that she was not at all used to, though he had been always kind and indulgent. Her heart had never stirred as it then did, when she heard him say, "Here is a thousand dollars, my dear." There actually came a faint color to her cheek, and a real smile to the lip where the false one had been so long. The happiness of that moment was worth all the lost fortune. My good, noble husband," she said, "you must not suffer on my account. I am equal     90     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, to any fortune so long as you love me," and the hands she laid on his forehead were like a pleasant, dew, and her kiss on his cheek made him richer than he had ever been. The shell of fortune in which they had been liv- ing had been broken, and they saw, for the first time, that there was a great world outside of it. The anticipated misery of coming down lessened wonderfully where they stood up together and faced it. All the fine furniture was sold, the French cooks were dismissed, dressing-maids and chamber-maids were sent away. Mrs. Leslie herself took charge of the baby, and half the house was let. One servant and a small open carriage were all the luxuries they reserved for themselves. All the day after the coming down, Mr. Leslie kept out of the house; he could not bear to see his wite deprived of the elegancies to which she had been used; he could not bear to see her tears, to hear, perhaps, her reproaches. With a slow and heavy step he approached his house, like him who "Lingering raised his latch at eve, Though tired in heart and limb; Who loved no other place and yet, Honme was no place to him." Two or three times he passed and re-passed his own door without courage to enter, but seeing one of   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    91 his former friends approaching, he chose the least of two evils, and went in. Along the dark hall and up the stairs he groped his way, opened the door of his wife's chamber, approached the bed, and part- ing the curtains, passed his hands softly along it, for he expected to find his wife ill and weeping; he had found her so many a time in consequence of the failing of a new dress or hat to come home at a certain hour. She was not there, however, and half afraid that she had gone home to her mother, he descended to the little back room, which was now parlor, sitting-room, eating-room and all. Feel- ing for the latch of the door, he groaned audibly, and as if by magic, the door flew open, his wife stood before him, smiling and bright-cheeked, and with such sweet words of welcome as he had never heard her speak until then. The baby sat crowing his gladness in the cradle, and the fire threw its blight gleam over the pretty china of the table-all was neat and orderly, even tastefully arranged; and as Mr. Leslie looked around, he felt all the pride and happiness of a young husband on com- ing into his own house for the first time. To the plain but good and sufficient supper, both did ample justice; the husband had not eaten the accustomed luncheon that day, and the wife had been busy and earned what she had seldom had be- fore-an appetite. The next day came a new trial-some trifling ar- ticles must be bought, and Mr. Leslie must drive     92    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, the small, open carriage himself. "I will wear my morning dress and veil," said Mrs. Leslie, for she saw that her husband was mortified for her sake; so they set forth together. The sun shone brightly, and the fresh air and various shows of the streets and windows were so exhilerating in their effect, that Mrs. Leslie soon threw back her veil quite re- gardless of the astonished looks of the ladies she might meet. It was a new sensation of delight to the husband to manage the horses, and both felt what superfluities coach and coachman had been. Affairs went on very well for a time; they felt as if rid of a great burden, and in earnest and hopeful labor experienced no pain. But so involved were they that even another cominig down must be made. Horses, and carriage, and house must be sold, and themselves be left with nothing in the world but their hearts and hands. "My dear, sweet wife, what can I say to comfort you?" said Mr. Leslie when he had made the con- fession of their extreme poverty. And he added; sighing and sinking down helplessly, "things could not be worse than they are." "I am glad to hear it," said Mrs. Leslie, laughing outright, "for as nothing remains stationary in this world, our affairs must grow better from necessity." "But, my dear, what can we do?" sorrowfully ejaculated the husband. "Why," she replied, "begin to live independ-   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    93 ently of our burdens and restrictions. For my part, I just begin to see something to live for." And drawing the easy chair to the fire, and plac- ing the baby on his knee, she proposed to make for her husband a cup of tea and a piece of toast, in- the hope of reviving his spirits. There was no bread nor tea in the house, and worse than all no money. "Surely, then," said Mrs. Leslie, looking earnestly in the sad face of her husband, " there is no time to be lost," and putting on shawl and bonnet she was presently gone from the house. When she returned it was with a glow on her cheek which heightened her beauty far more than paint or powder had ever done. She had been selling her diamonds and had brought money enough home to buy a cottage and ten acres of land within a few miles of the city where they had always lived. A year went by, and as Mr. Leslie looked about his neat, well ordered house, as he sat before the blazing hickory logs, a pitcher of cider and a basin of shining apples on the table beside, and saw his wife in a pretty chintz making the tea, and his boy, bright-eyed and healthy, rocking himself in the cra- dle with a look of pride that he was able to do something for himself, he was surprised at his own happiness, and exclaimed: "Really, my dear, I should never have learned half your excellent qual- ities, and consequently never have loved you half so well but for our coming down."     "    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, "Coming down, indeed!" and putting down the smoking tea pot, she wiped the happy tears from her eyes. "I was never so happy in my life. It is as if we had removed a great heap of rubbish, and had struck a vein of pure gold. For what were all our useless forms, all our servants and equipages but so many obstacles in the way of our knowing each other? Then there was nothing I could do for you-now there is everything;" and almost sob- bing she continued, "if you call this coming down I thank God for it, because it has in truth been a coming down to usefulness and happiness. With what our friends called misfortunes we were the gainers every time. Was it not pleasanter to ride in the open carriage, to see what was about us and feel the air and sunshine than to be shut up in the old lumbering coach? And then to walk and have the advantage of exercise, as well as air, was better still; and now to work and to get air and exercise, and to be useful at the same time, is best of all. One room darkened another when we had a great house; now the light and sunshine comes in all around. Our expensive furniture required careful keeping, so I had both the care of furniture and ser- vants; now I can keep the little we require myself, and what was before wearisome is pleasure. I have no ceremonious calls to use the time I can pass in friendly interchange of thought and feeling with neighbors who come to see me. My husband, we have enough; a house to shelter us, and one that is   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     95 withal tasteful and pretty, and ground that gives us bread and fruit, and water and flowers,-all for a little work; and that is the blessedest of our provisions, for through no other means can we obtain rest." "You are the best and noblest woman in the world!" exclaimed the husband, interrupting her, "and but for you I should have come down in veri- ty. Now I am convinced that while we maintain honesty and self-respect, coming down is impossi- ble." It is sad to think of the great fine rooms piled one after another and darkening one against another- too costly for use, and too elegant for the free tread and merry laughter of inartificial joy-growing damp and mouldy, and sending to the hearts of their inmates heaviness or stupidity, when we know they might be set up separately in the bright, green spots, here and there, and make such little worlds of comfort. Pity it is that false notions of life, or, perhaps, the absence of any notions at all, are so enfeebling and degenerating our men and women! How shall I spend the time? and by what process shall I beat out my little gold so that I shall display the most glittering surface? are the first questions of the day. "IT is calculated that we receive from God twelve blessings every minute, relative respiration; thirty     96    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, relative to our understanding and will, and six thousand relative to the different parts of our bodies; consequently God grants us each minute six thousand and forty-two blessings, and three hundred and sixty-two thousand five hundred and twenty every hour of our life."   ALBUM. "I AM THE VINE, YE ARE THE BRANCHES."-SAVIOR. If we would have a beautiful rose tree, it must be pruned and taken care of, so that it may grow lux- uriantly and retain its freshness and beauty. It is true there are flowers of God's own planting, in the fields and wildwoods, which grow and flourish and are very beautiful. But they are watered by the dews of heaven, and the soil is adapted to them. In a sandy desert where there is no water, beneath the rays of a burning sun, the rose would wither, for there would be no nourish- ment to its roots to facilitate its growth, and the dews of heaven would not be sufficient to give it freshness and beauty. So as Christ is the vine, and we the branches, we derive our spiritual food from the vine. And if we would be growing, thriving, living branches we will lop off everything that is wrong, by faithful and continued watching unto prayer. So shall there be no dwarfs nor withered branches on the vine.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    97 MAY YOU DIE AMONG YOUR KINDRED. GREENWOOD. It is a sad thing to feel that we must die away from our home. Tell not the invalid who is yearn- ing after his distant country, that the atmosphere around him is soft; that the gales are filled with balm, and the flowers are springing from the green earth; he knows that the softest air to his heart would be the, air which hangs over his native land; that more grateful than all the gales of the south, -would breathe the low whispers of anxious affec- tion; that the very icicles hanging to his own eaves, and the snow beating against his own windows, would be far more pleasant in his eyes, than the bloom and verdure which only more forcibly re- minds him how far he is from that one spot which is dearer to him than the world beside. He may indeed find estimable friends, who will do all in their power to promote his comfort and assuage his pains, but they cannot supply the place of the long known and long loved; they cannot read as in a book the mute language of his face, they have not learned to wait upon his habits and anticipate his wants, and he has not learned to communicate, without hesitation, all his wishes, impressions, and thoughts to them. He feels that he is a stranger, G     98    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, and a more desolate feeling than that could not visit his soul. How much is expressed in that form of Oriental benediction,--"May you die among your kindred!"  ANECDOTE OF ROWLAND HLL, OR FAMLY PRAYER AT A TAVERN. Rowland Hill was once driven by a storm of rain into a village inn and compelled to spend the night. When it grew late, the landlord sent a request by the waiter that the guest would go to bed. Mr. Hill replied, "I have been waiting for a long time expecting to be called to family prayer." "Family prayer! I don't know what you mean, sir, we never have such things here." Indeed! then tell your master I cannot go to bed until we have family prayer." The waiter informed his master, who in great consternation, bounced into the room occu- pied by the faithful minister, and said, "Sir, I wish you would go to bed; I cannot go until I have seen all the lights out; I am so afraid of fire." "So am I," was the reply, "but I have been expecting to be summoned to family prayer." "All very good, sir, but it cannot be done at an inn." "In- deed! then pray get me my horse. I cannot sleep   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    99 in a house where there is no family prayer." The host preferred to dismiss his prejudice, rather than his guest, and said, "I have no objection to have prayer, but I don't know how." "Well, then, summon your people and let us see what can be done." The landlord obeyed, and the astonished domestics were on their knees, and the landlord called upon to pray. "Sir, I never prayed in my life." "Ask God to teach you," was the gentle reply. The landlord said, folding his hands, "God, teach us how to pray."  "That is prayer, my friend," cried Mr. Hill, joyfully, "go on." "I am sure I don't know what to say now, sir." "Yes, you do; God has taught you how to pray. Now, thank Him for it." "Thank you, God Almighty, for letting us pray to you." "Amen! amen!" cried Mr. Hill, and prayed himself. Two years afterward, Mr. Hill found in that same village, a chapel and a school, as the result of the first effort of family prayer at the Black Lion. THE best fruit is always picked at the most. 80 is the pure in heart who is daily lopping off every little-sin and getting nearer to the cross.     100     LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, WOMAN'S POWER. "Nor steel nor fire itself hath power, Like woman in her conquering hour, Be thou but fair, mankind adore thee! Smile and a world is weak before thee." THE fact has disclosed the whole secret of wo- man's conquering power. Fair in her virtue, smil- ing in her goodness, she wields an influence which mailed warrior never could. Her strength is in her graces, her weapon is love, and her power is resist- less when these are combined with modest merit, and dictated by conscious duty. In influence woman is as much superior to man as affection is to intellect. Man represents the un- derstanding of the universe, and woman the will; man the mind, woman the soul; man the reason, woman the heart. The powers of observation and reflection are cold appendages to the human being, unless warmed into exercise and attracted to good objects by the feelings and sentiments of the affections of the mind. How little, Vm this world, do we think, judge, and know, in comparison with what we feel. Man may do mighty things in the intellectual advancement of the world, but "What I most prize in woman Is her affections, not her intellect! The intellect is finite, but the affections Are infinite, and cannot be exhausted."   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.     101 CHLDHOOD PRAYERS.--Dr. Adam Clarke in his last days, wrote thus: "The prayers of my child- hood are yet precious to me, and the simple hymns I sung when a child, I still remember with de- light." Thus when the young cherish these sacred influences, they "Sow seeds, To blossom in their manhood, and bear fruit When they are old." THOSE who cannot appreciate merit in any condi- tion, ought to steal an hour or .two at least, every day from business or pleasure, and devote them to the reading of such books as will enrich their minds and improve their hearts. POLITENESS.--"An  officer in battle happening to bow, a cannon ball passed over his head and took off the head of the soldier who stood behind him. ' You see that a  man never loses by  politeness,' said he."     102    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, SOLEMN THOUGHTS. "We see not, in this life the end of human ac- tions. Their influence never dies. In every widening circle it reaches beyond the grave. Death removes us from this to an eternal world. Time determines what shall be our condition in that world. Every morning when we go forth, we lay the moulding hand on our destiny; and every evening when we have done, we have left a deathless impression on our character. We touch not a wire but vibrates in eternity; not a voice but reports at the throne of God. Let youth especially, think of these things, and let every one remember that in this world, where character is in its formation state, it is a serious thing to speak, to think, to act, to live. How comfortable will be the feast of pardoned guilt, when our eye-strings shall break, the face turn pale, and the breath turn cold, and the prisoner ready to be released. Make sure work for eternity; no errand so weighty; nothing so important. O, take to heart! Dying work is serious work, and that we will all find." JUSTICE.-"Though justice is not ostensibly sold, yet it costs so much that a man must be rich to ob- tain it,"   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    103 A WISE MAN. A wise man will never rust out. As long as he can move or breathe he will be doing something for himself, or his neighbor, or for posterity. Almost to the last hour of his life, Washington was at work; so were Franklin and Adams, and Young, and Howard, and Newton. The vigor of their lives never decayed. No rust marred their spirits. It is a foolish idea to suppose we must necessarily lie down and die because we are old. Who is old? Not the man of energy, nor the day laborer in science, art or benevolence; but he only who suf- fers his energies to waste away, or the strings of life to become motionless, on whose hand the hours hang heavily, and to whom all things wear the garb of gloom. There are scores of gray-headed we should prefer in any important enterprise, to those young gentlemen who fear and tremble at imagin- ary difficulties, and turn pale at a lion in their path. O GOOD MANNERS. "If Christianity had no higher recommendation than this, that it makes a man a gentleman, it would still be an invaluable social element. The     104    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, New Testament inculcates good manners. Our Saviour was courteous even to His persecutors. Look at Paul before Agrippa! His speech is a model of dignified courtesy as well as of persuasive eloquence. A spirit of kindly consideration for all men characterized the twelve. , "The same mild, self-sacrificing spirit which pervaded the sayings and doings of the early Disci- ples is exhibited by all good men of the Old Testa- ment and by the true followers of the cross of the present day. A man, if true, may be superficially polite without being a Christian, but a Christian, by the very conditions of his creed, and the obliga- tions of his faith, is necessarily, in mind and soul, and therefore in word and act, a gentleman. "It as a fair step toward happiness and virtue to delight in the company of good men, and where they cannot be had, it is better to keep no company at all." WE should pray that the peaceable reign of our Lord Jesus Christ may come soon if it be His will, in His own good time. Then shall our Sabbaths be honored and wars, bloodshed and vice be known no more; and thousands of thousands seen crowd- ing the gates of Zion.   ORIGINAL AND SELECTED.    105 "FE.-"The bread of life is love; the salt of life is work; the sweetness of life, poesy; the water of life, faith." A PRETTY FACE.--"A pretty face is often like cheap furniture, the varnish that caught the eye will not endure the fireside blaze." THE RIVER OP TRUTH.--"Those who pursue the stream of truth to its sources, have much climbing to do, much fatigue to encounter, but they see great sights." ROSES AND. THORNS.-"The perfume of a thou- sand roses soon dies, but pain caused by one of their thorns remains long after; a saddened re- membrance in the midst of mirth is like that thorn among the roses."     106    LEAVES FROM MY PORT FOLIO, "BERTY.- When liberty is at stake, we cannot be too scrupulous, we must burnish up every prece- dent, we must parley upon a hair, for that hair may be a fibre of eternal right upon which cling the des- tiny of millions.--CAPIN.   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. BY THE AUTHQR. "I have thought," said a traveler of Zion to another traveler on the same heavenly journey, "that your Christian experience very much resem- bles mine," "Then," said the traveler addressed, " yours must indeed be varied. For I can hardly remember when the spirit of God did not call me to seek his face, and when I as often forgot its kind influences and frequent warnings; and oh! when I call to mind the long suffering and forbearance of my heavenly Father, and the unutterable longings He has implanted in my soul to be like Him, and for the pardon of my sins in the days of my yonth, and for the sanctification of my poor soul, even then, when I was young and of tender years, and inex- perienced too, and heard but little or nothing said     108    A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. on the subject of a full salvation by Jesus Christ, and how His own spirit taught me and led me to seek it with my whole heart, until I found it, and then, oh, then! how I failed to make confession with my mouth, of the grace of God in Jesus Christ. Can I ever forgive myself? Never, never. How much I have lost, by this backwardness, this timid- ity in other days. But now, my Savior,l am thine, wholly thine. Naught shall divide my soul from thee. No, not assembled worlds. I have made confession of thee with my mouth. Yes, of thy full salvation, which saves to the uttermost. Though it be but of late, yet my heart is fixed. Oh, God, my heart is fixed; I am thine; yes, wholly thine. And when I look back, away back, in the long vista of years, and remember thy loving kindness, and reflect on the goodness of God in sparing my life, and watching over me so tenderly when I was a little thoughtless orphan child, in all my wanderings, and when I was so simple-hearted as to know no fear nor danger, my heart is filled with unspeakable gratitude. When I reflect on the many blessings bestowed, the many deliverances His own hand has wrought, how kindly He has cared for me, and not suffered my inexperienced feet to slip, nor a hair of my head to be injured, I am constrained to adore the hand that brought me safe thus far, and taken care of me while I was yet a sinner, and washed me in His own blood. To   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.   109 Him be glory, and honor, and power, forever and ever. I was early drawn to secret prayer, and was very much afraid of the judgment day even when I was a little child. I remember on one occasion, I could not have been more than six or seven years of age when sound asleep in my bed at night, I think about midnight, something seemed to press heavily on my heart, and knocking there until it awoke me, exclaiming oh! I have broken the law of God, I have broken the law of God. I felt the knocking at my heart as distinctly as I ever felt anything in my life. I cannot now remember where I got these words, but suppose I had heard them in Church, or from my aunt or mother who were both pious members of the church, and they were sent to my heart by the holy spirit. I then attended to private prayer, for several weeks, in the dark as well as in the light of day, or wherever I had op- portunity. I had heard that "Satan was going about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he might devour." I believed I could better overcome him and my fears by showing him that I was not afraid to pray in the dark. I have attributed this overcoming my fears by praying in the dark and in lonely places, to my want of fear of Satan to this day, believing that God would save me from' his power in any place, or under any circumstances, as long as I put my trust in Him. My greatest fear has been to offend God, and of the judgement.     "O     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. On another occasion when I was at school, I heard the children say, the judgment day would come on Monday. I was very much alarmed, and hastened home to tell my uncle, for I was afraid he would not be ready to meet it. I cannot now re- member why I had those fears for him more than my aunt, as they were both members of the church. Monday came, and as the judgment did not come, and I had been alarmed more than once on the same subject, my fears became quieted in some de- gree; yet I continued to pray in dark places, and in private for some time. On another occasion I awoke up in the night and thought Satan was under the bed waiting for me, and could not be convinced that such was not the case, for some moments at least. I was very much alarmed on finding him, as I thought, so near. But I still prayed in dark places-would go to my room without a light to pray, and sometimes in the cellar and have imagined I felt Satan pulling my clothes, but I would pray on and tremble. I thought if I would pray, God would take care of me, but I was so young that I did not seem to un- derstand much about the atonement of the cross. Yet I knew that Jesus died to save sinners, for 1 loved to read the New Testament even though I was so small, and in reading of the death and suf- ferings of the Savior the tears would roll down my cheeks like great drops of rain; so deep was the sympathy which I felt for Him,   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    11l I think it was not long after my first religious impressions when I attended to private prayer again for weeks, and so on at intervals, but like the early dew, my good impressions which the holy spirit had made in my heart passed away until I was between fourteen and fifteen years of age. Early in the fall, a few months before I was fif- teen, when sitting alone one day attending to a do- mestic employment, I began to think it was time for me to begin to seek the Lord and try to save my poor soul. I immediately determined to do so, and never give it up, which resolution, by the grace of God, I have endeavored to keep until this day. I then continued to seek the Lord in private prayer, and while I was walking about night and day un- til a few months after I attended preaching in a private house near by. The minister's text was, "For the great day of His wrath is come and who shall be able to stand." It was a very close and pointed sermon. While he was preaching he said he felt that he would win one soul for Christ that night. I began immedi- ately to pray that it might be me. I looked around and thought I must be the one, for they are all pro- feesorsof religion present. I continued kneeling after the sermon was over, in great distress of mind, seeking the Lord with my whole heart, deter- mined never to give up the struggle until He blessed me. After remaining on my knees until about eleven o'clock, my friends wished me to go to     "2     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. another friend's house. I refused, and said I could not arise until I had received the evidence of par- don. They insisted and said, it might be that we were intruding, on account of the lateness of the hour, and that they would take me to sister S.'s and send for others. I consented, but was scarcely able to rise with the help of two others, nor to walk after I had risen. We got to sister S.'s, which was but a few squares, and continued all night in prayer with a few faithful souls, who stayed by me to the last, and just before the dawn of day, when my soul felt ex- ceedingly dark, and my heart all at once felt as hard as flint, just then, while those dear, faithful souls were singing "Come Lord, the drooping sinner cheer, Nor let the chariot wheels delay," &c. The darkness of my soul gave way, and light inef- fable burst in and dispelled the gloom, my flinty heart was melted by love divine, inexpressible and full of glory. My glad heart bounded with joy of pardon. Oh, the sudden transition from the deep- est distress, to such rapturous joy I can never forget. It is the greenest spot in my memory. I have for- gotten many things, but I have never forgotten that sacred hour "When first from above, I received the blest pledge of endless love."   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    113 I soon found in my heart a longing and ardent de- sire to know more of God, more of the depths of His boundless love. I went on day and night, seeking with my whole heart for all the fullness of the blessings of the Gospel for about two years. I think I scarcely stopped for one moment to look at the things that are seen, for my whole -soul was taken up with this one object, nor had the world one charm for me. I thought not of the past, pres- ent, or future, only as they led my mind to God, and my immediate duties demanded my attention. At the expiration of this time-two years-I at- tended a camp meeting. I was not yet seventeen. I could not have been more in earnest, had I been in pursuit of some great worldly treasure. I think it was on the night of the same day on which I had arrived on the camp ground, when I went into a seat where they were all kneeling in earnest prayer. I knelt with them. From that moment I knew no more of earth, or what was passing round me un- til I found myself praising God for sanctifying grace. My faith had ascended to the throne of heaven the moment I knelt in prayer. The wit- ness of the spirit was so clear that I never doubted that I had received it for a moment since that day. I felt its influence through every pore of my body, running like streams of living fire. I went into the altar on the next morning, but could not, or felt not like uttering one word. It was with me     "4     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. "That sacred awe which dares not move, And all the silent heaven of love." Such a calm, sweet peace which I cannot fully de- scribe. All the fullness of the blessings of the Gospel. My object is to be brief, and only relate the most prominent points of my experience, in the hope that the young will seek the Lord in the days of their youth, read their bibles much in connection with their private devotions, give themselves to frequent meditation and self-examination, watch unto prayer without ceasing, and not neglect to take up their cross on all occasions. This I did not do when I returned home. I did not make a pub- lic profession of the rich blessing which God had bestowed on me. "Ye are my witnesses," saith the Savior. I do not remember of speaking explicitly on this subject for many years, consequently I got into darkness of mind for a long time. Again the Lord blessed me about a year afterward, with these words sweetly and powerfully applied to my heart, "Now ye are light in the Lord, walk as children of the light." I was melted into a flood of tears of mingled joy and grief. Joy on reflecting on the kindness and condescension of the S*ior, and grief that I had not always been his faithful witness. The consolations at this time derived, was, I think, of several days duration, but as soon as its freshness had subsided, I again yielded to despond-   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.     115 ency and doubt, because I was not always happy. Instead of going to the law and testimony, as en- joined by the word,-and it would as before ob- served, have been inconsistent with the declara- tions of that word, for me to enjoy an established state of experience, while indulging in such a course,-had I taken the " sword of the Spirit " it would have guarded the way of life and happiness, and have prevented this waywardness by presenting the admonitory sentence of an inspired apostle: "For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves, but they measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among them- selves, are not wise."-2d Cor. 10, 12. Had I only taken the word of the Lord as closely to my heart during this part of my pilgrimage, as I did in the pathway of after years, when I sought unto it, as the man of my council, under all circum- stances of difficulty, I would have found ": Here light descending from above Directs the doubtful feet- Here promises of heavenly love Our ardent wishes meet.    - - Our numerous wants are here redressed, And all our wants supplied; Naught we can ask to make us blest Is in THS BOOK denied," I would now glance over several years experi-     "6    A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. ence, subsequent to what I have now written, a considerable portion of which time I did not enjoy much of the life of God in my soul. And yet I ar- dently desired to be a whole-hearted Christian, and give myself away wholly and forever to- the Lord for time and eternity. Those unutterable longings after the divine image were frequent, even when I was wandering away from the only true source of bliss, and losing them in a bubble, the pursuit of worldly fame and ambition; with perhaps no higher aim than to gain a name of worldly distinction in the profession which I had chosen to pursue. In this I allude to my temporal affairs. Like the beautiful winged butterfly which bursts its tomb in the morning and flutters for a day and is gone; so were my fancied dreams of happiness, so intense and all-engrossing, until arrested by the kind hand of One who cannot err, and who "does not afflict wil- lingly." He watched over me in all my wander- ings, and in time of trouble when I looked up to I-imi He would kindly hear my prayer and grant my request. Oh! eternity alone can tell of His unbounded love, and my forgetfulness. Mine eyes o'erflow with tears when I think of Thee, Jerusa- lem! my chief joy. Mine was a long, long season of darkness, with scarce a glimmer of heavenly light, until I neared the time when the bright beams of the sun of righteousness irradiated my whole soul. About two years before this period arrived, I was   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    117 attending a camp meeting in another State. I was in the altar where many were knelt in prayer. I bowed the knee and mingled my prayers with theirs to the Father of Light, and besought Him fervently to heal my backslidings, and take me once more to the embrace of His love. It seemed, as often had been the case, that there were interminable barriers of towering mountains between God and my soul. I struggled on and feared I would never again enjoy the sunshine of His presence, when a ray of light dawned in my poor heart. I was so transported at the bare thought that the Savior would again bless me, after long years of darkness, that I almost broke out in rapturous praise. But I waited at the mercy seat yet longer, when I rose, exclaiming, 4 I am free, I am free!"I felt that I had so long been bound, that I knew not where to begin to praise. Oh! the un- utterable joy of that moment. And yet such was my proneness to doubt, that the morning had scarce dawned when I was again in darkness. I contin- ued to pray; and when assisting at the breakfast table, a calm peace pervaded my whole soul, with these words applied distinctly to my heart, ': Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken to you." Almost immediately Satan sug- gested, "This is not the witness of the Spirit," and my doubts returned. I went into the woods and wept bitter tears. Such tears of bitter contrition     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.   "9   a little before us; my horse seemed to be hard to guide, and went slowly. I drew up the bridle and succeeded in getting him forward before the stage; I had scarcely done so, when the stage it seems was on a slight descent, their horses touched mine, he became frightened and flew like lightning speed for about a mile, while Iwas calling "ho! ho!" and praying all the time to the Lord to spare me that one time, and I would devote my whole life to Him more faithfully than I had ever done. The Lord heard me, for I expected every moment to be dashed into eternity, there being a thick woods on either side of the road, and had the horse turned into the woods, I must have been torn to pieces. But after he had ran about a mile or more, the stir- rup gave way, and I was thrown to the ground with great violence, my shoulder injured, some small bones broken, which were never set, at least our family physician said on my return to Hy---, that it was too late then to set them, as the injury sustained had been of too long standing, which was some months perhaps. I was taken back to the village as soon as con- veyance could be obtained. My shoulder swelled to an enormous size. Sugar of lead and water were ordered to be applied as fast as the cloths be- came dry, which were laid on all night. The next morning about early dawn I was near being burned to death, as the woman who sat up with me had left the lamp burning near the foot of my bed, so   I'     120     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. that the bed clothes caught fire while she had gone down stairs. My face was covered with wet cloths as it was cut too, and I would not have probably known it, had not a little girl came in at that moment, ex- claiming, "Oh!"I immediately raised myself up, and with my well arm put my hand into the flames and pushed the fire under me and smothered it. I could not before move my body. Mr. -- came up and inquired where the fire was, I told him it was under me and smothered. He drew out the bed clothes from under my feet and found it was so. He smiled and said I was fortunate. Another time had the kind providence of God interfered in my behalf. I then purposed in my heart to be wholly the Lord's for time and eternity. The world had insensibly gained on me, and I was too much engrossed with its pursuits. The tide of temporal prosperity had wafted me onward for years, almost without pausing to think as much as I should, from  whence those blessings flowed. ' Ambitious schemes " too, were beating high, and were no doubt laudable, had they been submitted to the supreme control of One who cannot err. But we sometimes thwart the designs of Providence by our waywardness. I shortly after, as soon as my health would per- mlit, and lmy affairs at C--  were arranged, return- ed to Hy---, to visit my relatives. They were then preparing to come to Missouri. I remained, how- ever, for more than a year longer.   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.     121 There was a quarterly meeting commenced soon after my arrival, which lasted several weeks. It was a very interesting one, and a most gracious re- vival was in progress under the pastoral care of Rev. F----, a most efficient and pious minister, during which time many were converted, and believers quickened. I was visiting sister S--. rWe went to church at night together, about the commencement of the meeting I think it was. I said to her on the way, "I feel that I am. undone without Christ." She thought I was under temptation, but I had lost the evidence of my acceptance with God. I was deeply concerned. This was in the fall of 1842. After the sermon was over, many came forward to the al- tar for the prayers of the church. I was among the first, I at first hesitated, as the cross was very great, but seeing but one spot left where I could kneel, I went. I struggled hard in prayer, for I had been much troubled with fears, that after all I had experienced of the goodness of God, I might be lost at last. And often Hwas tormented with the thought that God was a respecter of per- sons, and that he would not deign to look upon so unworthy a worm of the dust as myself, Near the close of the meeting I think it was, I was asked if I felt any condemnation. I replied I did not, but felt relieved from the guilt and con- demnation of sin, but was not satisfied; I never     122     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. rested day nor night until I found the evidence of sins forgiven. I awoke ever morning about four o'clock, which was long before day in the winter, and was gene- rally drawn out in the most fervent prayer to God for the witness of the spirit. Indeed I never dream- ed of having any religion without it, and was all on the stretch for this. If for a moment a wandering thought presented itself, I was filled with over- whelming fear of backslidings, and would immedi- ately fly to Christ for refuge. One morning while engaged in prayer, some wandering thoughts presented themselves. I was filled with horror. I was enabled to throw myself on Christ with an energy which astonished me, when by an eye of faith I saw him meeting me in the air, and found myself seemingly flying up to meet Him, when He sheltered me under His wing. I felt secure under His wing, and suddenly all was calm and peaceful. I felt thus a part of the day, and thought Christ must have accepted me, or He would not have sheltered me under His wing. Yet I was not satisfied. I wanted a clearer evi- dence. Such was my proneness to doubt. I continued in fervent prayer night and day, when perhaps a week after, just before I went to Bible Class on Monday evening, I was in my fa- ther's house alone, standing by the fire-place, lean- ing my head against the mantle, when these lines were distinctly spoken to my heart:   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    123 "And I am thine by sacred ties, Thy Son thy servant bought with blood." I immediately believed that was just what I wanted. That that was the witness of the spirit witnessing with my spirit, that I was a child of God. It was followed with a sweet peace and joy inexpressible, which the world knows not of. I doubt not but I had the witness of the spirit before this, but could not believe it. I went to Bible Class filled with joy and glad- ness; and when looking over a question on the in- dwelling of the spirit, I felt that it indeed dwelt in me. My peace increased more and more. It was perfect peace-no care, nor sorrow, nor fear- a blessed rest. It flowed like a river. Sometimes on lying down at night, I thought the air I breathed was sweeter by far than the sweetest perfume earth ever yielded. I cannot now record all the blessings, and all the trials I passed through during that winter. Some of my nearest relatives had gone to another State. But blessed be God, He was with me; He brought me safely through them all; He sustained me by His grace, and sustained me by His precious prom- ises. They were often applied to my poor heart, some of which were, "The Lord knoweth them that are His." "He tempers the wind to the shorn lamb."  "In remembrance of His holy name." "May I never forget thee, Jerusalem, my chief joy!"     124    A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. A few weeks after I had been restored to the en- joyment of God's favor, I awoke one morning about four o'clock, and being very earnest in prayer, I had the most clear and distinct peace, a blessed foretaste of heaven. I thought I was as happy as I could be in this world. But I found it increas- ing. I raised myself up in my bed, and found my- self praying to God to fulfill His whole law on me. Immediately I was so filled with God that I cannot describe how happy I was. But this I know, I felt "all glorious within." It seemed as though I could see with an inward eye that my heart and affec- tions were all gone up to God, and those words were applied: "The blood of Jesus cleanseth from all sin." I replied, "It is sufficient." I was afraid afterward that I had doubted. I was a few days afterwards conversing with a friend on the subject of religion, when I remarked that I felt no condemnation. She replied that she could not say so, but that she often felt that she might do far more than she did do. It was imme- diately suggested to me, that if a woman who pos- sessed so much religion found fault with herself, so might I. I was immediately assailed with a storm of temptations, and continually filled with fears of backsliding, which lasted about three weeks. I was praying continually, night and day, when awake, and, blessed be God, I often found the song of melody springing up in my heart. One morning when conversing with the same   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.   125 friend, I asked her if she thought there was any danger of backsliding when a person was continu- ally trying to please God. She replied she did not; that all I wanted was faith. Immediately faith sprung up in my heart, and I gradually became calm. This was at night. In the morning I was surprised to find the storm hushed into silence. When I arose I felt that I was- going to have a long blessed rest. I felt too, like lying down and tak- ing a long, long rest, for my poor body was wearied, and I felt as if I had just landed in a blessed har- bor, and that I had just been out on a stormy ocean where the waves beat high. But thank God, Christ was in the vessel, and all was well. He had the " waves at His command." He said to the winds, "Peace, be still," and lo, there was a great calm. Blessed be God, although temptations ran high, by the power of all conquering grace I was sustained. The suggestion was continually urged on my mind that I had in some way unknowingly offended. But, although filled with unutterable fears of backsliding, I was enabled to keep hold on the word. My heart was fixed. "Though I die, I will not remove my cause out of Thy hands." I was not left utterly joyless in my tribulation, for hope as an anchor to the soul, sustained me until my heavenly Pilot bid the winds cease. A sense of the fullness of the blessings of the Gospel con- tinued with me for a considerable length of time. One night I went to church much distressed in     126     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. mind, and while sitting leaning my head on my hand during the sermon, a most frightful object seemed to present itself to the eye of my mind, when immediately with an eye of faith, these words were presented before me: '"I keep thee." I was then, during that season, reading Mrs. Fletcher's Journal, which had been presented me by Rev. S -, of the Ohio Conference. I was reflecting one day on the mighty change wrought in me, and how fond I had become of reading novels and other light reading of the day, and that now I loved the bible and other devo- tional books, and said to myself, now I am reading Mrs. Fletcher, which I have had two or three years unread. Immediately these words were presented to my mind: "That the life of Christ maybe made manifest in you." May it be even so in time and eternity. May I never forget the strength which I gained from reading that book, and the many rich blessings and assurances of His favor, with which my heavenly Father deigned to visit me dur- ing that winter. My trials were varied and pecu- liar. he was refining my heart from its dross in the furnace of affliction. I needed it. It has done me good until this day-that winter of '42. For oh! the depth of pride and worldly ambition which had gotten hold of me astonished me, when I got a view of it. I seldom awoke in the morning with- out some sweet assurance of His favor.   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    127 "The blessings of that happy day, O may it ever, ever stay."  I will relate another circumstance in my experi- ence during our protracted meeting of that winter, above alluded to. One night, before preaching, when Rev. F was giving out the hymn commencing with "I know, by faith I know, If this vile house of clay," &c. how happy I would be. My adorable Saviour in- dulged me in my wish. One morning in the winter, about two months after I had received an assurance of my acceptance with God, I arose about two hours before day to pray before my mind would begin to wander. I was sorrowing much for a deeper acquaintance with God. When in the act of getting. out of my bed, these words were applied with power: ", It stands securely high, Indissolubly sure." And in the morning and day before, I had a sweet rest in these words contained in the same hymn: "My house above." A morning or two after upon awaking, and mourning for a fresh assurance of God's love, these     128     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. words were applied to my heart from the same hymn: "Absent, alas! from God, We in the body mourn." Several times I have been awakened by loud singing above my head long before day, and heard it distinctly before, and a moment or two after awakening: "Time speeds away, away," &c. I believe they were "ministering spirits," sent to guard me while I slept, and to encourage my heart so prone to sadness. I felt as if they were always around my bed. Surely this is not too strong lan- guage. Is it not scriptural? "Are they not all ministering spirits sent to minister unto the heirs of salvation?" Another time I was awakened with a distinct knocking at my heart,-the same which I realized in the days of my childhood. I felt it some time in my sleep before I could awake, and distinctly after I awoke. "Behold I stand at the door and knock; if any man will hear my voice, I will come in and sup with him and he with me." I do not mean to say, that these words of scripture is the only mean- ing of what I have related above. No, it also alludes to the kind invitation of the Savior to the sinner, or the already awakened soul, to hear his voice through the word, or the drawings of his   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    129 spirit. I arose up to pray, but not so quickly as heretofore, for I was very dull and heavy with sleep. When I returned to bed, and just as I lay down, these words were spoken to my heart: "I have a few names in Sardis." The same influences at- tended me until near day. The next day and night I was much grieved that I did not spend all the night previous in prayer. The next night I was melted into deep contrition before God, just before retiring. I lay down and got up again to prayer, and as I was returning to bed, those words were spoken distinctly to my heart: "I have not found thy works perfect before God." I went and sat down by the fire, and thought God is not pleased with me if my works are not perfect. When im- mediately these words were applied: "As ye have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in Him." And many instances of the kind dealings of God to my soul, and of immediate answers to prayer, and hours and weeks together of sweet and near communion with Him, I might relate, and I trust with no other motive in view than to encour- age the young to put their trust in Him, bear their cross, and be always ready to be His true and faith- ful witnesses. "Ye are my witnesses," saith the Savior. How very important to make "confession with the mouth," of the Savior, and that faithfully, without fear of using the words of scripture, as op- portunity may offer and circumstances require. "I believe it to be a duty imposed by the highest ob- I     130     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. ligations of love, on all professed followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, to endeavor by all possible meaons, to give a faithful representation of their in- dividual experience, of the power of grace to save to the uttermost." ' The weight of responsibility resting upon those who lower the standard, by an unfaithful repre- sentation, either by the living epistle of an unholy life, verbally, or in written communications, I see to be so tremendous, that I am assured eternity alone can determine its fearful magnitude." Spring came on, and I thought of leaving. While hesitating about my place of destination, I received an invitation from my relative, Rev. S. C-  , of the Kentucky Conference, to make him- self and family a visit. I concluded to do so, and made my arrangements accordingly. On the morning of my departure, before leaving mly room, I had sweet communion with my God, and Iis heartfelt presence was with me for many days and weeks, and if at any time I found His presence withdrawn for a short time, it soon re- turned, and I was enabled almost continually to walk in the bright light of His unclouded coun- telnance. AI'1IL, 1843. On my way to P-, as I was sit- ting in the ladies' cabin, leaning my head on my hand, not noticing the objects around me, a de- liglhtful calm pervaded my whole soul, more calm and peaceful than the most beautiful morning that   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    121 ever dawned. It seemed to me that I could see my- self sailing on a clear bright sea, with not a wave or breeze to ruffle it. I could see by an eye of faith my little bark gliding swiftly over its bright waters, with nothing to stop its progress. Blessed be God how often He indulged me with those delightful seasons of calm repose, without one fear, or care, or sorrow to disturb my peaceful breast. And oh! if one ray of sunshine from God's pres- ence, one drop from the fountain of life, so dis- perses the mists of sin and grief, and hushes the tempest to rest, what must the full reality be, when faith is lost in sight. And thus passed away sev- eral weeks of the same happy state of mind. After spending a few weeks at P---, I returned to M - , and remained a few days longer with my relatives there. A morning or two after I had ar- rived, as I was rising from my bed, these words of scripture were spoken to my heart: "The Lord does not afflict willingly." And so, blessed be His name, I have found it. The Sabbath came while there, and as I was in the habit of spending them in a retired way, except when at church, I felt like being alone as much as possible, so I went into a more retired room. I saw one or two of my friends coming in a buggy, on a visit. I immediately ex- claimed, "There's    , coming again on the Sabbath. It would become her better if she would go to church instead of visiting on the Sabbath day." I immediately became much distressed in     132     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. mind because I had spoken so petulently. I was uneasy and restless all day, and prayed without ceasing to the Lord to forgive me. I went to church at night but found no relief. Again when I knelt in prayer before retiring, I was very fervent, and asked the Lord to teach me how to pray in a way that would be acceptable to Him. I was immediately filled with the heartfelt presence of the Lord, but felt no joy. I continued thus all night. Every time I awoke I was under the same happy influence, all life and light within. Still I did not feel satisfied. I felt there was something more that I wanted. When I awoke in the morn- ing the Savior was still very precious, but my mind wandering. This grieved me, but it seemed I could not call it back. After some time the presence of the Lord suddenly left me. I was immediately filled with distress, accusing myself of allowing my mind to wander from God, more especially when I so sensibly felt Iis presence. I continued in much trouble during the day, and praying fervently. In the evening upon rising from the tea-table, I went into another room and sat down by the window, when immediately I was filled with such a blessed rest, such a calm repose as I cannot well express. I was satisfied. I was filled with God; no sorrow, nor care, nor doubt. And oh! how many such sweet seasons of repose in God, He deigned to favor me with during that fall, winter, and spring.   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    133 And now, 1860, while I retrace and revise the lines of my experience which I had written in those years long since gone by, I cannot but notice the kind forbearance of my Heavenly Father, for al- though He always heard me, and answered when I came to Him in humble contrition, and, although He condescended to grant me many rich and pre- cious blessings, yet I was not established in the grace of God, as I might have been had I been more "bold to take up and firm to sustain " the cross, at all proper times and places, acknowledging faithfully the grace of God which saved me to the uttermost. I found it necessary then, in the fall of '43, to leave the place where I had formerly spent many years of endearing associations, and of late, more sacred and sweet communion with my Heavenly Father and His saints. I started for Missouri, whither my relatives had gone, but took with me several letters of introduction from kind friends and ministers, as I supposed I would stop on my way, before reaching their place of destination. I stopped at ----, on the Ohio river, but did not meet with the ministers whom I expected to meet with, they being absent. I met there with Dr. ---, an old friend of my father's, whom I knew when a little boy. He kindly called on me at the hotel and invited me to his house. I accordingly accepted his invitation and went. I remained, per- haps two or three weeks, awaiting replies to letters, and as my prospects there were not very flattering,     134     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. I left for Missouri, had a pleasant and agreeable passage, after stopping a few days at Cincinnati with some friends from Kentucky, who kindly put me on board of one of their steamboats, the Mail. I re- ceived every necessary and kind attention from the captain and officers. On arriving at St. Louis, I met my brother there, who took me to the Virginia Hotel, where I re- mained with him some days, and then proceeded   A on my journey up the Missouri river on board the Oceana, stopped at L -- a few weeks, where I met another relative. L-- was a pretty village then, but suppose it is much improved now. It had then, perhaps, a thousand inhabitants, and so far as my acquaintance extended, they were intelligent, refined and agreeable. It may not be amiss, perhaps, just here to relate a little incident which occurred at H , on the Ohio river, as I forgot to write it in the foregoing, and to show how kindly the Lord has led on the wanderer all her life, made darkness light, calmed all her fears, and removed every difficulty or sancti- fied her afflictions. My friend called on me in the evening to invite me to his house, as already mentioned; I declined going until the next day. He said but little, and seemed wounded that I did not go then. I was filled with distress and perplexity, fearing that I was not in the order of Providence. I had often been assailed with the same fears, but now, blessed   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    135 be God, He has so strengthened my faith that I am not filled with such intense distress at times, but He enables me to leave all in His hands without any fear, but that "all things will work together for my good,"-a promise which has always been very dear to my heart, but it seems that I never lean on it so constantly, so entirely, as I have done for more than a year past. On the following Sabbath, when at the house of my friends, I was invited to accompany them to his wife's relatives, a distance of two or three miles. I hesitated, as I did not wish to offend, nor did I wish to visit on the Sabbath. I started, however, with reluctance. On our way we passed a church where there was a Presbyterian minister preaching. I felt very unhappy as we passed the Church, and continued to feel worse and worse, as we advanced on our journey. When we had gone about a mile I could go no further, but turned back. I then felt somewhat relieved, but upon the reflection of pass- ing the church and not going in, I was assailed by the adversary. Indeed, I could not well have gone in, as I had no one with me then, and being in a small village and alone; I entreated the Lord again to lift upon me the light of His countenance. He heard me according to His loving kindness. One night while in H , a fire broke out about midnight. I awoke. The heartfelt presence of the Lord was with me, as distinctly as I ever felt it in my life. When the alarm of fire was given, I im-     136     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. mediately sprang up and ran down stairs to look at the fire, which was some distance off. Immedi- ately that blessed peace which I felt in my heart left me. It occurred to me that the cause of it was that I did not first return God praise and thanks for His condescending goodness, instead of first running to look at the fire, as I had been in the habit of rising in prayer upon my first awaking. This was in Au- gust, 1843. From thence I went to Cincinnati, as before mentioned. I wished to go from there to Covington, as I had a strong desire to do so, but my friends in C-- desired me to go to Missouri. I allowed myself to be persuaded, and went; and trust, however, that it will eventually be all for the best. I was told after some years, by a minister of C-- that at the time I had a desire to go there, there was a fine opening, and that I might have done well. But as I most firmly believe, I got out of the order of Providence in leaving a beautiful village in Kentucky, where success was flowing in upon me, and a prospect of my stay being long and permanent, it might not have pleased God to favor me so well in C--. But I have this consolation. I have loved my bible more since that day, read it more, got nearer to the cross, and more established in the religion of our Lord Jesus Christ, and that is better than wealth and fame. During my stay in L - , myself with two or three fiiends, visited the Indian Mounde labor   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    137 school, in what was then called the Missouri Terri- tory. We went with the expectation of attending an Indian camp meeting, but as it had been post- poned on account of the late arrival of many Wy- andots, and themselves and some of their children being sick, we remained but one night, and left the next morning for another camp meeting several miles farther. I was much pleased with the ex- cellent order and government of the school, as man- ifest by the appearance and deportment of the scholars. We were not in the school, it being the Sabbath, and we left early on that morning. The house-in which their pastor lived, Rev. - , was brick, containing two rooms above and two be- low, and a large dining room. The house was en- closed in a large yard, with several small houses around it, in which the families lived who taught the boys the mechanic arts, and I believe the wo- men assisted in instructing the girls to sew, knit, cook, &c., as their time it seems was alternately de- voted to their studies, and these useful and impor- tant branches. The school house was also a large brick one, at least large for a new country in the far west, and in '43. It stood about fifty yards, I think, from the Mission house. When the bell rang for breakfast, the ministers with their wives and teachers took their places at the table, the min- isters at the head and their wives at the foot of the table. Then about fifty Indian girls came in, two by two, all in perfect order, and took their places at     138     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. the table. They were pretty Indian girls, all dressed neat and clean, their clothes fitting them well and all dressed in American style. They were said to be remarkably pious, and I think nearly all, or many of them, belonged to the church. The boys came next, about fifty of them, all in perfect order, and in American dress, and took their places at another table in the same room with their teachers. The boys stood, while the girls sat at their tables. Not a whisper was heard; a blessing was asked, and thanks returned to the giver of all good, a hymn sung, a chapter read in the bible with prayer, when all went out in the same order they came in. We would have been pleased to have visited the school, could we have remained longer. They have a flour-mill and other buildings about a quar- ter of a mile from the Mission house, where the boys, I believe, are taught some of the arts of civ- ilized life. The girls too, as before remarked, are taught those branches of family education, which are useful in domestic life, as well as the sciences, with music on the piano. It was delightful to see those children of the for- est who have been driven from their homes and their hunting grounds, under such favorable cir- cumstances. Here they have not only the advan- tage of hearing the word of life from Sabbath to Sabbath, but also those advantages which if im- proved, make life comfortable and happy, and them- selves agreeable companions. The country as far   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    139 as we had seen, near the Mission was delightful, and under a high state of cultivation. They have fine farms, and raise corn, wheat, and rye, and I think other grains. The Indians are taught farm- ing. We left immediately after breakfast, and arrived at the camp meeting about three o'clock in the af- ternoon. A good old Indian preacher had just closed his sermon as we got there. He had come seventy miles to attend the meeting. There was a young Indian there who delivered an exhortation at night. He spoke with much feeling. We stayed until Thursday, and then returned to L--. I did not enjoy the meeting much. I had for some months previous enjoyed communion with my God, mostly in private. Spent some weeks with my rel- atives and friends. Was sick a considerable por- tion of the time. My mind had not been generally so calm and happy as it had been before I left Ken- tucky. But blessed be God I entreated Him, and He again lifted upon me the light of His counte- nance; therefore I cannot better express my feel- ings than by saying, aware of the proneness of the heart to forget the admonition divinely enjoined, "Thou shalt remember all the way the Lord hath led thee * * In the wilderness, to humble thee and prove thee." I resolved from that time, more especially 1842, to be more diligent in noting down for future remembrance, the spirit's gracious lead-     "O     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. ings, some of which stand briefly recorded as follows: OCTOBER, 1843. At the close of my stay at L---, and other places, on and near the Missouri river, I stopped at W--, and spent, I think, about a year. There had been no preaching nor social meetings of any kind for several weeks after my arrival there. The ministers had all gone to Conference. How- ever, Conference was then over, which was held at Lexington. I felt the loss greatly of preaching for two or three months previous. I left Kentucky last July, and heard but very few sermons since that time. I missed our dearly beloved brother F--  's sermons, of Ky., under the droppings of whose soul-comforting words I used to sit every Sabbath. His sermons were a great blessing to my soul, I trust I shall never forget them, in time nor eternity. Some of his precious words come up in my mind now and then, in this far west, like the droppings of a sweet shower to refresh the weary traveler and cheer me onward in my heavenlyjourney. This place is small and but few young persons in it; consequently my school is small. The time has been when this would have been a great mortifica- tion to me, to teach a small school. But the Lord sustains and comforts me with the hope that these afflictions I have met with for more than a year past, are for my good, and His glory, and will pro- duce the peaceable fruits of righteousness, and that   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.   141 by and by all shall be well. Thy will be done, my soul replies. Let crosses and losses come, if it is Thy will, all is right, so that Thy presence goes with me. Whether I shall remain here I know not, as it depends on future prospects. APRIL 1, 18-, I commenced a little Sabbath school here last fall in, my school house. This school has been well attended during the winter, although the house is cold and stands on a high point on the river, and much exposed to the high winds which prevail here. This little Sabbath school was organized a few weeks since, but the teachers and managers do not attend so regularly as heretofore. I know not the cause. They kindly came in to assist me in this delightful and interesting employment of training the young for heaven. I trust I shall always re- member them with gratitude to God, as well as my friends in W----. I fear, should it not prosper, it will be owing to my own unfaithfulness in some way. I have been absent but one Sabbath since it commenced, and then I was at Weston. I have prayed for its prosperity, and made the fires myself when no one else could be had to do so, or when neglected for want of thought. I am willing to do anything in the order of Providence for the ad- vancement of Christ's kingdom. There are two rooms in this house; I teach in one and retain the other for myself, as I could not get a private room anywhere else, the houses being small or unfinished.     "2     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. I have met with kind friends here among stran- gers, for which I thank my Heavenly Father. The Lord has wonderfully sustained me during this winter. Sometimes one or two of my pupils stay with me at night, and sometimes Mrs. W-- sends her servant girl to stay with me. The God of Israel protects me. I lie down in quiet and rise up un- harmed. I would further say with regard to our Sabbath school, for the encouragement of others who may be as timid by nature as myself, that I always opened and closed with prayer, until one or two brethren came to my assistance, and when they were absent I did the same. APRIL i, 18-. For some two or three months past, my consolation has not been so strong, or ra- ther my peace has not been so distinct. The bles- sing of sanctification which I experienced a year ago last fall in so clear and satisfactory a manner, I do not know that I have the evidence of it now so clear. But I am still striving to seek it, and trust I shall never rest without it. On the 8th of Jan. last, I resolved afresh, that I would never rest without it. Sometimes I am all on the stretch for it and again I seem to rest. Oh! thou merciful God who will not turn any away who sincerely seek Thee, have mercy upon me. I cannot be satisfied without an abiding evidence that I am wholly thine; that I have the full benefit of the atone- ment of Jesus, which " saves to the uttermost " all   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    143 hat will come unto Him. There is none on earth r in heaven that I desire like unto Thee. All my lesires, my object and aim, is to glorify Thee. I ;eek not the praise of others, as I once did, but de- ire only to be accepted of Thee, in all I think, do nd say. I have met with new trials in the far rest, but my gracious God supports me under them ". I am often led to reflect on the blessed change vhich has taken place in me during the last eigh- een months. I am not weighed down with worldly are and sorrow as I used to be. My hope and rust is in the living God. But I cannot be satis- ed without the heartfelt presence of the Lord con- nually. I want an abiding peace, clear and dis- net. I daily plead with the Lord that he will lake it to flow like a river, as was the case last ammer and winter. I rest in His will. All my esires are centered in Him, and I know He will erform all He has promised. Blessed be God, I el that my faith is much increased during the last vo or three weeks; and I am looking forward ith blessed anticipation for the fulfillment of all is precious promises which He has made in the aw and living covenant. I feel that I have noth- g to fear while my hope and trust is in the living od. A few months after I came to this place, I awoke ie morning with these words spoken to my heart: Press on to the goodly land. You must be con- nt with the land which the Lord gives you." 21 I1     "4     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. Surely these words are implied in the word of God, if not given precisely in the same words. Surely I must press on to know more and more of God, and be content with the situation he gives me, while at the same time, I use all laudable means to improve it. Surely this is a holy ambition. And as I am purposed in my heart to adhere alone to the law and the testimony of our Lord Jesus Christ, for the rule and guide of my life, I will have no other, only as it accords with this. I feel these adverse circuim- stances are only for an appointed time. I have no disposition to complain. I thank my adorable Re- deemer for all the dispensations of Htis providence. He will do all things well, and I fear nothing but to offend Him. I am by nature of an impatient spirit. I sometimes fear that I am impatient with my pupils. And yet I hardly know whether I am impatient, or tempted to be so. Lord help me to let my light shine. Not long since I awoke with the song of sweet melody in my heart. The words were : "The lion has killed the king of Judah," to the air of "Oh, come and let us go, Where the saints shall ne'er be parted," I found the words afterwards in the book of Kings. I had never heard them sung, except the chorus. And if the "Lion of the tribe of Judah," caused the young and noble king Josiah to be slain for one act of disobedience, how careful should we be, that   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    145 we provoke not the Lord to anger. He was but eight years old when he began to reign in Jerusa- lem, ' And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the ways of David, his father, and declined neither to the right hand nor to the left. For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of his father; and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and the graves, and the carved images, and the molten images. And they brake down the altars of Baalam in his presence, and the images that were on high above them, he cut down; and the graves, and the carved images, and the molten Amages he brake in pieces, and made dust of them and strewed it upon the graves of them that had sacrificed unto them. And he burnt the bones of the priests upon their altars, and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem. And so did he in the cities of Manassah, and Ephram, and Simon unto Napthali, with their mat- tocks round about. And when he had broken down the altars and the graves, and had beaten the graven images into powder, and cut down all the idols throughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem. Now, in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land, and the house, he sent Shaphon, the son of Azaliah, and Masiah, the gov- J     "6     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. ernor of the city, and Joab, the son of Joabar, the recorder, to repair the house of the Lord his God. And when they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they delivered the money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites that kept the doors had gathered of the hand of Manassah and Ephraim, and of all the remnant of Israel, and of all Judah and Benjamin; and they returned to Jerusalem. And they put it in the hand of the workmen that had the oversight of the house of the Lord, and they gave it to the workmen that wrought in the house of the Lord, to repair'and amend the house." And after he had done all this, and much more, for the Lord his God, and had kept a most solemn passover unto the Lord in Jerusalem; after all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Necho, king of Egypt, came up to fight against Charchemish Euprates, and Josiah went out against him. But he sent ambassadors to him saying, what have I to do with thou, king of Judah? I came not against thee this day, but against the house where- with I have war, for God commanded me to make haste; forbear thee from meddling with God, who is with me, that he destroy thee not. Nevertheless Josiah would not turn his face from him, but disguised himself, that he might fight with him, and hearken not unto the words of Nicho from the mouth of God, and came to fight in the valley of Megiddo. And the archers shot at king Josiah; and the   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    147 king said to his servants, Have me away, for I am sore wounded. His servants therefore took him out of his char- iot, and put him in the second chariot that he had, and brought him to Jerusalem and he died, and was buried in one of the sepulchers of his fathers. And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Jo- siah."-2d Chronicles, 34th and 35th chapters. APRIL, 1844. I awoke a short time since with these words in my mouth: ' You must suffer af- fliction from men for your good." And so I found it shortly after, but was sweetly sustained. I find the reading of the scriptures a great bles- sing. I am reading the Bible and Testament through alternately. I begin the morning with reading a chapter in the Old and one in the New Tastament. I have got as far as the fifty-second chapter of Jeremiah. I also read a chapter at noon and one or two at night. I am reading them now with the notes. In Kentucky, about the time of our revival meeting, or immediately after, I com- menced afresh reading the word of God more reg- ularly and have kept it up ever since. I sometimes read four or five chapters successively at night. I had neglected this best of books so long, or at least measurably so, that when I returned to it again I was so charmed with its beauty and excellence that I scarcely knew when to stop.     "8     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. Last evening at the close of day, my mind was particularly led to holy meditation. I was led to feel that I had now no need to give myself any con- cern about temporal matters, except what is neces- essary, but to " seek the kingdom of heaven and its righteousness," for the Lord would take charge of all my concerns, and provide all things necessary for my good. Blessed be the Lord for all His ben- efits. I do not even feel concerned about my pe- cuniary embarrassments, as I have been, for I be- lieve they will yet be settled satisfactorily, at least as far as in my power they shall be. Blessed be God all I am is of grace. When I lie down at night a sweet, calm peace, pervades my whole soul. APRIL 12, 18-. The enemy of my soul thrusts sore at me, particularly of late, when I am wakeful at night, or before day in the morning, for then I desire to have my mind stayed on God in holy med- itation or earnest prayer. It was then he healed all my backslidings, and in a few weeks afterward gave me the evidence that Jesus' blood cleanseth from all unrighteousness. APRIL 19, 18-. Alas, I am not all alive to God as I desire to be. I do not pray I fear without ceas- ing. Sometimes unprofitable thoughts trouble me, of which I am scarcely aware until indulged in a  few moments. When shall I find my willing heart, All taken up by thee?"    A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    149 I have not that holy simplicity which I felt some months since. My words are not so few. I talk too much sometimes. Although I do not talk idly, I multiply too many words, and so consume time which might be spent in holier and more useful conversation. Oh, when shall I be more holy? Last Sabbath a week, we had a two days' meeting here. I had been praying for a revival at that meeting. On Saturday morning I was cheer- ful and happy, and was surprised to find how much work I did without any fatigue. I went to preach- ing at eleven, desiring that I might continue in the same comfortable frame of mind. While Rev. B-- was preaching, an excellent minister, a lit- tle incident occurred which drew my mind from the sermon, and my peace left me. Such is the case sometimes with me even in the house of God. I was distressed during the remainder of the day, be- cause I had not been praying all the time the min- ister had been preaching, that the "word might have free course and be glorified." But on the fol- lowing morning as I was preparing to go to a friend's house, my condescending Savior again vis- ited me with His presence, and I went to brother S.'s with a glad heart. Again the arch enemy of my soul thrust sore at me, while the minister was praying. But blessed be God, although he troubles my poor heart sometimes, he cannot shake my faith in the faithfulness of and truth of the Savior. I have been praying that if there is anything wrong     150     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. in my heart, that the Lord will discover it to me, and I know I shall not pray in vain, for He always hears me when I pray, and if I do not always re- ceive immediate answers, He does not tarry long, but answers in His own good time. I praise my adorable Advocate, that He enables me to put my trust in Him, for were it not for this hope, that He hears me, and that all will be well in time and in eternity, I would be indeed unhappy. But blessed be God this hope is an anchor to my soul. FRIDAY, April 26, 18-. I fear I do not always let my light shine as I might. I am very sad to- nightin consequence of it. This has been my fast day, but I fear I have spoken rather harshly to some of my pupils. Oh! when will all my words be soft and mild. I have been vexed to-day too, at some little occurrences which happened me, which I deemed unjust. Oh! when shall I be calm and undisturbed under every trial and disappointment, when I am assured by the immutable word, that "all things shall work together for my good."-- Then why should I fear? I do not fear when I am meek and patient, but I am grieved at myself for being vexed at anything in this world. "This night I have covenanted afresh with my God to try what an entire resignation will do. From this night-twenty minutes past ten o'clock at night, April 26, 1844-I resign myself without reserve, delivering myself into the hands of God, to   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    151 the end that he may execute on me His whole will, whether in the way of justice or mercy. I will embrace all sufferings of every kind, though I should see they are the consequences of my own sins and present follies. Yes, I am thine, my Jesus, save me! If thou wilt not save me I am lost forever. But I will singly trust in Jesus. I will turn to no other for help. I have long tried what creatures can do, but all in vain. Now I will re- nounce all reasonings, all reflections on my state, and only fix the eye of my soul on Jesus, always content with what thou givest me Lord, though it should only be a bare remembrance, and ability to meet thy will. The strongest desire of my soul is to do thy will, oh God." J---- , Mo., Oct. 19, 18-. It has been sev- eral months since I have had an opportunity to write, owing to being unsettled during the last sum- mer. I went to St. Louis last July. I have passed through severe trials during the last summer, but my God has brought me safely through them all.- My greatest fear has been of getting out of the or- der of Providence. And yet I hardly know how I could have avoided some removals of late. I was very uncomfortably situated at St. J- , the place being new, and but one house, I believe fin- ished in it. Remained there a few weeks. The presence of the Lord was with me nearly all the time while there. The house in which I taught was a new log one, all open between the logs, and     152     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.  being disappointed in my expectations of being conlfortably situated, I left one morning very un- expectedly to my patrons and friends, and came to St. Louis, having two or three friends there of in- fluence. I did not find my friends at first, and meeting with Rev. -- , he invited me to return with him to W--. I accordingly did so, and spent the remainder of the summer there, until two or three weeks since, I came to this place. I came here embarrassed, but thanks to my adorable Heavenly Father, I did not get in debt coming here. The thought of this is a great horror to me. I prayed to God I think more than I ever did, that I might not get in debt, and blessed be His name He has heard Ine. I have had some new and trying scenes to pass through since I came here, but my Heavenly Father has been with me in the hot- test of the fire, and raised me up kind friends among strangers. Oh, when shall I always be wholly given up to him! Whom have I in heaven or on earth that I desire like unto thee? And yet lmy peace does not flow like a river, nor do I re- joice so much in hope as I did last winter in W---, nor during my stay in St. J-- last spring. But oh, my God, my trust is in thee! Though thou slay me yet will I trust in thee! I long to be filled more and more with the fullness of the Spirit. I long to be always happy because it is my priv- ilege. !,   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.     153 "Come, oh my God thyself reveal, Fill all this mighty void, Thou only canst my spirit fill, Come, oh my God, my God!" DECEMBER 10th, 18-. What now is my ob- ject and aim? Is it not to aspire after the heav- enly Jerusalem?  Yes, 'surely it is, or I am deceived. Blessed be God, I am making some ad- vancement in the- divine life; and am in some de- gree growing in grace and in the knowledge and love of God. I have had some severe trials since I last wrote. It has been ever thus, since I left F---, Kentucky. But I am endeavoring to en- dure as seeing Him who is invisible. I rejoice that in the midst of them all, I am enabled to put my trustin the living God. Blessed be His name for supporting grace. What should I do were it not for the support of this blessed religion, to calm all my fears and sorrows? What should I do had I no God to go to to assuage my griefs, and hush the storm into a delightful calm? I rejoice that my Redeemer liveth and ever intercedes for me. I have nothing to fear while I endeavor to walk in the way of His commandments. "Neither height nor depth, principalities, nor powers, things present, nor things to come, nor life nor death, nor any other creature shall be able to separate me from the love of God in Christ Jesus." "This heavenly calm within the breast, Is the blest pledge of endless rest."     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    155 sion has just closed. My school has been small, owing, it is said, to the opposition of teaching in the church. God help me to be faithful, and then I know I have nothing to fear. There is no room for fear, nor care, nor despondency. All I desire is to sing and praise my way through till I die. "Unto Him who has loved me, and washed me in His own blood, unto Him be glory, and honor, and power, forever and ever." P--  GROVE, May 11. I have read to-day I think, more than a hundred pages in Mr. Bram- well's Memoirs. I trust I have been much profited. I was much humiliated under a sense of a want of his faith, and fervent spirit. I desire to pray with- out ceasing. I want to walk in the light of God's countenance continually, and feel that the blood of Jesus cleanseth me frofii all sin. I want the abiding evidence that I am wholly the Lord's.- Without this I am not satisfied. I want a re-bap- tism of the hIoly Ghost. I have been too cold in His service for several weeks past. And yet if I do not love God supremely, I know not what I do love like unto, Him. He is my only hope for this world, and the world to come. I feel more and more my dependence on Him, and my own weakness. I have been " fearing to-day lest a promise being left on record, I should'seem to come short of it." I was much impressed to-day with a dream which I read in Mr. Bromwell's life, which was dreamed by a minister who met a successful minister in his       156    A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. dream, and told him he would be lost because he had been seeking the praise ofA man more than the praise of God. How careful we should be to watch and pray without ceasing, and do all we do to please God. How careful we should be to find upon examination, that every thought, every mo- tive, and every spring of action is pure, and if we find it not thus, fly immediately to the blood of atonement, which makes' the foulest clean. The Lord is faithful, I have not one lingering doubt in His promises. Oh, I do not rejoice in them so much as heretofore. But I will hope against hope. JUNE 18, 1845. And what now are my prospects for the holy city, the heavenly Jerusalem, the city of the living God, where sorrow, and fear, and care, and church divisions, and " biting and devour- ing each other" are never felt nor seen; but where Jesus, and the spirits of the redeemed, and Isaac and Jacob, and Moses, and Elijah, and all the pure and the holy who have gone up " out of great trib- ulation," and now surround the throne of God, and the Lamb, praising Him who has washed them with His own blood? I long to join the holy throng. Yes, what are my prospects for this holy city? "To me the rest of faith impart, The Sabbath of thy love." Are my hopes full? Does my peace flow like a river, on and on, into the vast ocean of God's love?   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    157 Do I experience all the salvation that it is my privilege on earth? Ah, I fear not. Nearly three years ago, I felt that Jesus' blood cleanseth to the uttermost, but I have not the abiding evidence of it now. I hardly know sometimes whether or not I am in God's favor; but I believe I am. And by His grace, I will believe it until He blesses me. Here will I set up my rest, My fluctuating heart, From the haven of his breast, Would never more depart." This morning I was waked up with these words spoken to my heart: "Take up your cross daily, and be fervent in spirit." And with this prayer, "Oh, Lord, forgive my sins an'd take them from thy book,"-here a little white book seemed to be presented of pure white paper. A few weeks since as I was walking early in the morning, a little landscape engraving seemed to be presented to my mind of Ruth. She seemed to be in the act of gleaning in the fields. I now be- came quite awake, and wondered what this meant. I slumbered again, when I was waked up it seemed suddenly with this word, l"Naomi." I have al- ways felt it a duty to rise early to prayer. I have not been so regular in this duty for some time past -of early rising,-at least not so early. I have al- ways found it a great blessing to me. I used to rise at four. I was reading the bible continuously, with the aid of a commentator on it. I read the        158     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. scriptures consecutively and daily, with and with- out a commentary. Some two or three weeks 'previous to this time, it seemed that I was awalkened very early with a sweet voice whispering, "Arise, love." Song of Solomon, 2d chapter. I awoke immediately with the persuasion where the sweet voice came from. I was calm and peaceful all the day. Blessed be God. How often He has given me those sweet as- surances of love and warnings early in the morning, and how often have I parleyed before I rose. At another time, last winter, when at J--, I had risen a long time before day to read the bible, and make myself more competent for the instruc- tion of a Bible Class of which I was teacher, in the Sabbath school. I was filled with unutterable long- ings, and intense desire to know more of God, and while worn, and wearied, and weeping, those sweet words fell on my heart: "He giveth His beloved sleep."-Bible. APRIL 4, 18-. I am indeed a wanderer. Al- most ten months have elapsed since I last wrote. I have been becoming more and more embarassed ever since I left Ky. I have waded through sore trials since I wrote last. My contests have been severe with the power of darkness, but the Lord stood by me and sustained and strengthened me. I was overwhelmed too, with inexpressible grief on account of the church division in 1845. But the Lord comforted me in this, and caused me to hope   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    159 with an assurance that all would be right. Alas! my communion with God is not so sweet and con- stant for some months past. I seem to be shorn of my strength. I do not rejoice so much in the sweet assurance of the fulfillment of all His prom- ises. I do not feel that constant sweet trust in the Redeemer as I have felt. Were my temporal pros- pects to take a change so that I could be relieved from some embarrassments before I die, then I think I could rejoice in the God of my salvation.- Oh, how often I long to see His bright, unclouded face; but I am willing to suffer on my appointed time, so that I may ' owe no man anything." I ask not for wealth nor worldly honors, only so as to be subservient to my Redeemer's kingdom. Oh, if my whole soul is not wrapped in the interests of His kingdom, in the one desire to glorify God, and not bring one stain on His blessed cause, then I know nothing of myself. ST. L-- , July 19, 18-.  I cannot tell why I have a desire to take any note of my experience, unless it is that I wish to remember, as far as I can, all the way the Lord hath led me. And when I do not write I feel condemnation. I trust, by divine assistance to be enabled to write oftener. I have passed through many severe conflicts, and some precious seasons of communion with my  God since I wrote Iast. I desire to live wholly to Him. I long for a more glorious manifestation of His pres- ence. I want my whole soul, body, mind and     160     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. spirit to be continually lost in God. Oh, where are those intense breathings after Him I had almost four years ago in Ky.? I never will rest until God reigns in me continually. I know it is my privi- lege to be always happy, always rejoicing, and al- wavs victorious over all my enemies, and I will con- tend for all my privileges. God is faithful,-His every promise true. Oh, He changes not, blessed be His name. In me is all the bar, in me is all the change. Last week I felt the evidence of sanctifi- cation, but last Sabbath I felt a touch of something like anger, and I have not felt the evidence of it since. But I have a great high Priest, who is touched with a feeling of my infirmities. To-Him I would ever come, to Him Iwill come, and I know I shall prevail. Oh, yes, I cannot rest without that bright and abiding evidence of holiness of heart, without which none shall see the Lord. My way as regards my temporal concerns, is not vet opened as I could wish, but I thank my Heav- enly Father that He is so mindful of me, and that it is as well with me as it is. I believe in His own good time he will open my way, and also, so that I may be enabled to do more good, for I do not seem to be doing much here. I had long had a desire to form a Juvenile Missionary Society for the aid of foreign missions wherever T went. I formed one in another town in this State. It was doing well when I left EWe were engaged in one here. I believe it was in active operation when I heard from it last.   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIV.     161 My greatest fear is of getting out of the order of Providence. I hope I never shall. ST. L--, Jan. 1, 18-. Blessed be the Lord, that I am permitted to see the commencement of the New Year. How grateful I ought to be for all His benefits. He has been with me in many severe trials. He has sustained, comforted and provided for my wants, when my head was well nigh sinking beneath the waves of sorrow. It has been many months since I last wrote, Perhaps I have been in fault in this; but I hope to write more frequently, because it is a spiritual help to my soul. How many precious blessings, how many sweet answers to prayer, and how many deliverances has my con- descending Savior bestowed on me since I last wrote. O that they were all written down on this paper, so that I might refer to them, and never forget them. The Lord was with me in the Asylum, in the summer of 1847. I had much of His spirit in praying and conversing with the chil- dren. I believe my labors were not in vain.- They have a pleasant and comfortable home, and seemed to be happy. I was glad to find the poor little orphans so well provided for. I had some se- vere conflicts of mind as regards my leaving there. I had gone there for a few months to instruct the children, until another opening would offer. I did not feel able to perform much more than to instruct them. I felt and saw that I was doing them good, hence the conflict when I thought of leaving. The K  162     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. small-pox broke out among the children while I was there. Several of them had it. I feared it not, but administered medicine to the worst cases. I believed the Lord had sent me there. The Matron too, was sick, at least not well, at the time, but es- caped the disease. Not long before I left, my mind was much exercised on the propriety of leaving.-- One morning, I think before day, after waking and falling into a slumber a moment, perhaps, I saw a hand of fire as bright and transparent as any living coal of fire, and in the hollow of it, there was a cloud. It seemed to indicate to me that the special care of the Almighty would not be so manifest in me if I left the Asylum. And yet I left, but not willingly. Oh, how much I suffered in my mind for a long time afterward. I feared I had got out of the order of Providence. But oh, where is now the blessedness I spoke of? I have not that sweet and constant union and communion with the Savior which I have had. I want a religion that I can feel every moment, because it is my privilege. I want to be always happy. I have mourned much of late, for the absence of my blessed rest. I need more of the vital flame. I want the abiding testi- mony of God's spirit that I am His, and that I am indeed 'a dead unto sin." The constant cry of my heart is, "Oh, come and restore unto me the joys of thy salvation, my blessed rest." I desire to live close to God. I am endeavoring to do so. He gives me to desire nothing like unto Him, nothing   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.   163   but what is for my good, and His glory. My con- stant prayer is, "Thy will be done," I trust I am now in the way of His Providence, and by His grace, I will not move one step out of it. JAN. 8, 1849. I believe I have made some ad- vancement in the divine life during the last week. I have for some months past been under sore temp- tations and trials, and but occasionally a glimpse of the divine presence. But last night it pleased my condescending Savior to shine on my poor heart, when at a meeting with Rev. P-- and his wife. The power of God was there, and I felt it as soon as I went into the house. Rev. P-- had been in- vited to preach there for the colored people. At the close of the meeting we went to -- Chapel. I got more fully into glorious liberty. A glorious work is going on there. I desire only to live to God, and sink deeper and deeper into that rest which is the privilege of the children of God. I cannot be satisfied without all the privileges which the gospel requires. JAN. 24, 18-. I know not where to begin to praise my God. A glorious work is indeed going on in -- Chapel. It has been in progress about four weeks, every night of which time I have been there. There has been meeting also every after- noon at two o'clock. The house is generally well filled, and sometimes crowded. The minister is a most efficient one. He endures it well. Preaches every night, with the exception of perhaps one or   I     164     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. two. 1 believe about one hundred had united with the church, up to last Monday, 22d, and I know not how many since, not having been there for a night or two owing to my health, the weather, &c. MaIny souls have been brought into glorious liberty, and some professed sanctifying grace. I have not learned how many. Blessed be the Lord, He has not forgotten His poor unworthy creature during this revival. I have had a sore seige with the ene- my of souls for nearly two weeks past. I had been like Mary, troubled about many things. Indeed it has been the case a great part of the time for some months past. My faith seemed to be not in such lively exercise, I had lost the evidence of my blessed rest-for by that name I feel like expressing it. But blessed be the Lord, I believe I have found it. I have been seeking hard after it, more espe- cially of late. Last week, a little while after I had risen, these words came to my mind. That God's name may be honored, and our souls blessed. I said, "How Lord? I desire to honor thy name."- The answer was, "All in one mighty phalanx join, Ourselves to Christ, the Lord." I thought it referred to the church where God was reviving His work so powerfully. I have seen scores coming up to the altar to join themselves to Christ the Lord. A few mornings ago these words were sweetly applied to my mind; "The sacramen-   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.      165 tal host, the sacramental host," was again re- peated.                             ; On last Sabbath, on returning home from a most precious meeting at the --  Church, these words were applied to my mind, while filled with intense breathings after God. Thy love I soon expect to find, In all its depth and hight, And comprehend the Eternal mind,  And grasp the Infinite. Yes, I believed I should soon realize its fulfillment. On Sunday and Monday night, I was very unwell, and though sorrowful, these words were sweetly ap- plied: "I am fading away to the land of rest."  On Tuesday I was much tempted, and was re- volving in my mind whether or not it was my duty to go to the meeting, as I was not well, and the streets very wet, and the walk a long one. As I was thinking about it, a sweet peace flowed into my heart. I then concluded to stay at home, for I believed my Heavenly Father approved it. I had been examining myself, and came to the conclusion that in all my ways I had aimed at pleasing God. At night I wished to read and write in my journal,       I but it seemed that I could not get along with my business so as to begin. I was tempest tossed, and my mind wandering. At length at a late hour I took Mrs. Mortimor's Memoirs, the first sentence that     166     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. met my eye was just what I was thinking was my case. She said her aim had been to please God, and although she was aware of her short comings and infirmities, yet her kind Redeemer forgave them all, and her course had been such as her mind ap- proved. This, I think, is the substance. On read- ing this, a most delightful peace and sweet com- posure pervaded my whole soul. I retired to rest for the night. In the morning when I awoke blessed be God in the- highest, I had again indeed entered into the rest of faith. I was filled with light, life, and liberty. It was all glorious. It seemed as if my whole soul and body was full of light. It seemed as if all around me was light. I felt that it was an eternal day. The next morning I found to be more glorious, an eternal sunshine. I'll praise my Maker while I have breath, And when my voice is lost in death, Praise shall employ my nobler power. ST. L--, May 20, 1850. More than another year has elapsed since I have recorded the kind deal- ings of God to my soul; and oh, how many precious and delightful seasons of sweet communion I have lhad with my compassionate Redeemer since I last wrote. I have also passed through deep waters of affliction and fiery trials. Yes, the waves had well nigh overflown me, had my kind Redeemer not ap- peared il the storm and hushed it to rest. Yes,   r   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.   167   out of all He has delivered me, and here I am to- night, happy on my journey to the skies. "Oh wondrous knowledge deep and high, Where can a creature,hide, Within thy circling arms I lie, Beset on every side." And yet I am   not satisfied. My whole soul is athirst for more of God. Oh, when shall I be like Him?   "I will not let Him   go until He bless me." I drink and drink again, And yet I'm ever dry, Spring up, oh well, within my soul, Spring up, I ever cry, Oh come, blessed Savior, and do not tarry. More of thy life I have, As the old Adam dies, Bury me, Savior, in thy grave, And let me in thy image rise. I need another mighty baptism of the Holy Ghost. I have much to write of the past year, but must de- fer it until a more convenient season. JUNE 9, 18-.  This world to me without the smile of Jesus is a dreary waste, a comfortless abode, a dark wilderness where no flowers bloom to gather sweetness from, nor sparkling fountains to cool the fevered brow. I would rather be the inmate of a prison with His smile, than to dwell in a palace without Him.   168    A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. JUNE 21, 18-. This day, by the grace of God, I consecrate myself anew to my Savior, to try and render Him a more perfect service. I have been too dead and cold in my affections towards Him for some time past. I have not contended half in earnest for the full and continual enjoyment of His love. I want it burning in myheart every moment. I am not half as fervent in spirit as I might be. I want a more clear and distinct peace flowing like a river that cannot be doubted. I want to know that I am ready to die any moment. I want to have my evidence of perfect love to God, bright and clear every moment, because it is my privilege. His own mouth hath spoken it, and it shall be done.- Yes, it shall be done now. "Now is the accepted time, now is the day of salvation." Oh, yes, I have experienced this blessing in all its richness; but oh, I do not feel that clear bright evidence of it for some motnhs past as heretofore. I have been too fretful under discouraging circumstances sometimes. Oh, Lord, wake me up, and keep me still awake. Yes, I am thine, blessed Savior, for time and for eternity. Help to perform my vows to thee, never to be bro- ken off again. Without thee I can do nothing. I thought by writing down my resolutions I could keep them better in remembrance. And yet I know of nothing I love like unto thee, my Savior, nothing that I would not forego for thy sake,-noth- ing esteem, nothing know but Jesus and Him   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    169 crucified. But oh, I want a higher state. Come, Lord Jesus, come quickly. JUNE 17, 1851. Almost another year has passed away since I have written. I hardly know why I have not, unless it is that I have passed through fiery trials during the past year, as it regards my. temporal business. God only knows I desire to please Him in all things. Without Christ I enjoy nothing, with His smile I enjoy everything that is worth enjoying. GRAND RIVER, Oct. 30, 18-. I have indeed passed through many afflictions, and many mercies during the past year, and more especially since I wrote last. I have not enjoyed so much of the sensible presence of the Lord for some time past, as heretofore. I fear that I have not always obeyed the teachings of the Holy Spirit. I know I have not. Last summer during a revival of religion at -- chapel, I did not go forward as the spirit taught me to help to work in the vineyard of the Lord. One night after the Rev. -- had preached one of his powerful sermons, being himself filled with the spirit, he invited those who were seeking religion to come forward and kneel before the altar for the prayers of the church. At first two or three came forward. One young man among the num- ber had been forward two or three times. I felt it deeply impressed on my mind to kneel down by the altar and pray for him, as well as for a revival of the work of grace in my own heart and also for     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.  count of it. Since that night I have never felt thi, spirit of God drawing me to the altar of prayer, t., pray for any one, and it is now over nine vea's since, up to the time I am now writing. Could ;1.v evidence of duty have been plainer, and so co nde- scending, when my own feelings told me my duty  I have never forgiven myself. But my long sufter- ing Savior has forgiven the unworthiest of all I i: creatures. We opened our school on the fourth of ili. month, with excellent prospects. The house( i; large and not yet plastered. Should the worknlDi not get here before the cold weather comes on, we will suffer much from cold this winter, as the -vi- lage stands in a very large prairie, and is much .x- posed to strong winds. It is exceedingly mudild here, when it rains, but presume it is very pleas;t ll in dry weather, and delightful in the summer. Perhaps it would be well to say just here, s. I wish to record more especially the kind dealings ot God to my soul, which are most indefinitely fixe i- in my soul, that during the summer previous to rn \ last date, when the cholera prevailed so fatally, I was taken very ill with, I believe, the intermittew, fever at St. Louis. It was feared that my dis,:as. would terminate in cholera, so that great care vi a, taken that such would not be the case. Dr. M--- was very kind and attentive, and I believe with til- blessing of God, he restored me to health, with th i assistance of others, and many kind ladies who ^w A;       172    A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. with me night and day, watching and administer- ing to my wants. Mrs. R--, whose kindness will not soon be forgotten, was with me a great part of her time. Judge -- and lady, are also held in grateful remembrance. It was the first time in my life I had been very ill, or confined to my bed, ex- cept from cold a day or two. Now I was very ill, and from home, and alone, my relatives having left the city, and some of them since dead. But best of all, the Savior was with me, and those kind friends He had given me. I was ill but one week. The next I was convalescent. As I was getting better my friends were not so much with me. Not being accustomed to sickness I knew not when to get up. I feared getting up too soon, least I might relapse, and I dreaded a relapse very much. I made one or two attempts to rise towards the last of the sec- ond week, but found myself so weak that I was compelled to lie down as quick as I could get to the bed. I was pondering in my mind whether or not to make another attempt to rise, and was afraid to do so. This was, I think, the third attempt, when a voice which I heard, distinctly whispered to my heart, "Lazarus, come forth." I immediately rose without any fear of consequences, and dressed my- self, and went to bed no more until retiring for the the night. Oh, can I ever be grateful enough to my kind and sympathizing Savior? He saw my fears, He knew that I was alone, and without the advice of any one, His own sweet voice that bid   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    173 Lazarus come forth, bid me rise, and I knewit right well, for He assured my heart of it. "His sheep know His voice, for they know not the voice of a stranger." At another time before leaving M--, Ky., and under peculiar afflictions and trying circumstances, I simply wished for two articles. I had no particu- lar concern about them, and do not know that I thought any more about them, after I had made the wish. I went out on the same morning, and lo, the two identical articles lay before me that I had wished for. I picked them up; there were several persons near; no one, I supposed, had seen them, nor no one owned them. - I relate this, as well as other manifestations of the kindness of our Heav- enly Father, to show how very near He is to the hum- ble soul in time of trouble that trusts in Him. DEC. 7, 1859. Spent the winter of 1851-2 in Grand river country as before alluded to. We suf- fered much from the cold during the winter. The institution closed in the spring, and I believe Mr. -.- and family went South. Since then, I have kept no regular narrative, until of late. During the last several years previous to my last date, I have passed through many conflicts and many blessings. My Heavenly Father has kindly protected me, and been a very present help to me in time of need.-- He has bestowed on me many rich blessings and given me many victories. He has borne with my infirmities and caused me to rejoice in the fulfill-     L -4     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. ".lt of His precious promises. No, blessed be ,i, le hlas not forgotten me since I wrote last.- I 1-e ihas been with me in the country, in the village, ;,(,(1 in the " city full." He has kindly condescend- , i, - hlear 1lm prayer, whenl offered up in lhumble I;al} and( sincere contrition, and have often reali- 'll the filfillment of that sweet promise, "The i.,O(ken a(nd the contrite heart He will not despise." 'l'iis duty of recording my christian experience , }ile traveling on my heavenil journey, I cannot \,11. I relinquish, as it always has been and still is \ ..' practicable to lmy soul, for I always experience -i;,,( or less of the divine presellce while I am wri- i'. And since I have been copying and revising ,itr 1b hadl written years ago, more especially my , li'ious experience, I have found it very comfort- .,I' trid ecouralging to my heart, strengthening to ;,v taith, and has established mle more firmlyl , mlore i; , \\W '-ringly in the (grace of God. I have been thinkiing to-night, that during the o;,-t tour years of my life since imy last date of  - . amid their cares and perplexities, had I sat ,i,\-l and occasionally noted down the goodness of ,;,,i to mly soul, it had been better for me. As it is I .i;lnot now recall to me, manly pleasing and in- r l.r-ting incidents, of the kind regard and endear- i,l love of my H-eavenly Father. The victory of i,itth which He had given me in '42, over the fear I,.rl ath, or that all would not be well with me in ;i;t hlour, and that temptation thatHe is a respecter   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.     175 of persons, and that He would never deign to no- tice such a poor unworthy creature as me, has never troubled me since. But previous to a Pro- tracted Meeting in -- church, more than a year ago, the cares of the world had come in and troub- led me. When the members of the church were invited to come forward to the altar of prayer, and seek for entire conformity to the will of God, t Ho- liness of heart." I was one among the number; and while Rev.   was singing, "Refining fire go through my soul, Illuminate my soul, Scatter thy light through every part, And sanctify the whole." I felt the sacred fire begin to glow. The "rest of faith," seemed to dawn gradually on my soul until it settled in a sweet, calm, blessed rest in all the precious promises. This has been my chief enjoy- ment; a calm, unwavering repose in all the prom- ises of the Gospel. Since then, the trials of life passed gently over my head, but touched not my heart.   A look to Jesus would vanish them all like smoke. "The land of Beulah is a delightful land, where the sun never goes down, nor the moon refuses to give her light." Then let me wing my hallowed flight, From earth-born woe and care, And soar above these clouds of night, My Savior's bliss to share."     176     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. DEC. 20, 1860. For some weeks past, and more especially a week or more past, my rest has not been so constant. The waves of temptation and unutterable grief have beat high. I have seen wherein I might have done better. I have mourned over my shortcomings and confessed them to God. He has kindly heard my prayer, and His sweet promises have come looming up in the gloom to cheer and gladden my heart. My eyes overflow with tears while I am writing, while I think of His kind forbearance, in all my wanderings, when His sweet voice has so often whispered, "This is the way, walk ye in it." Oh, may I never grieve the heart of Infinite love. Oh, may I never withdraw my gift from the altar-time, talents, influence, be it great or small, the dearest wish of my heart-in a word, my all. I have been drawn with intense breathings, long before day, for a more glorious manifestation of the presence of God. I know I shall have it. Oh, may my faith never decline. I know I shall have my desire, from the many sweet assurances He has so often given me, in answer to prayer, from His immutable word, and from His sweet presence so often, and so quietly stealing into my heart amid this season of temptations.- Yesterday, while engaged in what I believed to be a certain duty, it seemed I could not get along with it, these thoughts were presented to my mind.- Would you like to have such a thing take place'? (Relative to business.) Yes, if it is the will of God,   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    1" was my answer. Would you like to be placed in such a situation as you have been heretofore. Yes, but perhaps He' sees it is not best for me now. A sweet voice whispered to my heart, "Sweetly lost in the will of God." Here I found rest. "Oh, may it ever, ever stay." Again, at night it seemed I could not get along with the same duty. I retired, unsatisfied with myself. I awoke a long time before day, and while pondering the same matter over in my mind, these words of St. Paul came to my mind, "I can do all things through Christ strengthening me,"-the same words which had so often strengthened me before, but now it seemed doubly so. Here I found rest. I grasped the words as would a dying man, and sweetly sunk into the arms of divine love. I arose and found no further trouble with the same duty. Hallelujah!"The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth. He reigns triumphant in my poor heart. He hath gotten himself the victory." JUNE 6, 18-. I rejoice that to-day finds me in, the enjoyment of a present salvation; and that since my last date I have been unabled almost un- interruptedly, to enjoy the rest of faith, The Sabbath of His love." So deeply is my heart impressed with the thought, that God cannot be unfaithful. Here is my rest- sweetly lost in the will of God. His arms of love are always around me, and I have no anxiety, M     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.   179   nor care, nor concern about the present, nor the fu- ture, believing implicitly that God will manage both for the best, my temporal as well as my spir- itual concerns for His glory and my good, and that He will not leave me, nor forsake me when the cold waters of Jordan roll over me. I have long since been more concerned about living right than dying. If the life be pure and holy, the hour of death can- not fail but be happy. The immutable word of God hath spoken it. "Heaven and earth may pass away, but not one jot or tittle of His word shall ever pass away." "If ye love me, keep my com- mandments," saith the Savior. "Who shall pluck them out of His hands." "Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors, through Him that las loved us." For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us form the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Romans, vIII, 37, 38, 39th verses. Oil, that all would seek here in this book, the Bible light, for their guidance. I have tried it, and have found sufficient to soothe me even in the sad- dest extremity. What calamity can be more in- supportable than the loss of those we have loved most on earth. The dreams we have woven on the fu- ture. Now all this is over, all this bright, univer-   sal sunshine is quenched. The earth is dark to me and life has lost its charm, and yet in this book I find delight, consolation, hope, resignation, nay more, peace and happiness. Would to God that the infidel, the scoffer would read it. "I will not offer any argument. We will suppose christianity false, the most absurd, im- possible series of fables that folly ever heaped to- gether or credulity ever received. But true or not true, he should, and at as early a moment as possi- ble, acquaint himself with the subject thoroughly. He should not reject it without understanding it. That is not the part of a well-informed, sensible man. As christianity is the religion of modern civ- ilization, he should comprehend it, if not as a reli- gion, as a remarkable system of philosophy. If the history of its divine origin be true, he can scarcely mingle on equal terms with gentlemen and scholars, without at least knowing its history as an earthly influence. He should be exactly aware of what are the prophesies. He should read the Bible. He should read it continuously. He should read a commentator on it. He should -be well-in- formed upon the scheme, and the internal and ex- ternal evidence of christianity. I do not ask him to study it for the sake of believing in it, but that he may seek only to explain what it is that falls like a spell upon the intellects of so many other people,and makes them cling to it, notwithstand- ing its absurdities, through life and through death.   m   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.     180     A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE. That he should BELIEVE I do not ask, but I ask him to ascertain WHAT IT IS that makes other men believe. Will he do this?  I have not been able to write more than a brief outline of my christian experience since the date of December 7th, owing to my time being almost wholly occupied in re-writing and revising the for- mer. Many rich blessings in the night season, as well as in the day, has the Lord condescended to favor me with during this last winter, and which I trust will ever be held in grateful remembrance, as the green spots in life's journey to refresh the weary traveler, and to encourage me on- ward in the performance of the duties of life and religion. And as I have long since realized that "faith witlout works is dead," I have been endeavoring not to be idle in the good work of the Lord, but have been trying to do good to others as far as I can, and although many of my efforts may not be manifest now, yet I trust they will be manifest in the day when the Lord comes to make up His jewels. And when I could do good no other way, I have observed the effect of prayer in the sanc- tuary and out of it. I will give one little inci- dent. I have seen a pious and devoted brother, when his prayers seemed languid, scarcely rising above his head, when a silent, fervent prayer, winged by faith, was going up to the throne of   A RELIGIOUS NARRATIVE.    181 God for him by another, he seemed suddenly to rise above himself, and be filled with the spirit. "Sow thy seed in the morning, and in the eve- ning withhold not thy hand, for thou knowest not which will prosper, either this, or that." THE END.     
         
      
   
