
    ----CITATION----
        Delaplain, Sophia. A Thrilling and Exciting Account of the Sufferings and Horrible Tortures Inflicted on Mortimer Bowers and Miss Sophia Delaplain by the Spanish Authorities .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6243 wright2-0714
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            A thrilling and exciting account of the sufferings and horrible tortures inflicted on Mortimer Bowers and Miss Sophia Delaplain by the Spanish authorities
            
                THRILLING AND EXCITING ACCOUNT OF THE SUFFERINGS AND HflIBIBLiBTOR'T INFLICTED ON  MORTIMER BOWERS AND MSS SOPHA DELAPLAIN, For a supposed participation with Gen. Lopez in  THE TORTURES BEING INFLECTED TO ELICIT INFORMATION RELATING TO THE EXPEDITION AGAINST THE ISLAND. THE LAST INTERVIEW BETWEEN HS DELAPLAIN AND HER FATHER. PUBLISHED     CHARLESTON, S. C.:  PUBLISHED BY E. E. BARCLAY; M. B. CROSSON  CO. , 1851.       SUFFERING-S AND HORRIBLE TORTURES' INFLICTED ON MORTIMER BOWERS  MSS SOPHA DELAPLAIN, BY THE SPANSH AUTHORITIES FOR  A SUPPOSED PARTICIPATION WITH GL. WLMP I  THE INVASION OF CUBA; TOGETHER WITH THE PLAN OF THE CAMPAIGN OF LOPEZ.   v vis t 't7POSAD AT rTBB 8 IPANtARDS VEN'TU&D TO MALTRB'A TO ATWI IMw OOlU  PERSONS SPOKEN OF IN THS NARRATIVE, ON ACCOUNT OF TZEIXR ISLAT "XD ' CONDITION, ON A REMOTE PART OF THE ISLAND, AND OWING. TO tBM  IMPRESSION THAT THEIR INCARCERATION AND TREATMN'-'  WOULD NEVER,BE MADb KNOWN IN THE UNITED STATES--THE TORTURES BEING INFLICTD ,     ,  TO ELICIT INFORMATION BRLATINQ TO THE EXPEDITION AGAINST THE ISLAMO. BY XZSS DB L EP;.X,! CHARLESTON, S. C.: PUBSIED BY I B. BARCLAt; . B. CB OO  i CO  1851.     Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1850, by E . E- BARcAv. in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Eastern District of Pennsylvavia.   SUFFEBINGS AND TORTURES THE invasion of the Island of Cuba by Gen. Lopez, is fraugh wth many incidents which never have been, and I, presume nevet will be, laid before the eye of the public. On my return from that Island, oneffecting my escape from the worse than demons wlho held m in'bondage, the relation of my strange abduction, and the tortures and privations to which I had *beeni subjected, excited such an interest in many of the most influen- tual citizens of Baltimore, (Baltimore bWintg the place at .which I ' landed on my return,) that, at the earnest solicitation of those citi- zens, I have been induced to transcribe an account of my adven- tures, for the benefit of all who choose to read them. My narrative will be found to contain many things characteristic " of human nature, and it will prove in the highest degree salutary to the younng and inexperfiiced. - In order to give a just idea of the'sacrifices which I have made, and the extent to which the confiding and, unsuspecting female is capable of being wroiught upon, it is necessary that I should begin with my early life and' habits. My father was one of the most wealthy merchants of the city of  New York, and I an only child and daughter. Our family resi- dence in town was in Broadway, and the house in which we resided is familiarly known as the Broadway Mansion. As a nmatter of course, I was the pet of my parents, and of all their acquaintances who sought to win their favour. My smallest wish was immediately gratified, and thus I was petted and fondled until I arrived at the age of six years.     When I had turned my sixth year, it became necessary to take measures to provide for my education. A governess was procured, as ordinary in such cases but so great was my taywardness, that. she was under the necessity of paying implicit obedience to my Renmands,--and thus, the one who by right should have governed, as converted into the most pliant subject. I have since lookei upon her in the light of a fawning sycophant, for not/sometimes ohecking me in my headstrong wilfdness, Considering, however, that she was under no injunction from my parents on that point, and that mny parents did not themselves subject me to any-restraint, I am inclined to the opinion, that, perhaps, she was excusable. When it pleased me I attended to my lessons, and when I was otherwise inclined, it was necessary to coax, or hire, or hold out some inducement to me, stronger than- the inducement to remain idle, or not to'attend to my ordinary task. I would never sibjeet myself to a command.              . '  Among other things, as was perfectly natural, I was exceedingly fond of the society of the neighbour's children, and the play with them, of "All the way to Boston," or "We're marching forward to Quebec," was decidedly more agreeable than the dull monotony of "Webster's Easy Standard of Prontndiation," or "The Child's In- structor."' It is not, to be wondered at, then, that I sought the romp of these agreeable playmates in preference to the dull routine of study. Among my youthful associates was a boy, a year or two older than myself, and residing. next door to the Broadway Mansion. This little fellow was 'my particular favourite, on account of the umldness of his- disposition, and ithe beauty of his features. Hi :hir .was of the pure auburn, and fell in natural glossy ringlet upon a neck whose lily hue told that the. sons of Africa, the Spanish Moor, the Eastern Celestial, or the Aboriginal Arierican, could iaim no affinity- Nothing but the pure Circassian blood flowed there. And then he was so kind. Even at that tender age, hi  was always ready to administer:-to my slightest. wish, and to .d :ery thing to please me, His eye, the index of the .sul-, top that his mind was in perfect accordance with the beauty of his per- son.   -          - - i .  . fl The parents of this youth were in circumstancee very different from my own. They were poor, and under the necessity of prose- euting business energetically, in order, as the saying is, "To keep themselves up in the world.'  As: theyouth to-whom I have aluded is t-o ocupy a copiuou plee- it this narrative, it may be well to :noune o to ;imy readc itat he'was known under the name of Mortimer BoWprs, :or fai-, iarly at that time, to hid playmates, "Little Mortimer. -  Time thus passed on, until I arrived at the age of twelve year, whie it was deemed advisable to send me to a bordiag- o   After some consultation, it was determined to send me to St. Ann's Hotal, located at the romantic village of Flushing, on Lone Island then under the superintendence of the Rev. Dr. Schroeder.  Strange to relate, my state of mind was such 'that I felt not the least regret on leaving my home, although I issed my playmates affectionately when I bade them adieu, and even condescended to  shake hands with my governess. 'My parents accompanied me to the Institution at which I was, destined to finish. my education, and we met with a Very gentle- manly reception from the Superintendent. I was so well pleased  t with -the deportment of Dr. Schroeder, who was to be my future guardian, that when my parents took their leave, I kissed them' with a merry laugh, although my mother dropped a tear, as she resigned me to the Doctor's family. Although I was well pleased with my reception at the Hall, I soon discovered that there was a place of order, and instead of com- manding, it was necessary that I should' become the subject. This, to me, was a severe trial? and oft-times, when I had been repri- -manded for some misdemeanour, would I retire to my room, and weep f6r hours. On these occasions- my thoughts would vividly portray to me those scenes connected with my home: the swing in the old garret, the yard filled with flowers, my former playmates -  and particularly the image of "Little Mortimer," would come up in life-like reality before me.  The change in my condition, however, was somewhat alleviated by the privilege allowed us by our Superintendant, of walking out each afternoon for the purpose of recreation, and of viewing the beauties of the village in which my parents had placed me. Flush- ing is, undoubtedly, one of the most romantic and delightful vii  lages on Long Island. The flower gardens of the Messrs. Prince, the nurseries of the Parsons, of Bloodgood, of King, and the grounds of St. Thomas's Hall, are all objects calculated to excite our interest and admiration. And then the: beautiful country-sites, andfarms in the vicinity,-more particularly n the roads leading to Clinton- vi1le, to Manhasset, and to Jamaica. In fact, one cannot walk or ride in or near the village of Flushing, Without witnessing some- thing calculated to dispel the most gloomy feelings. he 'enchanting objects which I hate mentioned, compensated measurably for the restrictions -under which I was placed, at the. Hall,--still. my memory would steal back to former times, and, I would often long to hold an- intercourse with my former comrades. But how should I hold-4 communication unknown to the Superin. tendeit? This thought puzled me, as tno letter was ;allowed to pass from the Institution without first being scrutinized by him. I ardently desired to hear from Mortimer, and I at length set my wits to work, to devise some plan of holding a private correspon- dence with hmn. I conversed with my school-mates on the subject I     of letter writing, and did not hesitate to express a wish that our letter mght not be read-by him. - On expressing this wish, several of the older pupils eyed me with pariular attention, and it was not long before I'received a parti- elaar invitation from one of them to visit her in her apartment at anrihour specified At the houir appointed I repaired to her room, in which I found some half a dozen or so of the girls congregated. On myentrance, there were sndry :knowig looks passed between them, and they imnediately began to quiZ me as to the reason why I wished to hld a. private correspondence. My answers, of course, were all evasive. Enough, however, was elicited by them to know that I was fixed and determined on the point. The conference wound up by their telling me, that if I could keep a secret, I was at liberty to meet them agman at another specified time, The truth now fleshed upon me, that they had some plan to communicate, and I promised faithfully that I would meet them again, and'that the se- cret, whatever it might be, should be faithfully kept. On the third succeeding night,. which was the time appointed for our second ameeting, we again congregated in the same cham-i ber. I was now put under a so4plmnpledge, that whatever they might communicate, should not be divulged by me.  They then went on to state, that they kept one of the servants in therinteres by gving him certain bribes, and that if I felt dis- posed to contribute to the necessary fund, I might become one of their number, id share in the benefits of ther association. I did not hesitate to accede to the proposal It was therefore agreed that I should contribute a certain sum out of the pocket money allowed me by my parents, as was done by the rest of them, the amount of the contributions being punctually paid over at stated times, to the sevatntwho transacted the private business, in the way of passing letters, &c.  After becoming initiated into this private association, I found no difficulty in getting up a correspondence in any quarter. I imme-  diately wrote to lortimer, requesting information relating to cer- tain things in town, but did not intimate that I had any particular affection for: 1m, giving him, at the same time, my fictitious ad. dress, which address was neoessiy, in order to screen the matter from our Superinteident, and known only to myself my correspon- dents, the members of our association, and the servant whim- we had enlisted in our behalf,. The first reply which I received from Mortimer, I beg leave to reads thus:  rAhei, set                    s   *   s aes owai   "DEAR BSOPHA,--  "I have written to you on several occasions, but from some cause you have not received my letters, or else you have not condescended to answer them. You cannot imagine how I was transported on the receipt of the one to which I am about to reply. When I broke the seal, and discovered your signature, I kissed it again and again. I only wish I could see the writer, and impress as many kisses upoiw her lips as I imprinted upon the, letter. Sophia, although I am but a boy, scarcely turned the age of - sixteen, I love you. I love you ith a pre, a fervent, and a holy love. You are every thing to mb, and without you I am nothing. If you ever return to the city, you shal see how faithfully, how de- votedly I will serve you. "Forgive me, Sophia, for thus early avowing my: sentiments; but, I am aware that beauty like yours must win many suitors. It is, therefore, not safe for me that you should remain ignorant of my sentiments towards you. Those raven locks, those sparkling eyes, that sylph-like form, combining grace and dignity in the girl, are only the prelude, or evidence of superior beauty in the woman. "Sophia, accept of me as one of your suitors, and if I am the for- tunate one, O the happiness that is in store for me! "In the exuberance of my feelings, I had almost forgotten to re- ply to the various questions which you have asked in your kind letter. Martha Steward has gone to West Chester to live with her uncle; Mary Bingham has gone to Jersey City; and Sarah Alstead has gone to the Female Seminary of Miss Adrain, at Jamaica, Long Island; John Stillman has* tntered the junior class at Co- lumbi College in tljis city. The rest of our. old playmates are in town, engaged in various avocations. "Write to me, Sophia, whenever you can get the opportunity, and believe me,  "Yours, now and for ever, "MORTIMER BOWERS." On the receipt of the above letter from Bowers5 I made no further effort to conceal my preference for him; consequently, it was not long before we fully understood each other. Subsequent to thetimeof wwhh I haove been writing, I remained at the Seminary of Dr. Schroeder, for the space of two' years, at the expiration of which time my parents considered my education sufficiently complete, and I was called to town to make my debut in the beau monde.  On the evening of my return to New York, my parents pr-poS.4 to give a grand fete at, the Broadway -Manion. he eveningfixed upon was the 31st December, 1847. - My parents in this Ce took the pewaR ibility of inviting such guests. a thiy intedd for'y my     future associates. Whether they acted prudently or not, ihal Ub \.  left for the reader to judge.  On my arrival at the Mansioi; I found it brilliantly lighted, an every thing: prepared in accordance with, the. circumstances of im father: I rireied immediately to my dressing room, and having arranged my toilet to my satisfaation, descended to the parlor. Here I found myself surrounded by all the aristocracy of the city,^ and those who were not already acquainted eigerly sought the ho- nour--of an introduction. 'I was courted and flattered by every one,  till I was ill at ease. My eyes wandered over the assembly in vain in search of one who was dearer to' me than all,-but he was not there. The only: ay in which I could account for his absence, was' that he had not received an invitation. I ventured to ask my fa- ter  u  ere ther ichae.. He replied, c6ldly, that he did hot wish his daughter to countenance young men of the standing of the one to whom I alluded. ;This piece of information went like an arrow to my heart. , The idea that for the future Bowers and myself were not to associate with each other, when hitherto we had thought ourselves living for each other alone! The remainder of the evening had no charms for me. I could not enter with spirit into any of the amusements, but merely talked and moved mechanically. :When the company had dispersed, I retired to xty Camber de- pressed in spirits, with gloomy apprehensions for the future, and almost for the first time in my life I fell upon my knees, and prayed in' the fervency -of the spirit. -I then threw myself upon my pillow and wept. Sleep only came to irY relief, but even that relief was partial. Representation of deeds of horror haunted me in my dreams. Subsequent, or recent events, have but too fully proved those -drams to ihave been ominous of the future.-  In my dreams I saw Bowers and myself in almost. every kind of imaginary danger. At 0ne time'w we ere o ithe brink of a preci- pice, at another we were s uffering shipwreck; and again, we wer i the midst of the flames.' 'I  in ro the morning with swollen eyes, and, with an uncommon pain -i thei head ' Id made :my' toilet, descended to the 'breakfast table, and 'fter partaking of a cuipof te, 'felt somewhat revived. :Aftg rakfatthfirst thingwhh I didwas to address a note to fBiwer siti  my rr  in to, giving  an account of the en- iertalineim t tn he rprevious night, andt expreaEing my disappoint- ment at:notf. lid ihhint here .            -  I also informedfim of the remark made by my father, when I inuttired thoe ause of his absence, and of the consequent necessity f  lholding our interviews in private, knowing my father's dispos- tion too well to suppoe for a moment that he could be miade to re- tit, wh*n ti 'Ad fxed purpose mi ner. Although he bad for-   merly been indulgent to me in the extreme, I understood him suffi. oently well to know that when his determination was fixed there Wr3 no alternative.  A series of private interviews were therefore my only hope.- I was under the necessity of watching the movements of my father, in order to screen these interviews from his observation, and to lull him into security in any case of 'suspicion. At the same time, I took every favourable opportunity of speaking of the'good qualities of Bowers, and of watching the expression of the old man's counte- nance whenever those qualities were the subject of comment. I noticed that on all such occasions the countenance-of the old man assumed one of its darkest hues. "Eagles must sleep in an eagles nest," he would say. "Let Bowers seek a wife in his own sphere." Finding that my father absolutely refused to countenance any thing that might be said in favour of Bowers, I at length ceased to make his name the subject' of conversation, in the presence of the old' gentleman. 'Our private meetings were still continued, and they mostly took place in the evening, after the old man had retired to rest. It was his invariable custom to retire at nine o'clock. During the re- mainder of the evening I was left at liberty to act accrding to my pleasure, without fear of restraint, so long as suspicion was not ex- cited.  '        a n , so ion Bowers and myself generally contrived to spend an hour or two in the way of conversation and promenading, during several even- ings of each week. Sometimes we would take a stroll on the :Bat- tery, and occasionally we would venture at the Museum. 'Poliy required that we should not frequent public places in each other's society, as our association in such cases would soon become the sub ject of remark, and consequently reach the ears of my parents. As already stated, I had the evenings mostly to myself after tho hour of nine:' my mother generally retiring at or befoe the time observed by my father, the delicate state of her health malking i4 necessary for her so to do.  In the mean time I had many other suitors, whom, to please my parents, I always treated with courtesy and politeness, taking care, at the same time, that they should never trespass upon my appoint- ments with Bowers. The servants at home I managed to keep in my interest, so that I did not hesitate, on various occasions, to entertain Bowers in the parlor of the Mansion, after the old people had retired ,to rest On one occasion, my father, either by accident or design, rose about an hour after he had `retired, and made his way soly and silently to the parlour. There was no intimation of his approach, He opened the parlor door, and caught Bowers and myself in one our 'mot agreeable tete a tete. He throw the door wide open,      gazed upon us for a moment with an eye of scorn, and then turned away. I trembled as I watched his departing footsteps, well knowing that the storm was now about to burst.   .'. The next miorning the old man did not make his appearance at the breakfast table, and my mother, when she presented herself, was in tears. My father had ordered a: cup of coffee to be brought to his cham-! ber, and after our meal was over, I was summoned into his pre- sence. I obeyed the summons, and on entering the chamber, he calmly and silently pointed to a chair. His look was so cold and destitute of eeling, that- snk down with  shudder. After sipping his coffee awhil, -he commenced-  "' ophia," said he, "you are my only child. I have educated and brought you up in a way befitting my circumstances, and I have a right to expect in return, that you will show your gratitude, by associating with such persons only as are calculated to sustain the'dignity of our family. With this .objet in view, on your re- turn to t6on, I introduced you to the society of all the elite of the city. I also told you, on the night of your return, that I did not ih you to associate with any, except those of a certain class. In what  "manner hate you complied with my request?  '  If I am correctly informed, since your return to this place, and introduction to the world, you have sought the society, and culti- vated the acquaintance, almost exclusively, of this Mortimer Bowers. And who is Mortimer Bowers? A young man without fortune, without friends, and wlose parents are in so straitened ;circum- stances, that they with diffiicty sustain themelves.  ' Sophia, think not for a moment that I will consent to a union with suck a family. Onthis point I must be obeyed. Deceive not yougrself.  'I have now to request of you, that you discard this Bowers. for eve, and I have also to inform you, that unless you comply with my request, you are to leave my roof immediately. So hia, h we live it' i truie,- under what we call a republican form of government; "but, our democracy exists only in imagination. It is merely a name, a tickle the fancy of the mob. We have our patricians and our plebians. Bowers belongs to the mass of plebians, and his proper place is obscurity. You, So- phia, belong to the order of patricians, and with correct deportment on your part, your beauty and your talents, will obtain for you a place in the centre of the circle of attraction. "Sophia, I will give you three days to decide on your future course, at the expiration of which time I expect your answer. You may now retire '   I listened to this addres f the old gentlem  wth doca eyes, and in the most perfect silnce. At? the conlusion, saw that the crisis had come. Despaigavemeenergy. I threw  elf at my father's feet, and with a floodf tears, besoght him ha  'Would listen to me. e nswere not  rd.   enent into a vindication of my course of condutommented  n thent into ae of Mortimer Bower spokeof his supnor      on the virtoues of his lack of fortune, and Conclud by iimducatg, tha altn houghset Bowers ,himself were poor; yt,if my faithr wotuld. t ha attiough union, the wealth of  fa our ly was suficien fr bothanin the most suphiantt manner, I beSo lfght him to ca nhe - in teo When X had concluded, te o rman looked at e for a moment, then thrusting me from him with a repulsive hand, saidhe expected my answer at the expiration of the threedays. With a heavy heart, I left tkat chamber, and retired to my Own.               hamber -0  retiredeo my, I'again beit the knee in prayer, and earnestly did Ipray that the evlsr                 fly did I P thie evils which'threatenodmWe might be, avted. I could not prevail upon mselfto submit to the dictates of tillmy parent.  After having tosome extent composed myselfthrw  on my bonnet, drew my wrapper t   es'and went I sethrch on orty rer, I learne that       h      search of Morti- amer. Jleandthat he  haddgone to Wall Street on some business, and that he did not expect to return until afternoon e I returned again to the Mansion, and after some further repa rations, strolled down Broadway, the hopes f meeting  (M his, return. I met bi a  a ntiipated, and on takn. h' arm, and tur  the direction in which he;was ong, akIren s to him the occurrences of the morn ing.          d 'When I had finished, Bowers, extending his arm about my wit, and'tking my hand in his, bent upon me  one of his tenderes looks, and replied to the following effec     tendore ophl, vdear, you know that you are all and every thing to me, ---and it is a matter, in my mid, of the most sinre eet , thot He am poor. I would not seek, dearest, to infuenceou  our deci- sion, and the a nswer to the old-^gentleman^ If ou come to thei conclusion that you will1 discard me, aluen fo o mhe future willthe undoubtedly be yours. If you resignll thettednt 'p leasures and comforts'of wealth for my sake, I can only promise you, Sophy, that I will do all in my power to make' you' ppy. ,vm e houOyver, you refuse to unite yv`ourself-ith 'me, either at the present, or at some  ure time, all happiness for me is fled. I shall hope no more. What will life be to me, if the sole object for which I hoave no lived is about to be torn'away, or irrevocably lost?" 'At this point of the conversation we had arrived opposite the Mansioncand we sep1arat'd with'the understang twe should see each other again in the evening ding hat we should     WhX e I eatered the house, I went immediately to my chamber, lid pA ked up such portions of my wardrobe as were the most in- k pensable, in'order to be prepared for any emergency-as I had already resolved inm my own mind, that I would share the fortunes o Bowers, let the result be what it might. As the evening approached I prepared myself for a walk, and, kept a look-out for the appearance of Mortimer. He did not ap. pear so soon as I expected. The shades of night had fallen, aad the moon had thrown her "silver mantle 6'er the dark," and yet Bowers did notappear. Solitary and alone I sat in the front parlor, with the window half closed, anxiously scrutinizing the passers by, in the hopes that the next- one might be Bowers himself. The moments dragged heavily away, and I had almost come to. the conclusion that he in- 'tended to forsake me. A light tap at the window at length told me that he was at hand. In a moment I was at his side. "Forgive me, dearest," he whispered, "for keeping you so long in waiting,-but I have been detained in a very serious case. As I was preparing to meet my appointment with you, my mother was seized with, a sudden attack of cholera, and I was under the neces sity of remaining to attend upon her. I stole myself away as soon as I could leave her with safety." This explanation of Mortimer relating to his tardiness, was sati- factory, and I hesitated not to give him my entire confidence. We directed our steps to the Battery, as being the most suitable place for our promenade, as we arranged matters for the future. Bowers commenced the subject by asking m whether I had come tOtany conclusion. I told him, candidly and decidedly, that I had resolved never to wed with any, except with himself,-that I would share his firtunes, whatever they might be, and that if my father persisted in his resolution, we could but liye or die together. When I had stated my determination, Bowers was So transported that he seemed for th4:moment to have lost his senses; and it was with difficulty that I prevented him from kneeling to me, even in the street.: I stlgested the idea of observing a little propriety, and hb,-was obliged to content himself by imprinting a 'kiss upon my hand. "Dearest Sophy," he replied, "thisisi more than I had a right to expect, but, since you are willing to resign all for me, I pledge myself, as a man of honour, that no effort shall be wanting on my part to make you as happy as my circumstances will admit." I told him, that poverty with him was preferable to wealth and luxury without him, . ' -We then took in the consideration the prospect for the future, and the question was asked whether it were not possible to appease my   Atone time it" wa At onetiumeit was proposed that I should apparentl accedet his' wshes, by seeming to diXcard Mo+rt:merand that -e sele manage to continue our clandestine meeti-ngs upon a differe n .pa my 'parent' with my determjnatwn, and throw myself upon his !r    ^   ^e         ings e al ofl. . f  ,i eren pikCa;- C rmercy.            '   w  then  ositioed  that, for the ftr w hould e wached ith t,e tmot pue scond was thought to ossess no prtiulr advntage, nd, consequenty, we oncluded to adopinot the thir!. Ite drew a- chair, nd 'equestedme 'tod'bes;eated. Beforeasbi my deciraion he addressed -h toI this e    i  hec acuin y are  ntphde , you annot for a moment that I, as a thr, can entertai n any  but tie kindest feelings towards you, or that I and exclude the more worthy, whether such conduct meet' the appro- he"I am first of these pr Soposihy, that upwasn rrjectd, on you have de- upposided in tacordance with the fudignit four family, and that yot rave determined to select a ,husband fronamong the math the t glance, anhim t hat ref ought not towe suppose havim ble of doin esof seeingto make me misch'oth er. able         onl hild, and that I wafuy sensible I ought to srticular advabtageylf i io nsequently, we conlud  ex to a doptet but, third at the subject  herowrdng, as mrrige expirwas an event calculaotted to determine t  oppiness or misery of a whole life.-             I told him th t I had had . preference for Mortimer from hes a rhood, and determi had nevdr seen any h .'tod 'co p hte with  in. point oa physical or mcnt4' endowmerts,..sthct his reputai. n wswithout drewa chair, and rthuestedhis oly misfearte s in bein  r,- circumsan entertaince entirely beyokindest feeings to wards you, or that I fthlrA beingnoth:,     more nor less than a dispensation of Providence, or the result of the l!ws of the country. :I* fine, Itold the old man I could wed with none, except with Mortimer Bowers,--and I besought him, as he valued the happi- ness of his daughter, not to drive matters to the extreme which he had meditated. I promised obedience to him in every other thing; ut, in the subject of matrimony I could not be controlled. When I had finished my reply, my father's face was livid with rage. He rose from his seat, paced the room a few times, then turned to me and said-       . "Sophia, the die is cast. Here is my purse, as I would not Aurn you pennyless upon the world. This purse contains sufficient to provide, for your present wants. The future will depend upon yourself. You are no longer the heir of Samuel Delaplain. You will leave this mansion before the hour of twelve to-morrow. If, after that time, you are found within its walls, I shall take the re- sponsibility dof handing you into the street. Farewell." Thus the finale had presented itself, and it was now only left for me to obey the injunctions, and leave the'house as soon as possible, I had arranged with Bowers, that after the interview with my parent I should repair immediately to the Battery, where I should meet with him, that being the most convenient place of meeting, it lying in the direction of his business. On arriving at that place I found Bowers already in attendance. I communicated to him the result of my interview, and the neces- sity I was under of seeking a new home immediately. Bowers then informed me that the Ship Henry Clay was lying at the foot of Wall Street, and up for California,-that she was a staunch vessel, possessing every accommodation, and insured at the lowest .rates,-that, as my father had driven me from his presence, he thought it advisable that we'should seek our fortunes in the EXl !Dorado of the West, '  The California fever was then raging at its height, and it is not to be wondered at that I should lend a willing ear to the proposi- tion of Mortimer. The novelty of the thing was also exciting in the highest degree, and I was soon enlisted in it, with all the ardour of my feelings. The voyage around the "Horn" was entirely uppermost in my imagination,--indeed so absorbed was I in the matter, that what- everb  t If might otherwise have felt, on being separated and -d'fi?l'n 'i   - home, under present circumstances, I was entirely $filt^ :ynmelancholy feeling, :f rW iEto add to the interestof the adventure, I had a fancy of appearing on ship-board, in the habiliments of the masculine gen- der. I suggested the idea to Bowers, and he, willing to assent to veiy tliing to please me, made no objection. The ship w  s' kt wil on the succeeding day, and I, having the A.    O of, ap ndi privilege o spending one more night at th e asion  ot fi edately to the eek any other abode in town Mortimer repaired i" e I to te vsseegagd o ur  ths, and paid the paae m ney. I was entered under the name of Harry  ain.  ss   Mortimer Bowers 'n  Harry Bi    n ,otier  owers and Hnc arryd tain were thus duly entered as paosengers on board the Ship Henry Clay, destined for Calfi  and intendinto ail on the first ofMay, 1850., It is remar'able that' neither 1Mortimer nor myself suggeste the Propriety of having the marriage eremo  perfrmed before we e'leftathe Shores of our native country. yattentionWar s bsomure e engaged in making preparation for the voyage, that the idea of the ceremony never occurred to me. May Heavan forgive me, for it was not designedly omitted. With the contents of thepurse which my father had given me, I found no difficulty in prcuring - the, necessary maettire, and all other things required for nthen outfi nda ore'the sun had lighted uptt h orizon on the .mornings of the day on 'which 'my father had euJpo ed to leave the Manson, I was dressed in the accotre hentad o f noe of the B'hoys, and on my way to the wharf at hich theents ahiP was lying. I was accompanied thither b ort  which the Our baggage was immediately 'ta ken on Veoard, and we found ourselves in cormfortable quarters     rdand   ou At the hour of 10, A. M., we hauled out fom the dock, and the Vteainer Osceola was ready to give us a to   the Hook, Awe  were pfi assing down the Bay, and I     ohad a little time for reflection. I was for the first time 'led to ralse thewkarnea '. of iny'posmt'io, - . . , trea     awkwa-- of yeI Positio /.J ,uQn ship-board, in the company of Mortimen  and yetgI was not legally his wife. I mentioned the' o versimerht to , and he, a s well as msel ppeared exceedingly distressed Tomlake matters worse I was dressed in male attire. No reqest couldbj therefore, b made of the captain on the subject, Withou subjecting ourselves to censure and disgrace,- evenif an ofliit could then lie obtained to perform the 'ceremony, Wich was hardl ceremony was, at most, only a matter of form. We were ,now fully embrked. Ase no furthere occurrenesw of noe transpi s  ore  pasge downthe .a, I s alj make no other omment on tlii portion 'of The Steamer Osceola left us outside the Hook, at about 6 o'clook,  ., of the same day on which we had embared. We nwflng our canvass to th breeze and stood forth into the brond eopante ofete Atlantic. The wiA was light, and so mut h to th sCuth ofBast, th  e were under the n cesi f koEei ,  .essel closely ' trhimed          s n  'fP ofsin order to hear wK y  ciootly ( ]K, of  r t Prhe ogressduring th- aight Wo a b athoszutIJ     On the morning of the second of May the weather was fair, the wind et:l Contiiieud light, and in the same direction. At about nine 'clock, A. iflo we discovered a vessel at the south of us, an ship, immediately displayed a signal, which signal was promptly answered by the Hepry a  succession of signals were now diplayed. The importof these a po     of the crew, .t an rate did not understand.                    u At the colse of the signals, the captain'ordered the shipto betput about, and kpt 'in a diretiolin north of' ea'st.  ,This manoaLvre excited sweo stprise in Mortimer; as he expressed hiimself to me, :aying 'tha t..e were earg icietly away from the land On our former course, ,anda that now we were approaching the coast of Long Island      the   t of .Lo  Islan We stood on in this direction, until the et ofong Island, ith oits breakers, i reitP,  ea ed istinctly  to our view. The hip watd  again tce . , n d run in a "westely direction, parallel t with the:coast. I wa$s now on the afternoon of the 3d. The coast Of J ong Island is known to be a dangerous coast for vessels,-and of Londegree sa , ,   --.o. in the     istance) the s we sailed aleng, and viewed the breakers in th distance, the occurrence' t weA of th e wreesit ad the Me xio, were strong pictured to the imagination. Th-e mveintm tsof"the captain were iot und/erstood, and he re- fused tO give any explanation. At about three 'cPlick, r. i., the wind began to grow squally,- and to blow directly from the south. Those W:ho have resided on, or in the vi inity of bong Island, are perfectly familiar with the ,tremendolus/southerly 'winds which sometimes affet that coast The captl began to evince corisideiablO anxiet, andn the 'ind rose by degrees to a perfect hurricane. oEvery thin ewas nw in a' scene of Confusion' The p kre er E    ^fIry i'nWaS' now      .  . werye o he lee-ti , and the tide. and wind setting 'us dirctly, i- a ' ' h 'ed n in   little ono r verto the mae- ar  sidttire.           t  ndred yotardss of us. Wde every hoet ep te slp to strike. gale Somehat abated, .and the vessel bre up gsalitionto t. his ip ha"t:          . i: ow ' hasr i;:.ob: onfustion ne'cem e .O } .o a-s:: erer:ha d recently been ufrom   2,e5 of terrr,-:  th:ree cheOr i fr the godr'o., o ,ldi? were, .soon f'u tib  o be m o  rder. The wed r eeip tinuO to bit her - a"   1 intlo tOe 'wt- t re moe.    were secure from the phantoms of Death which beckoned' uiito the lee-ward          .  The captain now condescended to assign a reason why he had not continued directly on his course'. He said he had yet to re- ceive a portion of his cargo,:for-which purpose he'intended to put in at the Breakwater, at the mouth of the Delaiire,-that he did' not wish. to arrive there until all things were ready -to come on board,-and that the signals' which he had received. from the vessel at the southward, were intended ito apprize himv of the progress of matters in that quarter; and that the said vessel would again tele- graph to him, when the cargo whichbhe expected toe receive at that point, should be prepared: and, also, that he intended to stand off and on the coast, until he should receive' the' proper informa- tion., This explanation was apparently satisfactory to the greater por- tion of the crew; but Bowers suspected that all was not right. Prudence, however, forbade him to express himself to that effect. The captain was solicited by all hands to keep a little further from the shore, and thus the matter ended. After'standing in a westerly direction for a while, we found our. selves nearly in the same position in wlhich we were left by the steamer-; and, on tacking ship, we bore away nearly in the, same direction as we had taken on our first course. The wind was now bearing south-west, and the gale having de- creased to a good sailing breeze, the Henry Clay flew like a bird over the waters.' On arriving at or near our first telegraph posi- tion, signals were again displayed, but, it appeared, with no better satisfaction to the captain; as he continued on his couise. We were now'sailing directly on the route to Californias The wind was fair, and I regretted that we had agai! to turn back for the purpose of stopping at the capes. At about twelve o'clock on the night of the 4th, the captain changed) his course, and stood in towards Cape Henlopen. At daylight he shot up a signal. This was immediately answered, and it appeared that all was right, as the ship was put into the Bayi and shortly after moored inside the Breakwater. Nodw' ame the remainder of the cargo, which was closely packed in boxes, and marked "Sheetings,"'. come with the stamp off the Powhattan Mills, and others marked "Lowell, Mass.," &c. Next followed a quantity of passengers, s mangy that o6u ship was literally crammed. The suspicion of Bowers was )agaain awa r kened, but he communicated nothing except to myself i When all was on board, we tripped our anbhor, ,aind: agan bore away to the Atlantic. The 'circle described by our vessel as we sailed out the bay, was such as to give us a full view of the build- ings and bathing grounds at Cape May, the lbeautiful appearance of which is peoularly striking when viewed from' th otea. I,     ,20C-. kall omit their desription s not prticularly connected with my story. sy now anticipated that we were entirely cleatre for the gold mines, ad g ,ve mself no apprehehesion; for the future.--and, ae thog we were closel sowed on board, we had made up our mind wee X us       hort  , .. . ..ss to be as cheerful as po           rtibe dt ble On the nigt of the 4th w took the f   forabe see  to certain portions of the ce and a the miitar, s  thead n order other daysidinc. W te   , tt te   r   ere a from the boxes received on boar t he Beakwpprehe  e was no no longer anydoubt.   mething a wrong. A p  e  d  lence was observed with regard to all questions ghich were' asked. eed not      iced that about twothird of thate hi comany w er e arm- n the  neentl    e ito the seet, whtever    natre to e  n     rmatin could b of the  r icited on te day oftht th e 5lt tdeore   g othe dapy.  noticed a, e hat the aryms, d al t ose ho tvre armed assembled in proper order upon the deck. The fromai then politely requestived on board emainder e passenger to assembhle on the quafrter. now, no longe any doubt.. Som e  t   hig w Wornon g . A  wer fe si- e compl was obsied with his regardet allnd on being assembled he deli- Yeretd to us the foPllowing shortt address:-y Gedtlemen, at we outered s o  tembrk with s com er the aim- to e notiescaped from the port. ur hatev is natre s  heuld go along with us. If you will join in our expedition, wea ohae arms sufficient for you. We woubi gladly have you to unite a  engagein  entrpr   intended t strke e t the chains  of slavery om the inbitants of the island fo which e a the s- 't'in-edmtioncou."l b Aht the. concl tion of 6this drum bet the pasenger viewed each other, morasfiting f some .one to epl. IBfowers at length stepped forth.         ' ddreingthe captain he spoke as ollof te   ssege redIf  ti,  iiD e   will allow us the oprivilege lhoing ra ,- give him a definite nswr r. ... th' O  ,;,:   he tin ssented to the proposition, nd medi ywith- -The captain assented to the proposition, and immediatelyr writh drew to the forward deck. Upon consulting, it was found that the passengers were, e masse, opposed to the expedition to Cuba, and that they were de- termined, if possible, not to be drawn into it. - The question then was, whether they would accept the arms. This was decided in the affirmative,--considering that we should be better able to take )are of ourselves, with arms in our:hapds, than without them. It was agreed that we should apparently accede to the Captain's proposi- tion, and subsequently project measures for the future.  The conclusion having been formed, Bowers walked forward, and told the Captain that we acceded to his proposition.  Arms-were then put into our hands, and we soon found ourselves drilling in martial order, upon the deck ofthe Henry Clay. Every man of the ship's company was now considered as fully enlisted in the enterprise, and every information relating to it was communicated without reserve, We were informed that the plan of Gen. Lopez was, to make a descent upon the Island at three different points--that one of these points was at Cardenas, another at Trinidad, and the other (the one for which we were destined) was at St. Jago de Cuba. It was his design to land and establish himself at these' points, anticipating that the presence of his troops at these different qitr- ters, would encourage the people generally throughout the Island to revolt and flock to his standard. He supposed, also, that the Spanish troops garrisoned upon the island would be easily subdued after having enlisted the people in his fa,vor. His plan appears ultimately to have failed, except so far as the landing of the troops1 at Cardenas was concerned. So easily are frustrated the designs of man. The destination of our company,' then, was St. Jago de Cuba, si- tuated on the southern extremity of the Island. All was now quiet on ship-board, and, to a uperficial observer, every thing appeared to be going on well. -he officers devoted their whole attention to perfecting the skill of the m6h in the use of their arms,-and Bowers, on account of his noble bearing, and the precision with which he went through the various drills, was promoted to the rank of Captain,-a lcrcumstance which excit.  no little pride in me, although it would have been impossible to raise him higher in my estimation than he already stood. Although every one was outwardly submissive to 'the officers commanding the expedition, yet, there migiht he aeen, whenever opportunity presented itself, small congregations of that. iportion of 'the crew who had embarked with the view of going to California. Various projects were proposed by them for thwarting the design of the expedition. No sure and decisive measure, however, pre- euited itself, except that of open opposition,--ahd then the ques.     tion was, whether we were sufficiently strong in point of :nunm hers. This question required a little consideration. After revolving the matter in our mind a day or so, it was finally resolved to make the attempt. It was determined that our party should wear their side-arms continually, in order that no suspicion might be excited when the opposition was about to. be made. Our party drtlyedthemselves constantly in the broadsword ex- ercise, -the broad-sword being the weapon on which they mostly depended for the execution of their designs,-the muskets being deposited in one of the state-rooms immediately on the termination of each drill. Our plan was, to secure the state room containing these weapons, and likewise to secure as many of the side-arms of the opposite party as could conveniently be done, When the drills were past some of this party ordinarily retained their side-arms, and others laid them away in such places as best suited their convenience. A great majority of them, therefore, were entirely unarmed except at the time of the drill. It was thought by our party, that by securing the state-room containing the muskets, and each man seizing as many of the arms of the opposite party as came within his reach, when we were about to make the attempt, there would be little resistance, and conse- quehtly but little loss of life. Such was our scheme. The time for putting into execution was fixed for the eighteenth of May, when it wasexpected that the ship would be 6ff the coast of St. Jago de Cuba, and near the end o fthe voyage--or, rather, near the place of her destination. The attempt ,was to be made, allso, at the hour of dinner. At that hour, we concluded, the energies of our opponents would be most universally relaxed. El Dorado was to be the watch-word. It was first to be sounded by the man who secured, the state-room,--at the sound of which every man was to look to his arms. Thei eighteenth of Maiy at length arrived,-and already the crew were gazing on the town of St. Jago de O ba in the distance. IBowers had been appointed to command our party, a man had been selected th securejthe state-room, and each one had a position assigned to him.: Every thing promised the most complete sue- cess. Bowers had enjoined upon me, that I should keep by his side until the affair was over. At the hour of dinner, each one of our party took the place as- signed him, and we did not wait long before the sound of El Do- rado sounded from the state-rooii,---the keys securing which were promptly thrown overboard. Simultaneously, each of our men seized such of the weapons of our opponents as came near to hand, and the sound of "El Dorado" was heard from all parts of the ship.       The arms of our opponents which had been secnred were also immediately thrown into the sea,-our party being sufficiently well armed without them. Our men then immediately ranged in order on the starboard side of the vessel, and the shouting of El Dorado startled our Oppo. nents, -andbrought them also to the deck. On arriving there, and beholding us arranged in martial order, they looked at us with astonishment. Captain Bainbridge comprehended the matter at once. Btut the most of his own men were unarnmed. -He tried the state-room, but found it bolted and barred. He eth6fiwaved his hand for his men to come aft. The order was immediately obeyed, and seizing a hatchet, he ripped open a box which had been depo- sited on the quarter deck, and covered with canvass, and which, unknown to us, was filled with side-arms. Each mrn seized a weapon, and thus in an-instant, as it were, our opponents were mostly armed, and stood arrayed against uts. It was now too late for us to retract, as the consequences would have been fatal; The eyes of our party were now directed to Bowers, as if asking whether they should trike. The coiuntenance of Mortimer, at this juncture,'1was thrilling in the extreme. I could only compare it to the Jupiter of Homer, when "Heshakes his ambroisal curls in giving nod, -  The stamp of fate and sanction of a God-" Bowers motioned his men forward, and it was now: "Hand to band, and steel to steel."  Mortimer opposed himself to Captain Bainbridge, and after a few passes between them, Bainbridge had taken passage for Eternity. The battle now raged with the greatest fury. I kept by the side of Mortimer, as he had enjoined upon me, and I was more than. once indebted to him for warding a blow, which, would have been fatal to me.  A comrade who fought next to me met with a fatewhich was so horrible in its nature, that the occurrence nearly unnerved me. He was attacked by two of our assailants, and beconiing bewildered by their impetuosity, he lost his guard, nd their weapons both took effect on' him at the same time,--one passing through his bbdy, and the other severing the head therefrom. * The fight continued for about half an hour, when more than half the crew lay dead or dying upon the deck. The combatants began to grow weary, and their exhaustion, in connexion with the horrid scene about them, caused them tosuspend their, fury a if by mu- tual consent. Our number was' so extensively diminished by the conflict, that it would now have been considered the height of folly to meditate a     lescent upon the Island. It seemed to be the general wish, as expressed by the actions of the survivors, that the affray should be stopped. The weapons were therefore returned to the scab- Our. ttention was now directed to the wounded and the dying. The day was exceedingly hot, and the cries for water were incessant. Our stook on board was nearly exhansted, and we were under the neessity of procring more from some source. To obtain it, it was necessary that some one 'should go on shore, it was also necessary that whoever ventued to go, should go entirely unarmed,-thereby assuming a paoific character.    ' A call was made for some one to volunteer iis services. No one  was found to offer, and it is a fact, that among: the survivors of those who intended to take Cuba by force of arms, not one remain- ed who had sufficient courage to venture alone upon the land to ob- tain a.supply of water.    '        .   . :Bowers at length-said he would go himself. It was therefore agreed that the vessel should be run in as near the. land as could L  be done with safety, drop the anchor, and remain until the water Oould be brought on board. .. -This arrangement being agreed upon, and the ship being brought to the proper station, one of the boats was launched, with the wa. to casks-,an' -Bowers and myself stepped into her. The wind 'being light an' fair, we put up a sail, and run into the land. After some search, w discovered a spring, and were in the act of filling e r casks when we espied that the ship had tripped her anchor and was in the act of moving' off.  We felt alarmed, but on casting our eyes to the westward, we discovered the eause of this movement. A Spanish brigantine wag bearing down upon the Henry Clay, and those on board having no ordnance-mowtted to defend themselves, were unwilling, under their present ciroumstances to come -in too close contact with the Spa- Biard, not knowing'-hat he might be pleased to do. They had, therefore,: concluded to take to their heels. Thus Mortimer and myself were deserted, and left to the mercy o those- into whose' handswe might chance to fall. The ship crowded all sail, and what with her speed, and the coming. on of night, she was soon lost to our senseiof vision. We were :now' pon the Island without provisions of any kid, and neither of us- ndersttood the Spanish language. What was to be done? The best-policy appeared to be, to-make our way in the direction of the town,rand trust to ftune on our arrival at that - On' riving atthe ton we sought a lodging for the night. The difficulty of makioig ourselves understood was some little hindrance,. :though We shoul& have fired sufficiently weUtad notfthe,.brgan   ',7              ,      .. *(, tine sent word on shore that a vessel had been driven from the coast, and that the people of the town should be on the look-out. It was immediately inferred. that we belonged to the strange ves eel, and we were summoned into the presence of the chief magis trate. The name of this magistrate we afterwards learned to be Don Martin Mandrillo. On being requested to give an account of ourselves, IBowers frankly stated every thing connected with our history, from the time of our embarkation at the port of New York. Our person were then subjected to an examinati6n, and, unluckily for us both my sex was discovered. This circumstance bore hard against us. They would listen to nothing which would tend to palliate what they considered to be a very grave offence,--and they considered, -or pretended to consider, that those who were capable of falling into such things, were capable of others also,--and they immeIiately set us down as belonging to the expedition against the Island, and consequently committed us to prison. The prison in which we were confined was in the basement of St. Andrew's church. Whether this place was originally intended aS a jail or not, I am unable to say: certain it is, however, -that it answered the purpose well, and is well supplied with the instru. ments of torture.              .  We had: obtained lodgings, but under circumstances, and in a/ place which was not calculated to excite' in us any very agreeable feelings. We had no bed to repose on, except what the stone flagging of our cells afforded us. Our apartments were adjoinin each other, and it was sime consolation to hear the sound of each other's feet, as we paced to and fro for the want of a comfortable place to sit or lie. "'  Wearied with the exercise, we at length sank down upon the pavement, and denuding ourselves of a portion of our garments for the purpose of forming a pillow, sought to forget the realities of 'our situation by taking as comfortable a nap as our situation would alloW. Although we lay upon the stone pavement, we slept until awa- kened in the 'morning, by our jailer. throwing open the doors of our cells and calling us to rise. He told us that we were at liberty to walk ini the room into which our cells opened,-and that he would soon furnish us wltk some breakfast. 'He retired, and we were left atliberty to examine the room in which he allowed us to walk. We examined that, and also examined- the -cells in which ,we had passed the night. We were firmly persuaded, from appearances, that all attempts to es. cape without some assistance from without, must be futile The windows::ere 'small, and firmly .ected with- bars of iron . Th walls of the prison also had iron bars-fextonding ;acrosS them, at the distance :of about six inches ap-art. The -floor was als     uarded in the same way. We were thus emphatically iron- :In about an hour the jailer reappeared, bringing with him a mug of water, and'a small loaf of brown bread. These he deposited on S-small table standing on one side of the room, and then retired. "At about three o'clock, P. ., -we received another lunch of the same sort, and that was all the food we received: through the day. At night we were again committed to the cells.  This was the manner of our living, with little variation, until the afite of the descent at Cardenas had presented itself. After the inwaders hadbeen driven back from that point, and- the prisoner s taken at Woman's Island, in connexion with the seizure of the Georgiana and the Susan Loud, we were destined to experience a change, the circumstances connected with which I am about to re- late. -Early one morning, before our jailer had waited on us as was ustomary, we heard a bustle in the ante-chamber, seemingly caused by a  number of persons passing about the room, and conversing with each other. Our breakfastowas also introduced into our cells,-a departure from the ousto- which had previously been observed. At about the hour of ten, the doors of our apartments opened, id^ w  wee oiered to ome forth. On approaching the ante- chamberwef -fid :it fitted up in the. shape of an auditory. number s ':of 'persons were in attendance; these, 'from their appear- ance and dress, we thought must constitute a portion of the prin- cipal citizens of the place,--and among 'them was Don- Martin Mrandrillo, the nItgistrate into whose presence we had previously been introduced. A place had been fitted up in the form of a dock, in which, after the assembly had scrutinized us a few moments, Bowers was or- dered tstand I was remanded back to my cell. Don- Martin, with the assistance of those present, then proceeded to examine Bowers relating to the expedition, but was not able to elicit any thing more -than he already knew.- After the examina- ion, Bowerswas manacled and conducted back to his apartment. I was then ordered to come forth and stand in 'the dock, and I passed an amintiion similar. to that to which Bowers had been subjected.:,'t!" g 'hew was- eiiedt from me. Irons were placed upon me, andit, k o, was again incarcerated in the gloomy dun- :geon. We knew'not our future destiny.' On the-next succeeding ir-gwe were again summoned into the--ante-hamberi, and were told!That we: must confess al1(we, knew oeernin-the matterf the iva:on, or- :btourselves to the toure .'We both aclared that- we could ceannicte nothing -Se than had-alhready been done. - , '      i - Asmall rope adrwn oer a pully,was suspended from te ceil-' 1 4   ag, m the end of which rope was fastened a mall hook, some-' what resembling a fish-hook, except that the beard was wanting. We were now partially strangled, in order that the organ lingua might protrude from the mouth. The tongue was then perforated 'With an awl, and the hooks attached to the ropes were inserted therein. The ropes were then drawn over the pullies, until they became so tight that we were under the necessity of standing on tip-toe to prevent .:ur weight from being wholly borne by the ton- gue. They kept us in this position for about fifteen minutes, when they released us, and remanded us to the-dungeon. A torture, on a par with the above, was inflicted every day during the space of one whole week,--we being requested on each. occasion to divulge whatever we knew, and on declaring that we knew nothing more than had already been communicated, the tor- ture was immediately applied. In order that my reader may know, or form an idea of the- na- ture of the Cuban Spaniard, I shall describe each torture sepa- rately.  On the second day, instead of one, 'there were four hooks at- tached to the rope, and one hook was inserted in each shoulder and one in each hip, and thus we were suspended tlb- e os, with our faces downward, until our persecutors were $a ed to re-  lieve us from the torment,-and this because -we b:efiuseto cm- municate concerning a matter on which we were entirel igno- rant.                       ' On the third day we were suspended by the hair, and left to dangle until our persecutors were satisfied. On the fourth day we were hung up with the head downwards and suffered to remain a while in that position. On the fifth we were scourged with a bundle of red hot wi;re. And on the sixth, and last day, we were 'brough forth tith great solemnity,-a Catholic priest being in attendance. The commands were now more particularly directed to Bowers, and he ' was ordered to confese what he knew, or this was to be the last day of his life. Bowers solemnly protested that he knew nothing more to communicate than had already been told .., He was then ordered to stand on a small platform, immediately in front of what appeared to be the image of a't eautifl virgin, He was then told, that as he had a particular fancy for the lads as was evident from the fact thate hhad induced me to elope .wit /   h him from my native country,e hoeuld have the privilegeof em- bracing the beautiful imge befor -i: and he was commanded to I  do so. Bowers leaned forward to obey the command, when io! I was horror-struek at beholding the' image raise its arms for the purpose of retulning the embrace, and in the place of what should. hae been its arms, two sharp instruments, in the lhape of sickles,     presented themselves, and clasped the body of Mortimer in their embrace. Bowers writhed in agony, but all to no purpose. I was struck dumb.     '      ' The image continued to tighten its embrace, until the body of Mortimer fell, in four separate pieces, upon the floor.  I had no further recollection until I awoke, as if from a dream, and found myself in my dungeon. It was some time before I could collect my thoughts,-but when I had been able to do so, the scene which I had witnessed was depicted to me in all its horrors. I now had no wish to live; in reality, I sincerely desired that my tormentors would put me also to death. I was now suffered to remain both day and night incarcerated in the cell, and no further notice seemed to be taken of me, other than to furnish me with my daily allowance of bread and water. After remaining in this condition for some days, I was surprised one afternoon to see the door of my cell open, and a lady, in com- pany with the man who had acted as interpreter on former occa- sons, enter. This lady introduced herself to me as Senora Manidrillo, the wife of Don Martin. She had heard of my case through the mectium of her husbands and, it. appears, her sympathies, had been some- what'excited. She therefore wished to see and converse with me. I related to hOr my whole history without reserve, and concluded by beseeching her to interpose in my behalf. After heating my story, she seemed for a while to be absorbed in thought, but finally promised that she would endeavour to ame- liorate my condition. She then left me. On the third day after the above interview, at about the time of night-fall, the same lady again entered my apartment, with a fe- male, attendant. She immediately ordered the attendant female to take off her outer garment, and requesting me also to undress, desired me to dress in the garment of which the other female had disrobed her- self. She then threw over my head the scarf which her attendant had worn, and ordered me to follow her,-the attendantsremaining behind in the cell. We passed through the ante-chamber without exciting the sus- picion of the jailer. On arriving outside, we found the Senora's carriage in waiting.        i We set off in the direction of San Salvador, at which place we arrived in the course of a couple of hours. At this place the lady  had engaged a small boat to convey me down the river to an Eng- lish vessel whichiwas then lying in the bay, and bound for Balti- m6re. By accelerating our movements, I found myself before the break of day safely shipped on board the brig Falmouth, and secure from the apprehension of any'further insult or torture from the Spaniards. a I 1; v sopor"?- "'9isT16,her-,-.l..l twSX-nf";-bEtiNu ... - Of   E arly in the mo0rning our vessel weighed anchor, and after clear. in, Cape Cruz, stood to the eastward. As we, run along the southern coast, we ran so near the land tha I had, an oppor- tufnity of taking a farewell view of the town of St. Jago de Cuba, a town not likely soon to be forgotten by me. Our vesseO -now stood out through the windward passage, between the Islands of Cuba and St. Domingo, and 'I soon found myself l   KSI^^Vn aI so^.oud ysl again upon the waters of the Atlantic. Nothing of note transpired during our voyage.  We entered the port of Baltmor on the 15h July, 1850.'                lmore on the 15th As already stated, the relation at Baltimore of my adventure, excited so great a degree of interest, that I was induced to make the matter public, by presenting it in the form of a book. I know not that it is my duty to moralize on the subject, and, therefore, I shal leave my readers mostly to their own reflections. I would merely say, in conclusion, that, perhaps, had there been a little more discretion exercised, both by my parents and myself; I might have been spared my sufferings, and matters, at the present time, would be more agreeable for us both, and I would remind both the old and the young, that it is as necessar now as formerly, to observe the old adage--formerly,  "LOOK BEFORE YOU LEAP." now only seek to retire from the world, and to pend my days in seclusion. Since the death of Bowers, I shall wait with pa- tience for that coming eternity in which I hope to meet with him that happy state in which sorrow is never known.   
               
            
         
      
   
