
    ----CITATION----
        Chellis, Mary Dwinell.. The Old Doctor's Son .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6030 wright2-0504
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               
                  A Hard-Hearted Wretch. Frontispiece. Page 133.
               
            
         
         
            
               The STANDARD SERIES OF TEMPERANCE TALES.
               BOSTON:
               
                  HENRY A. YOUNG & CO.
                  
NO. 24 CORNHILL.

               
            
         
         
         
            
            Standard Series of Temperance Tales.
            
               The Old Doctor's Son.
            
            BY MARY DWINELL CHELLIS, AUTHOR OF "MOLLY'S BIBLE," "EFFIE WINGATE'S WORK," ETC.
            
               BOSTON:
               HENRY A. YOUNG & CO. 
                     NO. 24 CORNHILL.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                     Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by HENRY A. YOUNG & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.
                  
               
            
         
         
            Standard Series of Temperance Tales.
            
               VOL. I. BILL DROCK'S INVESTMENT.
               VOL. II. THE OLD DOCTOR'S SON.
               VOL. III. (IN PREPARATION.)
               VOL. IV. (IN PREPARATION.)
            
         
      
      
         
            
            The old doctor's son
            
            THE OLD DOCTOR'S SON.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     
                        So flushed with pride, he glances down,
                        With curling lip and darkening frown,
                        To meet the gaze of flashing eyes,
                        And note the squalid beggar guise.
                        While all unknown, which life shall win,
                        Or which be stained with darkest sin.
                     
                  
               
               HOWARD Foster removed a fragrant cigar from his lips, and held it daintily between two fingers, while he conversed with a friend in regard to a pleasure excursion.
               "I am half inclined not to go," he said.
               "Why so?" asked his companion with surprise.
               
               "I have heard too much about it," was the languid reply.
               "But I thought you were prime mover of the affair."
               "And so I was. But others moved too slowly, and I have lost all interest. It will be a stupid affair at best, with Wilbur and Marshall gone. It should have come off a week ago."
               "Perhaps so. But the week has passed. It is no use to look back; and I, for one, am bound to carry it through. We shall have plenty of choice wines and cigars."
               "Of course you will. An excursion without them would be intolerable."
               "And an excursion with them must be tolerable. Isn't that good logic? Come, Foster, have done with hesitation, and say, once for all, that you will go. The matter must be decided this morning. I have other business on hand for the afternoon."
               "Business!" repeated Howard Foster, with a quizzical smile. "I didn't know you were troubled with business."
               "Well, no more am I," replied his companion. "I should have said pleasure."
               "That sounds more appropriate for one like you. I suppose we must know something of business; but I intend to put off the evil day as long as possible."
               "I don't see much need of your troubling yourself about business. I wouldn't, if I had such a rent roll as you have. It must be a comfortable sensation to feel one's self provided for through life, beyond the possibility of failure."
               "Probably it is, although I never thought of it in that light. But my good father used to say that riches take to themselves wings; and many a well laid plan ends in smoke."
               As the young man said this, he raised his hand to return the cigar to his mouth, when a boy, with soiled and ragged garments passed so near that his rags brushed the patrician cigar. Howard Foster threw it into the street, and scowled down upon the boy who had thus offended.
               This was returned by an impudent stare, and Skye James, springing into the street, caught up the cigar just as a spirited horse was about to set his foot upon it. As he did this, its former owner turned away with an expression of disgust upon what was considered a really handsome face.
               "There's a boy will look out for the main chance," said a man, who had observed the promptness of his movement, while one of the boy's companions exclaimed, "How much yere take for half that cigar, Skye? Just divide with a fellow."
               But Skye was two squares off with his treasure, which he had no intention of dividing.
               "A poor wretch," muttered Howard Foster. "Strange one has no more idea of cleanliness."
               The speaker was faultless in his dress, vain as the vainest young lady in his set, and fastidious in all things. The son of a father, who, by untiring devotion to his profession, and shrewd management, had amassed a handsome fortune, he inherited his share of the property, with none of the sterling qualities of his sire.
               What strange influences had given to this, his only son, a nature so unlike his own, the good doctor could never understand. If, at an early age the boy had been thrown upon his own resources, he might have developed into an energetic man; but unfortunately he had been born with a silver spoon in his mouth, and this was the first thing that attracted his attention. He knew his father was rich, and there was no necessity that he should exert himself.
               
               In vain were all attempts to rouse his ambition. He would spend half an hour adjusting a necktie, when he should have been studying. His mother petted and indulged him, sure that as he grew older, he would care less for such trifles.
               One sister, younger, by six years, than himself, was a restless, active little sprite, who made vigorous efforts to utilize her strength, and "help somebody," before she could understand how this was to be done. She was a pretty child; at least, so people said who saw her, and when quiet, made a picture upon which her brother delighted to look.
               But she tired him with her odd questions, and constant activity, while he wondered why she couldn't sit still and be admired. She, meanwhile, wondered why he didn't "do something to help somebody." Retta, as the sister was called, was a child after her father's own heart; and he was frequently heard to say that "she ought to have been a boy."
               "Are boys better than girls?" she once asked, opening wide her eyes at hearing this remark.
               "No, pet, generally not half so good, but"—"They need more energy," the hard working physician was about to say, yet checked himself, as he thought how essential is energy in every department of life.
               "Then I guess I'm glad I'm a girl, papa; because Howard is a boy, and he can't mend your gloves."
               So she was satisfied with her position, and the brother with his; although one might wonder why he should care to live at all, save as the butterfly cares.
               If the doctor had been called upon to prescribe a course of treatment for such a boy, outside his own family, he would have insisted upon severe measures; but for some reason, his heart gained the mastery of his head, and too much engrossed in business, he allowed the time to pass, when such measures would have been available.
               As a matter of course, with such a nature, Howard Foster disliked hard study. Yet he managed to maintain a respectable rank in school. He learned readily, and although not a favorite, was called an "easy, good-natured fellow." For the rest he trusted to his father's reputation, and unfolded his perfumed handkerchief without a thought of the work which must be done in this world.
               "You can't always depend upon me," his father would say. "I shan't live forever, and you'll need to do something for yourself. I am going to give you an education, and then see what you are made of. I hope you'll study medicine, and make my place good when I'm gone."
               Howard Foster only shrugged his shoulders at this, and vaguely hoped his father would be able to bear the disappointment, which would be sure to come.
               He did not live to bear this, however. When his son was eighteen years of age, and his daughter twelve, Dr. Foster died suddenly. Then it was that his wife realized how much he had been to his family, how entirely they had depended upon him, and how tenderly he had cared for them.
               Naturally she turned to Howard for something of the same care and thoughtfulness; but this was like leaning upon a broken reed. He was shocked and grieved at his father's death; but, if the truth were told, he thought more of the fortune which would come into his possession, than of the loss he had sustained. Some recent speculations of the doctor had proved much more profitable than he anticipated, so that his family were left in affluent circumstances.
               "A pity," said one of his friends. "That boy needs to rough it, and earn his own living. I am glad for Mrs. Foster and Retta; but every dollar left for Howard is worse than thrown away."
               "Perhaps not," replied another. "There is nothing very bad about the young man. He is as good as most of his associates. He may do better than he would if his father had lived."
               "He may, and I hope he will. But for my part, I never see Howard Foster, without wishing some one would push him into a frog pond."
               "What an idea! Think what a soiling of fine linen there would be. His dress is the very perfection of neatness."
               "Very perfection of dandyism," was the reply. "As different from his father as possible. I've heard my mother say that when the doctor set up business, he was in debt for his education, and dressed so poorly that some people objected to employing him on that account. He never cared much for dress."
               "No. He had something of more importance to think of. He told me he never gave much time to his business transactions; and it was more for recreation than anything else that he indulged in buying and selling. He said he used to wonder why some one didn't invest in certain property, without thinking of doing so himself, until at last it occurred to him that he might as well improve the opportunity for making money."
               "I have heard him say something of the kind," was the response to this. "He had rare tact for business; and if he had devoted himself to it, would have made one of our richest men. He was older than I supposed him to be; though he has looked old ever since I can remember."
               "I have heard him tell his age often, saying that he should soon be laid on the shelf. He was sixty-five. Quite an old man; yet he gave no signs of breaking down, until his last sickness. His wife says she never thought of him as being old, though there was so much difference in their ages, that he might have been her father. She is only forty. The doctor was thought to be a confirmed bachelor, until he saw Henrietta Gay, a poor but pretty girl, who had lost her parents, and was trying to earn a living by teaching. His beard was grizzled then, and people sometimes asked him about his little girl. But he took it all in good part, and they have been very happy together. I don't know what she'll do now. Do you know how much the children will have a piece?"
               "A good square fifty thousand, so invested as to pay about ten per cent. That's enough to ruin any boy; and Howard Foster is no exception to the rule. He smokes and drinks already."
               "So did his father."
               "I know he did, in a temperate way. The old gentleman liked a glass of wine, occasionally; but nobody ever saw him the worse for liquor: and he only smoked after dinner, when he was resting. Nobody despised excess in these things more than the old doctor. If his son follows his example, I shall be happily disappointed. In another thing, too, Howard Foster steers wide of the mark. He seldom attends church, and manifests no respect for anything connected with religion. His father wasn't a religious man; but he respected religion in others."
               "Well, I'm sorry for all unfavorable appearances; but we must hope for the best. The young man may do better."
               "He may, and I hope he will. But, if I'm not mistaken, whoever sees him thirty years from now, will see a poor, miserable wretch."
               All unconscious of such prophecies, Howard Foster selected his guardian, and moved on in the old track, making no effort to comfort his mother, or lighten her burdens. On the contrary, he expected that all obstacles would be removed from his path, and all unpleasant necessities concealed from his sight.
               Retta, who was now old enough to understand what he ought to do, insisted, in her energetic way, that he should attend to some of their out-of-door business.
               "Don't be so boisterous!" he exclaimed, when exasperated into making a reply. "It isn't lady-like. Just look in the glass. Your face is as red, and your hair as rough as any Irish girl's. Let the servants do the work. There is money enough to pay them."
               "What if there is!" cried Retta, indignantly. "Do you expect to do nothing, all the days of your life? If I was a man, I wouldn't sit down and look at my hands to see how pretty they were. I'd just go to work, and let people know I was in the world."
               "You would, would you?" he half sneered, stroking an imaginary mustache, and congratulating himself upon having been born to the lordly heritage of manhood.
               Retta frowned and turned away, having, child though she was, something like a just estimate of her brother's character. His mother expostulated with him in regard to his indolence; but words were wasted. There were servants enough to do the work, and money to pay them. As for business, he had no taste for it. He wished to be left to his own enjoyments.
               He sketched a little, had a smattering of musical knowledge, and considered himself an admirer of elegant literature. As to choosing a profession, he rarely thought of it, unless the subject was forced upon him.
               In his easy, listless way, he went through college and graduated, no more and no less honorably than many others. There had been an extravagant outlay of money, and, as his guardian said, "it ought to amount to something."
               A year had passed since his graduation, and no one could see that it had amounted to anything beyond furnishing nominal employment for four years of time. His mother was seriously troubled, yet continued to indulge his whims, and consult his over-fastidious tastes.
               He had a room furnished and set apart for his own use, which he dignified by the name of study, or library. He even talked of a studio; but this ended in talk, much to the relief of all who were really interested in him. Now at twenty-four years of age, he was, in the judgment of one of his father's old friends, "an idle, good-for-nothing fellow, loafing about the streets, lounging in parlors, where there were attractive young ladies, and smoking the choicest of cigars." In this last occupation, he seemed most to delight; therefore, it was not strange that his temper was somewhat ruffled, when contact with the ragged clothing of Skye James destroyed the flavor of his delight. The damage, however, was soon repaired. Another cigar was purchased, and the boy who profited by Howard Foster's extreme fastidiousness, rejoiced in his good fortune.
               Did you ever see a face, good-humored, resolute, bold and daring, with just enough of recklessness in it to make you fear for the owner's future? If you have, you have seen a face like the one which peeped into a basement room, where sat an old man, vainly trying to satisfy his hunger with a crust.
               "How do, grandad?" asked the owner of the face.
               "Poorly," was the reply. "Come here, Skye, and tell me how things look out doors. I want to get out into the sun; but I haint got strength."
               
               "Guess you need something to eat, better'n that crust, grandad."
               "Yes, I do. I've seen the time, though, when I could eat such a crust; but now my teeth are gone, I can't;" and he laid down the crust with a sigh.
               "Too bad," said the boy. "I wish I had something for you; but mother's so poor, it's all we can do to get enough to eat ourselves."
               "I know it," answered the old man, sadly. "It's good in you to think of me, any way. It cheers me up wonderfully to have you come in. Mary's gone all day for this time; and she hadn't anything to leave but this crust. She said we'd have a good supper when she comes back. What time is it now?"
               "Why, 'taint eleven o'clock. Better come over to our house, and stay till afternoon."
               "No. Your mother's got enough round her; and besides I can't walk to-day."
               Skye James had forgotten the cigar he risked his head to obtain; forgotten the good smoke he intended to have; and desired nothing so much as a loaf of soft white bread, for the man he called grandad. He hadn't a penny. He knew this, without making any examination. Nevertheless, he plunged his hands into his pockets.
               Then he gave a prolonged whistle, and darted from the room. As good luck, or good providence would have it, he had taken but few steps when he met one of his cronie's, clinking a handful of pennies.
               "How are you, Skye?" he exclaimed. "Come let's have a treat. You stood treat the other day, and I aint going to forget an old friend."
               Such an air of importance as was assumed by this ragged urchin, would have amused any one; but his companion was too much pre-occupied to observe it.
               "I don't want a treat," answered Skye. "But I've got something to sell, and if you'll buy it, we'll call square."
               "What is it?" asked Jim. "Anything in my line?"
               "Yes, sir-ee," was the emphatic answer; as the cigar was produced.
               "How came you by it? How much you want for it? What you going to do with the money?" These, and other questions were asked, while Jim examined the article offered for sale.
               "Want enough to buy a loaf of bread."
               "Well, here's the money," said the purchaser, with a consequential air. "Now tell us how you came by this cigar. Hope you didn't steal it, 'cause I don't believe in that. I want everything fair and above board."
               Skye, happy in the possession of the pennies, was nothing loth to give a description of his encounter with Howard Foster. "You see I just hit that cigar," he said, with a knowing wink of his saucy black eyes.
               "Didn't mean to, I s'pose," was the response.
               "Shouldn't want to say about that. Fact is, I wa'n't sorry; specially when he threw it away, and you needn't be."
               "I aint," replied Jim, with a laugh. "I'm glad of it; and he's done some good, though he didn't mean to. Wish you could get some tea, for grandad. Here's two cents towards it. I'll treat him, instead of you."
               "You're a bully boy," responded Skye, hurrying away, while his companion lighted a match, and proceeded to test the quality of his purchase.
               First, to the bakery; and here our hero presented himself at the right time. An accident had occurred. Some bread had fallen to the floor, and the baker was glad to dispose of the broken loaves, at less than half their usual price. Skye was no stranger, and he heaped a basket, taking what pennies were offered, and trusting for the remainder.
               
               "It must be something's going to happen," said the boy to himself, when again in the street. "This is the luckiest day I ever see. Bought bread with a cigar, and that dandy don't know nothing about it."
               Then he began to whistle; too happy not to make some demonstration. He had still two pennies, and turned down a narrow alley, to dispose of them. Up one flight of stairs he went, and having reached the landing, paused to take breath. He rapped on an open door, and was bid to come in."
               "It's you, is it, Skye?" said the occupant of the room. "I've been wishing somebody 'd come."
               "Here I am," was the response. "I come to see if you'd let me have two cents worth of tea. I've got the money."
               "Yes. I haint got much; but I'll let you have some, if you'll hand me that caddy. I've got the rheumatiz, so I don't stir round much. What you got in your basket?"
               "Broken bread," answered Skye, removing the paper which covered it, and displaying his treasure.
               "There, now that's nice!" exclaimed the woman. "And I s'pose you didn't give nothing nigh as much as though 'twas whole."
               He told her what he had paid, adding, "There's plenty more at the same price."
               "Well, now, couldn't you get me some? I'm most out of bread, and I'll give you two cents worth of tea, if you will."
               In luck again, Skye took a basket, went to the baker's and had it filled, paid two cents on his old score, and then returned for the tea. It was ready, and although it had been once steeped, would be a luxury to those who could seldom afford even this.
               Grandad, as Skye called old Mr. Somers, was dipping his crust in a cup of cold water, when the boy entered his room a second time, with an air of triumph, exclaiming, "I've got something for your dinner, and I'm going to have a fire in less than no time. I'll use these shavings and sticks, but I'll bring some more," and he commenced preparations for dinner with a hearty good will.
               "Just save that crust for the pigs. I've got bread enough for us all."
               The old man extended his hand as the bread was uncovered. "So much," he said absently.
               "Yes, so much; and I'm most a mind to go back after more. I would, if I only had some more money. It's cheap as dirt. You see it got broke, when they took it out of the oven. Fell on to the floor, a whole lot of it."
               It looked so nice now, away from the unbroken loaves, that Skye thought he must in some way manage to get more of it. He determined to go and ask for credit. If refused no harm would be done. He emptied the bread into a clean box, and charging grandad dad to keep the fire going, started the third time for the bakery.
               "You've done well," said a woman standing behind the counter. "We didn't expect to see that basket so soon. Found another customer for us?"
               "No, mam; but I'd be a customer myself, if I had some more money; I know I can earn some before long."
               "And you'd like some more bread?"
               "Yes, mam, if you'd trust me."
               "We don't like to trust boys. But you've always done as you agreed so far, and I'll run the risk. Mind you though, if you don't pay for the bread, I shall. Mr. Cummings shan't lose anything by my trusting you."
               "No, mam, he shan't."
               Any one who had seen Skye James on the morning in question would suppose him to be crowded with business. The shouts of boys with whom he was accustomed to play had no effect upon him, unless it might be to quicken his steps. Grandad had kept the fire going. The little battered tea pot was beginning to emit a fragrant steam, and it was time for the table to be spread in honor of the unexpected dinner.
               Skye did this with quite a parade, talking and laughing, merely to give expression to his exuberant feelings. He thought himself the happiest boy in the world. Indeed, he doubted if he would exchange places with the best dressed gentleman in the community. He was of some use. In his way he had earned a dinner for a poor old man. True, this had not been done by hard work, but it had been done by self denial; more self denial than many older than he would have practiced.
               "Seems to me I feel two inches taller," he thought, and looked down to see if the space between his bare feet and ragged trowsers had widened.
               Plenty of tea, plenty of bread; and although the table upon which these were arranged was rough and small, he who sat down to it was grateful for so much.
               "Eat a little with me, Skye, just for company's sake," said the old man, breaking the bread with trembling hands. "It's more than I expected. You've done a good deed, and God will reward you if I can't. But how did you get all this? You said you hadn't any money, and bakers don't trust boys like you."
               Again Skye told his story, clapping his hands in conclusion and exclaiming, "It all come round right; a sight better than 'twould been to smoke. Guess if all the cigars were swapped for bread 'twould be a good thing."
               "Yes, it would," answered grandad. "If I'd thought so when I was younger I shouldn't be as I am now. 'Twant all smoking though. I done worse than that; I've wasted a heap of money."
               
               "How?" asked his companion.
               "Spent it for what I didn't need. There's enough in the world for everybody; and folks have pretty much what they're a mind to."
               "Whew!" whistled Skye. "Guess that aint always so. I'd have lots of things if I could."
               "What?"
               "Oh good clothes, and good victuals; some beer and cigars, so I could treat all the boys and have a high old time."
               Grandad shook his head and then sipped some tea before replying to this remark. "You can have half that but not all," he said at length. "Which half will you take?"
               "Clothes and victuals," was the laconic reply. "A fellow can't live, without them. But I should want all."
               During this conversation Skye nibbled at a piece of bread, although he wasn't "the least mite hungry;" while the old man ate greedily. The tea, too, poor as it was, was such a luxury that he drank until the little pot was drained. Then he again thanked the boy who had so kindly provided for him.
               "Don't thank me any more, grandad," was the reply. "I'm just beginning to see some things, and I guess you've opened my eyes."
               "See what?"
               "Why, see that I've wasted a good deal of money instead of giving it to mother as I ought to. One day last week I had twenty cents, and four of us went off, and had a big time. I treated all round, and I remember mother didn't have any tea. She might, though, if I'd give her the money; I shall think of it next time."
               "That's just the way I used to do," responded the old man. "I let my mother want for a good many things; and now my Mary has to work for me, when I ought to take care of her. She has a hard time, poor girl; but I can't help her now."
               
               "Where did your mother live?" asked the boy. He had known Mr. Somers for several years, and on account of a distant relationship, called him grandad; yet he had never thought to enquire where his former home had been.
               "She lived in the country, when I was a little chap; but when I grew older, I wanted to go into a bigger place, and she went with me. I might have been well off. It's my own fault that I aint, and rum made the trouble."
               "I don't drink rum!" exclaimed Skye, his eyes flashing. "I know better than that. But beer don't do any hurt."
               "It costs money, and don't do any good," said Mr. Somers. "It's the beginning of bad things, too. Better give your mother some tea."
               "Guess I had, and there's lots of boys got poor mothers, like me, that waste their money. I wonder I didn't think of it before. I'm twelve years old, and I ought to do something to help along. I can lift—why, I don't know how much I can lift; but I can lift a big piece of iron, and hold it out just so," he added, suiting the action to the word. "What do you suppose I can do to earn money, grandad? I want to begin right off."
               "How did you earn money last week?"
               "Carried in some wood for a woman, and sawed a little. She wanted I should do it all, but I didn't want to stop. I'd do it now, though, if I had a chance. I must do something, 'cause you see I owe the baker, and I'm bound to pay my debts. This bread here in the box belongs to you, and there's tea enough for supper. So when Mary comes, she can save her money. Good bye, grandad. I'll come and tell you how I make out," and away bounded Skye, his heart swelling with new impulses.
               Strengthened by eating and drinking, Mr. Somers was able to crawl out and sit on the piazza, which extended nearly round the house. This had once been the residence of a wealthy family, but they too wasted their money for strong drink, and their home, having fallen into other hands, now offered shelter for the poorest and most unfortunate.
               Three rooms in the basement, two of them scarcely more than closets, were the best Mary Somers could provide for herself and grandfather. She worked early and late at whatever offered, but she was poorly paid, and could only keep the wolf from her door. She could not remember when they had not been poor; and yet, for a few weeks, poverty had seemed to her more terrible than ever before.
               She had but one comfort. Since her grandfather had been unable to work, he no longer drank intoxicating liquor; and this was a great improvement. In his family, as in others, it had been "like father like son." Her father was a drunkard, and her mother had sank under the sorrows and privations which fall to the lot of a drunkard's wife.
               No marvel that the old man felt he had wasted money, and that, as he sat alone day after day, he looked back to his past life, with regret and remorse. This was the first day he had been left literally, with only a crust, and the strange way in which assistance came, impressed him deeply. There are few in our country who have not, some time in their lives, listened to religious teaching, which will, sooner or later, come back to them with power. Speaking of his mother had recalled to Mr. Somers her words of warning.
               He thought of what he might have been, of what he was, and then of what the future held for him. The picture was not one to give pleasure. The contrasts were too marked, the coloring too deep; and he would gladly have turned from it. Yet some influence held his mental vision. He had wasted not only money, but time. He had beggared himself, soul and body; beggared others, too, Oh, it was so pitiful, that broken bread and twice-steeped tea should seem to him a feast!
               Children played around him. Men and women went on with their usual avocations, passing and repassing him, yet he did not heed them. Some one, pitying and fearing that he might be hungry, spoke to him; but he only shook his head and went on, thinking.
               Meanwhile, Skye James had done more than think. He went home, emptied his basket, and without stopping to answer his mother's questions, further than to say he bought the bread, hurried to the baker's.
               Here he was commended for his promptness, and told that some poor bodies had taken all the bread.
               "Not a crumb left," said the woman.
               "It's an ill wind that blows nobody any good; and I tell Mr. Cummings it's no matter if the boy did let the bread fall. You got your share of the good."
               "Yes, and I'm going to pay for it. I'm after work, now."
               "What kind of work?"
               "Any kind, that will pay."
               "Perhaps Mr. Cummings will give you a job. He turned off a boy, yesterday, and we need another."
               Mr. Cummings entered the front shop, at that moment, and having heard what had been said, looked at Skye, closely. "What can you do?"
               "I'd try to do most anything, if I had a chance," was the reply.
               "Can you reckon?"
               "Yes, sir, pretty well. My teacher says I can."
               "Guess I'll give you a try, on that;" and the try being given, our hero acquitted himself honorably. "You'll do, if you're honest," now said Mr. Cummings. "I've had a good many boys turn out bad after a while."
               "I am honest," was the response. "I never stole anything in my life, but some apples, and mother made me pay for them afterwards."
               "Well, do you want to work for me?"
               "Yes, sir, if you'll take me."
               "I'll take you on trial; but mind, I'm a strict master. I won't have boys that work for me pitching cents, smoking cigar stumps, guzzling beer. Ever done such things?"
               "Yes, sir," answered Skye, trembling, lest this confession should prove a death-blow to his hopes.
               "You have, have you?" responded Mr. Cummings, sharply. "I thought so. That's what most boys do, that look like you; and after a while, they turn out drunkards. The road is so strait you can see to the end. Now I won't have such a boy on my premises. Got a mother?"
               "Yes, sir;" and this reply was made in a voice so choked, as to be scarcely audible. Skye was beginning to pay the penalty for bad habits.
               "Any body else at your house?"
               "Yes, sir, two sisters."
               "Younger than you are?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "And your mother works to support the whole of you."
               "Yes, sir."
               It did seem though this man would never stop asking questions; while the boy, who was thus interrogated, dared hardly raise his eyes. He wished he had been less truthful; and yet, there was something in Mr. Cummings' manner which would have made it impossible for one to tell a lie in his presence, without being detected.
               At length he asked, "When do you want to begin work?"
               "Right off," was the reply. "I'm ready to begin this minute."
               "Got any better clothes than those rags?"
               "Yes, sir, mother's mending my other pants, and these wa'n't so bad, when I put them on this morning. I had a squabble with Joe McNabb, and they got torn."
               "Oh, you fight, do you?"
               "No, sir, not if I can help it. Joe pitched into me 'cause I took him off a little fellow that couldn't help himself."
               "Well, don't let me hear of you fighting while you work for me. Go home, and tell your mother I'm going to give you a trial. Tell her, too, I'll pay you in something to eat, if nothing more. And you'd better use some soap and water while your gone."
               "Yes, sir," answered the boy, with a bow, which was intended to be very respectful.
               Five minutes after, there was a great uproar in Mrs. James' kitchen. "Hurrah! Hurrah!" cried Skye, swinging his old hat at the imminent risk of rendering it unfit for wear. "I'm going to work, and I'm going to be a rich man, sometime; see if I don't. I know just what to do, and I'll do it."
               "Do what?" asked his mother, looking up from her work.
               "Get rich," he answered.
               "Get rich, child! What made you think of that?"
               "Grandad made me think of it. He says folks can have pretty much what they're a mind to; and I want some money. But there, I'll tell you all about it;" and his tongue moved rapidly for the next ten minutes, in which time he recounted what had taken place that morning, and announced several resolutions.
               
               "Now, mother, there's going to be some tall scrubbing done," he said in conclusion.
               Mr. Cummings was satisfied with the cleanliness of the boy, who presented himself in the back shop, and enquired what he should do first.
               "Come down stairs, and I'll show you," was the reply. "You've made quite an improvement in your appearance, since I saw you before. You look a hundred per cent better, and I shall expect you to keep clean."
               "Yes, sir," answered Skye, who, in the joy of his heart, would have promised almost anything.
               The baker explained what he wished to have done, waited a moment to make sure that he was understood, and then left "the new boy" to himself. It was a warm day, and the unusual exertion soon told upon our hero; but he persevered, working at the top of his speed, and looking resolutely forward to his reward. This came at night, when his employer told him he had paid for the bread.
               "Want to stay at home nights?" asked Mr. Cummings."
               "Yes, sir, I should like to," answered Skye.
               "Well, you can, if you'll be here early in the morning. Here's something for your supper," added the baker, giving him a small basket. "If you don't want it all, you can let your mother have the rest."
               Skye didn't run home that evening. To tell the truth, he was too tired for this. But he walked straight on, unheeding the signal whistles and calls which greeted him. He was impatient to see his mother, and the contents of the basket which he carried. No sooner was he in the house, than he opened it, before saying a word. There were some slices of cold meat, some pieces of ginger-bread, a small parcel of tea, and another of sugar.
               
               "Just look at that, mother!" exclaimed Skye. "Aint it nice? It makes my mouth water just to see it. And then to think that I earned it. Ain't you glad?"
               "Yes, my boy, I am glad. I've been most discouraged, lately. I ain't so strong as I used to be, and it takes a good deal for us all."
               "Guess it does, mother, and I'm going to help you all the time. See if I don't."
               By this time, Sarah James had placed a bowl of bread and milk on the table, saying, "See what we saved for your supper, Skye. Mother bought some milk, and we put a little water with it, so to have enough for you. It's real good."
               "Guess it is. We're in luck to-day," said the brother. "I should stand on my head a while, if I wa'n't so tired. I'm hungry, too, though I didn't think of it till this minute," and he commenced eating the bread and milk.
               "You must have some of the meat," said his mother.
               "Just a little," replied Skye. "The rest you and the girls can have; only I should like one slice for grandad. He didn't have anything but a crust, to-day, till I carried him some bread and two cents' worth of tea, I got at Miss Giblin's. 'Twas second hand, but better'n none, and he thought 'twas good."
               "He come round this afternoon, and told us all about it," said Mrs. James. "He feels pretty bad to think he's so poor, when there wa'n't no need of it."
               "Yes, he told me he'd wasted lots of money, and I know just how 'twas done. I've seen lots of men and boys at the same thing."
               "I do hope you will grow up to be a good man," remarked the poor mother, with a sigh. "If your father had lived, you'd be better than you are now."
               
               "Was my father a good man?"
               "Yes."
               "Then he wa'n't a drunkard."
               "No, thank God, he wa'n't. He was a hard-working, sober man."
               "I'm glad of that. Seems as though most all the boys I know, have drunken fathers."
               In the midst of this conversation, Skye had managed to eat the bread and milk, with a small piece of meat. Rising from the table, he said, "Now, I must go and see grandad. I promised I would, and if you're willing, I'll carry him a slice of meat."
               "The meat is yours," replied his mother. "You can do what you please with it."
               "No, mother, it is yours. I earned it for you. I guess I shall get some more, to-morrow. I'm going to work just as hard as I can, though Mr. Cummings says he don't expect I'll hold out as I've begun. See if I don't. I'm going to have my breakfast there to-morrow."
               Mrs. James gladly divided her small store, and Skye started for Mr. Somers' room. On the way, he encountered the purchaser of his cigar, and related his experience in few words. "You gave me the first lift, Jim, and I'm much obliged to you for it," he said. "Hope you had a good smoke."
               "'Twas good, what there was of it. But somebody else wanted to buy, and I sold out, for one cent less than I gave. Then I didn't have any treat at all. I gave all the money I had to mother. She looked so tired, I thought I would. I've earned some more since, and if you'll just come round the corner, we'll have some beer together."
               "No, Jim, that would be wasting your money. You ought to hear grandad talk about it. I've heard him, and I've made up my mind to be a rich man."
               "Believe you can, Skye?"
               "I believe I can have enough; and I shall, if I live, and am able to work. But I'm in a hurry, and can't stop any longer. Good night."
               Mary Somers had just reached home, when Skye made his appearance. She was disheartened and tired; too tired to care for anything but rest; and yet she had stopped on her way, to purchase some bread and tea. All day she had been haunted by the fear that her grandfather would starve, during her absence, and this fear had exhausted her strength more than the hard work she had done.
               She was happily disappointed, when she found him in a more cheerful mood than usual, and learned of the dinner which had been provided for him. Skye's visit, too, was a comfort; not only for the luxuries he brought, but for the courageous spirit he manifested. He spoke so confidently of the future, and was so sure of ultimate success, that the poor girl caught something of his hopefulness.
               "There's something towards your breakfast," said the boy, delivering his parcel. "Mother's going to have some potatoes with her meat."
               "I might have some, too," responded Mary, with the shadow of a smile, upon her pale face. "I wish I had them to-night. I must try and go for them."
               "Let me go!" exclaimed Skye; "I'm just the boy to do that."
               "But you are tired, as well as me."
               "Guess not. I was tired, but I'm getting rested. Let me have what money you want spent, and something to bring the potatoes in, and I'll be off."
               She was very glad to do this; but during Skye's absence, she thought of several things, which needed to be done, and, strangely enough, forgot her fatigue. It is so much easier to work, when there is one to help, be it ever so little.
               "There's lots of potatoes!" exclaimed the boy on his return. "I gave the grocer the money, and he heaped them up, as long as the dish would hold them. He said he wanted to get rid of his old potatoes, so to make room for new ones. Your're pretty well off now, and I must go home; I've got to be up early in the morning; but I'll come again, as soon as I can, and you mustn't get discouraged; I expect we shall all see better days."
               Was this the boy who rose from his bed, fourteen hours before, with no definite purpose, no feeling of responsibility, and hardly a wish, beyond the gratification of his animal wants? The very same; at least, so every one would have said, who saw him; and yet there had been a wonderful transformation. He had made a discovery. Money could be spent for something better than beer and cigars. Moreover, he was bound to test the truth of Mr. Somers' assertion, that "folks can have pretty much what they're a mind to."
               He had an eye for the main chance, and if his mother had consented, would have gone back for more potatoes. As it was he was only satisfied when she went herself and returned, bringing a generous supply, for the outlay she had made.
               "There, now, I guess I'll go to bed," said Skye. "I don't see as there's anything more for me to do to-night. Be sure to call me bright and early. I aint going to have Mr. Cummings find fault with me if I can help it."
               He seemed to have slept not more than an hour, when his mother was giving him a vigorous shaking.
               "Is it morning?" he asked.
               "Yes, and time to get up if you are going to the baker's," was the answer.
               
               "Well, I just am," he replied, springing from his hard bed. "Never slept so sound in my life, and aint more'n half awake, now."
               However, by the time he had given his hands and face a good scrubbing with the cold water his mother had provided, he was, to use his own expression, "bright as a button, and ready for work."
               "It seems pretty strange, mother," he said, while brushing his hair.
               "Pretty hard too?" she asked.
               "Nothing to speak of. It's what I ought to do, and you just look out for better times. They'll come, sure as you live. See if they don't."
               A few market wagons were coming into town at this early hour, but aside from them there was little to foreshadow the bustle and activity of the coming day. Skye James was in season. "Early enough," said his employer, who greeted him with a cheerful good morning, and at once set him to work. As a consequence he had a good appetite for a good breakfast, of which he ate heartily.
               If Mr. Cummings had really expected that a few days of hard work and good behavior would exhaust the boy's powers of endurance, he found himself mistaken. As Skye had commenced so he continued; only as he better understood his duties, his efforts were better directed.
               He was well paid, often with food, and sometimes with money. He kept his eyes and ears wide open, so that he was likely to learn from whatever transpired. Having sometimes to wait upon customers, he observed their different modes of buying. Some were careful to expend their money to the best advantage, making every penny go as far as possible, while others, less provident, thought only of present gratification. Many a man bought stale bread for his family, complaining of poverty erty and hard times, at the same time that he smoked, drank rum, gin, or whiskey, without compunction. Old Mr. Somers had helped to open the eyes of the baker's boy, so that he saw clearly what had before been hidden from his sight. And the change which had taken place in him dated back to the morning when, in obedience to the spirit of mischief, he had intentionally brushed his rags against Howard Foster's cigar.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  
                     
                        With heart to dare, and hands to do,
                        One chosen object to pursue,
                        Which God approves with gracious smile,
                        And though the way be dark the while,
                        Yet faith sustains the earnest soul,
                        As day by day it nears the goal.
                     
                  
               
               AMONG the very poor of our cities, moving is so common an occurrence as hardly to deserve notice. Old Mr. Somers had moved so many times in the course of his long life, that he had little choice as to the location of his home. The basement occupied by his grand-daughter and himself had, at first, seemed damp and unwholesome, but he became accustomed to it, and although suffering more from rheumatism in consequence, he never complained.
               
               He was rejoiced however when Mary told him she had hired three small rooms in the same house, and on the same floor with Mrs. James. This family seemed nearer to him than any other, while his interest in Skye was every day increasing, as well it might. The boy was worthy of interest, and he it was who had broached the plan of Mary Somers coming to live in the house with his mother.
               "Skye thinks of most everything," said Mary, who, though a grown woman, was thankful that even a boy would think for her.
               He did more than this. He acted; helping her to arrange her scanty furniture in the best manner. If anything was wanted, he knew where it could be bought for the least price, and soon he managed most of the business transactions of both families.
               He was "sharp, shrewd and honest," as Mr. Cummings said. He was determined to be rich; yet he had no idea of miserly hoarding. He would just like to live in a fine house, and think that he earned it all himself. Looking round upon the boys of his acquaintance, he decided that most of them would be poor all their days. As their fathers had done, so they were doing; squandering time and money.
               Skye would have liked to attend school; but this, for the present, seemed out of the question. Mr. Cummings wished for his assistance through the entire day, and his mother needed the pay for his labors. He could already read well, write tolerably, and reckon better than most boys of his age.
               "You've been to school more now than I ever did," said his employer. "You know enough to get through the world, if you make a good use of your knowledge. There's other ways of learning besides going to school every day. You ought to go to Sunday school. Did you ever go?"
               
               "Yes, sir, when I was a little chap, before father died. I haint been since, because I didn't have any good clothes, and didn't care about it, any way. There was a woman come the other day, and asked mother to send us. I want the girls to go; and mother's going to try to fix them up."
               "Well, I want you to go," rejoined Mr. Cummings. "I've learned more in Sunday school than I ever did anywhere else, and its the best place for you. Will you go?"
               This was rather hard for Skye. He knew how some of his old cronies would ridicule him, and sneer at his getting pious. But he was not wanting in independence; and after thinking for a moment, he said, "I can go, if you want me to."
               "Well, I do want you to go," answered the baker. "Go six months, every Sunday, and then if you don't like it, you can stop."
               That seemed fair, and Skye promised to commence, so soon as he could be provided with suitable clothes. "I mean as soon as I can buy them myself. I don't want any charity clothes."
               "You needn't have them," was the laughing reply. "I guess there's something your due; and you can have it now, as well as any time. You do better than any other boy I ever had, and I can afford to pay you more. You wouldn't feel bad, if my wife should give you a dress to make over for one of your sisters, would you?"
               "No, sir, not if I could pay for it."
               "Well, you can. There's likely to be work enough. I'm afraid, sometimes, you keep at it too close."
               "No danger," answered the boy, drawing himself up to his full height. "I've got plenty of strength."
               "Then use it to good purpose, and remember you must be in Sunday-school, right away. I don't like any hanging back, when a thing's been agreed upon. Right up to the mark, you know; and that's where I've found you, so far."
               "I'm in for it, all over," said Skye to himself, on his way home, that evening. Mrs. Cummings had given him a large bundle, which he was sure must contain more than one old dress, while he had money in his pocket to buy a suit of clothes. "There, see what there is in that bundle!" he exclaimed, as he entered his mother's room. "Mrs. Cummings said there was something to make a dress for Sarah; and she hoped you'd accept it, as long as she hadn't any little girl to use it for."
               All were eager to know the contents of the bundle; and it was soon opened. There were two dresses, instead of one, with various other articles of clothing, which could be re-made for children. Quite a treasure, they seemed to the poor woman, and yet she could not appreciate them as did Mary Somers, who had a natural gift for making old clothes look as well as new. She saw, at a glance, how everything could be put to the best use; and talked enthusiastically of sacques, dresses, and bonnets. "I wish I could just make them over for you," she said.
               "Well, why can't you?" asked Skye. "I can pay you for it."
               "I can contrive a better way than that," said Mrs. James. "I'll change works with you, if you're willing."
               "I should like that," replied Mary. "I always wished I could be a dress-maker."
               "Then why aint you one?" asked Skye. "I'd be, if I was in your place, and wanted to."
               "You see I never had a chance to learn; and poor folks, such as I've lived with, do their own sewing, pretty much. Now, I shall have a good time making over these things," and she really looked quite young in the brightness of her anticipations.
               Grandad, or grandfather, as Skye was now beginning to call him, joined the group, and expressed as much pleasure as could be expected from him. "I'm glad you're all going to Sunday-school," he remarked. "It's the place for you. I went, when I was a boy, and if I'd kept on, I might been somebody. Sunday-school and drinking don't go together very often. When I began to drink, I gave up the school; and now I haint been inside a church, for more'n forty years. I'm ashamed of it, and I've been thinking, since that woman came round and talked to me, I'd like to go, sometime. I'd crawl into a back pew, and folks wouldn't mind what an old man like me had on. But I want the rest of you to go, Mary and all. I wish I could earn something," he added, after a short silence.
               "I'm nothing but a burden."
               The next morning, so soon as one could see without a candle, Mary Somers commenced her work, and Mrs. James took in hand the pile of flannel shirts which her neighbor had brought from a shop the day before. Sarah could assist in this coarse sewing, so that rapid progress was made. By night, much had been accomplished, each party being benefited by exchange of labor.
               In the afternoon, old Mr. Somers went out, saying he was going to look for work.
               "What did he mean?" asked little Anna James.
               "I guess he didn't mean anything," answered Sarah. "He was only joking."
               But an hour after, Anna, who was looking from the window, said he was coming with a whole bunch of little white sticks. "And I guess he's going to do something with them," she added. "I 'most know he is. He's got them all tied up."
               
               The only answer which the old man gave to the questions asked him, was, that he liked to whittle, and having found the sticks among some shavings, he thought he would bring them home.
               "I'm going to the shop to-morrow, with a basket. The carpenter said he'd give me some shavings; and they'll help about the fire."
               The next day it was found that there was method in his whittling. He had three dozen skewers, which he exhibited to Skye in the evening. "Do you suppose I can sell them?" he asked.
               "I guess so," was the reply. "Let me try and sell them for you. There's a butcher near the shop, and I've seen him use skewers, not half so good as these. I'll take them along with me to-morrow; and I'll find time to run out with them, sometime."
               Time was found and the butcher was glad to buy the skewer's; paying, to be sure, but a few cents, yet promising to take all that Skye would bring. The boy was so happy over this piece of good fortune, that he told Mr. Cummings, who, although a strict master, had a kind heart.
               "That's the way," he said. "If a man can't earn much, let him earn little. Anything is better than nothing; and a few cents help along, a good deal, sometimes. If your butcher gets overstocked with the old man's skewers, I guess I can find you another market. Let him work away."
               Once Mr. Somers would have gone straight to the grog-shop, with the few pennies Skye carried to him; but not so now. He gave them to his grand-daughter, thankful that he could do even this little towards his own support.
               As the days went on, he continued to whittle: accomplishing more, as practice made him more skillful. He was happier for being employed; his daily walk to the carpenter's shop improved his health, and altogether he was more useful than he had ever been before.
               When Mary had finished the outfit for Mrs. James' little girls, others of her poor neighbors wished to employ her; and thus she found ample opportunity for the exercise of her skill. She was not well paid for this; but she was improving in the use of her needle, and it was certainly better than working for the wretched prices she received for making shirts.
               As winter approached, these two families were, comparatively, well provided to meet it. Skye had outlived all persecution, for his new way of doing things, and attended Sabbath school, as regular as any boy in the city. His sisters accompanied him; and they all attended church, where they were delighted with the organ, and the singing. As for the preaching and praying, Skye did'nt care much for them. He'd rather hear his teacher talk, than half a dozen ministers.
               "I know just what he means," said Skye. "He talks so the fellows can all understand him, and tells us just what we ought to do. I'd like to see him in the pulpit. You should go to hear him, grandfather, if I had to carry you. I mean to ask him to come here some time. See if I don't. He's a rich man, and lives in a big house; but he aint a bit proud."
               The boy was sure of this, "just as sure as could be," yet he delayed inviting Mr. Proctor to his home. The right time had not come. At last, he observed a new class in school. It was composed of old men, most of them poorly clad, and looking as though life offered them very little.
               "That's just the place for grandfather," thought Skye, and directly he found courage to ask his teacher if those old men were coming every Sabbath.
               
               "I hope so," was the reply. "Some of them have promised to come regularly. They have not been in Sabbath school before, for a great many years."
               "Then if they're coming, I mean to ask grandfather. I want him to come."
               "Have you a grandfather?" now asked Mr. Proctor.
               "I call him grandfather; but mother says he aint much related to me. He wants to go to church."
               "Then why doesn't he?"
               "Because he haint any good clothes to wear. I guess, though, he can come next summer. He earns money now."
               Further questions elicited enough to rouse the interest of Mr. Proctor, who promised to call upon his pupil during the week. "I may come to-morrow evening, if you will be at home," he said.
               True to his appointment, he appeared Monday day evening, and after stopping for a few minutes in Mrs. James' room, went to make the acquaintance of Mr. Somers.
               The old man, unaccustomed to meet strangers in this way, was at first much embarrassed; but his visitor understanding how to put him at ease, they were soon talking familiarly.
               Mr. Proctor hardly needed to be told the history of his companion's life, so like was it to thousands of others, who spend the strength of their days in dissipation.
               "I used to think I could do most anything," said Mr. Somers. "I could earn good wages, but I wasted my money; and now I'm poor, as you see. I'm most through, too."
               "Most through with this life," responded Mr. Proctor.
               "Yes, sir, that's what I mean. I know there's something beyond; but it's all dark to me."
               
               "It need not be," was the reply. "Christ sheds light upon the future." The old man shook his head. "Don't you believe that, my friend?"
               "I don't know much about it. My mother was a good woman, and read her Bible; but I made fun of it, and broke her heart. Oh, I've been wicked, sir, and 'twas rum that made me so. I'd done well enough, if it hadn't been for that. I used to think, sometimes, I'd give up drinking; but I didn't, as long as I could work. When I got so I couldn't earn anything, I stopped. I hadn't a heart to take Mary's money to buy rum with. Now I earn a little, and I give it all to her. She's a good girl, is Mary, and I'm glad she can go to Sunday school."
               "And I wish you to come with her," said the visitor.
               "I am too old for that," answered Mr. Somers.
               "Oh, no, sir. We have a class of men about your age. They came in yesterday for the first time, and they seemed to enjoy the hour very much. Won't you come?"
               "I don't know," replied the old man, adding, after a short silence, "I'm hoping I shall be able to go to church, next summer, when the weather's warmer."
               This did not satisfy Mr. Proctor. Now is the only time with promise. Before the next Sabbath, a respectable overcoat was provided, and Mary having made her grandfather otherwise as tidy as possible, there was no reason why he should not attend Sabbath school. Leaning upon his cane, he walked slowly through the streets, Skye keeping pace with him. Mr. Proctor waited for him at the entrance of the school-room, and welcomed him with cordiality.
               The teacher which had been assigned to the class of aged men, was well fitted for his position tion; one who knew both how to interest and be interested. He talked to them in an easy, familiar way, with an open Bible in his hand, illustrating its great truths, so that they could not fail to be instructed.
               Mr. Somers listened as though his life depended upon the words he heard, and looked up in surprise, when the bell struck for the exercises to close.
               "I shall hope to see you again, next Sabbath," said the teacher, who had spoken all the more earnestly, because he felt that his words were appreciated.
               "Yes, sir, I'll come," was the reply. "I've been glad to come to-day."
               Thence to church. No matter if he did occupy an obscure pew. No matter if his clothes were none of the best. The message of God's embassador was for him as much as for those who were arrayed in purple and fine linen.
               When, in the evening, himself and granddaughter sat down to a comfortable supper, he was almost ready to open his lips in praise to the giver of all mercies. After this, when the lamp was lighted, (for Mary had been able to provide a lamp,) he read a tract which Mr. Proctor had slipped into his hand. He would gladly have read a chapter in the Bible; but the print of the only one they possessed was so fine that he could not make out a single verse.
               "Would you like to have me read to you?" asked Skye, coming in just as grandfather laid down the Bible.
               "Yes," was the reply. "I can't see as well as I used to, and I want to hear something more from the good book to-day."
               Now Skye generally considered reading the Bible stupid business, and had just congratulated himself upon having learned his lesson, so that he was through with it for a week. With all his noble qualities, and he had many, he was by no means a pattern boy. It was not certain, yet, what he would be. One thing, however, was tolerably sure. He would pretend to no goodness which he did not possess. As he glanced from the Bible to Mr. Somers, he wondered what there was to interest any one so much.
               "I'm much obliged to you," said the old man. "They're good words, you've read. I hope, sometime, I can have a Bible with large print, so I can read myself."
               "What makes you care about it?" asked his young companion. "I didn't know you used to."
               "I didn't. But I've been thinking, lately, and you see I haint got long to live. I ought to get ready to die."
               "Why, grandfather, I hope you aint going to die this great while. I shouldn't know how to get along without you," exclaimed Skye.
               "You'd find a way," replied the old man. "I'm 'most eighty years old, and never done any good yet. I try not to hinder now, if I can't help; but it's hard to look over such a life as mine. If I'd died, when I wa'n't older'n you, 'twould been better, though Mr. Proctor says 'taint never too late to repent and be forgiven. But then I've done so many wicked things he don't know anything about."
               Skye could make no answer to this. He was usually able to say something, but here he was forced to silence. Repentance and forgiveness were subjects of which he knew very little. His teacher talked of them, but in a way which seemed expressly for boys, and he had not learned that all who sit at Jesus' feet must become as little children.
               While the Bible had been read, Mary went to her neighbor's room, where the mother and her little daughters were gathered cosily about the stove.
               
               "I thought you'd come," said Sarah. "I told Skye to ask you."
               "But he didn't," was the response.
               "Then I guess he forgot. He always does as we want him to now. But it aint any matter now you've come."
               There was no light here, except what shone from the glowing coals, and was revealed through the open doors of the stove.
               "How pleasant this is," said Mary. "Most everything seems pleasant to me now. It's all so different from what it was last winter."
               "Different for us, too," responded Mrs. James. "I can hardly realize the change. Skye was a trial to me last winter. If he earned anything it didn't do me any good; and it was as much as I could do to get enough for us to eat. I was discouraged."
               "Discouraged!" repeated Mary Somers, "I've never been anything but discouraged since I can remember till now. I'm going to work for Mrs. Cummings this week, and she'll pay me well. Grandfather makes a good many skewers, and Skye sells them all, so we shall get along. I wanted a new dress; but I found one that had been worn some, and bought it cheap. It will do just as well as a new one, when it's made over, and I saved a good deal in the bargain. Skye saw it hanging up in an old clothes shop, and told me about it. I wonder what that boy don't see."
               Talking of the dress led them to speak of the occasion for which it had been purchased. There was to be a Sabbath School Festival, on Christmas evening, and all the scholars would of course desire to look their best. It was a new thing for Mary, who anticipated quite as much as the children, and looked forward with as much impatience. She ripped the dress she had bought, washed, pressed, and re-made it so neatly, that every one would have supposed it to be entirely new.
               
               Christmas evening came, and all, including grandfather, went to the school room. No marvel that the old man's eyes were dazzled as he looked round upon the well spread tables, the handsomely decorated trees, and the smiling faces of teachers and scholars. No marvel that starving, shivering children outside, stood on tiptoe, that they might see all this.
               "I wish I'd gone when that lady asked me," said a girl to her brother, who, half a head taller than herself, was able to see much more than she, although both were standing on an old box, which for some reason had not been appropriated by those who seek their fuel in the streets.
               "I wish you had, Di," replied the boy. "If my trowsers want so ragged, I'd go and ask them to let me in now."
               "No, Dick, I wouldn't do that. They'd know you come just for the goodies, and 'twould look real mean. But oh, I do wish I had one piece of cake."
               
                  
                     Dick and Di looking at the Christmas Festival. Page 78.
                  
               
               
               Skye James having caught a glimpse of faces pressed against the windows, and being always disposed to investigate matters, went out to satisfy himself in regard to the owners of these faces.
               Dick started to run; when Di, calling out that it was nobody but the baker's boy, he returned. "We aint doing nothing bad," she said. "We only wanted to see; and that don't hurt nobody. Aint it fine?"
               "Yes," answered Skye, who was scanning the boy's features, and trying to recall where he had before seen them. "Didn't you ever come to this Sabbath school?" he asked, at length.
               "No," answered Dick. "A woman asked us, but granny said we shouldn't come a step; I wish we had though, if she did whip us. She's dead now. It's cold out here."
               "Where do you live?"
               "Guess we don't live much of anywhere," answered Dick. "We've got to turn out into the street to-morrow; I shouldn't mind, but it's hard for Di."
               "Had anything to eat to-day?"
               "Not much;" and here the boy hung his head. "Di had a crust, and I found some parings."
               "Parings of what?"
               "Taters."
               "You don't say that you eat potato parings," exclaimed Skye.
               "Yes, I did. I don't tell lies, though grannie whipped me because I wouldn't."
               "Well, you just come along with me;" and the children accompanied their young guide without question. He took them into the narrow hall, which led to the schoolroom, and told them to stand close in one corner till he came back.
               They did as directed, never doubting. Skye found Mr. Proctor, and told his story, adding, "I forgot to look for any more children, but I'm sure there are more out there."
               "Show me these first," was the reply; and the next moment Dick and Di were looking up into a kind face, their lustrous eyes opening wide in astonishment at the manner they were addressed. "My children," the gentleman called them, and took their chilled hands in his own soft, warm palms. "Would you like to come in?" he asked.
               "Yes, sir; only we're so dirty and ragged they'd laugh at us," answered Dick.
               "But suppose I put you in a warm corner all by yourself, where no one will see you, and where you can have plenty to eat?"
               "O, sir, will you give us something to eat?" asked Di. "That would be so nice. I'm hungry."
               "Yes, child, I will," and shielding them from observation as much as possible, Mr. Proctor took them into the school room and placed them behind a screen.
               
               This screen, which had been used in the early part of the evening to conceal the preparation of some amusing entertainment, now concealed these children. They sat down on a low bench, smiling in sympathy with the music, merry voices, and ringing laughter.
               Skye was considering the propriety of enquiring more particularly into their condition, when the gentleman who had left them, so soon as they were fairly ensconced in the warm corner, returned with a plate of substantial food. There were slices of buttered bread, cold meat, and plain cake. Eyes danced, and hands were raised involuntarily.
               "Is it all for us?" asked Dick.
               "To be sure it is, and more, if you wish. Come, Skye, let us leave them to eat their supper, while you and I look round a while. We can come back and see what is wanted."
               By this delicate consideration, the children were left to enjoy their supper in their own way, and being nearly famished, they ate ravenously.
               The bread and meat were so good, and all was so unexpected, that Di was "'most afraid 'twas a dream."
               She didn't ask Dick to pinch her, to make sure she was awake; but she did look at him sharply, to see if he was the very same.
               The blood began to course more rapidly through their veins, and they experienced a feeling of delicious languor. When Mr. Proctor returned, Di was leaning her head upon her brother's shoulder, but she sprang up suddenly at his approach, her eyes opening wide as usual.
               "Well, my children, have you had all you wish?" he asked, presenting a plate upon which were some rosy apples.
               "Yes, sir, we have had enough," answered Dick, yet reaching out his hand for an apple. "We never had anything so good before."
               
               "No, never," added Di. "Nobody ever give us such nice things before."
               "Then you are glad you came in."
               "Yes, sir."
               "Would you like to come to school, next Sabbath?"
               "Yes, sir; we wanted to come when the lady asked us, but granny said we shouldn't."
               "Who is granny?" asked Mr. Proctor.
               "The woman we lived with after mother went off; but she wa'n't like our own grandmother. Grandmother was real good. But she died; and now granny's dead, too."
               "Where is your mother?"
               "I don't know, sir. She went off, somewhere. She wa'n't like grandmother, either."
               "How long has your grandmother been dead?"
               "Much as a good while," answered Di, looking to her brother for confirmation of this statement. "Yes, we've had three winters since."
               "And have you lived with granny all the time?"
               "Yes, sir. We hadn't nobody else, and she took us. She made us beg every day; when it stormed, too."
               "But what of your father?"
               "He's a sailor," replied Dick, promptly. "We had good things when he came home, but he haint come since grandmother died. Perhaps he's dead."
               "Who is going to take care of you?"
               "I don't know. I hope there won't anybody like granny. I wouldn't mind, if 'twa'n't for Di. The man the room belongs to, says we shan't stay there any longer."
               After this, Mr. Proctor went in search of a woman who could talk to such as these, even better than himself. She was one who had threaded the lanes and alleys of the city, until she knew much of its destitution; an almoner of others' bounty, and a laborer for others' good.
               
               She remembered to have seen the children before. Their faces, and the circumstances in which they met, had impressed her. She corroborated their story of the woman with whom they had lived, and did not hesitate to accept all which they said as true.
               The children recognized her at once, and were more communicative than they had been with Mr. Proctor. They told her how they had passed the time since granny's death. They had begged, as before; but they were not expert at this. They never told falsehoods, and they had neither crutches nor patches, to appeal to the sympathy of passers by. Miss Warren understood their position, and she, perhaps as well as any other, who had not learned it by experience, knew how difficult it was for them to obtain an honest living.
               "Wouldn't you like to look out, and see what the people are doing?" she asked at length.
               "They'd see us, if we did, and we're so ragged," answered Di, looking down upon her scanty garments. "We'd better stay here."
               "Perhaps we'd better go home," added Dick.
               "Oh, no, not yet," said his sister. "It's nice here, and 'twas so cold last night."
               Upon enquiry, Miss Warren found that these children had slept upon a bag of shavings, with no covering, except an old quilt, full of holes. "I wore my shawl," said Di, pointing to a diminutive square drawn around her shoulders. "Dick wouldn't have a bit of it. He said he could bear the cold better'n I could."
               "And so I could," he rejoined. "But 'twas worse last night, 'cause we were hungry. We aint hungry now."
               "No, we aint, and perhaps we'd better go now. We thank you, for what we've had to eat."
               
               "You are very welcome," replied Miss Warren. "But I am not quite ready to have you go. Wait a few minutes, until I come back to you."
               Mr. Proctor was consulted, Skye James was pressed into service, and as a result, Dick and Di Barber went home with a reasonable prospect of being warm through the night. Di wore a woolen shawl, so large she was obliged to hold it up with both hands; Skye carried a thick quilt, and Dick was the bearer of a blanket. All these were provided by the patrons of the Sabbath school, and were to be returned whenever called for. In this case, more was loaned than usual; but the extreme destitution seemed to demand it, and Mr. Proctor was surety for the value of the articles.
               Skye had thought he knew what it was to be poor; but he learned a new lesson that night. Up three flights of stairs, groping after his companions, he stumbled on, until he reached a landing, where Dick told him to stop.
               "Wait till I open the door," said the boy. "I've got a candle and a match. I'll light up in a minute;" but the precious candle was missing. Only the wick remained.
               "It's just them rats," exclaimed Di. "They eat up everything they find. But I suppose they're hungry," she added, in a compassionate voice. "And the moon shines; so we can get along."
               "Is this your home?" asked Skye James, looking round the small room, so destitute of furniture, that the bag of shavings was the most prominent article.
               "Yes, it's a poor one, aint it?" replied Dick. "We had a better one, before grandmother died; but we've had enough to eat, and now we shall be warm; so 'twill do, to-night. Mr. Proctor said he'd come and see us, to-morrow."
               
               "Then he will. He does just as he says, every time;" and Skye having given this assurance, bade the children good night, and went back to the school-room.
               This seemed to him quite an adventure, and occupied his thoughts to the exclusion of everything else seen or heard. So much was his attention engrossed, that, for a while, he forgot to look after grandfather Somers, who, with other members of the old mens' class, had been provided with comfortable seats, where they were likely to be benefited by all which transpired.
               These old men talked together of their past lives, with only two exceptions, attributing their poverty to the love of intoxicating liquor; and these two had suffered from the dissipation of others.
               "It's a pity," said one. "It hurts me to think of it; but I'm thankful I got strength to give it up at last."
               "How long is it since you give it up?" asked another.
               "Ten years to-day," replied the first speaker. "I got hurt then, and the hospital doctor said I'd die right away, if I didn't give up liquor. I told him first I'd die; but I didn't want to die, after all. I knew I wa'n't ready. Then I was shut up in the house a good while, and my folks wouldn't get rum for me. If I had all the money I've spent for liquor, and all the time I've wasted drinking it, I should be a rich man to-day."
               "So should I. So should I," said others.
               "Liquor's a curse to them that sells as well as them that buys. I used to keep a grog-shop myself."
               "You did?" said Mr. Somers, looking at his companion in astonishment.
               "Yes, I did, and considerable of an establishment, too. At first I dressed well, then I made money; but I was too good a customer at my own bar. I had some boys, and they learned to drink. After a while I couldn't find any profits, but I kept on till I sold the vilest stuff that's made. There's no stopping when we're going down hill, with the devil at our heels. He whips up all the time, and chuckles, too, I guess, though we don't hear him."
               If the conversation of these old men could have been heard throughout that crowded room, it would have fixed the attention of all. At the eleventh hour they had been persuaded to put themselves in the way of hearing God's truth; and already they were the better and happier for so doing.
               In no one of the group was the change more marked than in Mr. Somers. He regretted his wasted years; but he looked forward, with glad hope, to the eternal future. When this hope had taken the place of anxious desire, he could hardly tell, so gradually had it dawned upon him. The mercy of God, and the infinite sacrifice made by Christ for the sins of the world, were the themes of his meditation. As he sat in church on the Sabbath, it seemed to him that he was at the very gate of heaven, while the preacher opened wide the gate, bidding all to enter. He delivered the message of the master, "Come unto me all ye that labor, and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." Grandfather Somers was weary, and heavy laden. Surely this message was for him.
               As yet he had no bible in which he could read, but Mary read a chapter every evening, and the words so impressed him that he remembered much of what he heard. He hoped some time to be the possessor of a bible, suited to his failing sight; although he had said nothing in regard to it, since the evening Skye first read to him.
               But Skye did not forget. He had promised himself the pleasure of giving to every member of the family a present, at Christmas; yet anything expensive was beyond his means. Under the circumstances, however, a bible must be had, and he set his wits to work to devise some means for procuring it. Every cent of money in his possession was already appropriated. A dress for his mother, some bright colored tippets for his sisters, and a silver thimble for Mary Somers. These were the selections he had made.
               Mary shared his secret in regard to his own family, while his mother was intrusted with the purchase of her thimble. He knew what she intended to give her grandfather, and after some consideration, he proposed that they abandon their first plans and, together, purchase a bible.
               "But that will take more money than we've got," was the reply.
               "I know it," said Skye. "But perhaps I can manage to earn a little extra before that time."
               "Earn a little extra!" repeated Mary, looking into the boy's honest face. "I should think you earned extra all the time. I only wonder how you can do so much. You never have any time to rest."
               "Don't I though? I go to bed every night before you do, and sleep like a hammer. What more do I want? If I didn't work I should loaf round the streets, smoking stumps of cigars, and spending every cent I could pick up for beer. If I didn't do worse than that sometimes, too, 'twould be strange. I tell you, Mary, work's the thing for me. There's loafers enough without me, rich and poor. The only difference between rich ones and poor ones is, that the rich has got money and the poor ones haint; and I guess they'll come out about the same in the end. But you see, we must have that bible for Christmas. There'll be a way to get it; see if there aint."
               There was a way, involving the loss of some sleep on Mary's part, a corresponding loss with Mrs. James, and an addition to Skye's hours of labor, the week before the holidays. Mr. Cummings, who interested himself in the boy's plans, purchased the Bible, at a reduced price, so that something remained of the sum appropriated to its purchase.
               Such surprises as there were Christmas morning. The secrets had been well guarded, and everybody received what was most desired. Grandfather was overjoyed with his treasure; thanking the donors again and again. Skye had not been forgotten in the general giving, and there was not in all the city a happier family than this.
               The greatest surprise of all, however, came at noon. Mr. Cummings rapped at the door of Mrs. James' room, and being admitted, placed carefully upon the table, a. large tin box, saying, "There is something for your dinner. I meant to get here sooner, but I was hindered. Hope you'll like it, and Skye can bring back the box."
               Mr. Somers and Mary were in the room, and every one, except grandfather, sprang up to see what the box contained. There was a turkey, cooked in the best manner, a bountiful supply of potatoes, and some appetizing gravy. Mrs. James had prepared what she considered a luxurious dinner; but her meat and potatoes would bear no comparison with this, They were set aside for another day, while the two families enjoyed a Christmas dinner "good enough for a king."
               After a day made so bright by kind and generous attention, the evening could not be otherwise than pleasant. Skye was in hilarious spirits until the sight of Dick Barber's home had saddened him. After this, upon going to speak to his grandfather, the old man asked what was the matter.
               
               "Nothing, only I'm sorry for all the poor children to-night," he replied. "I wish they were every one here."
               "You do," said one of the group. "There'd be a large army. How could you feed so many?"
               "I don't know," answered the boy.
               "I don't either; but I heard a man say, the other day, that if all the money now spent for liquor was spent for food, everybody would have enough."
               "Then it's wicked to drink liquor," exclaimed Skye.
               "Of course it is. I never see the day when I didn't believe that, though I've drinked a good deal of liquor. Keep clear of it, boy, if you don't want to come to poverty and rags."
               "I shall keep clear of it," was the emphatic reply. "I'm going to be a rich man, so I can help all the poor children."
               That evening, after they reached home, Skye could not think of sleeping, until he had related his adventure, and expressed a world of sympathy for Dick and Di. "I wish I had a lot of money," he said, "I'd just hire that room up-stairs, and take them children over here, right away. When I'm a man, I'll do lots of such things. See if I don't."
               This was the conclusion of many of Skye's predictions, and his mother often told him if all proved true, there would be a great deal to see; but she never considered it necessary to say that it was easier to talk, than to do. His words corresponded so well with his actions, that she was getting to have great faith in him.
               "You will be sleepy, in the morning," at length remarked Mary, who was herself in no mood for retiring.
               "I know it; but I can get up, if I am," answered Skye. "The alarm will go off just the right minute. I wonder what Mr. Proctor will say to Dick and Di, in the morning. I wish you could go over and see them. Can't you, Mary?"
               "Perhaps so. I've got a good deal of work to do; but I'll see."
               Grandfather Somers had not heard this conversation, so he was told the story the next morning. "I shouldn't wonder if they're Richard Barber's children," he said. "His mother used to live with him, or his wife. He was a sailor, and was gone most all the time. His mother was a good woman, and tried to do the best she could; but his wife was a giddy young thing when he married her. She took to drink, after a while, and behaved as no decent woman would."
               "Oh, I remember, now," exclaimed Mary, "I'll go right over and see the children, this morning, work or no work. Seems as though I should know them; but perhaps I shan't."
               "No, Mary, you can't expect that," responded the old man. "It's five years since you saw them."
               "Yes, grandfather, it must be."
               "Then they've grown a good deal. But I want you to go and see them, and I wish you'd ask them over here, just for to-day. We've got enough to give them to eat, and I'll try to do a little more work."
               Mary Somers went, and found that Mr. Proctor was there before her. The room was as comfortless as could well be imagined. The children were sitting on the bag of shavings, wrapped in the articles which had been loaned them the previous evening, while their visitor was standing before them, evidently holding close consultation with himself in regard to the best way of assisting them.
               He was glad to see a woman's face; one, too, which he had seen before; and he immediately diately asked Miss Somers if she could suggest any plan by which these children could be provided with a home. "Dick says he promised he would never leave his sister, so they must go together," said the gentleman. "I intend to make enquiries in regard to their relatives, if I can get any clue to guide me; but now they must be sheltered somewhere. Do you know anything of them?"
               "I think I have lived in the house with them," replied Mary, who had been scrutinizing their faces. "Their grandmother was alive then, and their mother was with them. But that was five years ago, and I haint seen them since."
               "Are you sure these are the same children?"
               "No, sir, not sure, but it seems like it. Their father's name was Richard, and he was a sailor. The boy looks as Richard Barber did."
               "My father's name was Richard," exclaimed the boy. "Grandmother used to say I looked like him."
               "Do you remember this lady?" asked Mr. Proctor.
               "No, sir, but I was a little chap, five years ago. I'm only seven now, and Di is eight. Granny said I was old enough to earn my living, and I guess I am. I don't want to beg, though; I'd rather work."
               After a short consultation, Mary took the children to her home, Mr. Proctor having given her a sufficient sum of money to defray their expenses for a few days. With this arrangement, they were quite delighted, particularly after Dick had persuaded himself that he remembered Grandfather Somers.
               The first luxury they enjoyed was a thorough washing; the next, entire suits of clothing, which, though old and patched, were vastly better than those laid aside. Dick's bushy locks were shorn, and Di's thoroughly brushed, so that the two presented a tidy appearance. Then came breakfast, and by this time, the morning was far advanced. But Mary could afford to lose a few hours from her work. The pleasure she felt in being able to assist others, more than compensated for all.
               Night came, and with it Skye James. Anna was first to tell him that there were two children in grandfather's room, and she volunteered the additional information that the boy had been whittling all day, while the girl was learning to sew. "They're the ones you told us about, last night," she said.
               "Whew! That's it, is it?" replied her brother. "Well, I'm glad; but that boy can do something besides whittle. I'll go right in and see him."
               He did so, and remained until his mother called him, when he exclaimed, "I declare, I forgot all about going to bed. Before I got home, I thought I'd go just as quick as I could; but I ain't a bit sleepy now. Oh, if I live, mother, I'll have some money, so I can help poor boys and girls. See if I don't. I wish I was rich as Howard Foster. I see him to-day, driving a tip-top team. I'll drive as good a team as he does, sometime. See if I don't."
               What would the fastidious gentleman have said to this? Shrugged his shoulders, doubtless, and looked with supreme contempt upon the speaker.
               This is a glorious country, where well-directed labor brings a rich reward, and true merit is, sooner or later, recognized.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  
                     
                        Oh, mystic bond! Through years to come,
                        Two lives must bide the fate of one;
                        And every act, for weal or woe,
                        A double bliss or curse bestow.
                        Yet each before the Master's throne
                        Shall meet its recompense alone.
                     
                  
               
               IT was long past midnight; and yet Retta Foster, who had been in bed more than an hour, had not slept. Her brother came at last. Just as the clock struck one, the street door opened and closed, after which she heard unsteady, shuffling steps. She raised her head from the pillow, and listened for Howard to come up the stairs. She continued to hear him move, and once thought that he spoke. Presently all was still.
               Retta understood this; was as sure as though she had seen him, that Howard was partially intoxicated. It was the fear of this which had kept her waking and watching.
               Often had she remonstrated with him, and as often been told that he was perfectly able to regulate his own conduct, and manage his own affairs. "When I need your advice, I will ask for it. At present, I neither need nor desire it."
               "Howard, I wish you would be home in good season," said his mother, when he went out the previous evening. "I am always anxious when you are gone late."
               "There is no necessity for your being anxious," he answered, coldly. "I am to meet some friends, and probably shall not be home very early."
               Mrs. Foster sighed. She was indeed very anxious for him; but she hoped that as he grew older, and assumed the responsibilities of life, he would do differently. Retta was careful never to blame Howard in her presence.
               "Don't be troubled," the kind-hearted girl would say. "We will expect him to come out all right; and at the worst, you will have me left. I am going to learn how to manage, so you can depend upon me."
               "I do depend upon you, child, more than I ought to already. Your father always looked out for everything, and it seems as though Howard ought to, now."
               "But you know Howard isn't as old as father was, and you must not expect so much of him. He will do better, bye and bye."
               "I hope so, child. But it seems hard that you should have so much care, just as you are out of school."
               "No, mother, it is not hard at all. It does me good; keeps me out of mischief, and develops latent energy. Don't you see that I improve?"
               "Indeed I do, and I am afraid some one else will see it, too. I shall be losing you."
               "Borrowing trouble again! Why, mother, you are incorrigible. Wait until there is some prospect of losing me."
               So Retta strove to cheer her mother, while her own heart was so sad that she longed to go away by herself, where no effort at concealment was necessary.
               During her school life, she had made the acquaintance of several worthy young ladies, whose brothers were dissipated, and she wondered why, in the wise economy of providence, such things were permitted. She had a great desire to know the reason of things, and, in her early teens, had tried smoking, that she might understand the pleasure to be derived from this elegant relaxation. Of course, she was, to use her own expression, "horridly sick," and so ended her investigations in that direction.
               
               A severe headache was sure to follow indulgence in wine; and for this reason she adopted total abstinence as a rule, often much to the annoyance of her friends.
               "Perhaps it would be better not to refuse wine so persistently," said her mother, after an occasion when she had made herself more conspicuous than usual.
               "But why shouldn't I refuse?" asked Retta. "If I had drinked wine last evening, I should have paid the penalty to-day. Should I be any more agreeable to you, dear mother, if I was moping about the house, cross and complaining?"
               "You are never cross, my dear," answered Mrs. Foster. "Your sunny temper is a great blessing to me."
               "I am glad I can be a blessing in any way. But I can assure you that it is very hard for me to smile and be cheerful, when I am suffering with pain: so it is for the happiness of all, that I should leave wine drinking for those who have stronger heads than mine."
               "I yield to the point, Retta. You know what is best. But I saw that young Spafford seemed offended when you refused to take wine with him, last evening. Did you observe it?"
               "Certainly, mother, and was rejoiced. I only hope his anger will continue without abatement. A young man who has nothing to do but lounge, smoke, sip wine, and talk nonsense with every girl he meets, is of no account with me."
               Howard came into the room in time to hear this last remark, and turning to his sister with a frown, said, "You are complimentary this morning. Of whom were you speaking?"
               "I made a general remark," she answered.
               "A very unlady-like remark," he responded. "I hope you will learn, sometime, what constitutes stitutes good breeding. You offended Frank Spafford last evening, and if he treats you as you deserve, you will receive no more attention from him."
               "I am willing to be treated as I deserve," replied Retta, with spirit. "What is more, I intend to be so treated. I am not a child to be dictated and ridiculed as suits the whim of one who has no other employment for his time. Please to remember this in future. So long as you do nothing to benefit or oblige others, it would be better for you to refrain from criticism. If any one is offended at my refusing wine, it does not matter. I shall persevere as I have commenced; and it would be well for some others to follow my example."
               Mrs. Foster had not heard this. She went out to see that Howard's breakfast was in readiness, and arranged to please him.
               But she might have spared herself the trouble. He was in no mood to be pleased. The coffee was tasteless, the muffins heavy, and the steak overdone. He pushed his chair from the table with disgust. One headache in a family was sufficient, as Mrs. Foster acknowledged to herself, with a sigh.
               "I suppose you call that good breeding," exclaimed Retta, so soon as her mother was out of hearing. "Complaining of everything set before you. You are getting unbearable, Howard," she added, in a less excited tone. "I wonder you can make yourself so disagreeable."
               "Disagreeable!" he repeated with a sneer, as he left the room, without deigning further reply.
               Retta Foster thought very fast during the next fifteen minutes, which thought resulted in the adoption of several resolutions. For six months, she would make no attempt to remonstrate with her brother, whatever he might do. She would, in all possible ways, contribute to her mother's happiness, and so far as her own conduct was concerned, she would act independantly.
               If, at the same time, she could have banished all anxiety and useless regret, much more might be gained; but Howard was her brother, and she loved him, despite all his faults.
               He was now nearly twenty-five years of age, with a tolerable education, and as good health as any one with his habits could expect to have. As his birthday was approaching, his mother, though often repulsed, felt constrained once more to urge upon him the necessity of choosing some business or profession.
               He listened impatiently, frowning as usual.
               "Why need you trouble yourself?" he asked, at last. "My income is sufficient to meet my expenses."
               "Because, my son, the world should be better for your living in it. Your father wished you to make good his place."
               "I am not like my father."
               "I know that, Howard. I wish you were like him. He was a good, energetic man, and attended regularly to his business. I am afraid I have been too indulgent with you, my son; but if I have, it was because I loved you so much; and now my love for you compels me to plead with you. I wish you would be more temperate. Your father drank wine sparingly, and said there were many who ought not to drink at all. When you come home late at night, I know by the sound of your footsteps, that you are not always in the condition that you should be."
               "Do you mean to insinuate that I am intoxicated?" asked the young man, in an insolent tone.
               "I fear that you have been, my son. It is dreadful for me to believe this; but you oblige me to do so. I hope you will do differently, in future. O, Howard, for my sake—" Here the speaker was forced to pause, while tears relieved her excited feelings.
               It is but just to say that Howard Foster's heart was moved. He was sorry to see his mother weep, and said so in a way which made her believe that she had, at last, produced some effect by her words. Yet Howard promised nothing in the way of reform.
               Just then a new object of interest engrossed his attention. A young lady, whom he had recently met, seemed to him a paragon of perfection; and he was considering the probability of being able to win her regard. She had piqued him by her indifference, and the careless manner in which she had received his attentions, when courtesy demanded their acceptance, so that he was really interested.
               Gallant speeches and obsequious attentions were not new to her. She had been accustomed to them since her first entrance into society, and prized them at their true value. With a graceful figure, a singularly attractive face, and manners at once elegant and unaffected, it was not strange that Adah Snow should be surrounded by admirers. She was the only surviving daughter of her parents, and the pet of two older brothers. There had been other daughters, who died in infancy, and this may have been one reason why Adah was so tenderly loved.
               Some change in her father's business had made a change of residence 
                     nesessary
                     necessary
                  , and the family now found a home in the city, where Dr. Foster had acquired his reputation and his wealth. Her brothers were settled elsewhere; intelligent, energetic men, winning respect by their sterling worth. Without being wealthy, they enjoyed the comforts and luxuries of life, which they honestly earned.
               Their sister they regarded as little more than a child, to be loved, petted, and most tenderly cherished. Nineteen years of age, and yet only a child, so far as all heart-experience was concerned, she moved among her young companions, gleesome and happy. Bestowing her smiles upon all, in seeming unconsciousness of her own attractions, she soon became a general favorite.
               It was not strange that Howard Foster admired her; and that, when she manifested no preference for him, he should have resolved to inspire her with this preference. She was not the first fair one to whom he had devoted himself, for a few days or weeks, as the case might be. Indeed, this devotion and fancy for new faces had become proverbial.
               Adah Snow was a beauty and a belle. It was the fashion to pay her court, and it could not be that one, whose only occupation was to amuse himself and impress others, should fail of doing homage at her shrine. Had he done so, those who knew him well would have been disappointed. As it was, there were many who watched him with curiosity.
               The young lady made no effort to avoid him, and yet it was evident that her conduct had no reference to his good or ill opinion. A new sensation, truly; delightfully tantalizing, and calculated to rouse him to his best endeavors.
               Miss Snow and his sister exchanged calls somewhat ceremoniously. Truth to tell, Retta had no sympathy with his numerous flirtations, and rather avoided those who, for the time, might chance to be the recipients of his attentions. She was pleased with Adah Snow, yet treated her less cordially than she would have done, under other circumstances.
               Mrs. Foster hoped her son would "marry and settle down," thinking this' change in mere outward circumstances would give him the force of character and earnestness of purpose, which he, at present, lacked. She made the mistake made by many others before her, and which, alas, it is to be feared will be made through all time. Increased responsibility does not of necessity give increased ability, or incite to corresponding exertion.
               Retta hoped her brother would never marry, unless there was a decided change in his manner of thinking and acting. "He is too selfish, too overbearing, and too indolent, to consult the happiness of others," she said to herself, as she saw him crossing the street, to join Adah Snow.
               A glass of soda and a choice cigar had done much towards soothing his irritated stomach and perturbed feelings. His mother knew that he had been intoxicated. He wondered if others beside his boon associates were aware of it. He drank wine without compunction, or attempt at concealment; but he did not wish to overstep the bounds of moderation, or rather, what is nearer the truth, he did not wish to have it known that he did so. He raised his hat so gracefully, bowed so gallantly, and smiled so sweetly, that one could hardly believe he had scare three hours before, sneered at a young lady, everyway the peer of his present companion. His star was in the ascendant. Miss Snow was more than usually gracious, and his only regret was that she left him so soon. She had a commission to execute for her mother, and did not prolong her walk beyond the allotted distance. He made an excuse to linger opposite the store she had entered, but when she came out she was accompanied by others, and he was forced to give up the hope of accompanying her home.
               Soon after, he met one of her brothers, and was sufficiently discriminating to see that he did not produce a favorable impression. Indeed, had Oscar Snow intended to reprove the young gentleman for idleness, he could not have done so more effectually than he did while speaking of another, and condemning all who spent their time in frivolous pursuits.
               "I want to see a man put his shoulder to the wheel, and help the world along," he said emphatically. "The sight of so many wearing immaculate kids, to protect their white hands, disgusts me. Give me a man who can do something, and I don't care whether he wears homespun, or German broadcloth; whether his hands are hard or soft. Loungers! I despise them; and before I'd join their ranks, I'd go West, and live in a log house the remainder of my life. A good many of our young men should be provided with some light fancy work to employ their time."
               Adah's musical laugh rang out clearly at this remark of her elder brother, who was himself an acting protest against indolence.
               "Dear me, Oscar, you make me feel very insignificant," she responded, as soon as she found voice to speak. "I must go out into the world, and carve a way to fame or fortune."
               There was another laugh, louder than the one which preceded it, and then the brother said, "Carve a way, my little sister! It is a pity if we can't take care of you. There is cousin Willard with a few thousand dollars, and thinking because of them, there is no need of work. So he is making a fool of himself. I saw him the day before I left home, and told him what I thought of his course. It would be a mercy, if he should lose every dollar in his possession. No matter how much money a man has, he ought to engage in some business."
               Howard Foster was in a remote part of the room, conversing with an acquaintance; yet he distinctly heard every word of the speaker, and although too well bred to manifest consciousness sciousness or annoyance, he soon after left, with a smiling adieu to the company.
               Contrary to his usual custom at that time in the evening, he went directly home. It was apparent to him that he must change his habits, if he would win the favor of Adah Snow's family.
               At first, he rejected the idea of a profession with scorn, and half resolved to think no more of the young lady. But this was more easily proposed than done. The more he tried to forget, the more interested he became, until he yielded to the conviction that his future happiness depended upon one who had as yet manifested the utmost indifference to him.
               A few days after this, his mother was delighted, and his associates were surprised, to hear that he had decided to study medicine. Some shook their heads doubtingly; but he assured them that he was in earnest, and commenced at once making arrangements for fulfilling his attentions.
               He was now seldom seen in the common places of resort for young men of leisure; and he no longer affected the most exquisite modes of dress. What could it mean?
               "He won't hold out. You may depend upon that," said one elderly man to another. "It's no genuine waking up to a sense of duty. There's something to be gained by this change."
               "Perhaps not," was the reply. "It may be that Howard Foster inherits something of his father's spirit."
               "If he did, don't you suppose some one would have discovered it, before this time? Here he is twenty-five years old, and never did any good yet. From all I hear, he has plenty of one kind of spirit."
               "No doubt of that; and he is not alone. Many of our young men have a fondness for wine."
               
               "But not many are so indolent as Howard Foster. Labor, of some kind, is a necessity to them; and if the old doctor had speculated less, it would be better for his son."
               Doubts and surmises seemed to be at fault in regard to this son. He made good progress in the study to which he had set himself, and had the appearance of one who was pursuing a well-considered course.
               "How long is this going to last?" asked one of his old associates.
               "What do you mean?" asked young Foster, in reply.
               "Why, this poreing over old books, and shutting yourself up like a monk. We have serious thoughts of appointing a committee to remonstrate with you. What effect would such a visitation have?"
               "No effect at all," was the answer.
               "Then you can at least tell us what has wrought this change in you. Real estate has not fallen, neither has bank stock depreciated in value; so it can't be that you are driven to this, by necessity."
               "No necessity about it," said Howard Foster, with languid indifference. "I thought it might give an added zest to life, and so concluded to keep the profession in the family."
               "And do you really mean to go on, until you earn the title of M. D.?"
               "I really do."
               Still no flashing of the eye, no lighting up of the face, as though the speaker cared for what he said.
               "But the young ladies miss you, Foster," resumed his companion. "When in company, you are not the same you were. There are some new faces you have hardly seen."
               "Are there?" was asked, indifferently. "I believe I was introduced to two passable looking girls at Mrs. Poore's party."
               "Passable looking, man! Why, one of them is a beauty; quite eclipses even Adah Snow. All in our set are smitten."
               "There is one exception," responded Howard Foster, with provoking coolness. "I am fancy free, so far as she is concerned."
               "Don't boast. Your turn will come; or would, if you would come out and live with the world again."
               "I must study, and have no time for idling."
               "But I suppose we shall see you to-morrow evening."
               "Possibly. I have not forsworn society altogether."
               Mrs. Foster complimented her son upon his studious habits, and he listened as he listened to others. Retta said nothing. She alone suspected the cause of his present conduct, and sure that selfishness was the great underlying motive, could not rejoice as did her mother.
               To all who remarked upon his seclusion, he made the same reply. He "must study," and whenever policy demanded it, he added that he had already "wasted too much time." He would have said more than this to Adah Snow, if she had given him an opportunity for so doing; but she seemed not to be aware that a longer time than usual had elapsed between his calls.
               He invited her to attend a concert which was advertised for the following week, and which promised rare attractions; and as she accepted the invitation, he considered that he had made quite an advance in the course proposed.
               In considering this, she was somewhat surprised; for she had so often heard that Howard Foster was attracted by every new face, that had she given any thought to the subject, she would have supposed him ready to transfer his allegiance. The evening previous to the concert, he called upon her for a few minutes, spoke of the expected pleasure, and designated the time at which he would be in readiness to attend her. His manners were so different from what they had been in the earlier stages of their acquaintance, that her curiosity was excited, and she thought more of him during the next twenty-four hours, than in all the previous time she had known him. A consciousness of this caused a faint blush to tinge her cheek at his appearance; and as they entered the concert hall, he scarce repressed a triumphant smile.
               "Howard Foster has a new flame," remarked a young wife to her husband.
               "Oh, no, not new," was the reply. "He has been quite attentive to Miss Snow for several months; but this is the first time they have appeared in public together."
               "And do you suppose it will be a match?"
               "I can't tell. It looks somewhat like it; or would, if Foster was not so fickle. It seems to be a part of his discipline, to fall in love with every pretty face."
               "Discipline!" repeated Mrs. Morey, laughing. "What does Howard Foster know of discipline? You should have said pastime."
               "Perhaps I should; and for Adah Snow's sake, I hope his fancy for her will be of short duration."
               "Time will tell. But it is possible, my husband, that she may not reciprocate his fancy, even should it continue."
               "True, but he has money and position; and when he chooses to exert himself, can be very agreeable. No one can confidently say what the young lady would reply to his proposal of marriage."
               As it is not my purpose to write what people are pleased to call a love story, I shall not linger over this part of Howard Foster's history; only enumerating an incident which will enable my readers to judge whether he had really changed since the morning when Skye James had profited by his fastidiousness. He was walking through an obscure street, in order to shorten the distance to meet an appointment, when a wretchedly clad child crept up the half decayed stairs which led to a cellar, and extended her hand, murmuring a request for money to buy bread.
               "Please do give her some, kind gentleman," said a woman, who carried a sack of shavings, which she, with difficulty, balanced upon her head. "They're starving down there, and none of us able to help."
               Involuntarily Howard Foster stayed his steps at this appeal, while the child, emboldened by hearing another plead her cause, came nearer and touched the skirt of his coat. Instantly he shook off her hand, as though even so slight a touch was pollution, and stood looking at her, with an expression of supreme contempt.
               "Beggar, go back to your place!" he exclaimed.
               "Sure, I thought ye were human," cried the woman, indignantly, by a quick motion of her head, bringing the sack of shavings to the ground. "Curse ye, for what ye are, a hardhearted wretch! Don't cry, Jule. I'll find something for ye to eat, or I'll die, trying. Go on, and rid us of the sight of ye."
               Thus addressed, the young man passed on, without giving a thought to the poor creature who had solicited his aid.
               There were a few witnesses to this occurrence, and among these was Dick Barber, who, having starved himself, knew how terrible are the pangs of hunger. He sprang across the street, and accosted the child in a gentle voice. "You're hungry, aint you?" he said.
               "Oh, yes, so hungry, and I can't get anything to eat. Mother and the baby are hungry gry, too. I thought may be, that man would give me some money; but he wouldn't. I guess we'll all die now."
               "No you won't," replied Dick, cheerfully. "I don't know what sent me round here; but I guess 'twas purpose to look after you."
               "Look after me! Why, I never see you, before," said the child.
               "And I never see you: but we're sent sometimes to folks we never see. I mustn't stand here talking, though, when I ought to be going," he added, swinging a market basket. "I'll be back in just five minutes, and bring you something to eat."
               Dick stopped for nothing more, and directly was out of sight.
               The woman, who had not spoken for astonishment while he was present, now said, "Don't fret, Jule. I'll bring you something in less than no time. Thank God, I've my dinner ready, and ye shall have it. Folks sha'n't starve, under my very eyes, not if I've a crust to give;" and snatching up the shavings, she, too, disappeared.
               Up, up to her small room she went, and opened the cupboard door. A piece of bread, two boiled potatoes, and a raw onion. This was all the food this cupboard contained. The bread and potatoes she gave to the child, saying, "I'll see what more I can beg."
               Not a family in the house but was visited, and told the sad story of destitution; and, although miserably poor themselves, they gave to the extent of their ability. There was danger that the cellar would be crowded by kind-hearted neighbors, and Jule had forgotten the boy who promised to be back in five minutes.
               It required more time than this to accomplish his purpose. It was a full quarter of an hour before he could do what talking was necessary, purchase a loaf of bread at the baker's, and return.
               
               "Sure, it's an awful sight!" he heard an Irish woman say as she came up the steps, leading from the cellar. "I never see the like!"
               "What is it?" asked Dick.
               "The baby and its mother most dead for want of victuals, sure. Curse the rich ones, with all their money, and never a hand to help the poor! But what have ye, boy?"
               "Bread," he answered. "If you'll give it to them, I'll go back."
               "Sure I'll do that, and thank ye, besides. The Houly Virgin bless ye!"
               Dick stayed to hear no more; his good sense teaching him that he could do no good. In the afternoon of that day, having a leisure hour, he went to the bakery to see Skye James; and finding that he too was at leisure, related the morning's experience.
               "I wish I knew who 'twas called that girl a beggar," said Skye, in answer.
               "I wish so, too," responded Dick. "I should know him if I should see him anywhere. I hate him. Perhaps he'll be a beggar himself, sometime. 'Twould be good enough for him."
               The two boys were standing by an open window, talking of this, when suddenly Dick exclaimed, scarcely above his breath, "There he is! The one on the outside!"
               "Is it? It's just like him. That's Howard Foster; got a lot of money, and stuck up, as stuck up can be. He did me a good turn, though, once, and I mean to buy him out to pay for it."
               "Buy him out!" repeated Dick. "Where do you expect to get the money?"
               "Why, earn it, and save it; what I don't need to spend," was the reply. "I am going to be a rich man."
               Howard Foster did not see these boys. The incident of the morning was forgotten. Beggars gars were too common, and squalid poverty too vulgar for him to give them a thought when out of his sight. Only beauty and elegance could be tolerated by such as he. His mother flattered herself that his refined tastes would save him from degrading vice, even though his moral nature might be at fault.
               Meanwhile, he had established himself in the good graces of Adah Snow; and if there was not an engagement of marriage, there was at least a tacit understanding of decided preference, each for the other. The young gentleman pursued his studies, attended lectures, and in all things, comported himself as one in earnest to obtain a profession. He was gradually winning the esteem of many who had looked upon him with suspicion, although some yet doubted the genuineness of his purpose.
               He wore his company manners; yet Retta, if called upon to testify truthfully in regard to him, would have said that he was captious and irritable. But of this, Adah Snow was ignorant. She thought him amiable, and he was careful not to undeceive her.
               In process of time, their engagement was announced, although Oscar Snow made some objections to the proposed marriage, and took occasion to say to Mr. Foster that he was not all he would have chosen for the husband of his sister.
               "Next to my wife and children, I love Adah, and I shall never forgive the man who causes her unhappiness," he remarked. "She has given you the first love of her heart, and I trust neither she nor her friends will have reason to regret it."
               Howard Foster need not have been offended at this; would not, if he had been just and magnanimous. As it was, he betrayed no anger, save by a momentary flush of his face. He gave respectful attention to the speaker, and promised to consult Adah's happiness in all things.
               The younger brother, less discriminating, considered it a good match, and congratulated his sister upon her brilliant prospects. Mrs. Foster was more than satisfied. Retta had a sincere regard for her sister-in-law elect, and pitied in proportion as she loved.
               Mr. and Mrs. Snow wished Howard to establish himself in practice, before his marriage; but in this they were overruled. He desired to travel in Europe, and could not think of leaving Adah behind. So the wedding was appointed, friends were invited, and an elegant trousseau prepared for the bride.
               Everything passed off pleasantly, and it was pronounced a brilliant affair. The ceremony took place in church, followed by a reception at the house of the bride's parents. There were many besides those invited, who were eager to get a glimpse of the wedding party. Skye James stood with others, just outside the church door.
               "A brave sight," said an old man near him.
               "Yes, sir," was the reply.
               "A bonnie bride," said a middle aged woman. "But not a glint of the sun shines upon her. It's a bad sign, when it looks like that;" and she pointed to the sun, which, for a moment, was obscured by the passage of a small cloud.
               Skye shook his head, without speaking. He thought the bride bonnie, but his eyes were fixed upon her companion.
               When the last carriage had driven away, he went back to his work, with a full determination to be as rich as the bridegroom. "See if I don't," he said to himself, emphatically.
               Friends pledged the newly-wedded pair in sparkling wine; and Adah Foster drank in return, without a thought of danger to herself or others. Only one was observed to refuse this courtesy. Retta adhered to her resolutions, although as bridesmaid, she was in a position to be criticised. Her brother frowned, as he caught her eye; but a smile wreathed his lips so soon, that only she saw the frown.
               Before night, the festive rooms were deserted, the only daughter gone, and the parents sat by themselves, thinking of their child's fortune.
               "Howard is perfectly devoted to her," said the mother. "He seems to have no wish beyond gratifying her. I told him he would spoil her."
               "I am not afraid of that," responded the father. "I hope Howard will do well."
               "There's no danger but he will," responded Mrs. Snow. "My only fear is that they will meet with danger in their voyage. I wish this trip to Europe had never been thought of. I don't know how I shall get along without Adah."
               "We shall miss her, wife; but if her husband is what he should be, we shall have no reason to regret her marriage."
               This if, troubled Mrs. Snow. She had no doubt of Adah's happiness, or Howard's kindness. Judging from her own experience, and having lived almost entirely in her family, she knew little of the deception which is so easy to practice, and sometimes so difficult to detect. She only grieved for the loss of her daughter's company.
               Three weeks were spent in travelling, and then Howard Foster went home to remain a few days before leaving for Europe. During these days, there was such a round of festivities, that the bride found little time for quiet conversation with her mother, and she, good woman, somewhat dazzled by the elegance which surrounded her daughter, was content to feel herself of secondary importance. Howard was "so devoted," Adah could not fail to be happy, even among strangers.
               Retta Foster, clear-sighted as ever, said gayly, the day before their departure, "If I were in your place, sister Adah, I should insist that Howard drink less wine, and smoke less cigars. I am so exacting, that I should be jealous of the time he devotes to them."
               "Should you?" was the half absent reply. Then in a gayer tone, Adah added, "It is possible that I might be jealous, if it would avail anything. But Howard was wedded to wine and cigars before he was wedded to me; and as I found no fault with this before marriage, I can not do so now. I expect, however, that he will have less time and inclination for indulgence, when he is fairly in the harness of his profession. Of course, I think my husband perfect, as he is; yet there may be a higher degree of perfection."
               "I am glad that you do think him perfect; and trust you may never have occasion to think differently."
               Adah looked at her companion with such unspoken questions in her eyes, that Retta hastened to make some playful remark, and adroitly turned the conversation to other topics.
               Mrs. Foster was no longer anxious. She expected the young wife would exorcise every evil spirit from the heart of her husband, and be the guardian angel of his life. In her happiness she said something like this to her daughter-in-law, and observed in return the same questioning glances which had troubled Retta.
               Farewells were exchanged more sadly than they had been a month previous; yet the sadness was tempered by anticipations of a happy reunion.
               "So Howard Foster and his wife have really gone."
               
               "Yes, and half way across the Atlantic, by this time," was the reply. "The next six months will tell the story of him. If he has been in earnest studying—"
               "If he has? Why do you always speak in that way, Wheaton?"
               "Because I know Howard Foster. I was in college with him, and since then, I've seen a good deal of him. He was always lazy and selfish. I don't believe he ever denied himself in his whole life, to give another pleasure."
               "That is too hard. I think better of the young man than that. I know he has been indolent, and thought more of pleasure himself, than anybody else; but for the last year, he has done well, and I have a good deal of faith in him."
               "I hope he won't disappoint his wife," said Mr. Farley. "She deserves a good husband, and a curse will rest upon him, if he has deceived ceived her by professing to be better than he is. The fact that she would marry him has done much to establish him in my good opinion. The Snows would never consent to Adah's marriage with a man in whom they had not confidence. Harry, let me give you some advice. I am older than you, and have seen more of the world. Don't let envy make you unjust. If I had a daughter, I should rather give her to you than Howard Foster; but Howard Foster has won Adah Snow."
               "Perhaps your advice is needed," replied the young man, a crimson spot burning upon either cheek. "You have always been my friend, and I don't mind telling you what I made no effort to conceal, that there was a time when I would have given all I possessed to win the love of Adah Snow."
               "Yes, Harry, I knew that. You did not need to tell me; and, as I said before, I should prefer you for a son-in-law. But Foster has won the prize, and you must do him justice."
               
               "I hope I have not done him injustice; and I certainly do not wish his downfall. Perhaps one thing should be said in his favor. His dissipations will be elegant. Anything coarse or vulgar is repulsive to him."
               "Elegant dissipation! I don't quite understand that," said Mr. Farley. "What do you mean by elegant dissipation?"
               Wheaton was silent for a moment, and his friend repeated the question. "I think I could give my meaning best by illustration," he remarked at length.
               "Then do so. No matter how, only so that I understand your meaning."
               "If a man goes into a low groggery, smoking poor tobacco in a clay pipe, and drinks cheap liquor till he is drunk, I call that vulgar dissipation."
               "So do I; vulgar with a vengeance. Drunkenness is always vulgar. But now for elegant dissipation."
               "Well, well," resumed the young man, somewhat discomfited by his companion's way of putting things, "A man may smoke choice cigars, and drink wine or champagne, until he is partially intoxicated——"
               "Intoxicated! That means the same as drunk; don't it?" said Mr. Farley. "But excuse me for interrupting you. You had not finished your sentence."
               "I was only going to say that I should consider the last case as coming under the head of elegant dissipation."
               "In both cases, however, I understand the result is the same."
               "Why, not exactly, Mr. Farley. It seems to me there is some difference."
               "What and where? I wish I might see the difference, if it really exists. The surroundings are different; but if a man is drunk, he is a beast anywhere; and there is no use in trying to smoothe the matter over. Another er thing, Harry. The man who gets drunk, on wine or champagne, will be very likely to get drunk on cheaper liquor before he dies. He certainly will unless he reforms, or has an exhaustless supply of money. There is no such thing as elegant drunkenness. I smoke, myself, and drink wine with my friends; but I am always sorry when I see a young man following my example. I was never drunk in my life; but there's something in the constitution of boys and young men now-a-days, which impels them forward, at railroad speed. They do nothing moderately. I've been afraid, sometimes, that you were in little danger yourself. Make the best of yourself, Harry, and don't barter your manhood for a momentary gratification. It wont pay, either in this life or another. If I was twenty years younger, I honestly believe I would give up smoking and drinking, and but for my wife, try for the position of brother-in-law to Howard Foster."
               Mr. Farley walked away, leaving Harry Wheaton to consider this last remark at his leisure. Retta Foster was a brilliant girl, decided and positive, as everybody knew, and as her father had been before her. More than one said that if she would study medicine, she would make good the old doctor's place.
               But to return to the bridal pair, whose lives were so closely bound together, and yet who had so much to learn of each other. For them, as for others, the trip across the Atlantic had its unpoetical side, and they were subject to like discomforts as their fellow voyagers. One day succeeded another, with but little to mark their passage until the shores of old England appeared in sight. The little company was to separate: some to meet again in the sunny south land, others to meet never more; some, in pursuit of pleasure; others, intent upon business, and all carrying within themselves the elements of success or failure. All, did I say? There was one who had staked everything upon another's honor, who had joyfully given her life into another's keeping.
               "God bless you," said an elderly lady, when parting from Adah Foster. "I thought I should be alone in this voyage; but you have been like a daughter to me. God bless you, and make you happy."
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               
                  
                     
                        Time lifts the veil which hides in part
                        The secret motives of the heart.
                        And thus revealed, some stand secure
                        In love unfeigned, and purpose pure;
                        While some, alas, the veil removed,
                        Impure, and all untrue are proved.
                     
                  
               
               A WEEK went by, another week, and still Howard Foster said nothing of visiting hospitals, attending lectures, or in any way improving his opportunities for obtaining medical knowledge. Adah enjoyed sight seeing; but after the first few days, she grew troubled.
               It had been expressly understood that she should in no way hamper her husband's movements; at least, she had said this when she gave her consent to accompany him, in opposition to her parents' wishes, and she fully intended to act accordingly. She was very ambitious, and aware that Howard had been considered deficient in application, she was the more anxious that he should distinguish himself. In her enthusiasm, she would have been willing to remain secluded and deprived of her husband's society, if but assured that he was improving and fitting himself for extended usefulness.
               It was a different thing, however, to be left alone, while he lingered over the wine cup with a new acquaintance; and she had occasion to think often of Retta's remark.
               But experience had taught her that whatever her husband might do, or might not do, he would illy brook interference. She was expected to receive him with smiles, whenever he returned to her; no matter for how long, or what cause he had absented himself.
               When in the mood, he petted and caressed her most fondly; and taking advantage of what she considered a favorable opportunity, she ventured some remark in regard to the main object of their stay in Europe. His brow clouded; but she, with her tact and grace, banished the cloud, and insisted upon an answer.
               "There is no need of haste," he said, somewhat ungraciously. "You have not married a man who is dependent upon his profession for support. You can have all the luxuries of life, without making a slave of your husband;" and he kissed away the words with which she would have replied. "We may as well enjoy life as it passes, and a few months more or less here will make no difference. We should be all the world to each other, and it matters not whether our world is in Europe or America."
               She accepted this, as what woman would not, under the circumstances; and for the time, her lips were silenced.
               Again, however, after the lapse of a few days, she recurred to the subject. This time, her husband was offended, and answered her in a way which brought tears to her eyes. He was leading the careless, indolent life which pleased him, and it is doubtful if he intended to do more than this, when he left home.
               At any rate, his wife suspected this, and with a sudden assumption of spirit, she compelled him to listen to what she had to say. She spoke affectionately, but earnestly; and so far roused his better nature, that he acknowledged she was right, and promised to avail himself of the opportunities for improvement within his reach.
               He redeemed this promise, and quite astonished himself by his application. But new associates brought him into new temptations, and Adah was thankful when told that they were going to Paris. They went, yet after a short time spent in the city of fashion and gayety, she again rejoiced to change her place of sojourn; and thus she continued, glad of each change, until at last she was forced to the conclusion that place had little to do with her husband's habits. She distrusted him entirely; not that he was a man given to gross falsehood among men, but where his wife was concerned, he had no scruples against the invention of plausible stories with which to please her. He talked sometimes of the knowledge he was gaining, while she knew that much of this knowledge would benefit neither himself nor others.
               Yet, notwithstanding all this, she loved him, and sought to find excuse for his faults. However much he grieved her, she could not say to him hard and severe things. It was only a little while since he had seemed to her well nigh perfect; and now it was so hard to think him otherwise.
               Behind her lay the happy years, when every wish of her heart had been gratified; before her,—but she dared not think of the untried future. Above all, over all, was the feeling that she must bear her sorrow alone; that not even to her mother could she reveal her grief.
               Still she pined for the sight of the dear home faces, and entreated her husband to return to his native land. The time chosen for this was opportune. He had just discovered that he could no longer meet his present expenses, without overdrawing his income; and reckless as he was, the fact gave him some uneasiness. He had thought of leaving Europe, even before his wife proposed it; but he made a show of granting her request, as a personal favor.
               She was grateful, and too happy in the anticipation of meeting her friends, to utter a word of reproach for what had transpired. Preparations for departure were speedily made, and they trusted themselves once more to the bounding billows.
               On board the steamer, Adah Foster had ample time for consideration and conclusions. Life for her was so changed from what it had been, that she did not care to mingle with the throng around her. During her absence, she had made a great effort to write cheerful and entertaining letters to her friends, careful that nothing should betray her unhappiness. Now it would be more difficult to deceive those who loved her.
               At different times, she attempted to learn her husband's plans; but he gave her most unsatisfactory replies. There was no cause for any anxiety. He had enough for their support, and he would manage his business without troubling her. Silenced, but not satisfied, she had no choice. The darkening frown warned her that she had already presumed too far.
               The letter announcing their coming was received but a few days before their arrival. Both Mrs. Snow and Mrs. Foster were anxious to entertain them; but the former was first to welcome her daughter.
               "I suppose Howard is now ready to settle down to business," said Mr. Snow one day, when alone with Adah.
               "I think so," she replied, with forced cheerfulness.
               "And of course he has decided where to establish himself. I hope we shall keep you here. He could not have a better place. His father's reputation would do much for him, and he has a great many family friends. He is not looking very well, just now. Studied too hard, perhaps, and drinked too much iced champagne on his way home. He says that's the only thing that relieved his sea-sickness. Did you suffer from it, too?"
               "Yes, very much, at first. But I soon got accustomed to the new order of things," answered Adah, thankful to speak upon some subject disconnected with her husband.
               "Well, my dear, I'm glad to have you back again," said her father, after a time. "Your mother is glad, too. Our children are all married, now, and we are beginning to feel old. But growing old isn't so bad, when there are others of our name to take our places."
               Mr. Snow spoke to his son-in-law in regard to the place of his settlement, expressing the same hope he had expressed to Adah.
               "I am not decided in regard to it," was the cool reply, very unlike what was expected. "You know I am not dependent upon my profession."
               "Of course, we understand that," responded Mr. Snow, looking sharply at his companion. "I have no wish to dictate you; but it is natural that I should be interested in your welfare."
               Howard Foster, somewhat mollified, and for the moment ashamed of his rudeness, said, "I suppose I ought to think more of business; but I must confess that I have little taste for the drudgery of a physician's life."
               "There is drudgery in everything, Howard. At least, there is hard work in everything; but no man would dream away his life. For my part, I enjoy hard work, and the reward it brings."
               Oscar Snow visited his sister, and in his straightforward way proposed the question which so often irritated his brother-in-law. Not having forgotten the conversation which took place before his marriage, the young man was ready to take offence at a word. Policy, however, dictated a courteous reply, while in regard to his plans, if any he had, he said nothing.
               Mrs. Foster was disappointed, Retta confirmed in her previous opinion, and friends generally troubled. In the midst of this, Howard announced the fact that he had taken rooms at the best hotel in the place, and was about to open an office in one of his own buildings.
               Adah was in a frame of mind which made her welcome any change, rather than remain where she was. Home was not to her what it had been. Her mother, tender and loving, yet unable to comprehend her fitful moods, was half inclined to chide her as unreasonable.
               A handsome plate announced to the passers by that Howard Foster was ready to exercise his skill in the healing profession; else, why the plate at all. Up one flight of stairs two rooms were luxuriously fitted up for his occupancy. Very different from his father's office, with its plain shelves for books, leather-covered covered chairs, and baize-covered table; but the son had money and elegant tastes.
               The fitting up of these rooms and those he was to occupy at the hotel, gave him a new object of interest. He spared no expense, and Adah had no reason to complain of her surroundings. Yet they were not what she would have chosen. She wished for a home where she could entertain her friends with the hospitality her parents had so generously exercised. She had a natural desire to preside at her own table, and although she knew little of housekeeping, would gladly have set herself to learn its minutest details.
               "Think of soiling your hands," said her husband, clasping her white taper fingers. "How could I kiss them, if they were rough and discolored?" he added, touching his lips to them gallantly.
               "But it is not necessary that I should soil my hands," she urged. "We could have servants, and the expense would be no more than to board. I have set my heart upon it, Howard. Let me keep house."
               "My arrangements are made," he answered, without any softening in his manner. "I should detest the bother of housekeeping, and you would soon be tired of it. It is useless to talk of it."
               Strong objections were made to this boarding by family friends; but the more objection, the more was the young man resolved to carry out his plans. No place could be worse for one of his habits, than that he had selected. He could order, and countermand orders, while, so that he paid his bills, no one would find fault.
               He was never in haste to reach his office, which was attended by a boy engaged for that purpose. At first, some of his father's old friends were inclined to give him a trial, and he was consulted in cases which, with ordinary attention, would have proved stepping stones to a good practice.
               But he was indolent as ever. The air of a sick room was disagreeable to him. Yet he had obtained an amount of theoretical knowledge which might have been of great advantage to one in his position; and in his better moods he felt the stirrings of ambition.
               His sister had ceased all efforts to influence him, and while manifesting for Adah the most sincere affection, never proffered advice, or expressed an opinion which might seem like interference.
               "I wish we had asked Howard to make his home with us," said Mrs. Foster one day, after calling upon her daughter-in-law. "I don't think Adah likes boarding, and there is room enough here for us all. If not, we might make an addition to the house, as Howard proposed, a few years ago. What do you think of it, Retta? I don't like to have him at the hotel. There is too much wine there, and too many to drink with him. If we could only have him here at home, he would do very differently."
               "Are you sure of that, mother?" asked the young girl, in reply. "Howard will do as he pleases. You must know that he will, mother; but the house is yours, and you can invite him here, if you choose."
               "But what do you think of the plan, Retta? You have not answered my question at all;" and there was a slight expression of impatience in Mrs. Foster's voice.
               Her daughter hesitated for a moment, and then replied gently, "I should not favor the plan. If Howard would consent to come here, which I do not think he would do, the arrangement would be unpleasant for all. Adah wishes for a home of her own, and you are not ready to abdicate in her favor."
               Mrs. Foster was convinced. She was so accustomed to trust to Retta's judgment, that she yielded the point, without further discussion. She still, however, adhered to the belief that Howard was in the wrong place, and begged her daughter to talk with him in regard to it.
               "I cannot do that, mother," she answered. "You must not ask it of me."
               "But I am afraid he will be ruined, Retta, and how can I bear it? Something must be done."
               Mr. Snow's family were of the same opinion. Even Mrs. Snow could no longer be deceived. Oscar saw his sister's unhappiness, and was indignant. His worst fears were realized, and he despised the man whom he wished to respect.
               Through all, Adah Foster maintained an appearance of gayety in the presence of others, and allowed no word of repining to escape her. To her husband she had been uniformly kind; but when after the lapse of nearly a year, he was brought to their rooms in a state of beastly intoxication, her forbearance gave way. It was two o'clock in the morning, after she had been watching and waiting through all the night, that she, for the first time, saw him in this condition.
               In the next few hours she endured the agony of a life time. Crushed with shame and sorrow, she dreaded the coming day; yet the sun rose gloriously, seeming to mock her wretchedness. She looked in the mirror, expecting to see that her hair had blanched; but there was reflected only a sweet, sad face, from which every vestige of color had faded.
               Howard Foster woke, looked around vacantly, rubbed his eyes, and pressed his hands upon his forehead, as though trying to recall something which had transpired. He was dressed as he had been the evening before, when he left his wife, to join a party of friends, to make merry with wine and cards. He could not have been in bed during the night. He was sure of this, since he was lying upon a lounge in his parlor.
               He wondered where Adah could be. He rose and went into their sleeping-room. She was not there; and presently, from sounds which he heard, he knew it was the hour for breakfast. He examined his pocket-book, and found it empty. Then he remembered what had occurred the previous evening, and was thoroughly humbled in view of it. There was nothing to do but acknowledge all to his wife, and throw himself upon her mercy.
               He heard her laughing gayly in the hall, but no sooner had she entered the parlor, than the wan look came back to her face.
               "Good morning, my dear," he said, in a constrained voice.
               She returned his greeting; but it was evident, from her manner, that she would not ask an explanation of his conduct, and after some delay, he volunteered this explanation, making such excuse as could be made. She wept as she listened to his confession, and taking advantage of his unwonted tenderness, proffered her request that she might have a home.
               "I am tired of boarding," she said. "I will take all the care of everything, if you will consent to my plans."
               He could not refuse her then. Under the influence of newly-awakened feelings, he promised that he would leave the hotel. He made other promises, also, which he might or might not redeem, but which Adah in her gladness accepted as sincere. A house was purchased, furnished, and occupied, Mrs. Snow parting with a well-trained servant, in order that her daughter's kitchen might be under skillful supervision.
               Dr. Foster was earlier in his office, giving closer attention to the few patients under his charge. For the management of a difficult case, similar to one which had interested him in a London hospital, he received great praise; and just here, if he could have been induced to forego the use of stimulants, he might have made his success sure. There was a partial reform in his habits, which lulled the fears of those who loved him best, and notwithstanding previous disappointments, fond hopes were cherished.
               He talked more of his father, visited his mother, and manifested some interest in her business. He made less display of his fastidious tastes, and could enter a poor man's dwelling, without offending its inmates. Yet dirt and rags were very offensive to him, and he would not come in contact with them, when possible to avoid it. The old doctor had been a kind man to the poor, and some who remembered this, called upon his son.
               Skye James, who, in some way, seemed to connect his fortunes with those of Howard Foster, said the latter was improving. "I know it, by the way he walks," was the boy's answer to a question upon this subject. "If I was sick, I guess I should have him for my doctor."
               The back office was Dr. Foster's chosen place of retreat, and whoever called him from it needed much to make such a call tolerated. He had made greater exertion than usual one day, having visited several patients, and attended to the collection of some money. Dinner had not been to his taste, and he returned to the office much irritated. Scarcely had he seated himself in a luxurious arm-chair, with a bottle of wine and stand of cigars upon the table before him, when the bell struck. Muttering something very like an oath, he answered the summons.
               "Can you do a job for me, doctor?" asked a resolute looking boy, removing his cap.
               
               "What kind of a job?" was asked, in reply.
               "I'll show you," and suiting the action to the word, the boy unwound a handkerchief from his left hand, which was badly bruised. "I want you to fix that up in good shape, sir. You can, can't you?"
               "I suppose I can, but—" This sentence was left incomplete. "How did you get your hand in this condition?"
               "Jammed it between two barrels, and I guess one of the fingers is broken. I want you to fix it up about as quick as you can, so I can go back to my work."
               "Do you expect to work with that hand?"
               "No, sir, with the other. I can't afford to lay still for such a bruise as that."
               The doctor, whose first impulse had been to send this boy to another surgeon, was interested in one who spoke so decidedly, and with such evident confidence in his own powers. The bruised hand, with its broken finger, was properly dressed, and directions given for its future treatment. "Perhaps you had better come in again, and let me see it, in two or three days."
               "Yes, sir, I will, if it's necessary; and I'll pay you for this, if you'll tell me how much."
               "Oh, no matter about that," was the reply. "It has cost me nothing, and—"
               "No, sir; I always pay my bills," said the boy, proudly. "I aint so poor but what I can do that. I wouldn't come here without the money to pay;" and he took from his pocket a substantial wallet. "Now just tell the regular price, same as though I had a thousand dollars here."
               With a smile Howard Foster told the regular price, which was instantly paid.
               "Now I suppose you are satisfied."
               "Yes, sir, for this time, and I'm much obliged to you. Good morning."
               
               "Stop a moment I should like to know your name," said the doctor.
               "My name is Skye James, sir."
               "Yes, I'll remember it."
               "I hope you will. Good morning, again." Not the wealthiest man in the city could have walked out of that office with a feeling of greater independence than did Skye James, thinking less of his bruised hand, than of having spoken to Howard Foster.
               It was more than three years since the boy had commenced his upward career, three years since he heard the assertion from grandfather Somers that folks can "have pretty much what they're a mind to in this world." In these years he had changed much. He was taller, stouter, and more manly. The dash of recklessness in his manners had given place to a quiet, resolute bearing, which said plainly that his life was not without a purpose. He was one to be trusted. Mr. Cummings said he had never failed to do all which was required of him.
               "I have never found him untruthful." This was a remark made to Mr. Proctor, who had called to enquire in regard to Skye James.
               "Is he engaged with you for any length of time?" asked the gentleman.
               "No, sir," answered Mr. Cummings. "I shall keep him as long as he chooses to stay; but he ought to do better. He could earn more than I can afford to give him; and he would make a smart business man, anywhere."
               "I thought so," was the reply. "I have been interested in him since the first Sabbath he came into my class; and for more than a year, I have been intending to offer him a place in my store, as soon as there should be one at my disposal. Now, one of my clerks is to leave in a few weeks."
               
               "Then, sir, I hope you will take Skye. He deserves help; and you will find him all I have represented. He is a good writer, and understands something of book-keeping. I've encouraged him to study evenings, for I felt pretty sure he'd need the knowledge, some time."
               This conversation took place in the front shop, while Skye was busily at work in the basement, his brain teeming with various plans for "getting ahead in the world." He was not dissatisfied with his position, yet was ready to leave it whenever a better should present itself.
               Mr. Cummings had been a kind friend, and good master; looking not only to his own interests, but to those of the boy, who rendered him such faithful service. With little book knowledge himself, he was anxious that Skye should acquire as much as possible.
               "I've got along pretty well; but I might have done better, if I'd known more," he said. "I've seen the time when I wanted to say things that stuck in my throat, all because somebody else could say them better than I could. I haint got any boys of my own to look after; so I must look after you. I want you to be just as smart, and do just as well as you can."
               "Yes, sir, that's just what I want myself; and I'll try for it. See if I don't."
               "Then you'll make out. You've done well, so far; took a long step, since you came to work for me. I wish you could see yourself as you looked the morning I engaged you."
               "I remember all about it," answered Skye.
               "Then all right. You were ragged and dirty."
               "Ragged, dirty, and saucy. There were ten chances that I should turn out a drunkard, to one of my being anything better. The sight of grandfather Somers gnawing a crust, set me to thinking, and I've been at it ever since."
               "Guess you have; thinking and working, too. The old man did a good job for you; but you've more than paid him."
               "I don't know about that. I've tried to do what I could."
               "You've done a great deal. The last time I saw him, he couldn't talk of anybody but you. He says you've helped him to all the good fortune he ever had. His last days are going to be his best days."
               "I hope so. He thinks our new home is the pleasantest place in the world."
               "It is pleasant," said Mr. Cummings. "You like it, don't you?"
               "Yes, sir. But I should like it better, if I could buy it, and have it for my own."
               "Well, that would make it better, and perhaps you can buy it, some time."
               Skye had enough to encourage him, at the same time that a great responsibility rested upon him. His mother and sister depended upon him entirely, while grandfather Somers and Mary looked to him for counsel and strength. All this was well; just what was needed to make large drafts upon the strength and energy, which, if not expended in legitimate ways, would have proved a curse to himself and others.
               "Come, Skye, give us a treat," cried one of a group of boys with whom he had associated before commencing work with Mr. Cummings. "You've got money, and we, poor fellows, are spoiling for a time. You used to do the fair thing. Don't be a flunkey now."
               "Needn't look at us like that, either," said another, in a half angry tone. "We haint got fine clothes like you, but we've got feelings. I've treated you more'n once, when you didn't look any better than the rest of us."
               
               "Yes, Tom, I know you have; but I meant to keep square with you then."
               "You did. You always came up to the mark," was said, in a mollified tone. "Now leave the old dust-shop for an hour or two, and come with us."
               "Couldn't do it," said Skye. "That's my place. But what do you want for a treat?"
               "Cigars and beer."
               "Don't deal in such articles;" and the speaker shook his head.
               "Where's the harm?" asked a sullen looking boy, who had been silent until now. "Beer never hurt anybody; nor cigars, either."
               "They don't do anybody any good," replied Skye. "Besides, they cost money, and I must spend my money for something else. Come, boys, just swear off, and let smoking and drinking alone. I'll warrant you to feel better, and wear better clothes, if you will."
               "Likely we shall. Just hear him. Setting up for a parson. Goes to Sunday school, and like as not gets down on his marrow bones every night to pray."
               "Yes, Tom, that's just what I do, and I aint ashamed to own it. I wish I could persuade you to join me."
               "You can't, so enough said;" and the boys moved off, while Skye went on his way.
               This is a specimen of the manner in which he was frequently accosted during the first few months after what he called turning over a new leaf; but his frank acknowledgment did much to disarm ridicule. It was of no use to laugh at a boy who said, without a blush, that he was in the habit of praying.
               "No use to talk to him any more," said one, leaning against a lamp-post for support. "Skye's a goner; but it makes me mad to have him set up to be so mighty pious."
               "Well, we can't help it, any way. He's getting into tall company by the means, and we must manage to raise the wind some other way. Fact is, I'm dry as a fish, and want something to wet down stronger than whiskey."
               "Then get it, if you can," and here the group dispersed.
               Skye did not set up for being mighty pious, or indeed for being pious at all. Mr. Proctor had endeavored to impress all the members of his class with a sense of their dependence upon God; and he had labored earnestly, that this might produce an effect upon their lives. His instruction, practical and simple, commended itself to the good sense of those who were taught, while it elicited a free exchange of opinion. "I wish you to think of what I tell you," he would say; and this was sufficient to recall the attention of any who had been indifferent.
               Skye was one who always thought of what he heard; consequently he was impressed, when others were unmoved. He lived, he wished to live; and if his life depended upon the goodness of God, surely it was right that he should acknowledge this. So morning and evening, he knelt reverently, offering his thanksgivings and requests. The Bible, read first from a sense of duty, he now studied as the revelation sent to enlighten the world.
               A few times, in the absence of the regular teacher, he had taken charge of some small boys in the Sabbath school, and it was for this that some, who, having regard for the loaves and fishes, occasionally visited the school, gave him the sobriquet of parson. Grandfather Somers, hearing him thus addressed, looked for an expression of anger; but, greatly to his surprise, Skye answered, "I wish I was good enough for a parson."
               "You're good enough for anything," said Di Barber, looking up into his face with the utmost confidence. "You're the best boy ever I see, except Dick; and all that makes him better, is because he's my brother. I wish you was my brother, too."
               "I don't see what difference that would make," replied Skye, with a laugh. "We all live pretty much together, now."
               "But 'twould seem different," urged Di. "Why don't he go away?" she asked, directly, pointing to the boy who had called Skye a parson, and who stood looking at them with a curious expression upon his pinched face.
               "I don't know. Perhaps he thinks we're handsome. Here, Bill, I say, won't you go to Sunday school with me? I shall take you right in, if you stand there much longer."
               "Taint Sunday now," said the boy.
               "No, but it will be, to-morrow; and we can find a place for you to-night."
               "No, you don't. Can't come that over this child," and Bill darted away.
               "Was he afraid?" asked Di.
               "I guess not. He knew I wouldn't drag him to school; but I wish he'd go."
               "So do I. I wish everybody would. The teachers are so good, and talk so nice to us. Dick says it's just the best place; and he's just the best boy. He says he's going to earn a lot of money, and take care of me. But I guess I sha'n't let him. Aunt Mary says I can earn money myself."
               Dick and Di Barber had never left Mary Somers after she took them from the cheerless attic, where they had nearly starved and frozen. Mr. Proctor had been unsuccessful in his efforts to find their relatives. Their mother had not been seen in her old haunts for a long time, and it was believed by those who had known her, that she was dead. Their father had shipped on board a whaler, bound for a cruise in the Arctic ocean, and the vessel had returned without him. He had re-shipped at the Sandwich Islands, for another cruise, giving directions that whatever was his due should be held in trust for him.
               This was not much; for Richard Barber, driven to desperation by the conduct of his wife, and wanting the firm principle which would have sustained him in the darkest hour, gave himself up to excesses of all kind, when in port. He squandered his money, while his children starved.
               But they had found friends. Mr. Proctor provided for their support. Food was then cheap. Dick was able to earn something, and Di was careful "not to cost much." Her clothes were re-made from others, and she was fitted for school with little expense. Dick being occupied during the day, attended an evening school with Skye, and made good improvement.
               He had before him a high standard; but his good friend taught him not to despise the day of small things. "Be faithful in little, that much may be given." Dick remembered this, whether learning a lesson, or carrying a parcel. After a year and a half in his new home, he was able to defray nearly all his own expenses, and looked forward to the time of entire independence.
               But a change was at hand. Grandfather Somers was out one day, walking slowly through a street where he had once lived, looking at the old houses, and wondering if any dwelt there whom he had known, when a sailor addressed him.
               "Mr. Somers, aint it?"
               "Yes, that's my name, but I don't——,yes I do. Are you Richard Barber?"
               "What there is left of him," was the reply. "Pretty much used up, as you see. Do you live where you used to?"
               "No," answered the old man, his voice trembling with emotion. "I live a good half mile from here; but I wanted to come over here to-day."
               "And I'm glad you did. Perhaps you can tell me something about my old mother, and the children."
               "Your mother is dead," was the laconic answer.
               "Dead! is she?" exclaimed Richard Barber. "I might have known it," and tears were in his eyes. "She's stood by me on ship board many a time, and I might have known she'd cast anchor in Heaven. But I hoped to see her once more, and tell her her prayers were answered. My children, are they dead, too?"
               "No. They are alive and well?"
               "My wife?"
               Grandfather Somers shook his head.
               "Poor girl!" said the sailor. She didn't do right, but I was some to blame. I didn't do right by her, though I meant to. But tell me about my children."
               "They live with me and Mary. Come and see them."
               "Which way?"
               "To Legrange street," answered the old man.
               "I used to know where that was, but I don't know now. How came the children with you?"
               Many questions were asked by the sailor; but his companion was too much exhausted with the walk, and too much overcome with emotion, to give extended replies. "You must wait," was said, at length. "Mary will tell you all about it, and you can see for yourself."
               When they reached the house, Mr. Somers paused to recover breath, before saying, "We live up stairs, but you won't see the children just yet. Di is at school, and Dick is at the butcher's shop, where he works. Come in, though, and hear about them."
               
               It was strange that a father, who had lived for more than five years without seeing his children, and for much of that time without caring to see them, should have now found it difficult to restrain his impatience. Yet the minutes seemed hours, and even while Mary Somers was talking, he looked constantly to the door, and half started from his chair, at the sound of every footfall.
               "But I don't understand how you found the children, after all," he said, as she paused in her story.
               "I told you I found them the morning after Christmas, in the room where they had been left by the woman who took care of them." was the reply.
               "Yes, I know that, but how came you to go there?"
               "No matter about that now," interposed the old man. "She went and found the children, and took them home; and they've been a comfort to us ever since. Dick's going to be a good man, if I know anything of signs."
               "I hope he will," responded Richard Barber, earnestly. "I hope he'll lead a different life from what I have, and steer clear of breakers. I've been on a rough sea, tossed about like a battered hulk; but I'm sailing now in smooth water."
               "Are you through with your wanderings, Richard?"
               "Not through with my sea-faring life, but through with drunkenness, while God gives me reason. No more grog for me. That's what ruins the sailor, and keeps him at the fag end of the world."
               "But I never thought you were a hard drinker," said Mr. Somers.
               "You don't know what I've done, since I saw you last. I've wallowed in drunkenness, like a beast, and pretty near finished up all the good there was about me."
               
               "Not so bad as that, I hope."
               "Anybody would hope so, but you can't know how bad I've been. It's pretty late to begin to steer for the port of heaven, when you're in sight of the yellow fields; but I tacked ship just there."
               "And you're bound for Heaven?"
               "Yes, God willing, be the voyage long or short. I've met contrary winds, and had to scud under bare poles, but I've kept the light before me, and I'll reach it sometime."
               "And the light is God's word," suggested the old man.
               "Just that," answered Richard Barber, displaying a well worn pocket Bible. "My mother gave this to me the morning I left her, and I promised to read it. But for all the promise I didn't look at it for three years. 'Twas in the bottom of my sea-chest, and I was careful to keep it well covered up. I hated the sight of it, but it's my best friend now."
               "But how came the change?"
               "It came when I was flat on my back. I'd been in the water till there wasn't a warm drop of blood in my body. A boat capsized, and the whole of us were near going to Davy Jones' locker. I had to think then, and my old mother appeared to me. I know it wont seem so to you, but I saw her plain as I ever did; and after that I didn't dare keep her Bible hid. That was in my last voyage, and I had a good captain that talked to me in the right way. The men, too, were sober, and he never'd shipped one like me, if he hadn't been so short of hands, though I understood my business, and could do as well as the best, if I do say it. I was paid off two days ago, and I am trying to hunt up my family."
               His host respected his feelings sufficiently to ask no more questions, and it was not until long after this that he related the particulars of his sad experience.
               
               Di came up stairs humming a song she had learned in school. "O, Aunt Mary!" she exclaimed, as the door was opened, "I've seen Mr. Proctor, and——"Thus much, and the sight of a stranger arrested her words.
               "That's your girl!" said grandfather Somers, in a low tone, while Di stood looking from one to another, as though waiting for an explanation of what she saw.
               "Di, little Di, don't you know me?" cried Richard Barber, springing from his chair, and clasping the child in his arms. "I am your father, and have come home to take care of you."
               "But why didn't you come before?" asked Di, struggling to release herself from the embrace in which she was held. "I've got somebody else to take care of me now."
               This quite unmanned her father; and the words he would have spoken died upon his lips. Still he did not unclasp his arms, until he saw that the child was really troubled. Then he allowed her to leave him. She sprang across the room, turned and looked at the bronze, bearded man, who called himself her father. Tears trembled in his eyes, then flowed down his cheeks. Di's heart was touched; she went to him, begging him not to cry, and wiping away his tears.
               In the midst of this, Dick entered the room, and knew his father at once. There was a happy meeting; dinner was forgotten, and not until Mary had twice announced the fact of its readiness, did any one reply.
               "I aint a bit hungry," said Di. "I couldn't eat a single mouthful." Dick's appetite was in the same state, and his father had not thought of eating.
               Nevertheless they gathered around the table, and with bowed heads listened reverently to the short petition to which their hearts responded. "Amen!" said Richard Barber, softly, when thanks were offered for the reunion of a family which had been long separated. Much was said, but little eaten at that noon-day meal; and Dick, who usually enjoyed his dinners with keen relish, was first to leave.
               "Off again, my boy?" asked his father.
               "Yes, sir; I must stay in the shop while the others go to dinner. Perhaps I'll come back if I can be spared."
               "You must be spared," was the response. "I have the strongest claim upon you, and I've got money enough to keep you without work for a while."
               "Good-bye, father," and down stairs bounded the boy, whistling a merry tune. He stopped at the baker's, just long enough to tell the glad news, and was at his post in season.
               "Always on hand, Dick," said his employer.
               "Yes, sir, I mean to be on hand; but father's er's come and I should like to go home. He wants to see me."
               "I should think likely he would. How long has he been gone?"
               "More than five years."
               "Has he? That's a good while. A great many things might happen in five years."
               "Yes, sir; I guess a great many things have happened, and I'm glad my father's come back."
               "So am I," replied the butcher. "But I hope he won't take you away from me. I shouldn't know what to do without you. Just stay here now, though, till we come back, and you can have the afternoon to yourself."
               The afternoon hardly sufficed for all the talking which must be done. Di told her father how it had happened that Aunt Mary had found him, and in her childish way described their previous destitution.
               No reproach could have been harder to bear than this; no direct appeal could have made his conduct appear more guilty. He often interrupted her narration with questions, all of which were answered frankly, with no thought of the pain these answers might give. Mr. Proctor received warm praise, and Aunt Mary's kindness was lauded.
               "I hope you won't take me away from Aunt Mary," said the child. "She's good to me, and I love her."
               If Richard Barber had been surprised at the change which time had wrought in the personal appearance of his children, he was still more surprised at the clear judgment and good sense of his son. "How did you learn so much?" he asked.
               "By keeping my eyes open, as Mr. Proctor told me. When I see a boy now, I can give a pretty good guess what kind of a man he'll make."
               "What kind of a man do you expect to make, yourself?"
               "I mean to be a good man, and I'm sure I shall be; because anybody can be good that wants to."
               "Yes, Dick, anybody can be good; but it takes God's help."
               "Yes, sir, I know that," answered the boy. "Grandmother said so."
               Supper over, there was a quiet evening for these three, bound so strongly together by the ties of nature. Grandfather Somers joined the group in Mrs. James' room, where curiosity was busy in conjecturing what would now become of "the children."
               "I hope he won't take them away from me," said Mary. "I shouldn't know how to keep house without them."
               "I wonder if he brought much money with him," remarked Mrs. James.
               Skye was impatient to know just what was to be done, saying, "I ain't sure but I wished he stayed away. Dick and I have made some plans, but I suppose they'll be knocked in the head now. If I was Dick, I should rather have Mr. Proctor look after me than all the sailors in the world."
               He changed his mind, however, when a few days after Richard Barber hired a cottage in the suburbs of the city, paid the rent for a year, and invited old Mr. Somers and Mary to occupy it with his children. Skye heard this first; next, that there was accommodations for two families, and that his mother had been offered the extra rooms at a low rent.
               "Of course we'll go," he said. "I'll pay the rent; see if I don't. That's what Mr. Barber's been looking round so much for. Will go, sure."
               The cottage was thoroughly cleansed with soap and water, the walls whitened, the struggling vines re-trained, and the dilapidated fence, which enclosed a small garden, repaired. Then came the moving; new furniture being furnished for two small chambers, and the old made to look its very best.
               No wonder that, after living in tenement houses, reeking with filth and dampness, grandfather Somers thought this the pleasantest place in the world.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               
                  
                     
                        The stars shine on, serene and bright,
                        Though stormy clouds obscure their light;
                        While clods of earth are dark and cold,
                        Still dark when set with gems and gold;
                        So wealth may gild and taste refine,
                        Yet vice is vice, though both combine.
                     
                  
               
               "BETTER take hold with both hands," said Mr. Proctor, speaking to Skye James, who was exerting all his strength in the efforts to move a large box.
               "Yes, sir, I know it's the way; but I've only my right hand in working order."
               "What do you mean by that, Skye?"
               "Sure, sir, his hand is crushed; and one of his fingers broke entirely," said an Irishman who was helping to unload a dray.
               "Let's see. Is that so, my boy?" asked the merchant.
               "My hand is bruised, but not crushed," was the reply. "One finger is broken, too, but it is all right since it was dressed."
               "How did it happen?"
               "Sure, my own hand slipped, and let a barrel slide that shouldn't," answered the Irishman, without waiting for Skye to speak. "It's all my fault, and it's right I should pay the doctor; but he'll not consint."
               "Why should I, Patrick? You were not to blame."
               "Wasn't I, though? Sure, I'll never forgive myself, and you so good-natured, too."
               "But your hand must be painful," remarked Mr. Proctor.
               "Yes, sir, it is some painful, but when I'm at work I don't think much about it."
               "Is that so? I was thinking to send you home, and I'm not sure now but it would be the best way."
               
               "I don't think it would, sir. I'd rather stay. I need to work."
               "I suppose you mean that you need the pay for your work. This afternoon will make no difference with your pay. Now wouldn't you prefer to go home?"
               "No, sir."
               "Then I shall send you with a message to the east part of the city, and Patrick may manage these barrels alone."
               "Sure, I'll do it, sir. I've been saying that same to the lad."
               Skye was glad of an opportunity to be out-of-doors, and as Mr. Proctor had told him to take his own time, he walked along leisurely. He looked at the shop windows, at the people whom he met, at the boys congregated at the corner of the streets, and then he looked up into the clear, blue sky arching above him. He quite forgot pain and discomfort; indeed, he forgot everything but the message which
                     Just Steady that Post. Page 207.
                  
                   had been entrusted to him, and the fact that God withholds no good thing from those who walk uprightly.
               His message delivered, he was returning home, when he heard loud shouts proceeding from an obscure alley. He turned to learn the cause, and going near, saw a boy, no older than himself, so intoxicated that he could not stand.
               "I never see nothin' like this," muttered the boy. "Everything spinnin' round like a top. Just steady that post till I can get a good hold."
               This speech was interrupted by frequent pauses, and when it closed, the listeners again shouted at the top of their voices.
               "Don't make that noise again," exclaimed Skye. "You'll call the police, and what's the use getting Sandy shut up? Take hold here one of you, and help him down to the pump. Cold water'll bring him round. Come, take hold," repeated Skye, impatiently.
               
               "Shan't do no such thing," answered one, with an oath. "Help him yourself, if you want to. We want some fun, and Sandy makes it."
               With both hands, Skye could easily have managed the boy; with one it was somewhat difficult; but by a liberal outlay of perseverance, strength and persuasion, he succeeded in getting Sandy to the pump, where he administered a douche of cold water.
               "What's happened?" asked Sandy, sputtering furiously. "I'm wet as a drownded monkey.
               "You are pretty wet," was the reply of his friend, echoed by the hearty laugh of those, who, while refusing to offer assistance, came to see the fun. "Better wash your face now, in a regular way, and then we'll go round to your mother's. I guess she'll want to see you by this time."
               Sandy was docile, and bracing himself as well as he could, received the water in his hands, and applied it to his face.
               "I guess I am clean this time," he said, after a vigorous scrubbing.
               "Yes, clean enough," responded Skye. "Now we'll go to your mother."
               "You going with me? You don't look much like it; and besides, mother sent me to buy some flour. I had the money right here," said Sandy, examining his vest pocket. "Wonder where it's gone. 'Taint here now, that's a fact."
               Skye looked round at the boys, who began to move off slowly. "Hold on!" he cried. "Tell us where the money has gone."
               At this, they disappeared, proving that they knew more in regard to the money than they wished to tell, while Sandy continued his search. Further investigation showed that the boys, having demanded a treat, carried their point, inducing the good-natured fellow to spend part of the money in his possession. One older in years and vice than the others, poured some gin in Sandy's beer, and then, by a dexterous slight of hand, robbed him.
               The victim of this conspiracy was sorry, mortified, and unwilling to go home. "We shan't have a mouthful to eat," he said. "'Twas all the money mother had, and I told her I'd be sure and not spend it for anything but flour."
               "It would be better to keep out of bad company," remarked Skye, more to give himself time for consideration, than from a desire to reproach one who was already sufficiently punished. "I'll give you some flour."
               "You will! How can you get it?"
               "Get it!—with money to be sure. That's what buys flour. Come with me."
               "But I can't go so wet. Let me go home first."
               "I will, if you'll tell your mother the whole truth, and not stir out of your room till I get there."
               "I'll do just that," was the answer. "I wont stir out a step."
               Skye had been from the store longer than he intended, and of course desired to explain the cause of his absence. "I shouldn't have stopped a minute, if you hadn't told me there was no hurry about my being back," he said to Mr. Proctor.
               "All right, my boy; I am glad you stopped. You may be able to do Sandy more good in future. Ask him to come to school next Sabbath. I should like to see him."
               "Yes, sir, I'll ask him this very evening. I'm going there to carry some flour. I promised Sandy that I would."
               "Well, if you buy the flour, I will pay for it; and we will go shares in this charity. How much money did the boy have when he left home?"
               
               The sum was very small for Mr. Proctor to give, although it had seemed large to the poor woman who had no more.
               "What a pity there are so many poor people," remarked Skye, who had been thinking upon this subject, until he spoke almost involuntarily. "It don't do much good to help one when there are so many left."
               "Don't it?" asked the gentleman, who, being at leisure, was quite willing to spend a few minutes in talking with his young companion. "It did some good to help the Barber children."
               "Yes, sir, I know that, and I didn't mean just what I said. But there are so many. We can't help all the poor people."
               "Of course we can't; but that's no reason why we should refuse to do what we can. One will influence another, and good habits will spread. The poor generally need teaching as much as feeding. They must learn that what they sow they shall reap; and what they plant they shall gather; not grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles. A man who spends his money for rum cannot always have bread."
               "But, Mr. Proctor, I've heard of men who think it's dreadful to drink rum," said Skye, with great animation. "They wouldn't touch it; but they drink wine. I wish you'd please to tell me the difference."
               "The difference is, that wine is more palatable, and costs more money. Rich men drink wine, champagne, and brandy, while poor men are obliged to satisfy their appetites with cheaper liquors. It often happens that a man who commences with drinking wine, often ends with drinking rum."
               "And is everybody a drunkard who drinks wine?"
               "Certainly not. Far from it, although they are less reliable than they would be, without the habit; and in these days, it is pretty certain that a young man who indulges in drinking, to any great extent, will never accomplish much."
               "Then why do they drink?" asked Skye, looking up into his employer's face with such an eager, questioning gaze, as made the gentleman wish he could answer satisfactorily.
               "Did you ever smoke, or drink beer or ale?"
               "Yes, sir, I used to smoke, when I could get anything in the shape of a cigar, and I drank beer, too."
               "Why did you do it?"
               "Because I liked it. I thought it made me feel good, and the boys were all so jolly. I didn't know then how foolish 'twas, though mother told me."
               "Well, suppose you had kept on till this time."
               "I shouldn't be much, if I had."
               "I know you wouldn't, and I don't understand stand why so many young men persist in a foolish habit. When you are older, and have seen more of the world, you may be able to tell. I shouldn't have you here, if you smoked, and spent your money for beer; neither will I employ a young man whom I know to be a wine drinker. Wasting money is what makes so many poor people. If a man is able to work, he can support his family in this country, and children can do a great deal to help themselves, if they are properly taught. Food is cheaper and better than rum and tobacco. I've given you quite a temperance lecture, Skye; the same old story. I've told so often in Sabbath school, but it will do you no harm. Perhaps you have heard enough for once, and if you stay here any longer, I am afraid Sandy will think you have forgotten him. It may be as well to spend part of the money for bread; and mind you take care of that bruised hand. Stay at home to-morrow, if your mother thinks best."
               
               "Yes, sir, thank you. Good morning."
               First to the baker's, then to Sandy Rearden's home. Pausing at the door, he heard Mrs. Rearden lamenting her misfortune in true Irish style.
               "Sure, Sandy, I'll not be after blaming ye; but it's niver a cint that's left, and me onable to walk at all at all. Bad luck to the byes that took the money, and made ye tipsy, besides. 'Twas the same with yer father, and not much better was I for all the money he earned. I think we'll starve now, entirely."
               Skye waited to hear no more. The door was opened, and Sandy's face lighted up at sight of a friend. "I've brought you some bread and flour."
               "Sure, I thank ye, young jintleman. It's kind ye are, and may the Houly Virgin bless ye. Won't ye be plazed to come in? It's a poor place; but my old man died before now, and it's not much the lad can do, let alone myself, that can't walk at all at all. Sure, I've seen ye before," added the woman, looking closely at Skye.
               "Yes, mam, you have seen me before. My name is Skye James."
               "And so it is; but you've grown a fine gentleman. I hope your mother and the little girls are well."
               "They are very well," answered the boy; and then wishing to accomplish the great object of his visit, he added, "I brought the bread and flour to make up for the money Sandy lost; and I want him to go to school with me, next Sabbath."
               "To school, is it? Sure, he shall go anywhere for ye. Where is the school?"
               Mrs. Rearden was evidently surprised when an answer was given to this question; nevertheless she said directly, "Sure, I've passed my word, and I'll not take it back. Sandy shall go to the school, whoever says to the contrary."
               
               "Thank you; and I'd like to talk with Sandy a few minutes, if you are willing."
               "Sure I am. Why shouldn't I be?"
               The boys went out together, and their talk was prolonged for more than a few minutes. Good advice was given by one, while promises were made by the other, and Skye went home satisfied with his day's work.
               "You see if I hadn't hurt my hand, I shouldn't have run across Sandy, and he wouldn't have promised to go to Sabbath school. On the whole, I'm glad I hurt my hand."
               "But I am very sorry," answered Mrs. James, to whom this was said, and although rejoicing in whatever good seemed to be done, could not but regret her son's misfortune.
               The story was repeated to Dick Barber, and there followed a conversation like so many others in which these boys had borne a part. They discussed matters quite beyond their years, compared notes upon different subjects, and arrived at conclusions which would have done credit to older and wiser heads.
               "I declare, Skye, you made me forget that I got a letter from father, to-day," exclaimed Dick at length.
               "Well, you know letters will keep, and Sandy must be attended to now."
               "Yes, I know that. But father's letter is just as good as good can be; and Di had one all to herself, besides. Things don't seem much as they did that Christmas, when we stood on tip-toe, to look into the school-room."
               "I guess they don't," responded Skye. "I tell you, Dick, we are getting ahead, some, and I don't mean to go back a single step. Everything turns out all right."
               "Your hand isn't all right, just now," said his companion, smiling.
               "Oh, I don't mind that. It don't feel quite right, just now; but it will soon be well. It has done more good than hurt. There's Sandy helped; and it gave me a chance to speak to Dr. Foster. I used to think he must be the happiest fellow in town; but I wouldn't change places with him, rich as he is."
               "He isn't the richest man in the world," remarked Dick, whose ideas of riches had undergone a wonderful transformation.
               "I know that; but he has enough, if he will only make a good use of it, as Mr. Proctor says. With all his stores, houses, and bank stock, he don't need to work a single day."
               "What if his houses should burn down?"
               "He wouldn't lose much. Of course they are insured. I wonder if he is insured himself," added Skye, after a moment's silence.
               "What do you mean by that?" asked Dick.
               "I mean that I wonder if he is insured against being a drunkard. Mr. Proctor says there is always danger of a wine drinker becoming coming a drunkard, and I know that Dr. Foster drinks wine."
               Adah Foster often wondered if her husband was insured against being a drunkard, shuddering as she saw some wretched creature stagger through the street. Was it possible that Howard would be like him?
               The mere fact of his drinking wine moderately, would not have troubled her. Few of those with whom she associated were tee-totalers, Retta being in a respectable minority. For this, Howard ridiculed his sister without mercy, the shafts all the more keen that they were polished and finely tempered.
               "You are ruining your prospects," he said to her, in a fit of anger. "How do you expect to be tolerated in society, after setting yourself up as you do? You mortify me constantly."
               "It is a pity you should be mortified," was her reply. "I can sympathize with you, for I am often mortified by the conduct of one of my nearest relatives."
               "Are you?" asked her brother, sharply, well knowing to whom she referred.
               "I am," answered Retta, with flashing eyes. Then, in a milder tone, she added, "There should be no anger between us, Howard. We do not think alike—"
               "Of course we don't," interrupted her brother, impatiently. "Who ever supposed we could? All I ask of you is, that you pay a decent respect to the rules of good breeding, when in my presence."
               "I wish I might make one request of you?" said the sister, gently.
               "Make as many as you please. I am not obliged to grant them."
               "Then, Howard, I wish you would see to it that you are not a drunkard." There was no reply to this, and Retta continued speaking slowly and deliberately. "The happiness of others, as well as of yourself, is concerned. Mother and Adah are very unhappy, and you have made them so."
               "It will be best for you to attend to your own affairs," responded Dr. Foster, scornfully. "If mother has any complaints to make, she can speak for herself. As for Adah—"
               "Adah makes no complaint," Retta hastened to say, fearful lest in seeking to serve her sister, she had done an injury. "Your wife is quite above that."
               "I trust she is," was the haughty response, as the speaker left the room.
               Mrs. Foster coming in, her daughter smiled and made some remark quite foreign to the subject which had been under discussion. But the mother disregarded both smiles and remarks.
               "Do tell me what is the matter with Howard," she exclaimed. "I met him on the steps, and told him I had something particular lar to say to him; but he refused to come back with me. Oh dear, I wish your father had lived. I am afraid Adah isn't such a woman as Howard ought to have for a wife. She don't understand much about house-keeping, and he is very particular."
               "Mother! Mother! don't be unjust. Adah is too good for Howard. The fault is in him, not in his surroundings, and it is of no use to deny the truth. It seemed wrong for me to keep silence, while Adah was so cruelly deceived, before her marriage; and now I will never hear her blamed. No one supposed she understood house-keeping. Howard would have scorned the idea of marrying a house-keeper. Let him hire one. He has money enough, if he will spend it properly."
               "I didn't mean to blame Adah," replied the unhappy mother. "I have just come from her house, and I think she had been crying, though I said nothing about it. Her cook left this morning, and she has only a young girl in the kitchen. I promised I would try to find some help for her."
               "The cook gone!" said Retta. "There must be a good reason for that. She was very much attached to Adah."
               "I know it, but I didn't think best to ask any questions."
               Mrs. Riley went directly from Dr. Foster's to Mr. Snow's, and told her story.
               "I am very sorry," remarked her former mistress, with a sigh. "I wish you had stayed a while longer. I don't know how Adah will manage without you."
               "I'd been willing to stay, but for the doctor faulting everything. There's nothing suits him but cigars and liquors; and the dear young lady never saying a word, only crying her eyes out all the time. Bad luck to his money, and it's me that's thinking he'll not keep it long."
               
               "Hush! I can't hear such talk about my children," said Mrs. Snow. "I thought you had been better trained."
               "Beg pardon, mam, I wouldn't offend you; but I've seen what would make you talk. I wish the young lady was back here in the old place, and the doctor where he ought to be. It's little peace she has of her life."
               Mrs. Snow went directly to her daughter's, and there learned that Howard had never liked Mrs. Riley, and the woman had been impertinent. "Then she must have been provoked to it, Adah," said the mother. "I never knew her to be impertinent. Your father liked her very much, and would hardly consent to my parting with her, even for you."
               This was only the beginning of changes, some servants being dismissed, others refusing to stay; but all understanding what was the foe in the household. Time passed on, each succeeding day marked by cares, pleasures and sorrows. For those who labored earnestly and manfully, there were rich rewards; for those who idled, there was weariness; while for those who indulged in debauch and dissipation, there was present suffering, with the assurance of a fearful retribution.
               But who thought of retribution, when pledged in rosy wine? Who thought of suffering, while music, beauty and elegance appealed to the senses, with their magic power?
               Surely, not Howard Foster, who smiled when he should have frowned, and frowned when he should have smiled. Few smiles had he for her whom he had wooed with such extravagant expressions of endearments; an angel clad in the habiliments of earth, the bright star of his destiny, and the idol of his heart.
               The young wife had long since learned the emptiness of such words; yet she could not believe that she had never been loved.
               When watching, late at night, for her husband's return, she lived over again, the hours when he had seemed to find his greatest happiness with her.
               So passed three years of their married life. Then a babe lay cradled in her arms; a beautiful boy, whom the father looked upon with pride.
               "We must train him so that he will be a noble man," said the mother, softly, looking up with a new light in her eyes. "Let us be very good ourselves, so that he may be kept pure."
               "Yes, darling," and Howard Foster kissed wife and child, holding both in a close embrace.
               Hoping all things, Adah was so happy that she almost forgot the shadow which brooded over their home; and more beautiful ful in her matronly dignity, than she had been in her maidenhood, she doubted not that all would be well, She was surrounded with luxury, her husband was attentive, and she told Ritter that her brightest dreams were realized. "The baby is a blessing. I am never tired of caring for him, and Howard cares for us both with the utmost tenderness. I really believe he smokes less, since baby was born, and I tell him that I expect he will become a model family man."
               There seemed to be some prospect of this; at least there was sufficient manifestation of interest in his family to flatter Adah's hopes. The birth of his child had awakened some latent feelings, and the beautiful love of his wife had moved him to admiration; but there was another cause for increased attention to his business and family. He had lost money, and it was necessary that he should curtail his expenses.
               
               With other foolish habits, he had acquired that of gambling, and matched with one more skillful than himself, he had paid the penalty. In order to meet the debt of honor, he had anticipated his quarterly income; and was consequently out of funds, yet he made no complaint, and there were but few who knew of his loss.
               Always indulging in games of chance, with sufficient at stake to give them zest, it was not until after his marriage, that he became what is called a gambler. While in Europe he saw deep playing; desperate games, where whole fortunes were lost; and a strange fascination held him, as a close observer, almost persuaded to try his luck. Yet prudence restrained him from anything beyond small ventures, until his return home.
               He thought he had learned much; but with all his knowledge, he was duped. One who made gambling a profession, wearing the livery of wealth, and a professed admirer of all things beautiful and refined, secured an introduction to Howard Foster, and in a most gentlemanly manner robbed him.
               This was a severe blow to the young doctor's pride; but he bore it without a murmur, while his quondam friend bade him adieu with a smile of ill-concealed triumph.
               The victim then began to realize that his means were not inexhaustible; that what would have been a good foundation for a fortune, was not the fortune itself. His buildings needed large outlays to keep them in repair, tenants were not easily satisfied, and he was an unpopular landlord.
               His guardian had been prompt and conciliatory, making the most of the property; and when relinquishing it, ventured some advice, which, had it been followed, would have saved much trouble. The agent, through whom most of the business had been done, wished to retain his position; and did so, until the unreasonable demands of his employer forced him to a resignation. Since then there had been various changes, causing no small dissatisfaction.
               At length, Howard Foster assumed the business himself; just what he should have done, but unfortunately just what he was not qualified to do.
               When he opened his office, and made a show of commencing life in earnest, it would have been easy to place everything in good condition. Instead, he temporized, promised, and failing to perform, made matters worse. After the loss of which I have spoken, he borrowed money to meet present liabilities, and forced to an examination of his affairs, found them less prosperous than he had supposed.
               "I must repair and retrench," he said to himself. But habits of indolence were hard to overcome, and, moreover, the constant use of tobacco and stimulants had impaired his natural vigor. No one could tell what he would be, freed from their influence.
               Yet everything about him was elegant. If he was dissipated,—his family friends did not admit this,—but even if this was true, he preserved through all the habits of a gentleman.
               "I used to be disgusted with Howard's squeamishness, but I don't know but it will be his salvation, after all," said his father's sister, between whom and her nephew there had never been much affection. "If he hasn't any principle, it may be a good thing that he has taste and refinement. Drunkenness is drunkenness, anywhere; but dirt and rags make it appear worse."
               This aunt was visiting her sister-in-law when Howard's baby was six months old, and the whole house was brightened by the presence ence of this wee, fair being. "It may be that he is improving," she thought. "Henrietta may be right, but I won't make up my mind just yet."
               Howard Foster wished for a loan of several thousand dollars, to repay what he had borrowed, and make extensive repairs on his buildings. He knew that his mother could command the money, and after some hesitation, made his request.
               "Do you need so much?" she asked, in surprise.
               "Yes," he replied, carelessly. "I suppose I could do with less, but I wish to repair thoroughly, and just now I haven't any money on hand."
               "But how happens that, my son? There must be something wrong."
               His face flushed with anger; but having a purpose to gain, he controlled himself and answered, respectfully, "My expenses have been large the past year, and my rents have not come in as well as usual. However, if you don't choose to let me have the money, I can easily obtain it elsewhere."
               "I don't want you to go elsewhere, Howard, but I don't see why you need to borrow at all. It can't cost half your income to support your family. I know, by my own expenses."
               "Do you doubt my word?" exclaimed the young man, quite off his guard.
               His mother made no reply, as again came back all the doubts and fears she had thought banished forever.
               "I lost some money, through a friend."
               "Oh, that is it," said Mrs. Foster, breathing more freely. "Come over to-morrow, and I will see what I can do for you. I have some money deposited in the bank, which I was intending to invest for baby; but I will see. You know I would do anything for you, my son."
               
               "I know you would, mother, and I am not so ungrateful as I seem. But I wish you wouldn't say anything to Retta about it. She has no sympathy with me, and I don't care to have her know my business. By the way, some one told me that Harry Wheaton is a frequent visitor here, since his return."
               "He has called quite often," was the reply.
               "And does Retta smile upon him?"
               "Retta treats him politely."
               "She may do that, for a short time; but ten chances to one if she don't offend him within a month. I never saw a girl like her. I am quite sure that Frank Spafford was pleased with her, and she might have made a good match with him, if she had chosen."
               "And would you have liked to see her his wife?"
               "I don't know why I shouldn't," replied the young man. "He was a good match."
               "Far from it," said Mrs. Foster, with emphasis. "I would rather see Retta in her grave, than married to such a man. His wife looks broken-hearted already, and he is fast becoming a drunkard. I heard that he was carried to his room one night last week, in a state of beastly intoxication."
               If the speaker had not been so engrossed with her subject, she would have seen her son's confusion; but not seeing this, she continued. "Frank Spafford's father left him two hundred thousand dollars, but I doubt if he is worth half that now. It wouldn't be strange, if he should squander the whole, and become a poor man. His tastes were always low."
               "Perhaps so," was the evasive reply. "But he is a good-hearted fellow, and I don't believe half that is said against him. I must go, now, and I'll see you again, to-morrow. Don't say anything to Retta about this money business."
               
               Howard Foster had not been gone from the house more than half an hour, when the gentleman who transacted most of his mother's business, called to say that he had made arrangements for investing the money about which she had consulted him a few days previous. "It is very fortunate for you," he said. "There will hardly be another such opportunity, at present. I was half inclined to close the transaction, without seeing you again."
               "Thank you. But I believe I have changed my mind," was Mrs. Foster's reply. "I think I will wait a few months, before investing for my grandson."
               "Very well," answered the gentleman. "But you must excuse me, if I say that for a permanent investment, nothing could be better than what I have mentioned."
               "Why, mother!" exclaimed Retta, looking up from her work. "I thought this matter was settled, beyond a question. What has changed your mind? Please not consider her answer final," she added, turning to their visitor, who, being an old friend of the family, understood where lay the executive talent.
               "To-morrow morning will be early enough for a decision," he replied.
               Retta was clear-sighted; and connecting Howard's call with her mother's change of purpose, resolved to have an explanation.
               Mr. Ward had gone, Mrs. Foster bustled about in an uneasy way, for a few minutes, and then seated herself in a rocking chair; her daughter, meanwhile, netting industriously.
               "Howard must have had some business, this afternoon, or he would hardly have stayed so long," said Retta.
               "Why should you think so? It isn't very strange that he should wish to spend an hour with his mother."
               
               "Perhaps not. But it seems very strange to me that you should change your mind about making an investment for Frank. You have talked about it ever since he was born, and I should advise you to carry out your original plan."
               "I intend to do so. But it is not absolutely necessary that it be done now. Another time will do as well."
               "Possibly. But you have the money on hand now, and, so far as I can see, you have no use for it."
               Mrs. Foster said nothing, and her silence confirmed Retta's suspicions.
               "Mother, if Howard came to you for money, the best thing you can do, is to refuse him."
               "Who said he came to me for money?" was the quick response.
               "No one has said so to me; but I am quite sure that is the case. Is it not so?"
               "Yes, it is," answered the mother, after some hesitation. "I didn't mean to tell you anything about it. The business is between me and Howard, and he will be offended at my telling you."
               "It does not matter if he is. There is no reason why his feelings should be regarded more than mine or yours. Do you intend to let him have the money?"
               "I don't know."
               There was an indecision in this which augured ill for the daughter's success; nevertheless, she would not yield without an effort. She continued to urge and remonstrate, until it seemed unwise to say more.
               The next morning, Mrs. Foster appeared disinclined to talk, although she was evidently troubled. "Retta, I have made up my mind," she said at length, as Howard was seen crossing the street.
               "I supposed that you had," was the daughter's reply.
               
               "I shall do as I think your father would do, if he were living."
               "Which means that you will give Howard the money."
               "I shall loan it to him," Mrs. Foster responded. "He does not wish for it as a gift."
               "Yes, I understand. But in this case, I think there will be little difference between giving and loaning. I should advise you, however, to take security. No one knows what may happen, and it is well to be on the safe side."
               Notwithstanding this advice, Mrs. Foster gave her son a check for five thousand dollars, and received therefor a simple promissory note, nothing being said of security. Of course, Howard was profuse in his expressions of gratitude, although even then, he wished he had asked for double the amount. As for payment of the same, he gave it not a thought; neither did he think of the wrong done to his child.
               Five thousand dollars would go far with some people, but with three quarters already appropriated, and paid the very day it was received, it seemed an insignificant sum to Dr. Foster. He really needed another five thousand.
               But his credit was good, and upon the strength of this, he commenced repairing his buildings. He made calculations of the probable cost of what needed to be done, and was surprised to find it so much. His profession yielded so little, that it was not to be considered. There must be retrenchment somewhere.
               Where? At home, and in such ways as not to affect his own comfort. It never occurred to him that he could forego his expensive habits, although there lay before him a heavy bill for wines which he had recently ordered. The day before, he had given his wife fifty dollars, without question. Now he wondered what a woman could want of so much money; and wondering, proceeded to open a box of cigars, for which he had paid a most extravagant price.
               Like a true devotee, he revelled in the incense offered to the patron saint of tobacco, and congratulated himself upon possessing such a source of pleasure. A glass of wine as a libation to Bacchus, and care was banished.
               The close of the year approached, and with unwonted energy, he resolved to put himself square with the world, and know how much he could call his own. Something like this he had before attempted, yet failed to complete the investigation. Now he would persevere, however disagreeable the task.
               The value of every building and foot of land in his possession was carefully computed, with the income derived from them. During his minority, his guardian had made new investments, thus adding constantly to his property; but little of this had been done by himself, and nothing since his marriage. The unwelcome conclusion that he had been a poor steward forced itself upon him, and with strange candor he admitted to himself that his life had not been all he might have made it.
               Others judged him more severely, prophesying evil in the days to come. The family of his wife felt that she had made a great mistake in linking her fate with one like him; yet they were wisely silent in regard to it. Oscar Snow was indignant at the manner in which his sister had been duped, and made frequent attempts to gain her confidence. He was sure that the study of a profession had been merely a farce to win her esteem; and he despised Howard Foster, as only an upright man can despise one who has stooped to trickery and meanness.
               From Adah, smiling and reticent, he heard nothing, and really knew very little of what she suffered. Howard treated him with cold politeness, scarcely better than insolence; yet for his sister's sake, he smothered his indignation, sure, that when once there was an open rupture, it would never be healed.
               How different was all this from what he had anticipated, when Adah was a merry, light-hearted girl! Often had he told her that she must have no secrets from him; while now he came not near her heart.
               During the holidays, there was to be a meeting of children and grand-children at the house of Mr. Snow, and pleasant as these re-unions had always been, the mother made her preparations with a sad heart. Howard Foster did not hesitate to say that he never enjoyed such things, and wished he might be left to spend the day as he pleased.
               "But I cannot go without you," urged Adah.
               "Then stay at home," he answered sharply.
               "O Howard!"
               Only this, and a flood of tears, which could not be restrained. Frank put up his dimpled hands, to wipe away the tears, moaning in sympathy.
               Moved by this touching manifestation, and not yet utterly regardless of his wife's happiness, he made a qualified apology for his rudeness. "I have been harassed with business, for the last few days," he said. "Looking over accounts, and striking the balance between profit and loss is not an agreeable occupation. So forget my hasty speech, and make our baby charming. We will go to your father's."
               A kiss sealed the reconciliation, and the young mother's eyes shone again with a happy light. She had long ago decided to say nothing to her husband of business; so she put away all thought of it, and amused herself with the baby, who needed nothing to make him charming.
               She tried to believe herself happy, although she had that very day listened to a story, which chilled her heart with fear.
               One, gifted, refined, and honored, surrounded with friends, and enjoying the luxuries of wealth, had fallen a victim to intemperance, bartering his birth-right for a bacchanal's song, and a pauper's grave.
               Such sin was in the world; yet the sun shone on, flowers bloomed, and Nature's voices chanted their hymn of praise.
               The year closed. Old Time, with noiseless fingers, let fall the heavy drapery which concealed the past, while the future stretched away, in one long unbroken vista.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               
                  
                     
                        The glad New Year. The bells ring out
                        With happy children's gleeful shout.
                        And over all the broad, fair earth,
                        Is heard the sound of joy and mirth.
                        Ah me! But sorrow has its moan,
                        And every breaking heart its groan.
                     
                  
               
               "I WISH you a Happy New Year! Happy New Year!" shouted a chorus of voices, while grandfather Somers rubbed his eyes, and raised his head from the pillow, to make sure that he was awake.
               Presently, however, this fact was settled beyond a doubt, as the door of his room was opened, and the glad greeting again repeated. Then half-suppressed laughter, with hasty steps, and all was still.
               
               The first gray light of dawn had not yet appeared in the east, but the New Year had come, and it was meet that it should be welcomed.
               So thought the five children gathered in Mrs. James' sitting-room. They wondered any one could sleep that morning.
               "I guess the stars never shone so bright, before," said Anna, youngest of the flock. "And do see the great moon, looking just like—just like—"
               "Just like what?" asked Skye, joining her at the window.
               "I can't tell," she answered. "But it's very beautiful," and then they all laughed at Anna's using such a large word. "Wasn't that right, Skye? I've heard you say very beautiful."
               "Quite right, little sister. We should laugh at anything, this morning."
               "I know why," responded the child, quickly. "It's because we're happy. Seems to me I never was so happy, in all my life. What do you suppose mother will say, when she comes in here?"
               "I don't know;" and another laugh echoed these words.
               "Come right in, Aunt Mary," whispered Dick, as the door was opened softly. "See how nice it looks," and he pointed to a dark, warm carpet, covering the floor. "There wouldn't anybody know how many patches there are."
               "Not patches, but pieces," suggested Di. "There's a difference, only you boys can't tell what it is: I can tell, for I helped sew them."
               This carpet was a wonder, in its way. It had been bought at an auction-room, where it lay, with a heap of others, dusty, soiled and ragged; yet now thoroughly cleansed and repaired, no one would recognize it. Skye paid the small price demanded for it, and gave it into Mary Somers' hands, to undergo the process of transformation. Mrs. James had watched this process, even lending her aid, and praising without stint the skill displayed in piecing, matching and darning. All this she had done, without a thought that the carpet was to be her own; and consequently the children were impatient to hear what she would say.
               "I wish it was all nailed down," said Skye, after giving it another critical survey.
               "But mother would have heard you pound, and then—"
               Mrs. James stood in the room, looking from the carpet to her children, then to Mary, then back to the carpet.
               Skye had quite a speech prepared for the occasion, and intended to be very impressive; but he forgot every word of it, and could only say, "It's a New Year's present for you, mother. I wanted to buy a new one, but I couldn't."
               There were laughing and crying, smiles and sobs, over what had been only a rag of a carpet. A homely gift, yet the recipient prized it as some would have prized the costliest gems.
               "Didn't we keep the secret?" asked Di, triumphantly. "Aunt Mary was afraid we shouldn't, but I knew we should, though I had to bite my lips a good many times, to keep from telling."
               "I asked you whose carpet it was, Mary," said Mrs. James.
               "Yes, and I told you it belonged to one of my customers. That was the truth. Skye is one of my customers."
               "Now, mother, do sit down in this rocking-chair, and please to forget that you've seen all the patching and darning done to your carpet. Play it is new, just from Hapgood's."
               
               "It's as good as new, any way," said Sarah, looking admiringly at her brother, and expecting every moment to hear the speech which had been rehearsed in her presence, and which seemed to her a marvel of eloquence.
               "I thought you was going to say something more," exclaimed Anna, who had waited for the speech, until her patience was exhausted. "Skye has got a real pretty story to tell you," she added, with charming simplicity. "He told us this morning, before you got up."
               "What is it?" asked the mother.
               "I've told it, in a short way," answered her son.
               "Tell it all," urged Anna; but Skye shook his head. "It sounds most like the minister, or the men that talk in Sunday School. I guess Skye'll be a minister, sometime, don't you, mother."
               "Not until I am better than I am now. Good morning, grandfather. Come in, and take a seat. We are having sort of a jollification, without so much as a cup of coffee to wet our throats. Rather a strange time, before sunrise, but this is an extraordinary occasion. Mother has come in possession of a new article of furniture, and it was necessary that we should examine it. Couldn't wait till daylight. If I hadn't given up the habit, I believe I should stand on my head."
               "I don't believe you could stand on your head now," responded Sarah. "Any way, I shouldn't want to, if I was as tall as you are."
               "Well, well, this sight is enough to do old eyes good," said grandfather Somers. "My last days are my best days. God has blessed us all, since the day Skye found me with only a crust."
               "Yes, God has been very good to us, and now my cup seems to run over," replied Mrs. James. "If my husband could have lived,— but I ought not to think of that, when I have such a son."
               "Don't praise me, mother. You'll make me proud, and there's no telling what will happen then. I'm only trying to do my duty, while I come far enough short of it. But I'll keep on trying. See if I don't."
               "Yes, my boy, keep on," said the old man. "Thank God, too, that he didn't leave you to go down to destruction, like so many others."
               "I do thank him, grandfather, and I thank you, too. I've thought a thousand times of what you said to me that morning about folks having what they want, and I believe it; only, sometimes they must take their choice between two things. If I spent my money for beer, I shouldn't have it to buy bread; and if I paid six cents for a cigar, I shouldn't have the six cents to pay for half a pound of meat. I know plenty of boys who have wasted more within a month, than it took to buy that carpet, and pay for having it washed and mended. They'll go on a spree to day, and be used up for all the rest of the week, so they can't work; and all the time complaining of being poor."
               "Why don't you tell them better?" asked Mary Somers.
               "I have, but they don't believe me. The fact is they've been going on this way, ever since they were large enough to smoke and drink, and their brains are all in a muddle. If they were shut up to cold water and good victuals, for a month or two, there'd be some chance of making them think; but now they'll just go on from bad to worse. I can imagine something how they feel. They're uneasy as a fish out of water, unless they are smoking or chewing tobacco; and that keeps them so that plain victuals, such as they can get, aint of any account at all. Part of the time, they're half crazy; and the other part, they're stupid as logs."
               "How did you find out all that?" asked Mr. Somers, with surprise. "Anybody would think you'd been through the mill."
               "I've looked in, and I've kept a bright lookout on those who were going through," was the reply. "I've asked them a good many questions, too, and they all tell the same story, when they're candid. I know what boys mean, when they say they're spoiling for a fight, and I know what makes them say it."
               "Rich men's boys don't talk so, do they?" said Dick, who had listened earnestly to his friend.
               "I don't know much about them, but I suppose they're made of the same flesh and blood as other boys, so that tobacco and liquor have the same effect upon them. Grandfather, what sort of a man do you suppose I should have made, if I hadn't sworn off."
               "A very wicked man," was the reply.
               "That's what I should; and if there's anything worse than that, you may be sure I should have found it."
               Sarah went up to her brother, and put her arms around his neck as he said this, whispering, "Don't talk so. It makes me feel bad."
               "Well, I won't," he answered, soothingly. "I've held forth long enough, for once. But last night, I overheard some boys planning for a high old time, to-day, and that set me to thinking. I couldn't sleep very well, and if I thought I could do any good, I'd hunt them up, and talk to them."
               "You might. At any rate, it wouldn't do any hurt to try," said the old man. "Kind words are never lost."
               "But I've tried to speak kind words, before now, and the boys don't like me any better for them, especially when I have on a good suit of clothes. They say I'm in luck, and I can't make them see that luck is only hard work, temperance, and perseverance."
               By this time, the first rays of sunlight had found their way into the little sitting-room, and the older members of the group began to think of breakfast. Skye and Dick went out to light fires in the kitchen, and do "the cold work." When this was done, a chapter was read from the Bible, and grandfather Somers offered prayer, commencing the New Year by a renewed consecration of their lives to the service of God. Then came breakfast, a little better than usual, after which the carpet was again admired.
               "I don't know of anything which would have pleased me more than this," said Mrs. James, speaking to Mary Somers. "I never envy you; but I've wished a good many times, that my sitting-room was as comfortable as yours; and I've tried to save money to buy a second hand carpet. But there are so many of us, and Skye must dress well where he is, that I've only saved two dollars towards it. I don't see how he got the money."
               "He earned it honestly," replied Mary.
               "I know that. I trust my boy, and nobody can tell what a comfort he is to me. There's been such a change in him, too. I expected nothing but he'd turn out bad, and if anybody ought to be thankful, I had. Mr. Proctor says there's nothing beyond his reach, if he keeps on, and best of all, I believe he's a Christian."
               "Yes, I think he is, though he don't see his way clear to say so. He only says he tries to do right, and looks to God for help."
               "That's where we must all look. It took me a good while to learn it, but I sha'n't forget, now."
               "Forget what, mother?" asked Skye, opening the door suddenly, and adding, without waiting for a reply to his question, "I hope you won't forget the basket for Sandy."
               
               "No, child, I won't, though to tell the truth, I haint thought of it before this morning. Everything is ready, and I can pack it in five minutes."
               There had been much talk about Sandy's basket; or rather, the contents of a basket which was to be carried to him. When packed, it contained some cooked meat, a loaf of bread, two pies, some plain cakes, a paper of tea, and another of sugar. This was the result of a contribution to aid Sandy Rearden, who, surrounded by many difficulties, was doing the best he could for himself.
               Mrs. Rearden was still lame, and to add to her discomfort, her neighbors, most of whom were Catholics, had persecuted her for allowing Sandy to attend a heretic school, until she had been forced to seek new accommodations. Skye James had interested himself in finding rooms for her near his mother's, and now, if work could be had, there was a prospect of comfort.
               Skye was sure to receive a welcome, even empty-handed; much more, when he carried a well-filled basket. "Bless ye, my fine jintleman!" exclaimed Mrs. Rearden, as Sandy opened the door. "Sure, that don't seem enough, but I left off the Houly Virgin, to plaze ye. It's little enough I can do for yer goodness to me, let alone what ye do for Sandy, who worships the ground ye walk on. Bad luck to me; but I forgot the New Year entirely," she added, when Skye, by his greeting, had reminded her of its arrival. "May ye live a thousand years, and every one better than the other. There's Sandy, my boy, down-hearted at a holiday."
               "You don't look down-hearted," said the visitor, turning to "my boy," whose face glowed with a good-natured smile.
               "Sure he was. It's the sight of ye changed him."
               "You were down-hearted, yourself," was the reply to this.
               
               The basket was emptied of its contents, each article praised, and for all, such unbounded thanks, that Skye was glad to escape the shower of words, and retreat as soon as possible, leaving mother and son to enjoy their luxurious repast.
               When he reached home, the last tack had been driven, and the carpet lay without a wrinkle. He sat down to read; but there was so much talking and laughing, that he found this impossible. Dinner was to be a grand affair that day, and everybody was in hilarious spirits. Even grandfather Somers caught something of the general gladness, and leaving his whittling, listened to the sound of merry bells, and watched the prancing steeds go by.
               Anna seemed to have but one wish ungratified. She "should like a sleigh-ride, just like the pretty ladies, all bundled up with furs."
               "I'll take you, when you get to be a lady," answered Skye. "See if I don't."
               "And me. And me," said Di and Sarah.
               "Yes, all of you," was the reply. "I'm going to have some nice horses, and just what I want besides."
               "Don't set your heart on such things."
               "No, grandfather, I don't set my heart on them. I hope my heart is set to do right, and these other things come in, as a matter of course."
               "What if your plans should fail, Skye?"
               For a moment, a shadow rested upon the boy's face; then looking up he said, with a smile, "I mean to do the best I can, and trust God for the rest. I should like to be rich, so I can help others, and show them what a poor boy can do."
               "If it is best, I hope you will be rich," said the old man. "There is another year before you, if you live to see the end of it."
               
               "Yes, and a year seems a great while. I ought to accomplish something in that time."
               Twelve months! So long a time in anticipation, so short in their passing!
               Another New Year's morning, and there was a vacant chair in Mary Somers' sitting-room. The old man, whose last days had been his best days, had exchanged earth for heaven, laying aside the soiled garments of his pilgrimage, for white robes and starry crown.
               It seemed, when first he left them, that life would never be the same again; but as weeks and months went by, those who had loved him, learned to think of him without sadness, until now they could rejoice that he was freed from pain and suffering.
               Many things to which these families had been all unused, found their way into this home during the year. Books carefully selected, occupied some unpretending shelves, which were considered a great ornament to Mrs. James' sitting-room. Flowering plants filled the broad window-ledge, where the sun lingered lovingly, and two pictures, in themselves sermons and inspirations, hung upon the walls. Mrs. James never knew that she cared for flowers and pictures, until she saw them constantly before her, when she recognized their beauty.
               Mary Somers, always having a vague consciousness that she loved beautiful things, only now understood their full power. Dick and Di possessed rare taste. A shop window in which were displayed flowers, the bright plumage of birds, or a collection of many hued mosses, was to them like a glimpse of fairy land; and straightway they sought to make fairy land their own. Dick's brain was fertile in expedients, while Di was ingenious and persevering.
               While their father was at home in midsummer summer, he had taken them to the country for a few days, whence they returned laden with precious stores. So there were tiny brackets, supporting pyramids of cones, or bouquets of mosses, upon which rested gorgeous butterflies, whose colors were not yet dimmed. I doubt if there were two homes in all the city where was more happiness.
               In many another, where restless feet trod upon carpets which gave back no sound, and tearful eyes gazed upon exquisite pictures, or caught the reflection of pale, sad faces in costly mirrors, there were anxious fears and crushing sorrow. Death might have left their number unbroken, but a foe more cruel than death, stood within the household.
               We wonder how much human hearts can bear, and still beat on; but only those can know who have watched their loved ones going surely, steadily, down to ruin.
               Adah Foster, beautiful still in her grief, was learning this. She had seen her husband more than once in a state of beastly intoxication. Beastly?—Yes. Only this adjective will describe his condition, although it had been induced by wine which many years had mellowed. She had no power to prevent the recurrence of this. Tears, entreaties, expostulations or reproaches were alike in their effect; worse than useless.
               Yet she looked up wives crushed with poverty and want, their children starving before their eyes, and thought her lot comparatively happy. Her well-appointed home lacked nothing of all which material necessities demanded. Of business, she was entirely ignorant. Before her marriage, she had heard an estimate of Howard Foster's property; and whether this had increased or diminished, she never enquired. A few times her husband had spoken of retrenchment; but she fancied this only the whim of a moment.
               
               His mother would not betray her son, although the money she had loaned him was never repaid. There was always some excuse why this was delayed, until even her sanguine expectations began to falter.
               "I wish I had invested that five thousand dollars for Frank," she said to Retta, one day. "I am afraid Howard is doing worse than ever. I don't think he practices at all, and Adah looked discouraged the last time I saw her."
               "She has good reason to look discouraged, with such a husband. It was a sin to allow her to marry him, without knowing his true character; and I am not guiltless in the affair."
               "He was no worse than others," replied Mrs. Foster, who could not hear her son blamed, without making some apology for him.
               "Then others are not worthy a true woman's love. If I was in Adah's place, I should be tempted to go home with Frank, and leave Howard to sink alone."
               "Sink how, where? He has money enough to keep him up, and I don't believe in a woman's leaving her husband."
               "It is not necessary that we should discuss that point, mother; but I see no reason why, if a man chooses to go down into the depths of wretchedness, others should feel it their duty to accompany him."
               "And you would advise Adah to leave her husband?"
               "I shall not give her my advice unasked, and she is not likely to ask it. One thing, however, mother, in regard to yourself. If you have money to bestow, keep it for Howard's family. They will need it."
               "They are not objects of charity," was the reply.
               "Not yet, in the common acceptation of the term, but there is every prospect that they will be."
               Retta almost regretted having spoken so plainly; but the frequent visits of her brother made her suspect that another loan would be requested, and she was anxious to place the matter in its true light. Whether her suspicions were correct or otherwise, she had afterwards no means of judging, except from the discontinuance of the visits which had given rise to them, and the marked coldness of her brother.
               Adah, reticent as ever, made no allusion to her trouble. Devoting herself to the care of her child, she seldom mingled in scenes of gayety, unless desired to do so by her husband. She even withdrew herself from her own family so far as possible, and at the return of the holidays, begged that her mother would excuse her from joining the circle of brothers, sisters and children.
               "I can't think of excusing you," answered Mrs Snow. "I am willing Howard should do as he pleases; but I must insist upon your presence. I can't lose my daughter, because—"Here the mother paused, completely overcome with emotion.
               "I will come," said Adah, by a strong effort controlling herself.
               "Christmas in our own home, New Year's with father and mother," wrote Oscar Snow. "We intend to have a jollification, call ourselves children, and forget all care."
               Glad words, but they found no echo in the heart of the sister, to whom they were addressed. Nevertheless, she resolved not to mar the reunion by her sadness.
               The last evening of the year, Dr. Foster went out as usual, and a little later, his brother-in-law called at the house.
               "I couldn't wait until morning, to see you," said Oscar Snow to his sister. "Besides sides, I want to know if Frank is handsomer than my boy. Mother says he is; but I am inclined to dispute her."
               "Frank is fast asleep," replied Adah, with a smile.
               "Then don't disturb him. You and I will have a cozy chat by ourselves, and get on such good terms, that we sha'n't care which boy wears the plumed cap. Has Howard gone to his office?"
               "I am not sure where he went," was the evasive reply.
               "He spends most of his evenings away from you."
               As the visitor said this, he gave a searching look into his sister's face, questioning with himself whether he might venture to claim her confidence. She might have understood this, for she hastened to make some remark which drew his attention from herself.
               "I hear that Retta Foster is engaged to Harry Wheaton," he said, at length.
               "Yes, the engagement has been formally announced."
               "And are all concerned pleased with the match?"
               "I presume so. I have heard nothing to the contrary, and Retta seems very happy."
               "The probability is that she understands something of the character of the man she is to marry. It would be difficult to deceive her. I believe Wheaton is an old friend of your husband."
               "I think so, but they have drifted apart, recently. Harry Wheaton was South for two years."
               "Yes, I know that he was. I have heard good reports of him, while there, and I am pleased with his appearance. I judge, too, that Retta has converted him to the faith of tee-totalers."
               "I have been told so. I have heard her say too, that she would never marry a man who used tobacco, or any kind of intoxicating drink; and she is one to keep her word."
               "She is right, there."
               "But you smoke, Oscar, and you drink wine, too," exclaimed his sister, surprised at the remark just made.
               "I know I do, or I have," was the reply. "But I have nearly decided to give up both habits. I have been talking with William about it. We both of us have boys who are old enough to understand that example is better than precept, and we cannot ask them to set us an example of temperance. So if there is no wine at dinner to-morrow, you will understand the reason. I am glad Retta Foster had the good sense to make the decision which she did, and I wish all young ladies would do likewise."
               "In that case, there would soon be a host of old maids in our community," said Adah, with a chilling laugh.
               "Better that, a thousand times, than such a host of wretched wives and children. If a man loves wine and tobacco better than the woman he would call his wife, let him enjoy them alone, Adah," he added, throwing his arms around her, and drawing her more closely to himself. "I have feared that my darling sister made a mistake, when she became Howard Foster's wife."
               No words answered this, but quick, convulsive sobs told more plainly than words, that such fear was not unfounded. "Trust me," he said. "Tell me all your troubles, and let me help you."
               He caressed and soothed her as though she had been a child, while she was summoning to her aid womanly fortitude and strength. He urged her to speak, and at length she found voice to say, "I thank you for your kindness. You have been a dear, good brother to me, and I love you. But you can't help me, where my husband is concerned. If I made a mistake, I must bear the consequences."
               "No, Adah, no! If you made a mistake, do your best to rectify it."
               "How can I?" she asked, earnestly.
               "Leave Howard Foster, and go back to your old home."
               "And would you have me do this, Oscar?"
               "Yes, I would," he answered, decidedly. "If I should tell you what I know."
               "Tell me nothing," she cried. "Howard is my husband, and the father of my child. I would sooner die than leave him."
               "Then forgive me for the suggestion. But remember, my dear sister, that I hold myself pledged for the support of you and your child, whenever—"
               "My husband is able and willing to support us," interrupted the unhappy wife. "Don't talk to me in that way, if you love me."
               Oscar Snow had failed in his purpose, and as the evening advanced, Adah seemed little inclined for conversation; but he could not bring himself to leave her. Moreover, he wished to meet Howard Foster, in order to be satisfied if the reports he had heard were true.
               It was nearly twelve o'clock when the street door was opened, and the sound of voices was heard in the hall. "Howard must have taken company home with him," remarked his wife.
               "Suppose you go and see," replied her brother. With unsteady steps, she crossed the room. She was about to open the door, when a shuffling of feet made her pause.
               "Let me go," and Oscar Snow pushed her aside.
               It was as he thought. Dr. Foster was intoxicated, and could only stand with the aid of two men, who supported him.
               
               "Good evening, gentlemen," he said. "You seem to have your hands full."
               "Yes, sir. The doctor has taken too much wine, and we thought best to see him safe home. Shall we leave him here, or take him to his room?"
               "I will tell you, directly. Your husband, Adah. What shall be done with him?"
               "Take him in here," she replied; and accordingly he was supported to the lounge, upon which he fell heavily.
               Oscar Snow stood looking at his sister in mute surprise. Every trace of weakness had vanished. Her eyes were so cold and stony, it was difficult to believe they had ever been dewy with tears.
               "This has happened before, Adah."
               "Yes," she answered. "But excuse me a moment." She went out, was gone a short time, returning with pillows and a large afghan, which she disposed with the utmost care for her husband's comfort. "I am sorry you have seen this," she said; and still there was no change in the rigid expression of her face. "I wish you never to speak of it."
               "Never to another, Adah, but to you I must. Come away and leave this man. He deceived you by professing to be what he was not, and you are under no obligations to sacrifice yourself to him."
               "He is my husband."
               The brother could hardly trust the evidence of his own senses. This woman before him was his petted sister, whom he would have shielded from even momentary sorrow.
               "Then let me help you," he said.
               "You cannot help me. Only leave me alone."
               "Alone with him?"
               "Yes, it will be best so. Your presence would only increase my unhappiness."
               "Then good-night, Adah. Remember, I am ready to receive you when you choose to come," and the speaker wondered if she, whom he addressed, could be his sister.
               The street door closed. Only the ticking of the clock and the heavy breathing of the sleeper was heard. No sobs, no tears attested to the suffering of Adah Foster; although her face was ghastly pale, and her small, white hands were convulsively clasped. The hours stole by, and still her vigils continued, until at last the tension of her feelings relaxing from sheer exhaustion, she went to her room and slept.
               Dr. Foster cursed himself for a fool, when he awoke. He had made some resolutions to drink moderately, and was mortified that these were so soon broken. Moreover, he had intended to be at home early, the previous evening, and by unusual attention to his wife, induce her to give up the party at her mother's. As for going himself, it was not to be thought of. His father-in-law had offended him by speaking plainly, and with well-merited severity in regard to his habits.
               He had presents for his wife and child, not expensive as he would once have thought befitting, but such as he could now afford. He said something like this, and felt aggrieved that no more gratitude was expressed.
               "My gift does not please you," he said, constrainedly.
               "Yes, I like it very much," answered Adah.
               "Then give me a kiss, in return."
               Time had been when more than this would have been given unasked; now he received only what was demanded, and the lips which touched his might have been marble, for all the warmth they knew.
               At the breakfast table, nothing was said beyond what circumstances required.
               "Will you dine with me at father's, to-day?" asked Mrs. Foster, as her husband rose from the table, declaring there was nothing fit to eat.
               "No, I shall not," was the decided reply. "I shall dine at home."
               "Very well. Then I will give orders for your dinner, if you will tell me what you would like."
               He answered this, adding, "I wish you would yourself attend to the preparation of it."
               "I shall not be here," she said gently.
               "Are you going to your father's without me?"
               "I am going to my father's."
               This was a new phase of things, for which the gentleman was totally unprepared. He dined where he pleased. Of course he did.
               At that moment, a servant called Mrs. Foster to meet company in the parlor; and he, unwilling to go out without again seeing her, lingered in the breakfast room until the visitor had departed.
               "Can I do anything for you?" she asked, looking up to her husband as he came into her presence.
               "I wish you to remain at home to-day," he answered.
               "Shall you be at home?"
               "I intend to dine at home, unless detained by business, or some unexpected engagement."
               "I should be very glad to have you go with me. I promised mother I would spend the day with her, and Oscar is coming for me and Frank. Dinner will be ready at four o'clock."
               "And you still intend to go, notwithstanding my wishes."
               'I think it is best to keep my promise," was said, after some hesitation. "But I am sorry to displease you. O, Howard, you are breaking my heart," she cried a moment after, her assumed fortitude giving way. "I could bear poverty with you, but I can not endure to see you degrade yourself with drunkenness. Oh, for my sake, for Frank's sake, do be persuaded to give up wine-drinking."
               "Adah, I know what has excited you," he answered. "I was a fool to drink so much, last evening, and I am sorry for it. I don't believe in making promises, but you may be sure that you'll not see me in such a condition again. What time shall you be back this evening?"
               "I will be home early," she answered. "I wish you would go with me, Howard."
               "I never change my mind," was the reply.
               "Then good-bye, dear," and the quivering lips pleaded mutely for a kiss, which was not given.
               "This will kill me," moaned Adah Foster, when in the privacy of her own room she threw herself into a chair, and wept such tears as are wrung from tortured hearts. But for her child, she would have welcomed death. She must live for him. This thought roused her, and directly the sweet name "mamma," lisped in baby accents, filled her with delight. "Darling," she murmured, clasping her boy, and covering his dear face with kisses.
               A very demon must have possessed the man who could leave wife and child like these, for the society of wine-bibbers and gamblers.
               Punctual at the appointed time, Oscar Snow appeared with a carriage to take his sister and Frank to grandfather's. "He's a beautiful boy, Adah," said the uncle, looking at his nephew with a mingling of pity and admiration. "I yield the palm. Willie can't shine where he is, so far as looks are concerned; but I intend my boy shall be a good man, if example and precept can have any effect. Come to me, Frank," he added, extending his arms, and after a few words from its mother, the child nestled lovingly upon his broad breast.
               The day passed as all days will pass, whether joy wings the hours, or grief seems to stay their progress. Adah Foster was the recipient of many valuable gifts, and if any manifestation of affection, on the part of her own family, could have compensated for the neglect of her husband, she would have had no cause for regret.
               To her surprise, upon her return in the evening, she found him at home, more pleasant and genial than usual.
               "I have just come in," he said, in answer to her enquiry. "I preferred to dine away, as you were not here, and after all, there was no reason why you should stay, because I did not care to go with you. I was unreasonable, Adah, and I am glad you enjoyed the day as you chose."
               She could have told him that there had been little enjoyment for her; but too wise for this, she responded to his unwonted tenderness, and basked in the sunshine of his smile. During the evening, he told her that he thought best to dispose of a piece of property, for which he had been offered a large price, and asked if she would sign the deed.
               "Certainly," she answered. "I shall sign any paper you bring to me," and the next day, a deed was executed and duly signed, while she was ignorant of what she had done.
               "It seems that Foster has sold part of his inheritance," said William Snow to his brother.
               "What do you mean by that?" asked Oscar.
               "I mean what I say. It was necessary for him to raise money in some way, and having a good offer for a house and lot of land, sold them. Not a bad move, either, if he would take care of the money. The house needs a great deal of repairing, and five thousand dollars is more than the property is worth, in its present condition. But I am afraid that this is only the beginning. He is going down hill fast."
               "I know it," was the reply. "The faster he goes, the better, so far as he is himself concerned. If he wasn't Adah's husband, I should never waste a thought on him. He isn't worth it. Poor Adah! Her lot is a hard one, and she knows but little about it yet. Foster will drink himself to death."
               "It looks like it," said William. "If he would only stop where he is—"
               "He won't do that," was Oscar's emphatic assertion. "I know him too well to expect reform."
               "But if he was made to see his danger—"
               "Made to see his danger! He knows it, of course, or would know it, if he was in a condition to think clearly. I doubt if he is ever wholly free from the influence of wine or tobacco. I tell you, William, I'm glad we've given up the whole thing, though I must confess it's something of a self-denial. I wouldn't have believed it could be so much; and it's my opinion that no man knows what a slave he is, until he tries to break his chains. God willing, my boys shall never be bound. As for Foster, we can do nothing, only watch the progress of events, and stand ready to assist Adah. She must not want for anything money can procure; but I will never support or help to support her husband."
               "Neither will I," responded the younger brother. "But I hope Foster won't squander his whole property."
               "There is a fair prospect of it," was the reply. "The first five thousand gone, the next will soon follow."
               
               True prophecy! Adah signed another deed before the year closed, even then but half comprehending that she signed away her own right of dower.
               Meanwhile, Retta Foster was married, and at her mother's urgent request, her husband had consented to forego the privilege of a separate establishment. "I can't live without Retta," said the mother, and as Harry Wheaton was of the same opinion, they decided to live together.
               Howard objected to this, even expressing the opinion in his sister's hearing, that it was a well-arranged plan for securing a large share of their mother's property. Retta's eyes flashed; but she had learned that no good could come of controversy, and forbore to speak. This accusation was most unjust, as even the accuser would have acknowledged, had he known that his mother and sister, before the marriage of the latter, had invested ten thousand dollars, to be paid with whatever increase should accrue therefrom, to Frank Howard Foster, when he should become of age.
               "It may do more hurt than good," Retta had said. "But we will hope for the best. It is enough to give him a fair start in the world, with good habits; too much, if he acquires bad ones."
               Harry Wheaton understood the character of his brother-in-law, and was prepared to treat him with easy civility, regardless of all personal attacks. So far as money was concerned there was no need of management, since he possessed fine business talents, and unexceptionable habits.
               Howard called "Wheaton a milk sop;" but others, with clearer heads, called him a smart, energetic man, who knew enough to make the most of himself and his business.
               "I'm ashamed of my brother," said Retta to her husband, after one of Howard's calls, when he had been overbearing and insolent. "You must lose all patience with him. You could not be blamed if you turned him out of the house."
               "I should not feel at liberty to do that," was the reply. "Besides, it is always foolish to be angry with an intoxicated man."
               "I know it, Harry, and I have brought all this shame upon you."
               "Brought shame upon me, darling! Indeed, you have not. You have saved me from shame. Nothing Howard can say will provoke me to retaliate. I have no thought for myself. My anxiety is for Adah and the children. Frank is a noble looking boy, and the baby, as you say, the sweetest in the world. But there, we'll not talk of it. The time may come when we can help them."
               Help them! Howard Foster would have curled his lip in scorn, at the thought of his family receiving assistance.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               
                  
                     
                        No flush of pride. No glancing down,
                        With curling lip and darkening frown;
                        No answering gleam of flashing eyes,
                        To shame the squalid beggar guise.
                        For each has learned which life shall win,
                        And which be stained with darkest sin.
                     
                  
               
               A NEW Year's morning; the tenth since Adah Foster was first called "wife."
               She woke from restless sleep, her head throbbing with a dull, heavy pain, and her heart oppressed with a sense of utter desolation. A gleam of sunlight found its way through a broken shutter, and rising carefully, that she might not disturb her husband and children, she went into an adjoining room, and made preparations to light a fire.
               
               All unused to this, her first efforts were miserable failures. Miserable indeed, with the mercury below zero, and her hands benumbed with cold.
               These hands, once so white and delicate, were now swollen and cruelly abraded. But she had no time to think of them, although each movement caused her suffering. Persevering, despite all difficulties, she was at length rewarded by a faint, flickering fire. Then she turned to examine the contents of a large tin box, revealed by opening a door. Not much for breakfast, if this was all. A few slices of meat, a loaf of bread, and some butter.
               The unhappy woman bowed her head and prayed. Prayer had been a neglected duty; now it was a blessed privilege. To whom should she go, in this her hour of need, but to Him who giveth liberally, and upbraideth not? Something like calmness came in answer swer to her silent petition. She must do what she considered her duty, and trust the event. Ay, she must do this, for well she knew how worse than vain were all her endeavors to stay the tide which was sweeping over herself and her loved ones.
               The children called, and gathering up her beautiful hair, which had fallen unconfined, she wound it hastily in a heavy coil. Frank was cold, and Bell wished to know if she couldn't "get right up."
               "Not yet, darling," was the mother's answer. "Wait until there is a better fire."
               "Are we going home, to-day?" asked Frank, soon after.
               "We are at home," was the reply.
               "No, mamma, this isn't home a bit. It's a bad place, where we don't have anything nice, and I don't want to stay here another minute. I'd tell grandpa all about it, if I could see him, and I know he'd take us right away. Aunt Retta said I could live with her, and be her boy; and I'd rather, than stay here."
               "Would you go and leave me?" asked his mother, bending over him.
               "No, I wouldn't," he replied, throwing his arms around her neck. "I won't leave you, but we'll all go, except papa, and he's so cross, I don't want him."
               This last was said in a whisper, while Bell lay, opening wide her large brown eyes, waiting for a caress.
               "Now just lie still ten minutes longer, and I will take you up." A kiss for each, a glance at her husband, who was still asleep, and the speaker left the room.
               Yes, Howard Foster could sleep with such a weight of guilt upon his soul as should have condemned him to the severest punishment. Not only had he ruined himself, but others; not only sold his own birthright, but that of another, who had the strongest claim upon him. Down, down he had gone, with swift, sure steps, dragging with him one whom he had sworn to love and cherish.
               Scarce five years had passed since Harry Wheaton said, "The time may come when we can help your brother's family," and surely the time had come when they needed help.
               Of all the property inherited from his father, Howard Foster could now command but two thousand dollars. One sale had been made after another, until the last block of substantial stores built by the old doctor, was sold under the hammer.
               "I am glad Foster is through," said Oscar Snow, when discussing the matter with his brother.
               "Why so?" was asked.
               "Because Adah will know that nothing more can be expected from him."
               "A hard conclusion for her."
               "Yes, but it was sure to come, and the sooner the better. I think I can persuade her to leave her husband now."
               "You may, but I doubt it, Oscar. Father says she will never leave him."
               "She will, before she will see her children suffer. I shall insist upon it. Mrs. Wheaton told me that Foster talks of going into a new place, and commencing practice again. She has no confidence in him, and hopes I will persuade Adah to let him go his way alone. She is a noble woman, as unlike her brother as it is possible to be. 
                     Hs
                     He
                   is utterly heartless, and Adah must leave him. It tortures me to think of her as she is."
               Oscar Snow was sanguine of success when he visited his sister, and proposed to her the plan he had so well matured. Great then was his surprise, when she told him decidedly that she should never leave her husband, so long as he allowed her to remain with him.
               "But, Adah, do you know what he is, a drunkard, a gambler, a—"
               "No more of this, Oscar. I know enough, too much, already; but I can not hear it repeated. I thank you for your kindness, and the time may come when I shall be forced to avail myself of it; but not now."
               "But give me a hearing, my dear sister. I understand the world better than you do, and I know you can never endure such a life as you must lead."
               "Yes, I can endure it, because it is my duty," she said, sadly.
               "People have mistaken notions of duty. Your inclination warps your judgment. Howard will go on, from bad to worse; and you should think of your children."
               "I have thought of them," she answered. "A mother never forgets her children."
               Oscar Snow was grieved, indignant, and astonished. If he could only move Adah to some demonstration of feeling, he might hope to break her resolution; but he could not do even that.
               
               "How much must you suffer, before you will accept my assistance?" he asked at length.
               "I cannot tell. But I beg you not to speak so coldly, Oscar. I have enough to bear. Love me a little, even if I do refuse your kindness."
               He thought she wavered. But no. Firmly as ever, she again expressed her determination, and they parted.
               Dr. Foster met his brother-in-law in the street, and was passing without giving any sign of recognition, when an abrupt exclamation arrested his steps.
               "I wish for a few minutes conversation with you," said Mr. Snow. "If you can spare time now, we will go in here."
               "Now, if ever," was the ungracious reply.
               "Then it must be now," and the speaker led the way into the same hotel, where his companion had once boarded. A private room was at their service, and here a stormy interview took place, regretted long after by him who sought it. No good was accomplished. If Howard Foster had lost his property, he had not lost the cold scornful manner, he knew so well how to assume.
               "I shall allow no interference with my family," he said. "I am fully competent to care for my wife and children."
               "Then see that you do it," responded his brother-in-law. "It would have been better for Adah, and all who love her, if she had never seen you; and now, it would be better that she should never see you again."
               "That may be your opinion; but I have reason to believe that your sister has a slight regard for her husband. We shall do very well without your interference."
               Retta Wheaton implored Adah not to accompany Howard. "Wait, at least until he is established. You and your children will be so much more comfortable here. Can't you be happy with us?"
               "I can never be happy away from my husband," was the reply. "Where he goes, I must go. What would he do without me?"
               "Probably no worse than he will do with you. It is time for you to think of yourself and children, rather than him."
               It was hard to withstand the appeals of those she loved, but Adah Foster did so, and with a sad heart, prepared to leave her luxurious home. She reserved only the plainest furniture, and less of that than she would have done, had not her husband said it would cost more to transport it than to buy new.
               There was a sad leave-taking; yet she preserved a calm exterior, until folded in her mother's arm, she felt hot tears upon her cheeks. "O, mother, love me, love me!" she then murmured.
               "I do love you, my darling. Stay with me, and let me care for you."
               "No, mother, I must bide my fate."
               Her father gave her a roll of bills, amounting to five hundred dollars, saying "Use this, when you need it; but don't let your husband squander it. You can call upon me for more, at any time."
               Mrs. Foster said little, although she was evidently relieved when she knew her son would have his family with him. She offered money to Adah, and even proposed sending her a certain amount each quarter. This was refused; but Howard had no scruples in regard to accepting all his mother was inclined to give, and another thousand dollars was placed at his disposal.
               In the manufacturing city to which they went, a cheap tenement was rented, a respectable office secured, and Dr. Foster set himself to the task of making his home expenses as small as possible, that his own need not be curtailed. He had promised solemnly as man can promise, that he would reform his habits, and his wife had wished to believe him sincere. She was willing to economize, live in small apartments, and work hard, if by so doing she could aid her husband.
               Two months only had been spent in their new home, but these had proved that her hopes were delusive. Money was doled out to her so reluctantly, that she felt like a beggar, when asking for what would supply their table with the plainest food. At first, she had engaged an Irish woman to wash and assist her in the heavier work; but with the New Year, she resolved to dispense with all assistance.
               One accustomed to labor would have done this easily; but to Adah Foster, this was well nigh impossible. The spirit was willing, but the flesh was weak. Her strength would fail, yet there seemed no alternative.
               The money given by her father was safely concealed, and she would not spend one dollar of it, so long as possible to avoid it. Did her husband know that she could command this amount, he would leave her to provide entirely for the family.
               His better nature was so warped, and his sensibilities so blunted, that whatever there had been in his character of manliness and nobility was fast disappearing. His wife could place no dependence upon his word. If he went out saying he should return in an hour, he might not be home until midnight, and she knew it was not business which detained him. Indeed, opening an office was little more than a farce, as he was no more inclined to devote himself to his profession, than he had been years before.
               All this passed in review before Mrs. Foster, as she sat by the fire trying to warm her chilled hands; and she might have fallen into a darker reverie, had not Frank called to know if it was ten minutes.
               
               "Yes, dear, and you shall come," answered his mother, quickly
               "Stop that noise," growled a hoarse voice. "There's no such thing as peace, with two children fussing, Take them out of the way, Adah. I want to sleep."
               Elegant Howard Foster! Refined, fastidious and gallant! He could speak like that to his wife and children, then draw the bed-clothes more closely around him, close his eyes, and sleep.
               The door was shut upon him, and if with it could have been shut out all remembrance of him, one heart would have been relieved of a heavy load.
               "I wish papa would sleep all the time," whispered Frank to Bell.
               But unfortunately he did not, and about ten o'clock, he came from his room in thoroughly bad humor. There was no warm water waiting for his ablutions, somebody had used his hair-brush, and it was so horrid cold that he was nearly frozen. The room was littered, and the carpet looked as though it hadn't been swept for a month. There was a button off his shirt, and he couldn't find a whole pocket-handkerchief. Then, when his breakfast was ready, he complained of everything before him. The meat was tough, the bread sour, and the coffee no better than milk and water.
               "Why didn't you make it stronger?" he asked, petulantly.
               "Because I couldn't," replied his wife. "There was no more coffee in the house. I drank water myself, that you might have that."
               No thanks for it, of course; but this piece of information had the effect to make the man realize that he had grumbled enough, for one morning. Breakfast over, he surveyed himself in the mirror, sweeping back his hair with a hand whose whiteness had not been marred, and adjusting his necktie with scrupulous care.
               "We must have some groceries, to-day," said his wife, as he was preparing to go out.
               "What groceries?" he asked, sharply.
               "Flour, coffee, tea and sugar. Besides these, we need some coal; and, as I must have a fire in the kitchen, to-morrow, to do some washing, it will be best to get a piece of meat to roast."
               "Anything more?"
               "No," she answered, in a voice strongly contrasting with that in which the question had been asked. "There are many things needed, but we can wait for them. You will come home to dinner, to-day, Howard," she added.
               "I can't tell about that," was the reply.
               "But it is New Year's, and I shall be very lonely without you. Bring home something nice for dinner, and I will show you how well I can cook."
               "Well, don't teaze me. I'll think about it," and that was the last seen of Howard Foster, until late in the evening.
               About noon, his wife went out and bought what was necessary to supply their wants for that and the following day. Compelled to this, or suffer from hunger, a stranger in a strange place, with no one to offer her a friendly greeting, she shrunk from observation, and hastened home as soon as possible. Frank and Bell were very happy with their mother, enjoying the treat she had given them, and prattling of what they should do, when they grew to be large.
               Having begged the privilege of sitting up beyond their usual time that evening, they fell asleep upon the lounge, while trying to keep their eyes open. Adah Foster was herself asleep, when roused by the unsteady step of her husband.
               
               And this was the beginning of a New Year! What would be the ending? God only knew; but one accustomed to watch the development of events, could not be far wrong in his conclusions.
               The next morning, Dr. Foster excused himself for not sending the groceries, by saying that he had been called from his office to attend some patients, after which a man came in with a wounded hand, and he had quite forgotten that such things as flour and sugar were needed. "You seem to have a good supply, though, yet," he added. "This coffee is very good, and the bread the best we have had since we came here. I thought you said there was no coffee in the house, yesterday."
               "I did say so, and I told the truth," replied his wife. "I had a little money, and we couldn't starve; so I went out and bought enough for to-day. We need a barrel of flour. That will last a long time, and you had better send it up to-day."
               "Perhaps you had better order it yourself," was the response.
               "I will, if you will give me the money to pay for it."
               "Haven't you money enough, now?"
               "How should I have, Howard?" she answered, evasively. "You have given me very little money the last year. Of course, you can't expect me to pay for a barrel of flour, without money. You told me if I would come here, you would provide for us as well as you could."
               "And have I not?" he asked.
               "No," she answered, deliberately. "We have not actually suffered from hunger, but we have wanted many things which would have made us more comfortable. Our coal is nearly gone, and there is only wood enough to burn in the kitchen stove to-day. It would be better to get a supply for the winter."
               "Well, I will get some coal, and some wood, too, if I can find any."
               
               Wood and coal were brought; not a supply for the winter, but enough for a few weeks. Half a barrel of flour, coffee, sugar and tea appeared during the day, and Dr. Foster thought himself very generous in sending his wife such a store of necessaries. God pity the woman whose husband counts necessary provision for his family a generosity!
               Yet this did somewhat brighten the day for Adah, despite her bleeding hands and aching limbs. For the first time, she had accomplished a week's washing; and the consequent physical fatigue dulled the sense of mental suffering. Having done this once, she could again, and it was very certain that she would, for all interference on the part of her husband. The only annoyance he felt was when he chanced to see her hands, which were always discolored and often bandaged.
               "Mamma's poor hands," the children would say, and kiss them pitifully.
               "When I'm a man, I'll get a great big Irish woman to do every bit of the work," Frank declared one day, while watching his mother, engaged in some labor for which she was wholly unfitted. "I wish I was a man, this minute."
               Mrs. Foster was not forgotten by the friends she had left; but she made few acquaintances among those living near her present home. Some ladies who had called upon her, and were pleased with her manners and conversation, endeavored to draw her from the seclusion she had chosen. Something was known of her former position, and although her husband was worthy of neither confidence nor respect, all acknowledged her superiority.
               And what did Howard Foster think of the future, either for time or eternity? No one could tell. He never attended church, never opened the Bible, or in any way acknowledged himself responsible for the manner in which he wasted time, money, and talents.
               
               He now associated with a class of men whom he would once have treated with the utmost disdain. Coarse and uneducated, they flattered him with obsequious attention, that they might the more surely serve their own purposes.
               Letters from home were often received by Adah Foster, all expressing interest and affection, yet containing no word which could be construed into blame or distrust of her husband. This was in accordance with her expressed wishes, and in return, she wrote only of the sunny side of her life, which was illumined by the love of her children. Frank was in school, learning well, and more anxious each day to be a man quick. Bell was happy, helping mother industriously, and making the house ring with merry laughter.
               "I wish I knew just how Adah is situated," said Mrs. Snow one day, after receiving from her daughter a letter full of trifling incidents. "I dream of her every night, and think of her every day. I must find out some more about her, in some way."
               "I've been thinking of going to see her," answered Mr. Snow. "I would go this week, if it was best. But Howard is so prejudiced against us, that I might make matters worse for Adah. She must have money to buy the necessaries of life, and, as the poor child said, I suppose she must bide her fate."
               If Mrs. Snow could have read a letter written by Skye James to his friend and almost brother, Dick Barber, she would have had a more definite idea of her daughter's situation.
               "It seems the strangest thing in the world to me, that I should be here, with a large store to look after, and an extensive correspondence to keep up," the young man had written. "I write two long letters to Mr. Proctor every week, so that he is well posted up as to how matters are going in this city of spindles.
               "Somebody said the other day, that I looked pretty young to have the care of such an establishment, and told me I had been lucky to get up so fast. 'Born with a silver spoon in your mouth, perhaps,' remarked the gentleman. 'No, sir,' I answered. 'I am indebted to what I haven't had in my mouth, instead of what I have.'
               "I wish you had seen his look of astonishment; but I soon explained my meaning: and O, Dick, I thank God every day of my life, that he put it into my heart to forswear tobacco, and all kinds of intoxicating liquor. If I had kept on as I begun, smoking, and guzzling beer, whenever I could raise money for the indulgence, I should be somebody else beside Mr. Proctor's confidential clerk. Perhaps I haven't made the very best of myself; but I've tried, and God has answered some of my prayers.
               "I am so glad you are prospering. Give my love to your mother. I always think of her as Mary Somers, for all she has been Mrs. Barber so long; and tell her I am glad she has two such good children. As for Di, you know I never send messages to her.
               "I see that your father's vessel has been spoken, and there is a prospect that he will make a profitable voyage. Thank you for looking after mother and the girls."
               This was a long letter to be received from Skye James, who never had time to write half he wished. It was late in the evening, and lights were fast disappearing in the part of the city where he boarded; yet he took another sheet of paper and hastily traced the following:
               "I believe wonders will never cease. I'm about as tired as I want to be, but I must tell you that I have seen Dr. Howard Foster, and learned something of his habits. Not that I have been spying on his actions,—I wouldn't do that, though I have a special interest in him, because he gave me my first start in life, but what is so plain, I cannot fail to see.
               "The first time I met him in the street, I thought about speaking; but concluded as he didn't recognize me, that I might as well wait a while. He opened an office here, but that was all sham; for he spends most of his time in a sort of half genteel establishment, where there is plenty of liquor, and, if reports are true, plenty of gambling. He is going to ruin fast. Anybody would know that, to look at him.
               "I saw his wife in the street last week, and she looked so tired and wretched, I wanted to help her. She wasn't dressed much as she used to be, when I thought her the prettiest woman in the world, and almost held my breath, as she went by.
               "I don't know yet where they live; but I intend to find out. If there was any foundation to the doctor, I'd put myself in his way, and try what I could do for him. But it's of no use. I've seen enough of men to know that.
               "Thank God, we are not on the down grade. If you can get higher than I, I'll wave my cap as you go past, and give you three cheers."
               The date of this letter was May 1st, six months from the time Dr. Foster had left his native city. His mother proposed visiting him, although he had expressed no desire that she should do so. A refusal on her part, to loan him money at different times, had caused an estrangement which the gift of a thousand dollars had not wholly healed.
               Moreover, at their parting she could not forbear to urge upon him the necessity of an entire reform in his habits, and in urging this, she adverted to his past career.
               
               "You had enough, and you have squandered a fortune," she said, upbraidingly. "You have entirely disappointed our hopes, and proved yourself utterly wanting in principle and energy."
               His cheeks blazed with indignation, and policy alone restrained him from making an insolent reply. As for any feeling of gratitude, he reasoned that half his mother's property belonged to him, and what she gave was no more than his due. Adah could not ask her mother-in-law to visit them, while the future was so uncertain, and when the presence of any one, however near to him, annoyed and irritated her husband, who wished at all times, to be first considered.
               "I believe I shall make Howard's family a visit," remarked Mrs. Foster to her daughter.
               "Very well, mother; I should be glad to hear directly from them," answered Retta, without turning her eyes from the baby which lay in her lap, the very impersonation of innocent good humor.
               "What do you think about it?"
               "I don't think anything, mother. I don't wish to think about it. Howard is your son, and you must decide what is best, yourself."
               "He is your brother, too," was the sharp and somewhat impatient reply.
               "Yes, I know it;" and this was said with a sigh. "Yet it seems to me that I have lost nearly all sisterly affection for him. It may be wrong, but I can't help it. I never had the gift to love a person whom I can't respect; and I can't respect a drunkard, even if he is my brother."
               "O, Retta, you have no charity. Because Harry is so correct, you think everybody else can be. Your boys are no more likely to be perfect than others."
               "I know it," answered the young mother, sadly. "Of course they will not be perfect; but if God gives me strength and wisdom, I will teach them self-control. Harry and I are agreed in this. Another thing, I will teach them to look up, for assistance. If every child was taught and made to feel that God is ever near to note the smallest act, I do believe men and women would be better than they are. I am inexperienced in training children, but I pray for guidance. I can pray, too, for Howard; and there I must stop. I can do nothing more for him."
               "This is a new way for you to talk, Retta. I tried to bring up my children as I ought to."
               "I am not blaming you, mother. But it seems to me that we have all forgotten where to look for strength. Since these children were given to me, life appears more earnest than it did before."
               "Well, I suppose it is natural that it should," was the reply. "I always depended upon your father, after I was married; and if he had lived, Howard would have been a different man."
               Mrs. Foster called upon Mrs. Snow and consulted her in regard to the proposed visit, the latter replying, "I should be very glad to have you go. I would go myself, if your son was not so prejudiced against our family. I am very anxious about Adah and the children."
               Harry Wheaton accompanied his mother-in-law, that he might see for himself the true state of affairs. Under pretence of business, however, he left her at her son's residence, without stepping within the door.
               To say that Mrs. Foster was surprised at what she saw, would but feebly express her feelings. She was shocked by the scantily furnished house, the pale face and constrained manners of her daughter-in-law; and last, but not least, the poorly laid table. There were no conveniences for the entertainment of guests; not even a bed in readiness.
               "Howard has talked of getting a chamber set, but it has not come yet," said Adah, by way of apology, for the fact that the room which would naturally be appropriated to visitors, did not contain so much as a bedstead.
               "And do you pretend to say that you have only two beds in the house?"
               "That is all," was the reply. "I am sorry that I can offer you no better accommodations, but I will do the best I can. I have mattresses and bedding, which I brought with me."
               "You will do nothing for me," said Mrs. Foster, kindly. "I will go to a hotel to-night, and to-morrow, I will see what I can do for you. Harry will be here soon, and——."
               At that moment, the bell rang, and Harry Wheaton was ushered into a room, the entire furniture of which, with the exception of the carpet and lounge, had cost less than ten dollars. He endeavored to speak cheerfully, and petted the children, to conceal his emotions.
               Adah soon left the room, taking the children with her, when Mrs. Foster, in an excited tone, told her son-in-law that the family were living like beggars."
               Adah says she does the best she can with what Howard provides, and I don't doubt it. She looks half starved, and there isn't a bed in the house for me to sleep in. Why, there is more furniture in our attic, than there is in this whole house. I did think Howard would do better, now there is such necessity for it. Have you seen him?"
               "No, I have not, and I suppose it is as well so. He don't fancy me, and probably would prefer not to see me."
               "Well, I must see him, and something must be done," said his mother. "Adah and the children are not going to live in this way, while I have the means to prevent it. I wish you would order a hundred dollars worth of groceries to be brought here, anything and everything. Bell said mamma couldn't make any more biscuits, because she's used up all the flour; and I noticed that Adah didn't take any butter or sugar at the table. It's a sin and a shame for a man to do as Howard does; and I must say it, if he is my son. You must engage a room at the hotel for me to-night, and to-morrow we will see what can be done. You wont go home to-morrow."
               "I had intended to go to-morrow, but I will stay if I can do any good."
               "You must stay," was the reply. "I can never go through with this alone."
               Adah's entrance interrupted this conversation. With wonderful self-possession, she enquired for their mutual friends, expressing sympathy and kind regard for all, whether in joy or sorrow. Occasionally, there was a slight faltering in her voice, but beyond this nothing betrayed unusual emotions.
               Greatly relieved, however, when the gentleman said he must be excused for a short time, she immediately addressed her mother-in-law, entreating that she would not leave her.
               "Do you really prefer that I should stay here?" was asked in reply.
               "Yes, mother, it will trouble me exceedingly if you go. I will do the best I can for you, and I would gladly give up our own bed. But Howard never likes change, and I should have no opportunity to explain it to him, he comes in so late."
               "Don't think of such a thing, Adah. I'll stay with you, if I sit up all night, though I told Harry to engage a room for me at the hotel."
               "Thank you," said Adah, gratefully, even while her brow clouded with the thought that she had not food in the house for a comfortable breakfast.
               Up to this time, not a dollar of the money received from her father, when they separated, had been spent. Her husband was so careful to remember every cent which he gave her, and required such strict account of the manner in which it was spent, that it would have been impossible to deceive him. Had she made any purchases beyond the limited means he placed at her disposal, he would have known at once that she was not entirely dependent upon him, and acted accordingly.
               For this reason, although often tempted to avail herself of the benefit of her father's bounty, she had so far resisted. Now there seemed no alternative, whatever might be the consequences. She and her children were accustomed to meagre fare; but her mother-in-law could hardly breakfast upon dry bread, a scanty supply of butter, and cold water.
               Frank and Bell began to manifest signs of fatigue, notwithstanding their delight at seeing grandmother; and while they were being disposed of for the night, there was time to examine the contents of the pantry, an act for which Mrs. Foster felt herself perfectly justified. She found an empty flour barrel, two or three empty boxes, in which lingered only the smell of spices; papers which might once have enveloped tea, sugar and coffee, but to which now not a particle of either adhered.
               "Nothing to eat," murmered the woman, with a sigh. "It is time I came here," and something like anger flushed her cheek. Then at the thought of this being the home of her son, whom she loved as only a mother can love, great tears coursed down her cheeks.
               She had returned to the room in which Adah had left her, when the latter came in equipped for a walk, saying, hurriedly:
               "I trust you will excuse me for leaving you, mother. Howard has neglected to send home any groceries, to-day, and it is necessary that I should order some."
               "Tell me all about it," was the response. "I have been looking through the lower part of your house, and I am afraid you don't live as you ought to. I went into the pantry. I know it was hardly proper, but——"
               "You found very little there, mother."
               "Very little," was the reply. "I didn't find anything in the shape of food."
               Adah Foster wondered at the indifference with which she learned that her poverty had been discovered; the poverty she had striven so hard to conceal. "My stores are entirely exhausted, and I have nothing for breakfast," she said, quietly. "I told Howard about it, this morning; but he seems to forget that we must eat and drink, in order to live."
               "Have you money, child?" asked Mrs. Foster, opening her well-filled porte-monnaie. "I will give you some."
               "No, mother, I have enough to get what is necessary for to-night," was the reply.
               "But I insist upon it. You will need what you have at another time," and she offered a five-dollar bill. "Get something good for breakfast, and I will help you cook it. But here comes Harry. We will send him to market."
               "No, I prefer to go myself. I am skilled in buying," and she went out of the house as Mr. Wheaton entered, stopping at the door to exchange a few words with him.
               "Have you seen Howard?" was the first question asked by Mrs. Foster.
               "No, I have not," was the reply.
               "Do you know where he is?"
               "I think I could find him."
               "Then do so, and send him to me. I wish to talk to him."
               "I hardly think it would be best to try to see him this evening," said the gentleman. "To-morrow morning he will be in better condition to listen to you."
               "Where is he, Harry?"
               As this question was not immediately answered, it was repeated with the additional one, "Is he in his office?"
               "I believe he has given up his office," was the reply to this.
               "Given up his office! Then I may as well give him up," said the wretched mother, bursting into tears. "There is no hope for him," and she wrung her hands in impotent grief. "Tell me what to do. Oh, I don't know! I don't know! I thought Howard would do better," she added, after regaining composure. "Just look around this house! Who could have believed that he would ever live in such a place! He was always so particular about everything. I don't understand it."
               Her companion understood it perfectly. It was only the old story of taste, refinement and elegance, trodden under foot by the demon of intemperance. But he forbore to say this, remarking instead that he had engaged a room for her at the hotel.
               "I have changed my mind," she said, quickly. "I promised Adah I would stay here. It will make no difference whether I have a bed or not. I can't sleep until I have seen Howard. How do you know where he is, this evening?"
               "Some one told me where he is in the habit of spending his evenings, and said he went there about the time our train came in."
               "Who told you?"
               "Mr. James, a young man in the employ of Mr. Proctor, who has a large store here. I called upon him, and in the course of conversation, made some enquiries in regard to Dr. Foster. I knew he could be trusted, or I shouldn't have done this. He told me what I know; and he thinks Howard must lose money in gambling."
               "I am afraid he does," said Mrs. Foster. "There are so many sharpers, and he is so easy. But, Harry, my boy can't have lost all feeling. There must be some way to reach him. Can't you do something for him?"
               "I know of nothing I can do, mother. The only thing which would save him, is to give up the use of all intoxicating drinks, and that he must do for himself."
               "But can't you persuade him to do it? I would give every dollar I am worth, to save him."
               "I wish his salvation could be bought in that way."
               "Could it?" asked the mother, eagerly.
               "No, money will never save him. It can keep his family from want."
               "Yes, yes, I can do that. But Adah is very unwilling to accept anything from me. She is different from what I thought she was."
               Harry Wheaton was a true, loyal husband; yet he could not forget that he had once loved Adah Snow, and the thought of her degradation was very bitter. If he had given expression to his real sentiments, he would have said that Howard Foster, with his long indulged selfishness, and pampered appetites, was hardly worth saving, but for the wife and children, who, debauched though he was, still clung to him.
               One care had been taken from Adah, and there was a corresponding elevation of feeling, which was, in itself, a proof of the extremity to which she had been reduced. It was terrible, that one reared in luxury, and surrounded by every attraction which love or money could throw around her, should be brought so low as to feel a childish delight in the knowledge that she had sufficient food to supply the needs of a single day.
               A little before ten, Mr. Wheaton bade the ladies good evening, saying that he had an engagement at that hour, but promising to see them again early in the morning. This engagement was with Skye James, and their business was to watch the doings of Dr. Foster, so far as this could be done without entering the establishment where he was known to be. Seating themselves at a window where they could see all which passed in the street, they prepared for patient waiting. At one o'clock, shadows darkened a door-way opposite, and the watchers sprang to their feet.
               "Wait a minute," whispered Skye. "Let's be sure before we go out."
               "The middle one is Howard," was the reply. "I am sure of that."
               "So am I, now. Perhaps you had better go over, while I make everything secure here. At any rate, don't lose sight of him."
               It was but the work of a moment to lock the door, swing the heavy shutter to its place, and confine it, when Skye hastened across the street to join Mr. Wheaton, who said, as he came up, "We will take care of this man. You need give yourself no further trouble in regard to him."
               "He is a friend of ours, sir," was the response. "Been drinking a little too much, as you see; but a good fellow, after all, and we are bound to see him safe home."
               "We are true friends to Dr. Foster," replied the stranger, with marked emphasis. "You will leave him to us."
               The two who supported him, looked at each other as though uncertain how to act, when Skye James remarked, "It is easy to call the police, and have this matter settled. I have seen these men before, and think I understand their business."
               "You have the advantage of us," said he who had before been silent. "I certainly have not the pleasure of an acquaintance with you, gentlemen; but we will trust our friend to your care, without further discussion. We only wished to be sure that he was in good hands."
               "Good hands!" repeated Skye James, scornfully, looking after the men who turned back to the rooms they had left.
               Revived by the cool night air, Howard Foster was soon able to walk with but little assistance, yet he did not recognize his companions. Having reached home, he muttered "Good night," and passed through the door, which was opened for him. Adah, who was still up, told him of his mother's arrival; but he was too stupid to comprehend this, and no sooner touched the bed, than he fell into a heavy sleep.
               The next morning a large supply of groceries had been brought to the house, and a nice breakfast cooked and eaten, long before he was awake.
               Mrs. Foster, who was too much inclined to consider money an antidote for every evil, had during the night, devised a plan, which she thought might be efficacious in the case of her son. She would give him, outright, ten thousand dollars, with which to start life anew. Elated with the thought of this, she disclosed her intentions to Adah, expecting sympathy and gratitude. But so far from this, she was told that it would do no good.
               "It would be a mere waste of money," said the younger woman. "I am sure of it, and I beg you to make no such proposal to Howard."
               "But if he will promise to reform."
               "He has promised that more than once, already, and every promise has been broken."
               "Then what can I do?" asked Mrs. Foster, hopelessly.
               
               "I don't know," was the reply. "I have done all that I can."
               Dr. Foster met his mother with some show of cordiality, and a slight manifestation of embarassment, apologizing for the appearance of the house, by saying that they should probably occupy it but a short time.
               "How you have changed!" she exclaimed, scanning her son's face.
               "Yes, I have changed, somewhat. Grown a little stouter, as you see, and my eyes have been troubling me, so that I wear spectacles most of the time. I hope to lay them aside soon, and then I shall look more like myself. You did not come on alone, mother."
               "No, Harry came with me. He is in the parlor now, with the children."
               The same old frown darkened the face which was fast losing all trace of manly beauty. "Then he couldn't trust you away from him. I wish you joy of so devoted a son."
               "Howard, you are unjust. Harry is a good son to me; better than my own has been."
               "Well, mother, we won't discuss that point. I begin to feel the need of breakfast; and I judge from obvious tokens, that coffee is ready. How did you get along for groceries?" he asked his wife, so soon as he was seated at the table. "I forgot that you said you must have some, yesterday."
               "Your mother supplied me," was the reply. "I had nothing decent for supper, and she saw my destitution."
               "Well, a little help from her just now is very acceptable. I shall want what money I have, to start in business. I have seen a physician who has the recipe for making a popular medicine, and all that is needed for making a fortune out of it, is money. He offers me a partnership on good terms, and I think it's just the place for me."
               
               "I hope you will make sure that he is an honorable man, before you invest much," said Adah. "We have but little, now."
               "I understand the case, perfectly. It is not necessary for you to offer any advice."
               The man who said this, ate his breakfast with evident relish, and then went into the parlor to meet his brother-in-law, with a marked coldness, which was little less than insolence. Mr. Wheaton, however, remained chatting with the children, and utterly ignoring the fact that his presence was disagreeable to their father.
               Dr. Foster, frowning in vain, soon left the room, followed by his mother. She had much to say, but for some reason failed to say one half she wished. His proposed business ar-arrangement was discussed at considerable length, he tolerating her criticisms, only because he hoped to receive money from her.
               In this, he was disappointed. She made provision for his family, but placed no more funds at his disposal. The guest chamber was comfortably furnished, and many articles of general convenience purchased.
               "Is there anything more I can do for you?" asked Mrs. Foster in the evening, when she was alone with her daughter-in-law.
               "Nothing," was the reply. "I feel burdened by what you have done. I never expected to be a dependent upon your bounty."
               "You are not a dependent, child. Under the circumstances, I consider it my place to care for you. Don't deny yourself or the children anything you may need. I am able and willing to provide everything for you."
               Ah, no! She could not do this. They needed the love and sympathy of husband and father, and this, money would never purchase.
               A most unsatisfactory visit, as Mrs. Foster frankly acknowledged to Retta, and was forced to admit to Mrs. Snow, although she withheld all details.
               Harry Wheaton was more communicative when talking with Oscar Snow, and said, decidedly, that Foster was past hope. "There is nothing to do but stand ready to provide for Adah and the children. You would be surprised at the change in his appearance. He is careless about his dress, and his bloated face gives unmistakable proof of his habits. He is a hard man, and will finish himself young."
               "The younger, the better," was the reply. "I wouldn't care what became of him, but for Adah and the children. I wish she could be persuaded to leave him. I would go on, to-day, if there was any prospect that she would return with me."
               "She will not leave her husband, at present. I made myself sure of that; but the time may come. I engaged a friend of mine to keep me posted in regard to the doctor's movements, and you shall hear if anything new takes place."
               Six months from this time, Skye James wrote that Dr. Foster's partner had absconded with the funds of the firm, leaving only a large stock of labelled bottles, for the contents of which there was no sale. "I have paid the rent of the house, as you desired," he added. "So his family have a shelter, but the doctor must be absolutely poor. He has gone down another step. His resort now is a low grocery, where cheap liquor is sold in a dirty room, redolent of vile breaths and foul pipes."
               Immediately upon the receipt of this news, Mrs. Snow wrote to her daughter, begging that she would come home for a visit, if no longer; but the invitation elicited nothing beyond thanks and a refusal.
               New Year's morning again. The snow lay pure and white in the untrodden streets. There was no lack of food or fire in the home of Adah Foster; but alas! that it should be true, her right arm hung helpless, broken by a blow from her husband, a few hours before. Conscious of no physical pain, while half crazed by the wild storm of feeling which swept over her, she had awaited for the morning.
               It came at last, and the children rose early to welcome it, but forgot their anticipations at sight of the broken arm. Frank wished to go at once for a doctor to mend it. "Papa aint a doctor now," he said.
               "But see how deep the snow is," replied his mother. "You must wait a while."
               "Then let me go and tell Mr. James. He is only just round the corner, since he moved, and he told me to come there any time."
               Mrs. Foster hesitated, as pride asserted itself; but she could not trust her husband's skill, and at length she consented to Frank's proposal.
               Skye James was no stranger, he having been introduced to her by Mr. Wheaton, after which he had called at the house several times. He was soon in her presence, and asked the question most natural, under the circumstances, "How did it happen?"
               "I cannot tell you," was the reply. "I wish I did not know myself."
               Enough. The young man understood it all. A physician was summoned, and the broken arm received necessary attention.
               "If there is anything more I can do for you, I shall be most happy to be of service," said Mr. James.
               "There is nothing more," answered Mrs. Foster. "I am afraid you will think me presumptuous in having sent for you; but you may be sure that I am very grateful for your kindness."
               The next day Harry Wheaton received a letter which made it seem desirable that he should see Oscar Snow, and after seeing him, the latter went directly to his sister.
               "I have come for you and the children," he said, when her emotion at seeing him had somewhat subsided.
               "I am so glad," she replied. "God must have sent you in answer to my prayers. Take me home for a little while, and I will learn to do something for my own support."
               "For your own support, Adah!" repeated the brother, smoothing back her luxuriant hair, in which gleamed many a line of silver. "Don't speak of that. We have enough for you and yours, if you will leave Howard Foster."
               "He wishes me to leave him," she said, with a fresh burst of tears.
               "And you must echo the wish."
               "I don't know, Oscar. I loved him once, and he is the father of my children. If I had any influence over him, I would never leave him; but nothing I can say will stay his course."
               Dr. Foster made no opposition to the proposal of his brother-in-law, and indeed manifested very little feeling in regard to it. He had previously asked his wife's forgiveness for the blow which had broken her arm, at the same time saying that it would be better for her to go to her friends, as he had not the means to support her.
               One last appeal she made then; but he assured her that he should never change his habits. "There is no zest in life now," he said, with something of his old manner. "If we had money, we might yet be happy together. As it is, you must do the best you can with the children, and I will finish as I have begun. I think mother will make me an allowance."
               At their parting, he kissed his children, took his wife in his arms, held her thus for a moment, pressing his lips to her eyes and mouth, and then turned away.
               So soon as Mrs. Foster was apprised of what had occurred, she visited her son, and in accordance with his expectations, made him an allowance, amply sufficient to provide him with every comfort. This was all she could do, as she was convinced by her own observation. He rented a room, the furnishing of which she herself superintended, and for which she paid: he having already disposed of everything left in his former home.
               Once only after this she saw him, although he lived for two years. Then he was lying on a filthy straw bed in such a state of intoxication, that no effort could rouse him to a knowledge of her presence. He had dispoiled his room, beggaring himself to gratify a drunkard's insatiable thirst. Again was he surrounded with comforts. Arrangements were made so that by no possibility could there be a recurrence of such squalid poverty; and three months longer, the once elegant, and accomplished Howard Foster lived on a besotted wretch.
               Then the family tomb was opened, and one more victim of intemperance was hidden from sight. Better so than a living death. Those who had loved him felt a burden lifted from their hearts.
               As time went on, Frank and Bell Foster were so happy with their grandparents, that they almost forgot there had been another, who claimed obedience, without bestowing merited praise and tenderness. Many watched the boy anxiously, many gave him counsel, and now, engaged in active life, with character unsullied, there are many to bid him God speed. His mother looks up to him, fondly and proudly, rejoicing in his integrity.
               Skye James is his friend, strong and true, and reliant; a wealthy Christian, business man, a model of excellence in his way, and a persistent advocate of total abstinence.
               Dick Barber, brother now in very truth to our hero, since the day when a double marriage gave Mrs. James and Mrs. Barber, each another son and daughter, is worthy the relationship.
               And Sandy. The mission school and temperance accomplished wonders for him; made him what hosts of other poor boys may be if they will, prosperous and happy.
            
         
      
      
         
            THE SILVER-LAKE SERIES.
            3 vols. 16mo. In neat box. Price, $3.75.
            
               Truth and Trust; or, The Iron Mountain.
               HOPES AND FEARS.
               Good for Evil; or, Rose Cottage.
            
            A capital series of books just published; of a high moral and religious character. They should be in the hands of every Sunday-school scholar in the land; and no adult but would find pleasure and profit from these volumes.
            In point of mechanical execution they are unequalled, being bound in bevelled boards, with a gilt back, and a most elegant GOLD and SILVER centre side-piece, which we pronounce to be the handsomest thing of the kind in the country.
            The illustrated title-page is drawn by Mr. E. J. Whitney, the popular illustrator of "Bitter Sweet," one of the finest books published in America. Other illustrations are drawn by Mr. J. N. Hyde, favorably known to all publishers of juvenile books. Handsome title-pages, in red and black, ornament each volume, making altogether the handsomest and cheapest series of juveniles yet published.
            HENRY A. YOUNG & CO.,
            (Successors to GRAVES & YOUNG,)
            24 Cornhill, Boston, Mass.
         
         
         
            
            The Elmwood Series.
            4 vols. 16mo. Illustrated. In neat box.
            PRICE, $5.00.
            
               THE MILL-AGENT.
               By MRS. MARY A. DENNISON.
               "The more of this class of books the better. It is one of the best-sold and most interesting Temperance tales that has yet appeared. The style is very graphic and life-like, and the story is powerfully written and very affecting."
               1 vol. 16mo. Illustrated. Price, $1.25.
            
            
               OUT OF PRISON.
               By Author of "Mill-Agent."
               Another work of rare originality and merit. It is an admirable book; not only for the noble conceptions of the right and true which hallow its pages, but for the beauty of its personations of character, and the genial spirit which pervades the whole.
               1 vol. 16mo. Price, $1.50.
            
            
               The Huntingdons; or, Glimpses of Inner Life.
               By Mrs. MARIA LOUISA HAYWARD. 1 vol. 16mo. Price, $1.75.
               "We cheerfully commend this volume as one which will not only interest youthful readers, but will leave an impression on their minds which will make them better for having read it."
            
            
               HORACE WELFORD.
               A collection of short moral stories for the young. The book is profusely illustrated, and cannot fail of being attractive to youth.
               1 vol. 16mo. Price, $1.00.
               HENRY A. YOUNG & CO.,
               (SUCCESSORS TO GRAVES & YOUNG,)
               24 CORNHILL, BOSTON, MASS.
            
         
         
            GOOD MEASURE.
            A Story for Boys.
            By D. S. ERICKSON.
            1 vol. 16mo. Price $1.50.
            "This story is well adapted to teach boys useful lessons, show them the value of honesty, and the sin and danger of dishonesty, and inspire them with useful principles and impressions."—Christian Era.
            
            "The press of H. A. Young & Co. is well known by the issue of tasty and valuable books for the Sabbath School. 'Good Measure' enforces a really important moral, in a spirited and entertaining narrative."—Chicago Standard.
            
            "Among all the Sunday School Books I have read this year, 'Good Measure' stands at the head."
            The author has so interwoven instruction with incident as to produce a book which cannot fail to interest those for whom it is especially intended.
            PUBLISHED BY
            HENRY A. YOUNG & CO.,
            24 Cornhill, Boston.
         
         
            
            PLEASANT PAGES AND BIBLE PICTURES.
            1 vol., small 4to. Price $1.50.
            This volume contains a selection of some of the best Bible histories, and cannot fail to meet a want long felt. The editor says,
            "In offering this book to the public the editor makes no claim of originality, but tells the old stories in simple language, and presents them in an attractive form, to please the taste of the little folks, for whom they are intended."
            The Illustrations, twenty in number, are printed in the new style in a superior manner.
            The book is elegantly bound, with gilt centre and bevelled boards, altogether making one of the handsomest volumes published.
            HENRY A. YOUNG & CO.,
            24 Cornhill, Boston.
         
      
   
