
    ----CITATION----
        Denison, Mary A. (1826-1911). Victor Norman, Rector .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6262 wright2-0733
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               VICTOR NORMAN, RECTOR.
            
            BY MRS. MARY A. DENISON.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
            
            1873.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, by J. B. LIPPSINCOTT & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. Bogwood. 7
               
               CHAPTER II. The Champlins' Call. 11
               
               CHAPTER III. The Lawyer's Bargain. 20
               
               CHAPTER IV. An Arab. 31
               
               CHAPTER V. It was Possible. 39
               
               CHAPTER VI. The Gillimaccuddys. 44
               
               CHAPTER VII. Bringing the Little Wife Home. 52
               
               CHAPTER VIII. An Unwelcome Guest. 63
               
               CHAPTER IX. The Unwelcome Recognition. 70
               
               CHAPTER X. Playing her Cards Right. 78
               
               CHAPTER XI. Kate's Lecture. 88
               
               
               CHAPTER XII. Little Mrs. Rickson receives a Call. 95
               
               CHAPTER XIII. Kit Champlin and his Expectations. 104
               
               CHAPTER XIV. All Souls'. 113
               
               CHAPTER XV. Mrs. Champlin suggests a Party. 120
               
               CHAPTER XVI. Old Man Rickson's Wedding-party. 127
               
               CHAPTER XVII. In search of a Livery. 138
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. The Little Dressmaker sees a Likeness. 145
               
               CHAPTER XIX. Bessy's Just Indignation. 148
               
               CHAPTER XX. The Rector's Surprise-party. 153
               
               CHAPTER XXI. Mrs. Champlin at her Toilet. 161
               
               CHAPTER XXII. New Year's at the Pepper-Box. 166
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. Miss Champlin speaks her Mind. 174
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. Bessy finds the Monogram D. 181
               
               CHAPTER XXV. A Rebellious Daughter. 188
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. The Rector down in the Slums. 192
               
               CHAPTER XXVII. Recognition of Monogram. 203
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII. Bessy Rickson's Trouble. 211
               
               CHAPTER XXIX. Trouble for Bessy and Dan. 215
               
               CHAPTER XXX. Dan's Temptation. 226
               
               CHAPTER XXXI. The Old Man's Story. 234
               
               CHAPTER XXXII. In Fashionable Society. 239
               
               CHAPTER XXXIII. The Rector righted at Last. 246
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV. Bessy's New Estate. 254
               
               CHAPTER XXXV. The Changed Rectory. 257
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Victor Norman, rector
            
            VICTOR NORMAN.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               BOGWOOD.
               EAGLE HILL TERRACE was the name which John Dyas chose to give his new and beautiful residence.
               Suggestive of aristocratic taste and surroundings, perhaps, but the hill was scarcely visible. It is true, Bogwood was said to be built upon a hill, and at very long distances there were depressions here and there, that might, by stretch of fancy, be called valleys.
               Be that as it may, Mrs. Dyas had "Eagle Hill Terrace" printed upon her cards. And very handsome cards they were, fit additions to the most superb of drawing-room baskets or silver receivers.
               The mansion that crowned its banks of green was, to sum up all in one word, superb. I have not an upholsterer's list at hand, or I might give you some idea of the beauty of its decorations. There were suites of apartments expensively and richly furnished. To be sure there was a newness and a brilliancy about it that smacked of the show-rooms in furniture warehouses; but people generally liked it. All the world and his wife made haste to number among their dearest friends Mrs. John Dyas and her daughter. All the world admired and praised, with one exception, and that one had been leading lady of Bogwood before John Dyas had bought and settled in that pleasant little town.
               Providence, in its inscrutable wisdom, had not provided Mrs. Claude Champlin with a rich husband, but she had always managed to keep up appearances, though struggling breast-high with difficulties that would have overcome any but the aspiring woman of fashion she meant to be. And Claude Champlin himself had a way of bowing to the grocer at Dice's Corner, that quite obliterated for the moment the shadow of that long account on his books behind the small counter.
               "There goes Lawyer Champlin," the little, sandy-haired man would say, "the most agreeable fellow I ever met; owes me five hundred dollars, though."
               Mrs. Champlin's anguish when she saw the new house rising, story after story, was only equaled by the condescension with which she determined to seek the acquaintance of the new-comers, and turn their position and their wealth, too, if possible, to her own advantage."
               "It's a splendid house, my dear," she said to her daughter Minerva, who had early turned her young feet in the paths of literature,—"a very splendid house. There's a bay-window to the right, overlooking that lovely stretch of country, and a bay-window at the south, where flowers will thrive all winter. Everything will be new, though. They are new people, I should judge. John Dyas has made an immense fortune by some lucky speculations."
               "Perhaps they are downright vulgar, mamma," said Minerva.
               "No, they have always been nice, I believe. Miss True knows them, or rather has heard of them. Mrs. Dyas comes of a good family. As to the husband, he has made his own way in the world."
               "Johns always do seem to make their own way in the world," remarked Minerva, sagely, with an unexpressed rush of exultation that she had a Claude to her father.
               "Claude says they intend to call the new place 'Eagle Hill Terrace,'" pursued Mrs. Champlin, pulling at a pin that held her bonnet to a luxurious mass of light-brown curls.
               "Good heavens! mamma," exclaimed Minerva, lending deft fingers to the extraction of the pin, but bringing the curls off with the bonnet, "how extravagantly affected! and we are only Champlin Place."
               "How careless you are, Nerm! Fasten these things back. Only Champlin Place! We may be very thankful that we are able to give one of the best names in the country to any house we may happen to possess."
               As possession in this case depended upon the payment of a given sum, quarterly, which sometimes it sorely strained their pockets to produce, Mrs. Claude Champlin's grand manner seemed rather out of character; and perhaps some such thought passed through the mind of Miss Minerva, for she smiled over the top of her mother's head, as she fastened with more energy than tenderness the loop of false curls in its place.
               "I wonder if Miss Dyas is pretty," she queried, catching a glimpse of her own statuesque features, as she passed the mirror in the massive étagère. All the furniture in Champlin Place was massive, and antiquated, and marked with the royal habit of long usage.
               "Well, it don't matter much," responded her mother, whose eye roved anxiously and contemplatively over the folds of her much-worn silk, as if consulting with its shabbiness about the possibility of its lasting much longer. And yet Mrs. Champlin gave the grandest parties of her set.
               
               "It doesn't matter much," she repeated, with a nervous little sigh: "she is rich."
               "Then of course she's pretty," said Minerva,—"pretty, and an angel. Well, I only hope we shall like her. Of course we must visit them! Oh, there's Kit, with his horrid cigar! dreadful boy!" And she hurried from the room.
               Kit was the junior Claude.
               Christopher Claude Champlin, was his name, and an exceedingly romantic-looking, handsome young fellow he was.
               Two years previously he had given the valedictory address before graybeards in gowns, and college-chums in roundabouts, that style of dress being the rage for collegians just then; and since that time he had been engaged in speculating as to the probabilities of his future. He had also been so unfortunate as to have fallen heir to enough greenbacks, yearly, left by a doting old grandaunt, to keep him in canes, gloves, cigars, neck-ties, and an occasional new suit of broadcloth, so that he was generally up to the times as regards the fashion, though sorely behind them in lacking that vigor of nerve and strength of character which make the man in contradistinction to the fellow.
               In other words, he was somewhat effeminate, and a good deal lazy, though there was that fire in him that would have blazed out in active independence years ago, if circumstances had put him on his mettle.
               It was his ambition to be considered a little fast; though to do him justice his tastes inclined him to the severer side of virtue. He never gambled, but people thought and said he did. He never drank to excess, but sometimes affected a slight unsteadiness of gait, and he was occasionally seen in the company of men who were not considered at all proper in their relations to society and the world at large.
               With all women he was a great favorite. He had the knack of pleasing them, even while they shook their heads over his fancied misdemeanors. They called him a naughty man, and smilingly accepted his arm. They talked in their little coteries of his fancied peccadilloes, and worked him a charm for his favorite book. They wondered at him for his idleness, and dependence, and extravagance, and threw their daughters in his way, or themselves, if they were young and charming. His reputation as a lady's man was something wonderful. Women who fancied themselves neglected were instantly heartened by his smile. He convinced homely girls that they were pretty, almost without an effort, and all the time he was heart-whole.
               Heart-whole,—that is, till the Dyas family came to Bogwood; but we must not anticipate.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               THE CHAMPLINS' CALL.
               THERE was a charming river-view from the west end of Eagle Hill Terrace, and Mrs. John Dyas stood at the great bay-window enjoying it. City born and bred, she had all her life been conscious of a longing to exchange the bricks and paving-stones, which had, as it were, built her in to set squares and condemned her to prim conventionalities, for the broad, green depths of country fields, the wonderful sweep of blue, cloud-blown skies, and the scent of hedges, where wild flowers spent their sweet, fragrant lives in making every breath that wafted from them a boon and a blessing.
               John Dyas, who worshiped his wife, must have found this longing out by instinct, for she seldom spoke of it. When, therefore, one golden day came that turned the tide of fortune, he hardly waited to give himself joy before he hurried off to Bogwood, where he had bought a charming spot of land, "dirt cheap," some years before, and commenced the interviewings, the plannings, the consultations, that resulted in the noble house which Mrs. John Dyas now enjoyed.
               How often she had thanked him with beaming eyes for thus consulting her convenience, regardless of his own, I dare not say. He was a nervous man upon the water, and yet twice every day, save Sundays, in storm and in calm, he trusted himself to the saloon-deck of the Swan, a beautiful steamer that plied the river for fifty miles from city east to city west, and touched at Bogwood-landing morning and evening.
               "Come here, Kitty. Did you ever see the river look so beautiful? See those clouds of sails in the distance, and that thought of a boat with the bright red figure in it."
               "I'm going to coax papa to buy me a boat as soon as Walter comes home," said Kate, snuggling up against her mother, who threw an arm about her waist.
               "Nonsense, Kitty. I wouldn't have you go out on that river with our careless Walt." And Mrs. Dyas looked at that moment as if she were reviewing a regiment of boats, bottom-side up, with human beings struggling under them.
               "I needn't be dependent upon Walt, mamma dear. I could learn to row myself."
               Mrs. Dyas held the girl off for a brief instant; surveyed her delicate figure, her round, white, waxen arms, about which the fine Swiss muslin sleeves draped their folds artistically.
               "You row!" she said, with a short, amused laugh.
               "But I have rowed, mamma, and I assure you I did very well."
               "When did you row, tomboy?" And the mother drew the sweet face nearer by the pressure of her arm again.
               "Why, at Cambridge. Don't you remember the day of the regatta? Walt made me go. It was after the trial-race. Walt and—I think it was a Mr. Champlin; such an exquisite! Dear me! he had a regular waterman's suit made from the finest materials. He was one of the senior class, and out, I think—gave the valedictory." She was playing with her mother's watch-chain, and a soft flush of crimson had gradually mounted into either cheek.
               "Well, and what more of this Mr. Champlin?"
               "Nothing—only—well, Walt insisted I should go, and then—why, I had a fancy to try an oar—and I did—and I did very well," she added, with a half-conscious look.
               "Darling, I think—wasn't it a little unlady-like?"
               "Darling!" repeated Kate. "You make me think of the heroine Grace. What of her?"
               "That was her occupation, my dear. She was born in that station of life in which it became her to help herself."
               "And I was born to be helpless, then, I suppose?"
               "You were born to be just the dearest little puss in the world to papa and me,—born to bless our home while you stay with us, and by-and-by to make some good man's home his paradise, my dear."
               "Always some man," said Kate, petulantly, under her breath. "I'll never care for any man; I mean to be an old maid, one of the nice sort, you know, and live always with papa and you. It's rather cool, I think, in you, mamma, to dispose of me so often to 'some good man.'"
               Mrs. Dyas laughed, but her reply was prevented by the entrance of a servant not yet trained, and who therefore exclaimed, with a grin and a bow,—
               "Mrs. Dyas, ma'am."
               "Well, Peters?"
               "Company, ma'am, if you please." And he handed her two cards, both delicately perfumed.
               "Show them in, Peters, of course. Mrs. and Miss Champlin, my dear, of Champlin Place," she said, turning to her daughter.
               Mrs. and Miss Champlin entered, and the ladies went forward to meet them. Mrs. Champlin was resplendent and glittering. Miss Champlin's blue silk contrasted prettily with her mother's black satin and lace.
               After the first few commonplaces, the ladies paired off. Miss Champlin, taking note of every inch of Kate's becoming dress and Kate's unusual beauty, followed her new friend to the bay-window. The two married ladies seated themselves in comfortable easy-chairs within reach of a portfolio of views and the photographic albums, and very soon made themselves acquainted.
               "I hope you like Bogwood," said Minerva, looking Kate square in the face, as if she wished to measure her for a bonnet. "It's a queer little place, and there are some really original characters in it,—people worth studying, you know."
               "I believe I never study people," said Kate, with her light laugh. "I leave that for those who make books; but I do enjoy people's peculiarities sometimes, for all that."
               "Well, then, you must know that I make books," said Minerva; "or, at least, that I have made one little one, and I am going to make another," she added, as if it was the most matter-of-fact and the easiest thing in the world to do, only set yourself down to it. "Now, I wish I hadn't told you. What makes you draw back?"
               "I believe I never saw a live author before," returned Kate, a little shyly, "and naturally I am rather overawed."
               "Please get over it, then, as fast as possible, for it must be an uncomfortable sensation. I've scribbled ever since I was four years old, and made picture-books; but I didn't mean to talk shop at all. What a lovely woman your mother is! and what a delightful home you have! You will find us dark and mangy and old-fashioned, I can assure you, if you will take the trouble to come and see us. The Champlin-furniture has been handed down like the name, from generation to generation, till it has vitally assumed the Champlin features and idiosyncrasies. We have actually a chair, which I never look at but it recalls the very features of my great-grandmother, whose husband was governor of New York in the past ages. I just remember her,—we're a very long-lived family, and I was only a child of six when she died."
               Kate felt that in the presence of Miss Champlin it was her province to listen; besides, there was something naïve and original in the girl's manner,—it sparkled all over with little defiant flashes; it was so different from the quiet, delicate touches of character of which she had been daily accustomed. She had thawed the social ice, that in opening acquaintanceships seems so hopelessly hard, with her first sentence, and Kate liked her for it, and was quite ready to look up to and admire her.
               "I beg your pardon, but what an exquisite monogram that is on your handkerchief!" said Miss Minerva, who had been eyeing the square of snowy linen as she talked. "Embroidered in green too! Is that your fancy?"
               "Oh, no, indeed: that's a notion of mamma's," replied Kate; "and the monogram, like your furniture, has come down with successive Dillabys,—that's mamma's family name. She often says that she don't know as papa would have been as successful in his wooing if his name had not begun with D. She has a seal used by—well, one of the grandfathers, a hundred and fifty years ago." She did not say an Irish earl, and so comfortably checkmate Miss Champlin's little hint of departed glory. "I'll show it to you some time; it's a rare stone, connoisseurs say."
               "Ah, indeed, the letter is very beautiful!" said Miss Champlin, admiringly.
               "And the green stands for the nationality," laughed Kate, blushing. She was just a shade ashamed of that of which her mother was unwontedly proud,—her Irish blood.
               "Ah, now I see where you got your lovely gray eyes from; we are Norman by descent, and we have an old mouldy coat of arms and all that, you know. But I hate talking of the past, only on certain occasions. There is a time for everything, you know,—and I am afraid it is getting time for us to go."
               She looked at her watch, but Kate made a deprecating motion with her hand.
               "Pray don't go; you are so kind to brighten our solitude," she said. "I had begun to feel lonesome at Bogwood."
               "Well, I won't,—not till mamma makes a move, at any rate." And the rich blue silk settled down again. "Pray tell me, have you met the Bankheads yet, or the Kirks, or the Shipleys? You will probably see them soon. They are, in all that pertains to fashion and respectability, the lights of this little town, and none of them hide themselves under a bushel; indeed, they are generally at the summit of very high hills indeed. Mr. Bankhead, as his name curiously indicates, is really the head of one of the best banks in the city of ——. The Dikemans are soon expected home from England. They're a good family, and they bring, I hear, an enormously wealthy heiress with them,—an English cousin. They will travel a good deal before they settle down for the winter, I suppose. Then there is——pray, do you like gentlemen's society, Miss Dyas?"
               The question was a strange one, and Kate looked her surprise sufficiently for Miss Dyas to add:
               "I dare say that sounds odd to you; but I don't follow conventionalities as most girls do, and like as not I shall lose your good esteem for so doing. But the fact is I don't like gentlemen as a general thing: I see so few worth the regard of a real woman. Do you know I believe—excepting of course our own papas and staid heads of families—men are worthless creatures. I have never seen any gentlemen, from my own brother down to my latest acquaintance, who have a spark of the old-time gallantry—or, for that matter, honesty—in their composition. Now, you know we are trained to think a noble manhood so adorable in itself, that most young ladies are prone to fall down and worship the first specimen of apparent chivalry they are introduced to,—which I take as a sign of latent weakness in the sisterhood. I hope you are not hating me in your heart for my bold speeches. Suppose we talk of dresses instead?" And she smiled brightly.
               "Anything but that!" cried Kate, with a little shiver; "dressmakers are my detestation,—I mean professionally. Besides, I like what you say, only I have but dared to think where you have dared to speak. I don't believe I dislike gentlemen's society, but I do know that it must be a very exceptional person indeed that I could be at all interested in."
               How glibly she said it! How careless and independent and beautiful she looked!—the brown lashes curling over till they touched the delicately-penciled brows,—the dewy, rosy lips half opened,—the faint pink tinge of the check deepening under the undisguised admiration that sparkled in Miss Champlin's eyes.
               Poor little Kitty, to whom the mazes of human nature are mysteries more profound than the labyrinths of Cyclops, you will some day speak from a deeper experience. Will it be a more painful one?
               "Ah, I like to hear you assert yourself! I like to hear you talk like that! I did not dream of finding a congenial spirit in the rich and beautiful Miss Dyas,—for that's how you are designated, and you must not flush under it. You can't help knowing how pretty you are, any more than I can help being aware that my profile is pure Greek. I don't think any more of myself on that account, but I can't help knowing it when I've been told so from my infancy. And then it is such a comfort to mamma to be able to say that I have the real Champlin face! I think those ladies must be enjoying themselves: mamma sits like a statue. I know she is interested, for she has one of her gloves off. Well, indeed, I welcome you to Bogwood. I suppose the rector of All Souls' will call upon you soon. It is said he is a model,—not at all handsome, but so interesting! I expect we shall be numbering him by-and-by among your admirers. I have no objection to him, only that he smokes. Like all men, he has his pet weakness. Why can't they be strong? Why don't women smoke, do you suppose? Can you tolerate it?"
               "I have done so," said Kitty, smiling. "Walt—my brother Walter—always smokes when he is home."
               "Oh, you have a brother Walter, then, and he smokes; and I have a brother Kit, and he smokes, and makes life almost unbearable to me sometimes. I have a peculiar horror of smoke."
               She did not notice the almost imperceptible start with which Kate heard the words, "I have a brother Kit." Could it be? Was the magnificent Claude, to whom she had been introduced by her brother, one of the Champlin family? Her cheeks tingled a little, for her brother always bantered her when they met on the fancy young Champlin had taken to her: and the memory of his delicate compliments, which did not owe all their beauty to Walter's imagination, was not disagreeable.
               "I think you have a sister?" said Miss Minerva, making preparations to rise.
               "Yes; she is in Europe."
               "Is this her first visit?"
               "No; Alice went some two years ago, on her wedding tour. We expect her home by September at the latest."
               "I shouldn't wonder it she came over with the Dikemans. Really, mamma, I believe I must make the first move. We are visiting, I think, instead of calling."
               Both ladies rose, Mrs. Champlin apologizing,—Mrs. Dyas protesting that she should be delighted with a longer stay; and soon the talk became general, diverged with the ladies, from the centre of the room to the hall, and thence lost itself in last adieus.
               Mrs, Dyas went back, her arm about Kate's waist,—their usual fashion of walking together.
               
               "Well, dear, how did you like them?" asked the mother.
               "They are delightful, mamma; but I'll tell you what I think of them to-night. It's 'most time for the boat, and I must meet papa."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE LAWYER'S BARGAIN.
               MOTHER and daughter on the Champlin side walked slowly home. It occurred to Mrs. Champlin that the household-table was in pressing need of some nicely-manufactured wafers, called seed-biscuit; so she stopped at the little sandy grocer's, and the little sandy grocer begged her pardon, as he promised to send the package, for pressing on her attention and into her hand a portentous paper.
               "Nerm, it's a terrible bill, I know it is; there never was such an uneasy man as that grocer, as one might know by his having red hair. Dear, dear, it burns my hand; do take it, Nerm, and look at it when you get home. I don't want to have anything to do with it. It's my place to order and your father's to pay."
               If she could have heard the grocer's comments on her rich satin and expensive laces, as his wife stood in the doorway to admire the glitter and the grandeur, holding a sickly baby in her arms, Mrs. Champlin's dignity might have suffered to a greater extent; but as the tea and the sugar and many goodly parcels that had once made part of the grocer's stock were gone, as completely as a cloud dissolves, Mrs. Champlin, with a paucity of reasoning that seems native to some brains, could not see why the grocer should press them, just now, for payment. It is very much harder to pay for a beefsteak that has been eaten than for one just ordered.
               "It seems to me, mamma, we grow poorer and poorer. How is it? Papa's business is ordinarily good."
               "Don't ask me, child; ask him. It must be so easy for Mrs. Dyas to be everything that is good and amiable. She has only to ask for a check and she gets it."
               "But papa don't speculate. I wish he would."
               "Don't wish that, for Heaven's sake, Minerva! He made a terrible mistake that way once; I don't care about repeating it. It has kept us down ever since."
               They had reached Champlin Place.
               "How poky it looks, after Eagle Hill Terrace!" exclaimed Minerva. "Well, one can't have everything, but I wish those gloomy pine-trees could be struck by lightning, or something equally effective. Is that Mary Ann in the doorway?"
               It was Mary Ann, an old servant, who stood twisting her apron with a peculiarly aggrieved face.
               "It's bad news I've heard from home, missus," said the stout representative of innumerable roasts and stews, "and I be sorry to tell you as 'ow I must have the three months owing to me, or go to them, ma'am."
               "Money, money, always money!" said Mrs. Champlin, dejectedly.
               "Yes, ma'am, and we poor folks needs it," said the cook, plucking up a little spirit for the occasion. "It's we as knows what turning and twisting means, and it's our babies that haves to go barefoot whether they would or no. I've served ye faithfully, ma'am."
               'We won't have any words, my good Mary Ann; go into the kitchen. I'll get the money if I possibly can; if I can't, why, I suppose you must go."
               "It might be that the half wud do," says Mary Ann, unwisely conceding a part of the sum, in her unselfish desire to make the mistress more at her ease.
               "I'll see, Mary Ann. I'll do my best," replied Mrs. Champlin, relieved at once of her selfish anxiety. In some way she might be able to raise from fifteen to twenty dollars.
               Minerva came down while the table-girl was laying the cloth. The gas flared in the wind and gave wild gleams here and there to knobs and cornices and panels of the ancient mahogany sideboard. It was a handsome dining-room, particularly by gas-light. On the walls hung valuable pictures of fruit and game,—by masters, all of them. Claude Champlin, solicitor, prided himself on his pictures. The massive chairs were covered with red leather and edged with brass nails. They were heavy and respectable; everything there was heavy and respectable.
               The long, handsome table could be seen from the family sitting-room. Mrs. Champlin sat in an enormously high backed chair, tapping her foot and thinking hard. She seldom allowed herself to work, mentally, except when she was put to her wits' end to raise money.
               A step sounded on the threshold.
               "Mamma, are you here?"
               "I am here, Nerm," was the reply, in a sepulchral voice.
               "Well, I've looked at the sum total of the bill."
               "Yes," gloomily.
               "It's two hundred and seventy-five dollars, for two months. He says he'll wait for the rest."
               "For two months!"
               "Yes, two hundred and seventy-five dollars. Kit is down for ten dollars' worth of cigars. Now, mamma, that is positively wicked. There are a great many extras. I think we might do with less."
               "Yes, might; but your father won't, child. You know him."
               "I think it must be put to the account of the Champlins' tastes," said the girl.
               "Don't be satirical, Nerm," responded Mrs. Champlin, looking round, but, by reason of the dark, unable to see her daughter's face. "That is your greatest fault."
               "I can't help it, ma: it's so tiresome to be for ever and ever in debt. I'm sure I earn almost all my own clothes."
               "For Heaven's sake, Nerm, don't let Sarah, out there, hear you say that!" responded Mrs. Champlin, in a stage-whisper and with a severe countenance.
               "Oh, but, mamma, literature and kitchen-work are two different things; although my dollar for a paragraph is no brighter than the one she gets for scrubbing. Indeed, I'd scrub for it before I'd be such a loafer as our Kit!"
               "Hush, Nerm! You can't call Kit a loafer exactly: he busy his own clothes."
               "But he doesn't earn them."
               "Minerva," said her mother, after a moment of silence, broken only by the click of the dishes, or the spoons as they struck against them, "Mary Ann wants her wages; and what shall I do?"
               "Why, pay her, if you can," said the girl, with affected indifference.
               "I wish—could you lend it to me,—or half?"
               "Mamma! How can you ask me, when you know how much I have to do with the little money I earn? Indeed, I cannot lend it to you."
               In the stray light that floated in from the dining-room—one spectral beam, guided by the summer wind—Minerva saw her mother silently carry her handkerchief to her eyes. She was not without a heart,—though she rarely owned that she had one,—and this bit of mute sorrow touched her.
               "I haven't but fifty dollars in the world, mamma," she said. "How little can you do with?"
               Her mother designated the sum of fifteen dollars. Minerva left the room, and went slowly up into her study. "Extravagance and ruin!" she muttered, as she entered the luxurious little room which her father had had fitted up for her; "extravagance and ruin!" she repeated. "How I wish I knew how to stop it!" As it did not seem likely that any amount of wishing could aid her in solving the problem of how to live without debt, she counted out the money, and, going slowly down-stairs, placed it in her mother's lap.
               "Nerm, I'm sure I thank you!" exclaimed her mother, with a wistful, grateful look. "How kind you are!"
               "Never mind, mamma," said the girl, with an inward qualm at her own reluctant manner, and the vision of a new and beautiful dress which she had coveted for months vanished into air. She knew, or had good reason to expect, that this would not be the last demand upon her purse.
               Mrs. Champlin went into the kitchen and paid the cook, promising more. Cook made a wry face, but took the money, muttering something Mrs. Champlin would have blushed to hear.
               Then the lady's spirits rose, in spite of the grocer's bill. She put dull care behind her, and intimated to Minerva that Providence would enable her, in some way, to pay the money back before the week's end. Miss Minerva doubted it. What she believed in was the providence of thrift.
               "I am glad we are through with the newness of things at the Dyas's," she said, growing chatty, as the dining-table, framed in by the door, began to present its usual aspect of elegant abundance. "Mrs. Dyas is quite a lady, and so I suppose is the daughter."
               "I liked her," replied Minerva, shortly.
               "What a splendid thing for our Kit, if they two should make a match!"
               "Who?" cried Minerva, explosively, looking up.
               "Our Kit and Miss Kate Dyas."
               "The Lord forbid!" exclaimed Minerva, with more force than elegance or reverence. "Mamma, I won't hear you say such foolish things."
               "I should like to know what you mean? I suppose Miss Dyas will marry somebody."
               "Then I pray, if she must marry, as it seems to be the vocation of most women, she may never marry our Kit."
               "I'm sure, Nerm, it is very unbecoming in you to be so prejudiced against your own brother."
               "It's very silly of me, to be sure, to be thinking of it at all in the way I do, for, from what I understood this afternoon, Miss Dyas will be a hard bird to catch."
               "What! is she engaged?" exclaimed Mrs. Champlin, speaking as if now indeed the last hope had departed from her.
               "Not that I know of. But she won't care for Kit; care for him, indeed!"
               "You are not sisterly; you are not even kind," plained Mrs. Champlin. "I am ashamed of you! There's not a handsomer man than Kit in all the country—there's not a better-hearted fellow."
               "Or a lazier," chimed in Minerva.
               "Hush; you don't know what he is. I do. He is only waiting for his opportunity; it will come, believe me."
               "You suppose it will come by his marrying Miss Dyas?" said Minerva, coldly.
               "I have set my heart upon it from the first. Kit knew her before she came here."
               Miss Champlin gave a great start, and leaned forward peering into her mother's face.
               "Kit knew her?" with a manner that added, I won't believe it, however strong you put it.
               "Indeed he knew her. Once he saw her at Cambridge,—her brother is at Harvard;—twice or three times he met her at other places. He spoke of her last night; spoke of her as he does not generally speak of woman."
               "Good boy!" said Miss Champlin, with a curling lip. "But I can't believe it; it must be pure fiction on Kit's part; because, when I spoke of him to-day, she surely would have shown some consciousness. She could hardly have helped saying something, or else she disliked him so that she forbore to wound my feelings. Miss Dyas, forsooth, and that"—she paused to give force to the word—"dandy!"
               "Minerva Champlin, have you no affection whatever for your brother?" asked her mother, with a stern voice.
               "Not much," was the stolid answer.
               "Then you're a wicked girl! There, they are coming, and your father has brought home company, as usual."
               "A superb lot, my dear sir," the cheery voice of Mr. Champlin was saying, as he entered accompanied by his son Kit and a tall, professional-looking gentleman, who was in turn followed by a porter bearing in his arms a huge packet.
               "Light! my dear, light!" he said, stopping in the doorway. "I am surprised at the darkness on the premises. Ah, that's a good girl, Sarah," as she came in with a long brass rod, carrying a tiny flame atop. "You can put your load on this table," indicating one with a broader surface than the others with his hand. "Wife, let me make you acquainted with Mr. Chester Hilbert; you have heard me speak of him. My wife, Mr. Hilbert. My daughter Minerva, Mr. Hilbert."
               Kit had thrown himself indolently on a lounge. Mrs. Champlin had gracefully merged from the anxious, nervous housewife into the handsome, lady-like hostess. Minerva looked at the stranger as she looked at men generally, wondering if he were a greater or less fool than the others.
               "Now then," said papa Champlin; and a very handsome man he was, despite the sprinkling of white in his luxuriant beard; "now for my bargain. Wife, I have really made a bargain."
               If he had said, "Wife, I have really bought a tomb-stone," poor Mrs. Champlin would not have listened with a darker sense of foreboding at her heart; but there was a stranger present,—a useful screen on some domestic occasions,—and she was obliged to be attentive and acquiescent.
               "Yes, a fine bargain, even you will say, I am sure." He hastened to disengage the cords, which he did with great painstaking and patience, cutting here and pressing over there.
               "Now what do you say?" he cried, as the papers fell slowly off, and an aromatic fragrance, dear to the noses of book-worms, filled the atmosphere. "Macaulay's complete works, in Russia, real, legitimate Russia!"
               There they stood, in their blood-red bindings, edged with fine, filmy gold, serrated with tiny points, the edges soft, rich, and cream-tinted,—a possession worthy of a prince.
               "But we have Macaulay already, papa," said Minerva, forced to admire them, as she did everything beautiful, even her brother's face, sometimes.
               "Yes, I know; but a very common edition. I shall pack them off to auction."
               "And what might have been the price, now," queried Kit, smiling to himself, "of this very remarkable bargain?"
               "Seventy-five dollars, sir!" responded his father, drawing himself up to his grandest height, which was very grand indeed.
               On the dreadful impulse of the moment, Mrs. Champlin was ready to scream or to swoon, but she curbed her outraged feelings, as a look passed from her to Minerva, and held down her terrible disappointment. Seventy-five dollars spent in vile-smelling Russia leather! She could have shrieked; and up-stairs the grocer's bill, that would stare her dreams in the face all that luckless night! Was ever any poor woman more miserable?
               And yet she must smile and smile, sick at heart as she was; must seem to share in the pleasures of the partner of her joys and sorrows, but particularly sorrows in the way of extravagance and thoughtlessness. A good and true man he was, she knew,—loyal to his family, stanch in his friendships,—but hampered, and going to the bad perpetually through the inheritance of the Champlin weakness, proneness to expenditure, whether the means for payment were forthcoming in this or the next century.
               Kit chuckled from his corner. What for he could scarcely have told, except that he had vague ideas upon most subjects connected with praise, and it tickled him for the moment to be aware of the state of his mother's feelings, while she was not at liberty to express them. I have said before that he was not vile, but he had so long led that snapping cur by the nose—an assumed looseness of character—that even his sister took him for what he affected to be. Before her he was apt to let off unkind tirades against womankind; praised extravagantly the works she hated, and talked glibly about books he had never looked into, and which she would have handled scorpions sooner than touch. Into this false way of talking and thinking he had fallen, and he lived as it were two lives. He liked his sister because she was smart, and kept him awake, he thought; but he was blind to her real feelings towards him. She had tried in every sisterly way to reform him, but for some time had given up the hope.
               "And you can read this, sir?" she asked him one day, as he carelessly threw aside a neatly-bound French novel, forced upon him by a friend, of which he did not even know the title, and would probably never go further than the Gothic letters of the same.
               "Well, what if I do?" he queried, snuffing sport in the wind.
               "Then I must say, Kit, you are further gone than I thought you were."
               "And how many corners in the byways of forbidden literature does my virtuous sister think I have turned?" he asked, deftly dislodging a parlor-match from its embossed safe, preparatory to lighting his cigar.
               "Enough to ruin you," she responded.
               "Have you read this book?" he asked.
               "Don't you dare to put such a question to me?" she cried, with flashing eyes.
               "Then how do you know anything about it?"
               
               "I know this about it, sir," she answered, steadily, "that papa would kick it into the fire."
               "And me out of the house, eh?"
               "I am not sure, if——" Her pale lips trembled,—trembled more at Kit's light laugh,—trembled yet more as he said, in her provokingly careless voice,—
               "Never mind, Nerm, you can put me to some use, if I am a scalawag. Make me the hero of one of your novels. I'll tell you of some scrapes that will raise the hair on your head, and you can get up a deucedly sensational book. Put me in for a first-rate villain, and so take your revenge out of me."
               He looked so provokingly handsome, so good and earnest, as he stood there, that Minerva's heart felt all but broken in her bosom. Why his profligacy had not left its mark upon his forehead she put to the score of his easy-going nature. Even in his follies he was clear, and cool-headed, and calculating, she thought; but time would show.
               So the evening passed, and Mr. Claude Champlin dilated upon his bargain, which was worth "twice the money, sir." And Mrs. Champlin bore it like a heroine, till, ensconced in the depths of her handsome bedroom, she gave her careless spouse a piece of her mind, and ended by placing the grocer's bill before his eyes.
               "Well, my dear," he said, placidly, "not so bad for two months,—quite a reasonable bill, my dear."
               "Yes, Claude, but how to pay it?"
               "In this way," said Mr. Champlin, coolly, taking two crisp fifties from his pocket-book and placing them in her hand. "There! I think that will satisfy him. Tell him he shall have more in a week."
               "Mr. Champlin!" exclaimed his wife, almost hysterically.
               "I have a good case in hand, my dear; and while the money comes in, while it lasts, you shall have it." And poor Mrs. Champlin, as if he had done a very heroic thing, kisses him, and begs his pardon.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               AN ARAB.
               TO go back a few hours.
               The Swan had taken an unusual number of passengers. Fat men came on board, panting and perspiring, and tumbling over babies' perambulators, returning the nurses' angry exclamation with a "God bless ye, hope nobody's hurt!" and then subsiding into the coolest corners. Thin women, and portly dames, and country cousins, and fine little aristocratic misses, with their noses up in the air, and heavy bankers, and spinsters with poodle dogs, whose corns were sure to suffer; and sewing-women with huge bundles, and young men with a tendency to whisker-tweaking and cane-and handkerchief-flirtation; and care-worn workmen, who kept their greasy blouses out of ken of the gentry, less hard-working, and probably less honest; and pink-faced women, with great apple-baskets, and yellow hair that proclaimed their German origin; and a band of Teutonic musicians, home from some successful saengerfest, and full of beer to their hat-bands, between whom and the women there is some open and honest love-making, and whose dropsical bundles, full of harmonious wind, would stagger anything but German muscle; and fruit-sellers and peddlers, and bulgy sailors rushing about, with ropes, and the general deck assortment of a steamer that is to make at least a dozen stoppages before she reaches her final destination.
               The cabin was full to repletion. All the red-velvet arm-chairs were occupied, mostly by women,—chiefly, again, by young and pretty girls,—while venerable grandmothers sat on the cushioned seats that girdled the gold and parti-colored paneling.
               Three groups were peculiarly noticeable among the generally eminently respectable company. In one of them Mr. Claude Champlin was conspicuous because of his constant solicitude regarding a huge bundle between his feet, that quite reached to his knees. The gentleman he was talking to, tall and handsome, seemed interested in another gentleman, nearly opposite, who was very busily reading a letter, and answering, now and then, some remark of Mr. Bankhead, who with his highly-fashionable young wife was returning to Bogwood to take his usual night's sleep.
               "That gentleman," said Mr. Claude Champlin, releasing his attention from the aforesaid bundle long enough to be aware that his friend had spoken, "is Mr. Dyas,—John Dyas. He has just bought at our place; and a mighty pretty little property it is, too. You've heard of him, I suppose,—enormously rich."
               "Oh, yes; one of the lucky ones," said the other.
               "Lucky in everything,—lucky, in the first place, in having a snug little sum left him when a young man; and, in the second place, by showing the good judgment of coming to America to double it,—for he is English. Came here before he was twenty, married before he was twenty-five, and made his fortune before he was forty. There's a series of lucky goes for you."
               "He looks shrewd enough to make his fortune anywhere," remarked Mr. Chester Hilbert.
               "I don't doubt he would,—one of that sort, you see. I beg your pardon, Hilbert; but your cane might injure my package. Thank you!" as the gentleman shifted his cane to the other side. And Mr. Champlin continued: "Is that Mrs. Dyas? Oh, no; that's Bankhead's boarding-school wife. Mrs. Dyas looks different from that. I fancy Dillaby is her family name. Judge Dillaby, of the Supreme Court, is her brother. And, by the way, Hilbert, there's a pretty girl at Bogwood,—a very beautiful girl, I have heard; his daughter, Miss Kate Dyas."
               "Ah, indeed!" and the gentleman dropped the conversation.
               Not far off, Mr. Kit Champlin talked with two or three young men, all magnates of the first water, judging from their smoothness of shirt-front, their delicacy of stud, and immaculateness of wristband. The rector of All Souls' sat quite near them, apparently deep in the theological column of a crisp church-newspaper.
               "I tell you what," exclaimed one of them, the least respectable looking of the trio as to face and whiskers, "Dobby is no match for Red Wickets. Dobby has had the bones of his best hand broken twice; but Red Wickets' fists are like iron. Lyman earned his first well; Jackson fouled out to Kelly, and Jones caromed on the third base."
               "Who beat?" asked a gentleman who had not appeared to listen.
               "The Marabouts,—seven to one," was the answer.
               "Then Dyas owes me a hat," responded Kit Champlin, taking from his pocket an elegant little blank-book.
               "Does the old gentleman approve of betting?" asked one of the young men, giving a sly look over at the lawyer and his package.
               "He never troubles me. How was Ackerman?"
               
               "Played beautifully,—caught Leonard's fly-ball, and lamed Stoneman so that he had to give up. But I say: don't Walt Dyas's father live your way?"
               "Yes," replied Kit, shortly.
               "Got a sister, hasn't he?"
               "Yes," replied Kit, shorter still.
               "A regular stunner," said one of the trio, with his cane to his mouth.
               "What?" exclaimed Kit, with a frown.
               "A regular go,—a beauty, I mean. She was at church last Sunday: I saw her; so did somebody else, I fancy; he-he"—and he pointed the tip of his cane towards the tingling ears of the rector of All Souls'.
               "Hang that woman's coughing!" muttered somebody.
               "That woman" sat in a corner,—a thin, cadaverous creature, with melancholy eyeglasses perched over her cavernous eyes. She was shabbily dressed, and seemed conscious of the fact, for ever and anon she gave a little hitch, as if she were trying to make a hole in the side of the cabin, that she might crawl out of everybody's sight. Her hands were cased in gloves from which the fingers seemed to be continually crawling, as if unused to being confined even in a space a world too large for them.
               By her side sat a pretty little girl of fourteen, pretty, expect for the precocious outlook of her great brown eyes, that seemed to say, "Oh, I know all about it,—have known this long time: there are few things you could name that I don't know."
               "But about that Dyas girl?" remarked one of the young men to Kit, with a sagacious wink.
               "Well, about the young lady, Miss Dyas?" responded Kit, in tones just short of being savage; "what about her?"
               "Kit has toned down since we mentioned her," remarked marked another. "I expect he'll turn pious, by-and-by, and go to All Souls's with a motive."
               Kit laughed a short, harsh laugh. His mother had taken advantage of several opportunities to hint that Miss Kate Dyas was a girl worth winning; while Minerva had, with infinite pains, given him to understand that she was altogether too good for him,—that she particularly abominated fast young men, and that as sure as he went in that direction he would get the cold shoulder, which, she added, she devoutly hoped he would.
               "They're talking about Miss Dyas," said the child with the precocious eyes, pulling at the woman's shawl, eliciting a cough for an answer.
               "Well, let 'em talk," was the reply after the spell was over; "all I want of you is to behave yourself. You never had such a chance; you'll never git such another. You're a'most fifteen. If you run your cards right you're good for a easy life, which I never got, and never expect to, even when I git you off my hands."
               The woman talked by jerks, in momentary fear of that rasping cough, and ended with a jerk, for the Swan was just jerking into the landing, and babies, and dogs, and a poll-parrot waked up, and the German gutturals mixed indiscriminately together, as the passengers rose and yawned, and jumped and lolled to their feet.
               A few steps from the gangway stood Kate Dyas, waiting for her father. Perhaps Kit had caught sight of her before any of the rest, for he struggled fearfully through the crowded hordes of Germans, half smothered by their garlicky beards, and pounded by their bulgy bundles full of harmonious wind.
               Kate had never looked more beautiful. She wore a small, gypsy hat, and a dress of pale lemon-color, much brightened by stripes and ruches of black, either silk or velvet. She had a most becoming habit of looking beautiful without seeming in the least conscious of her charms; of looking most beautiful when most forgetful of herself.
               As her eyes carelessly roved from one coarse face to another among the sanguinary-haired Teutons, suddenly her heart gave a strange bound; it was not wont to give such, and the soft pink in her cheeks changed to a vivid crimson.
               Young Champlin had sprung off on the landing, and almost before taking breath raised his hat in his own inimitable manner.
               "It is an age since I have seen you, Miss Dyas; welcome to Bogwood."
               "Thank you, Mr. Champlin;" and there the brief interview ended, for crowds were pouring from the boat, among them Mr. Dyas, who was exchanging a few words with lawyer Champlin.
               It struck Mr. Dyas as he met his daughter that she was looking unwontedly brilliant. He had always admired her sufficiently, but now as he drew her hand within his arm he felt an unusual fatherly pride in the possession of such a beautiful child.
               "Well, papa!"
               "Well, darling!"
               "Did you bring the girl?"
               "Why, bless me, I forgot the girl. Her aunt is with her to receive her first quarter's wages, I suppose. She is coming, I hear her cough,—that's she in the poky bonnet; and there's the young person."
               "Poor thing, how shabby she looks!" rejoined Kate.
               "Yes, rather shabby, my dear."
               "She won't look so long, will she, father?"
               "Well, no I don't imagine she will under your supervision vision. But don't you think this is a rather a moonshine notion of yours, my darling?"
               "Papa, you know I want to do some good in the world."
               "Yes, my dear, I was only afraid this girl might be too much for you; these street Arabs usually are, for refined people."
               "Oh, papa! please don't call her a street Arab."
               "But, my dear, she has most assuredly been used to the street all her days,—never mind, we won't talk. You want to do good,—you think you can train this girl, and teach her her letters, and make something of her. Well, my dear, I don't say you can't, but I do say this sort of people are generally too much for—well, the other sort. Here's the young person. Follow me ma'am; this is my daughter, Miss Kate Dyas. My dear, this is the young person's aunt; she will have to be provided for, to-night."
               "Yes, papa," said Kate, moving happily along by her father's side.
               "Papa, the Champlins called to-day," said Kate, her eyes fixed upon a particular ring in her parasol.
               "Did they, my dear? I suppose you mean the ladies. That was Mr. Champlin who came ashore with me."
               "Was it, indeed?" and Kate felt hot to the ears. Would he speak of the son?
               "He seems very much the gentleman."
               Poor Mrs. Champlin! with her family pride, if she had but heard that in Mr. John Dyas's eyes, her husband, the pink of perfection, the concentration of ages of aristocratic blood, seemed very much the gentleman, what would she have said?
               "And if he seemed the gentleman," Kate felt inclined to ask, "what do you think of his son?" And then a rush of hot, indignant blood flew to her face, a mute witness against her that she had already settled in her own mind what she thought of him.
               "By the way," said Mr. Dyas, "I got a letter from your sister to-day. She seems to be enjoying herself very much."
               "When is she coming back, papa?"
               "We may expect her soon, she says, but doesn't name the time."
               "Dear Alice! how I long to see her!"
               There was home, with the wide, well-kept lawn, and the smoothly graveled walks, and at the end on the front portico a lovely woman dressed exquisitely, though in simple white. There was the tired man's paradise, and the merchant's eye brightened as he gazed upon it.
               "Dear mamma, you'll see this girl and her aunt, won't you?" whispered Kate. "I should like to go to my room."
               "Yes, dear; but why has the aunt come? We didn't want the aunt."
               "Only to see that everything is all right, I suppose," said Kate, smiling, as the dingy woman, and the dingy girl, with the precocious look of knowing a good deal about the world making shadows in her great dark eyes, followed Mrs. Dyas into the sitting-room.
               Mr. Dyas took a turn about the grounds to see that the old gardener had obeyed instructions.
               That quaint specimen of Irish horticultural tastes was called Patcheen Gillimaccuddy, and he lived with another unique specimen called Bride Gillimaccuddy, down at Pepper Point.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               IT WAS POSSIBLE.
               KATE ran up into her room. Its cool, pink shadows had never seemed so grateful to her as now. She took off her hat and her mantle with a preoccupied air; she smoothed her beautiful hair in the same way, her cheeks all the time growing redder and hotter, and in her eyes that introverted glance peculiar to one whose thoughts are traveling.
               Presently she said, with a pout,—
               "I won't have it. I will not have it;" and, going towards a charming little basin, dashed the water over her cheeks.
               This cooling lotion, however, did not seem to change the color, but rather fix it; so as Kate dried her cheeks she looked into the glass, and looking there, she said,—
               "Kate Dyas, is it possible you are such a fool? Is that the reason your heart warmed towards his sister, you hypocrite?"
               Having delivered this brief exordium, Kate sat down at the window, and, resting her head on her hand, communed with her own heart:
               "Why, it can't be possible just seeing him, just noticing the inimitable grace with which he moved his hat, just hearing his voice, could, could——" And there she paused, the color mounting into her temples, as she spoke again presently, and with more energy, "It can't be possible!"
               But it was possible. The passing fancy that she had laughed at before had all at once taken root in a mysterious rious, and entirely unaccountable manner. The little smouldering fire of liking had suddenly burst out into the full blaze of a deeper feeling,—deep, high, and holy, in such a nature as hers.
               Kate Dyas knew as well as if an angel had stood there and told her, that this was no ordinary impression; that it had come in a moment, but it would not go in a decade of years,—would never, never go. This man, who for months had been to her only a very pleasing memory, partly because he was her brother's friend, and partly because he was so much handsomer than other men, had, as instantaneously as the lightning flashes from east to west, become a haunting image of which she must not speak, a presence of which even her mother could have no knowledge. It was humiliating to the proud girl, and yet it was one of the most stubborn facts of her life. It could not be rubbed out by any mental process, make as many resolutions as she would.
               She sat there perplexed, almost in anguish, while the purple hills in the distance grew grayer and stonier as the rich tints of the setting sun paled over their summits.
               "Why, what can I do? what shall I do?" she half sobbed, beating against the immutable decree of her heart, and only getting bruised in the encounter. "Perhaps I am wrong;" she paused and looked out. "This may be, as father calls it, one of my moonshine notions. Perhaps it will melt, or fade out with to-night's dreams. I will try not to think of it, or I will try to conquer it. I will not be mastered by a fancy."
               Poor little Kate! the harder she fought the swifter the waves of feeling rushed back. She laughed, she sang, she tangled and untangled her hair, she tried to read a page in her Testament, but even a light knock at the door sent the blood rushing over her face again.
               Another moment, and the child with the worldly-wise brown eyes stood before her.
               "If you please, miss, I was to ask you where I'm a-going to sleep?"
               "Come in. Let me see, your name is Lizzie, isn't it?" asked Kate, gaining time to compose herself.
               "Yes'm; Lizzie Brown, miss."
               "You are an orphan?"
               "Yes, miss, I guess I am; my aunt tells me so," answered the nature child. "Excuse me, miss, but I won't do it again."
               "Won't do what again?"
               "Please, miss, it's a twisting of my mouth, which I've got a habit of,—please I won't do it again, miss."
               "Oh, never mind, only it's better to rid one's self of disagreeable habits," said Kate, pleasantly. "Before I show you your room, I shall get out some nightclothes for you, and then I expect you to take a bath."
               "Take a what, miss?" queried the girl, her eyes growing almost childish as she looked cunningly up.
               "A bath. See here." Kate opened a door. "There are sponges and towels, and plenty of water; do you understand?"
               "Yes, miss, I thinks I do." Up went her brown hand over her mouth.
               "Please, miss, I won't do it again," she repeated.
               Kate took no notice. Neatly arranging a little pile of snow-white linen, she opened the door of another room and led the girl in. Though she was almost as tall as herself, she seemed a little child to Kate.
               It was a pretty place, spotless as snow. There stood the white bed with its dainty vallance. The clear white matting, the fleecy white curtains over two long windows, the delicate color of the wood of which the furniture was made,—all combined to render this one of the pleasantest places that poor vagrant nature ever found rest in.
               "I'm sure, miss, this is too nice for me," said Lizzie, troubled as she took note of this to her extraordinary neatness and superhuman cleanliness. "I'm not used to seeing things very nice."
               "Then we'll get used to it," said Kate, playfully: she was so thankful this girl had come to turn the current of her thoughts. "Do you sew, Lizzie?"
               "Yes'm, miss, I can sew pretty well," replied the girl, "and I can knit a little and tat considerable."
               "I have put some dresses in these drawers that I am quite sure will fit you, and you're to put them on in the morning."
               "Yes'm. Please'm, I won't do it again,"—with a contortion that Kate did not see. "It comes on me by spells, like; some days I don't think of it, and then it comes unbeknownst."
               "Now for the bath," said Kate, thinking it best not to mind the girl's embarrassment; and she shut her in with the water-tank.
               Kate had prepared herself for dinner, when she heard her father's voice, loud and sharp. Not being accustomed to that tone, Kate went to the window and looked out. Below her stood Patcheen Gillimaccuddy, his reddish-brown hair pushing itself straight through his crownless hat, his hands pressed atop the rake on which he was leaning.
               "But, yer honor," said Patcheen, his countenance perfectly immovable,—one eye gathered into wrinkles, the other shining under his penthouse of a brow as if it had been glazed with an infusion of melted glass,—"that's the place for vines; I never see 'em in no odther in the old country."
               "I don't care about that, Pat; I told you to put them at the side of the house."
               "Axing many pardons of yer honor," replied Patcheen, screwing his eye tighter and materially shortening his nose, "but what does a gintleman like yersilf know about gardening, one way?"
               "I know enough to know when I'm pleased, Pat; and I can tell you I'm not pleased now."
               "Sure, as Mrs. Bride Gillimaccuddy says sometimes of yer humble sarvint, there's some people yez can never plaze," replied the imperturbable Irishman.
               "You'll take these vines up, Pat," said Mr. Days, conclusively.
               "Sure now, an' you'd not be going to have me spoil my riputation as a gardener, yer honor; shure ye'll consider."
               "I'll consider that your services are at an end if you don't do as I tell you."
               "Arl right, sir," replied the Gillimaccuddy. "It's three months deep I'm ingaged,—into January, and a thrifle beyant. As Mrs. Bride Gillimaccuddy obsarves, there's twinty beggarly diggers to be found to one shkilled gardener; an' I'm not a beggarly digger, yer honor."
               "Then you won't put the vines where I want them?" said Mr. Dyas, who reflected that at least a month's work was needed on his grounds, and he had really found Gillimaccuddy a fine workman.
               "Yer honor sees that I'd consider my riputation at shtake if I did it. That's the place for Madary vines the world over,—facing south."
               "I suppose I may be allowed to take them up and set them where I please?" said Mr. Dyas, with find irony.
               "Ah, an' sure that's beyant me. If yer honor wishes to do that same, it's yer honor's own place. As Mrs. Gillimaccuddy often says to me, says she, Pat, a man's house is his own proper castle, so I says to you; but I'll clear me skirts of the impropriety of it by saying the gintleman did it, not understanding the science of it," was the Irishman's complacent answer.
               Patcheen had his way, and Mr. Dyas retired, feeling that in some manner he had lost caste for not being a professional gardener. But the bell had rung for dinner, and he could neither afford to waste time in argument, or to lose Pat.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE GILLIMACCUDDYS.
               AND that brings me to Pepper Point, which was a sort of lane, rather wider than ordinary country lanes, and bordered on one side by a row of stunted willows, whose pensive branches faced a row of eight or ten small cottages, each one surrounded by its eight or ten feet of ground on every side, the whole of them looking like a line of pepper-boxes,—and this idea had been so often suggested that the place had come to be called Pepper Point. The lane led west to a large grassy bank, wherein for years sundry nuisances had been imbedded,—dust-piles and barricades of crockery and earthenware, and mounds of straw, decorated with old boots and shoes and shreds of tin pans and rejected iron, from which the boys of Pepper Point had filched many a penny, trudging miles to the nearest old-junk shop.
               Here and there a grand tree, a little shattered about the foundations and a good deal mangy along the ridges of the bark, stood, throwing cool shades over whoever of the inhabitants of that rural spot chose to sit on the bank and sew, while the boats went by, or the river glittered in the sunshine.
               Here lived humble, hard-working people; people who had their little sports and merry-makings, and ate their cabbages and onions, undeterred by the fear of offending more delicate olfactories than their own.
               The best dressmaker in Bogwood occupied the corner house next the river, and had it fitted up with some little pretension to style. She owned a second-hand, wheezy melodeon, whose quavering notes solaced her after her hard day's work with the cheerful refreshment of "Balerma" and "Old Hundred,"—the only tunes she ever played.
               Even the children had got to say as they heard, "There she goes at the 'tother tune." But what did it matter so that the quiet, industrious woman was happy?
               Next to her was Mrs. Gillimaccuddy, whose shrewd, hickory-nut face, beamed pert and peaked under a cap starched so stiffly that it looked like an inverted china sugar-bowl of huge dimensions.
               Mrs. Gillimaccuddy called herself a "taker-in," and, as her lines were generally filled with wet linen, it is to be supposed that she took in washing. She was a lively little neighbor, much given to homilies, and always ready with Irish wit or helpful advice.
               The next cottage was empty; but at high noon, at the time of which I am writing, Miss Paulina Rose—the seamstress—saw Mrs. Gillimaccuddy just entering the prim little front yard of the empty house with a key in her hand.
               "Is Mr. Rickson coming home?"
               
               "Indeed he is, Miss Rose," replied the woman, with very little brogue discernible, as she turned the rim part of the white sugar-bowl toward the questioner. "It's this morning I got the letter axing will I just air the house, and make it up a little. And please have tea a Friday by six, he goes on; by which I expect him, and mabby not him alone."
               Paulina Rose put both thin hands on the painted paste-board railing of the cottage pepper-pot. Her face had grown pale, and she felt a little cold and queer.
               "You don't believe he is going to——" and there speech failed her.
               "Yes, I do. It's the very suspicion I had mesilf. He's met a purty Irish lass, mabby, and made her Mrs. Rickson. Be you sure there's something in the wind. Hasn't he always made tea for hisself before?"
               "Maybe it's his son that's coming on."
               "Don't you go cudgeling your brain, Miss Rose. Dan ain't so grand a man that he couldn't build a little fire himself. No, there's a lady in the case, and not a widdy neither."
               Poor Miss Paulina! It had seemed almost certain to her that she was yet to reign mistress of that house,—"the only boughten one in the row." Others of the neighbors had so decided when they saw Mr. Rickson—the old lame widower—seated on the north end of his porch, and Miss Rose at the south angle of hers, reading and sewing, and occasionally exchanging words.
               Had he not carried her once to a concert, and sent her in flowers, and asked her on one bright occasion to sew on a button? To be sure he was ill-favored, but then in all the world there was not an honester or kinder-hearted man. Miss Rose had actually learned to love his tough old face and spongy whiskers. She thought of him at all times,—at her prayers, over her duck-seams and endless less button-holes; in her very dreams; and she had been so sure of winning this prize that she had even made a sacred secret deposit of newly-bought linen in two of the drawers of her old-fashioned bureau. Could it be that this heartless, lame widower had forgotten her? Why, only when he went away he had said, "I shall bring home something handsome for you, Miss Rose;" and she had dreamed, poor soul, that it might be a ring. She knew now, by the archness of Mrs. Gillimaccuddy's face, that it was all over, and went on her way sorrowful.
               It was a tidy little place upon which the Irishwoman opened the door. There was no hall. A cheery parlor, filled with shining furniture,—a cheap but bright carpet on the floor; from this opening a large kitchen and dining-room in one.
               "Sure I hope it's a pretty face he'll bring to it," mustered the lively Hibernian; "as Pat says, the sight of a purty face 'll make up for a missing breakfast now and then. But Rickson's rich; he'll never need a breakfast, that's sure, and poor Miss Rose's face is longer than my arm. 'It's your own lively country lasses that takes me," he said sometimes, which he and mesilf has had a little chat over the wash-tub, not to say as the tub was under his nose. The Virgin save us! who's there?" she cried, as a stalking shadow laid like a carpet on the bare floor of the kitchen.
               "It's me, Mrs. Bride," responded a manly voice; and the shadow was replaced by a tall, good-looking fellow, as he stalked into the kitchen.
               "Sure, Mr. Dan, it's growing up straight again the ceiling that ye are. Yer father's house 'll be too small for ye's, I'm thinking, before long."
               "Not a bit of it, Mrs. Bride. I'm done growing, I hope, being twenty-one next May."
               
               "Are ye home for good, Dan?" was the next question. The busy woman dipped her broom in a pail of water, and snapped a small shower out of it as she struck it against the side of the door.
               "Yes, Mrs. Bride, I'm home for good. I've got my diploma, and situation as under-teacher in the Mt. Pleasant Academy. What do you think of that?"
               "You've made your way finely, my boy, and your father may be proud of ye. If my own boy, which I'll never have, does that same, shure it's a happy woman he'll make of his mammy. But come; Mr. Dan, Gillimaccuddy's engaged the day, and I've a nice little taste o' cornbafe in the pantry. I'll go set it out for ye in my own kitchen, and then I'll be back intil the dust agin. You see your daddy's coming home on Friday."
               "How long has he been gone, Mrs. Bride?" asked Dan, following the inverted sugar-bowl into her own tidy place.
               "A matter o' three weeks, Mr. Dan. Now sit you down till I throw a clane cloth on. It's a good thing that you've got your eddication through. Lord love ye, it's been shillins and pence to me that I can read and write, and do a bit o' ciphering,—bless them that helped me to it, an' make their bed soft in heaven! As Patcheen Gillimaccuddy says, a writin' wife's worth two as make their mark. An' say now if your daddy should bring home a wife!"
               "Good Lord!" ejaculated Dan, with a fixed stare, as he slowly thrust his hands into his pockets. "Why, Mrs. Bride, my father is sixty-seven years old."
               "As Patcheen Gillimaccuddy says, 'It's never too late to do a wise thing,' Mr. Dan," replied the Irishwoman, cutting generous slices of corned beef.
               "But I don't believe it. By George, I'd never forgive him! Hasn't my own mother been dead since I was five? Hasn't he made a pretty thing for himself, with this cottage and money in the bank, and me respectably educated? And now, by George, if some she has trapped him into marrying again, he may go to thunder. I won't live with him."
               Mrs. Bride stood laughing at him, the knife she held making erratic lunges at an immense wheaten loaf. She laughed till the tears came.
               "Well, well," she said, at last, as she cut a slice with tolerable exactness, "as Patcheen says, 'Men of all sizes make themselves fools once in a lifetime.' Now there's Miss Rose, next door; ye've known her since ye were knee-high to a 'skeeter, and if he should bring home a woman, it's terrible put back she'd be. But eat yer dinner; sure it's mabby only my nonsense."
               Whether Mrs. Bride's nonsense had taken away his appetite or not, Dan ate very sparingly, sitting by himself, while Mrs. Gillimaccuddy took her way back into the neighboring pepper-box. After the meal, Dan walked down to the river, and watched the boats pass. Nothing seemed altered much. The dust-heaps were somewhat higher on the sloping bank; an addition had been made to the tin and crockery mine; two men were belaboring a carpet into shreds, under pretense of shaking it; and a lank dog stood shivering on the brink of the water, as if meditating suicide. One of the trees had lately been struck by lightning, and the shadow of the other had crept narrowly about the knotted roots. It was too near noonday for much shade.
               "What a confounded hot place!" muttered Dan. "And what a confounded fool!"
               
               Mrs. Gillimaccuddy's jesting words had taken the spirit out of him. He had never dreamed before of his father's marrying.
               "Some poor wretch as ignorant as himself," he muttered angrily. "That will be sweet for me."
               He kicked the shallow sand with the points of his shoes, standing near the disconsolate dog, who had crouched down preparatory to screwing up his courage for the final plunge.
               It is a harsh fact that the children of illiterate parents sometimes lose their respect for those who have toiled and sacrificed that their sons and daughters may be better able to cope intelligently with the world than it has been their lot to do. This selfish instinct of human nature shows itself oftenest in boys.
               Dan knew that he was a good-looking fellow, as surely as that he was the son of old Rickson, the carrier and small jobber, who could do little more than scratch a few characters that stood for his own name. He had been in good society, formed his own opinions, much exaggerated, of ladies and gentlemen, and had ambitious hopes of his own. He loved his coarse, kind old father, after his fashion, and had wit enough to know that no woman of ordinary intelligence from the city could be induced to share his fortunes. If, then, his father should marry, what kind of a creature would he bring to Pepper Point? The place was respectable after its fashion. Mrs. Bride Gillimaccuddy, though a "taker-in," could read and write, and was tolerably well informed. Miss Rose was a reduced lady, no longer young, but she had been well brought up, and would have made the old man a decent wife. But from the city, especially that part of it where the old man's business took him, what and whom would he bring?
               Dan took his tall, well-looking figure home, and entered the pepper-box just as Mrs. Bride came out.
               "It's as good as new in there, now," she said, adding, with a laugh, "we'll have something nice agin she comes. As Patcheen says, 'Widowers' wives an' old maids' children always thrive well.'"
               Dan was angry enough to utter an oath, as the stiff, white sugar-bowl took itself out of the little yard. Then he stood gloweringly in the parlor and looked it over. How small and mean it was! He had intended to suggest some alterations, provided he and his father could have occupied it alone. He went up into his own room. The same single bed, only it seemed shorter and narrower, the same home-made book-shelves, the same cotton curtains, with knotted fringe, made by his own mother's hands. He had always rejoiced in the knowledge that his mother had been a superior woman, that good blood ran in her veins. Her picture hung in his father's bed-room across the little hall, and he looked like her. She was an orphan, bound out in a tyrannical family, when his father first met her, and thankful for a word of kindness, a look of love, she had chosen to be mistress over a home of her own, though it was the poorest that a poor man could afford. And now to have some coarse visage take that mother's place, was more than poor Dan could think of with any complacency.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               BRINGING THE LITTLE WIFE HOME.
               IT was Saturday night, and Dan stood back among the crowd at the landing, his hat pulled over his eyes, as he watched the passengers leaving the Swan. He had been there the night before, but old Mr. Rickson had failed to make his appearance, single or double.
               Mrs. Bride had arranged the Friday-night tea, and Dan had enjoyed her exceptional buttermilk biscuit all by himself. He had made up his mind that if his father did bring home a wife, Pepper Point would no longer have any charms for him.
               He watched as the notabilities filed off: the Champlins, the Dyases,—for Mrs. Dyas and her daughter had both been to the city,—the Bankheads, and Franklins, and others who toned society at Bogwood.
               At last there was his father standing at the gangway. Dan drew a long breath; nobody was near him, except a young and gracefully-formed girl, very petite and delicate, whose face was hidden by a thick, green veil.
               Dan threw back his hat, and threw the burden from his spirits. He was just going forward to welcome his father and help him, if he needed help, when, to his consternation, he saw the old man stretch out his hand to the young girl, saw her place her hand in his, while his father led her, with halting gallantry and the air of a young lover, across the plank.
               Dan fell back again, biting his lips. Down went his hat over his eyes. It seemed that the old man had occasion to go back again, and left the girl. Could it be his bride standing on the plank walk? As Dan looked at her with lowering eyebrows, the little woman threw back her veil, and Dan gazed, astounded and confounded, upon the most beautiful face it had ever been his good fortune to behold. He could not believe his senses, looking at the soft, curling tresses, the large, wondering eyes, the peachy bloom of her complexion, the ripe crimson of her lovely lips.
               As the old man returned, bearing on his arm a large bundle, the girl, or woman, hastily covered her charming face with the thick veil again.
               "What under heaven's name does it mean?" muttered Dan, stalking gloomily to the end of the pier, and watching the great coil of rusty chain that held the boat to its moorings. But the chain only creaked for answer, and the water plashed pleasantly against the posts, and the sailors whistled cheerfully, as the Swan slowly swung off, leaving Dan there alone, staring down the river.
               "Well, my dear, here we are! here we are, my dear!" said the homely little man, as he stumped down by the girl's side again. "Here me and my little home are fixed for the remainder of our natural lives. This is Bogwood, my dear! welcome, welcome to Bogwood, I am sure!"
               He seemed so full of happiness, and so animated with pride and love, that the ruddy face under the almost silvery hair looked quite cherubic. His bulgy umbrella, so fractured of bone that it had been a helpless invalid for years, and always protested its inability to be useful by due collapsings whenever it was opened, flanked his left side; the great bundle fenced him on the right, and kept his young bride at a respectful distance, which she did not seem at all inclined to lessen. Perhaps because she was so occupied in gazing about her,—in gazing up into the wide, wide sky that she had never seen in its blue glory before, in looking at the exquisite gardens running over with color and fragrance, in watching the glorious trees, so full of summer green, and light, and beauty.
               "Oh, oh!" she cried, catching her breath, "what a sweet, sweet place!"
               "Yes, child; none of the city slums here; none of the sewer-smells, or garlics and cabbage-stumps of the courts. No more gutters to sweep, and holding out your poor hands till your fingers are stiff."
               "No, no; no more of that!" she echoed, with the tone of a pleased child, looking over her neat muslin frock, lifting her hands, so small in their buttoned gloves, feeling at the fresh ribbons that tied in her pretty dimpled chin. "No more of that;" with a shivering, hard-drawn breath.
               "And you're sure you're not sorry, little Bessy? very, very sure?"
               "Oh, not a bit! not one bit!"
               She pulled away her veil, and her beaming eyes met his.
               "It was the only way I could do, you know, to git you away from that willen."
               "The only way." She patted the bundle much as if she were patting his cheek for an assurance of her perfect trust in him, and his chest heaved high with pleasure and content.
               "I never, never dreamed of it; never dreamed of it," she murmured, with another sweeping glance that took in all things of beauty. "Oh, to think that I found a friend so kind! I was so tired of that dirty street, and so frightened at the men that talked impudent, and, oh! so deadly frightened of him!" She shrank closer to the big bundle. "But I needn't be frightened any more, never any more, need I?"
               "Never any more, so help me God!" said the old man, reverently and solemnly.
               "But it's so very queer——" She stopped short, looking at her pretty dress again. "It's all so very queer!"
               "Yes, it is queer to see you a married woman, to be sure; but I think you won't be sorry, little one. I don't mean you shall have any of the cares of married life, deary; you shall be more like a child to me,—a little, tender child; and I think"—he turned and looked at her lingeringly, almost sorrowfully—"I hope you will be happy."
               "Of course I shall; who could help it?"
               The man sighed and smiled.
               On they went, turning from the broad village-streets into the more open country, passing now and then an isolated villa with elegant surroundings: Bessy looking with admiring awe at the beautiful church of All Souls', standing back from the street on a sloping, velvety knoll, its Gothic windows reflecting the setting sun in blood-red drops and flaky disks of gold; everything so fresh, and new, and glorified, to her poor, city-blinded vision.
               Just as they passed the church, the rector, Mr. Norman, came out the tower-door, a tall, grave, handsome man; and Bessy shrank closer to the bundle.
               "Do you go to that church?" she asked.
               "Yes, my dear. I hire a seat which will speedily be two, and you shall hear a sweet sermon from the minister in his black gown. Did you never go to church?"
               "Never in all my life," was the low response.
               "Then you will see the great organ," resumed the old man, ducking his head and making a feint of touching his forehead to the rector, against which the umbrella protested with all its bulginess, "and hear the boys chanting, with white capes to their necks and the dearest little voices. Now, here, do you see that line of trees down there?"
               Yes, she saw the line of trees.
               "And do you smell the cool, fresh air from the river?"
               She did smell the cool, fresh air from the river.
               "Well, that's where you're to live, my dear; that's Pepper Point."
               "Oh, dear me, is it?" she queried, looking at the trees and snuffing the air with all hers might.
               "Yes, dear; and there's good neighbors about,—you'll like 'em. All of 'em humble, my dear, humble and various, but always good. I'm quite sure you'll take to honest Mrs. Gillimaccuddy and—and Miss—Rose——"
               "Well, what makes you stop at Miss Rose?' queried Bessy, as he turned away with a queer face.
               "I was only thinkin', my dear," he resumed, with an odd little smile shortening his grotesque face. "They did have it, you see, that me an' Miss Rose would make a match; not that I ever thought of it for a moment,—which I can't say she didn't, but without reason if she did."
               "Oh," said Bessy, growing thoughtful.
               "And here we be to the top of Pepper Point."
               "Yes," murmured Bessy, growing animated.
               "I'm the only one, you see, that owns a house in this row."
               "Oh, dear, do you own a house?"
               "Yes, my dear, and here it is."
               Bessy was all eyes at the little gate. She never saw how that doors and windows flew open stealthily, and many heads grew visible at many points. Such a dear, snug little house as that, she had never expected to live in, never,—much less possess as her very own. Her heart fluttered with delight; fluttered again as she entered the front door and stood in the presence of Mrs. Gillimaccuddy with her best starched sugar-bowl on her head, and her best brown alpaca gown put on in honor of the coming bride, if bride it was to be.
               "An' it's welcome ye are, Mr. Rickson; an'—an'—sure what's the little gurl's name ye've bro't home wid ye?"
               "This is my wife, Mrs. Gillimaccuddy," said the old man, letting his bundle fall, laying his invalid umbrella carefully beside it, and with his own hands removing the veil from the lovely, shy, blushing face.
               "Saints pertect us!" whistled Mrs. Bride, shrilly. "As Patcheen says, there's wonders in the world ye'd niver think of. An' where'd ye come across sich a darlint as this, wid the red roses in her cheek? Shure ye used some quare manœuvring to trap a pretty one like this."
               "I don't wonder you say it, Mrs. Gillimaccuddy," said the old man in a strange, pathetic voice. "But she's my child, and the same as my wife—and—mabby, some time, she'll tell you the story, and the whys and the wherefores, won't ye, Bessy?"
               "Some time," said Bessy, with her eyes on the floor, as Mrs. Bride took off her bonnet.
               "Well, goodness knows, what's done can't be undone," said Mrs. Gillimaccuddy, still in a state of profound wonderment. "But ye'll be wanting your supper, I'm thinking; so, after a bit, I'll go home."
               Bessy walked slowly round the room, like one in a dream, when the good Irish matron had gone.
               "I hope it'll be a happy home to ye, dear."
               "Oh, I know, I am sure it will. How much I thank you! I can't tell you how much."
               
               "And like me a little deary?"
               "A great deal! a great deal!" And she caught his brown hands in hers; but he never presumed to kiss her.
               "And you will call me father?"
               "Would you rather?"
               "Yes, deary."
               "Then I will. It's the first time in my life that I remember. Father!"
               He smiled, his face perfectly radiant, and opened the kitchen-door.
               Bessy clapped her hands.
               "This is where I am going to learn to work!" she said. "Oh, what a nice supper! I hardly ever saw a supper-table set in my life before you found me. And such a dear, shiny, little stove! I don't dare ever to think I can keep it as bright as that. Indeed, I can't believe I am here, anyway," she added, with a mellow little laugh.
               "Then sit down and pour out the tea, deary, and that'll make it real," he said, smiling.
               The light of the gas—for Bogwood was a model town, and there was gas to its remotest boundaries—never shone on two happier faces, on a brighter, neater kitchen, than that same little pepper-box of a back room at Pepper Point. And, after, it was such fun to wash the dishes, the old man, not awkwardly, helping, with his shirt-sleeves up and his white hair hanging along his cheeks, and perspiring from sheer anxiety to be of some use-! such fun to find places in the closets and cupboards for the different eatables! such fun to pour out the scalding water and scream at its heat! such fun to roll the table away and sweep up the crumbs!
               "There, now, isn't that done all right?" queried Bessy.
               "Perfect! Couldn't a' done it better myself, deary. Mrs. Gillimaccuddy couldn't a' done it better. And just think o' her calling you a little girl!" And they laughed in concert, as, under the old man's directions, Bessy washed out the dishcloth and hung it tidily on a nail behind the stove. Then they went into the parlor.
               "Now, deary, for the bundle!" cried the old man, gleefully. "I think we'll let it be right on the floor as it is."
               "And I'll get on the floor too," said Bessy, dropping gracefully down. "Can't you?"
               "On account o' my lameness, no, little one," said Mr. Rickson. "But here's a low chair, which'll be much the same. Now, you pull at one end, and I'll pull at the other."
               The bundle divided itself into a dozen or more other bundles as the corners came asunder.
               "You see, little one, I thought I'd git these all by myself, hoping they'd suit a certain Mrs. Rickson, lately come into the new dignity of a married name, and consequently feeling a little odd about it in the face of clerks not apt to be over-polite. There's the gingham roll, which I made 'em mark the whole, as you see——"
               "I see; but you know I can't read written words," said Bessy, a little sadly.
               "And not a mite the worse for that, my dear, not a mite the worse," said the old man, his eyes lingering on the fair, soft beauty of her face, and childish curls. "We'll come to that all in good time, deary; first pothooks, then straight I's, and then round letters,—all in good time. Then there's the cambric bundle, and there's the linen one. Then here's alpaca various, different colors, my dear, and here's muslin, and here's shoes, and stockings, and stay-lacings, and pins and needless, and little trifles, and there's the dressmaker, next to Mrs. Gillimaccuddy's, who'll fix you up like a little queen."
               Bessy looked on astonished.
               "Why, you dear, nice old father!" she cried. "You don't mean to say that all these things are mine?"
               "Every identical one of 'em, deary."
               "Well, then, I think I must give you a kiss," she said.
               "I'll be humbly thankful for that favor," he responded. So she leaned over, and, giving the gray hair about his mouth a little tweak, kissed him between the eyes.
               He looked gravely happy after it, not seeing, neither did she see, a face peering in at the window, wrathful, scornful, and admiring, all in one. Then the face turned away, the latch of the front door was stealthily lifted, and stealthy feet crept up the stairs.
               "Did I ever think!" exclaimed the child-wife, holding up one and another of the pretty fabrics,—"that I should ever have two new dresses at one time! Why, I must be in a dream. Do you think I shall wake out of it soon, and find it gone, and me at the street-crossing, with that dirty, stumpy old broom, or in the horrible lighthouse where the rocks seemed forever crawling into the sea, and the winds and the waters roared till they made me deaf?—ugh!" And shivering, she placed her hands over her ears.
               "Neither the one or the other, deary," said the old man, rising and helping her carry the bundles to the drawers of a shining little bureau. "Neither the one or the other. You was a fairy, you know, and you had to wait till me, the great, old, ugly ogre, you know, came to take you to your proper place, which is a little house owned by the proprietor, consequently owned, also, by the proprietor's wife."
               "It's so queer! and so nice! and so elegant!" exclaimed claimed Bessy, her face growing more and more radiant, "and you are a dear, kind, blessed old father as I couldn't have lived another day without, there now! But you have kept house yourself, you say?"
               "Seventeen odd years, deary."
               "And you'll learn me how?"
               "Just as how as how can be."
               "And you'll have plenty of patience?"
               "Bucketsful, my dear,—ship-loads."
               "And won't scold if I make mistakes?"
               "Sooner pull my tongue out by the roots, an' further down, too, than ever scold you, my dear."
               "And if it wasn't for this big pile of shirts!" She paused, with some bundles in her arms.
               "What big pile of shirts, deary? Mine are all up-stairs." He went forward to look; his countenance changed, but pleasantly.
               "Why, they're Dan's, surely! Dan must a' bin home."
               "And who is Dan?" she asked, a slight inflection in her voice.
               "Why, you know, deary; I told you once how I had a little boy."
               "Oh, yes; with black eyes and curly hair?"
               "Both points correct, my dear; and I told you that he was left to me,—and—and how dearly I loved him, eh? but," as she responded with a motion of her head, "I didn't remark a little further on, that—that he was growed up."
               "No, you didn't," said Bessy, her face falling a little.
               "No, I didn't; for which I must make recommends by asking your pardon, my dear. Dan is growed up."
               "A man?" queried Bessy, anxiously.
               "A good deal taller than his father."
               "Gracious! and I'm your wife! And what am I to do with him?" she cried, half terrified, and sinking into a chair.
               "Nothing, deary; only let him come and go. Nothing, lovey; only consider that he's to be as kind to you as I am, and maybe teach you many things. Why, yes," he added brightening up, "Dan is a prime scholar, and his eddication complete."
               "But it was so snug,—only you and I,—and now here's a man, taller than his father; oh, dear!"
               "But there's no harm in that, you'll be just like brother and sister, don't you see?—just like brother and sister."
               "Maybe," she said, slowly, and smiled to please him. As they went up-stairs the old man stealthily tried Dan's chamber-door. It was locked inside, and he said nothing.
               Then he preceded Bessy into the opposite room, which was his own, and opened a door that led into another sweet, cool chamber, over the back porch.
               "There, deary, that's your room" he said, his rough old face and white beard shining in the soft moonlight. "I'll call you in the morning, so don't be anxious a bit. And never mind Dan, he's a good fellow: you'll like him. Good-night, and pleasant dreams."
               So he shut the door and left her.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               AN UNWELCOME GUEST.
               THE rector of All Souls' sat in his trim, well-appointed parsonage. Like all men of strictly studious habits, his face was touched here and there by faint lines, his shoulders were somewhat bent. The last-named peculiarity was not observable when he was in cassock; but as he sat now, reading by his well-shaded light, both the wrinkles and the stoop could be seen.
               The study wore a snug, ministerial expression. The books in their plain binding, the gray, narrow curtains, the study-table, covered with a green cloth, the prim chairs, primly placed, all seemed to say as soon as you faced them, "We belong to the rector of All Souls'."
               The rector received a handsome salary, but he wore a threadbare coat. He had no family, yet the house needed repairs, and his umbrella was broken at the handle. It was said that he practiced economy to a painful extent,—that he shaved himself and blacked his own shoes.
               It did not quite please the aristocratic pride of Bog-wood gentility, the cream of which floated to the top in his respectable parish, and overflowed into All Souls' regularly every Sunday morning.
               But for that look of intense care, the Rev. Mr. Norman would have been handsome. As it was, he showed his best in the pulpit, for there the anxieties of earth seldom followed him. The place was set apart and holy to him; he left his troubles at its threshold, if he could.
               A very nice rector's servant came to the door with the information that a woman wanted to see him.
               
               "Let her come in," he said, preparing himself to administer consolation or reproof, as the case might merit.
               A cough preceded the visitor. The rector started, and turned pale. Then he half rose from his seat, then he fell back again, and the hand that grasped the lid of his sermon-case trembled.
               Another moment, and he was face to face with a squalid-looking creature, the deep circles about whose eyes were made darker by a pair of steel eyeglasses.
               "Well—Miss—Bertha," he said, speaking every word separately, "I didn't expect to see you."
               "And that is the reason why you don't ask me to sit down, I suppose."
               He pulled a chair from the wall.
               "Sit down," he said. She coughed, and obeyed him, then coughed again. "Well," he said.
               "Well, I'm staying at present at Mrs. Dyas's. You know them,—the Dyases?"
               "Of course," he said, quietly, "I know them," wondering what she could mean by saying she was staying there.
               "So I thought I'd call here to tell you that Lizzie has found a home with them."
               "Lizzie,—a home!" he leaned forward now, his cheeks flushing scarlet. "Do I hear rightly? Lizzie with them?"
               "Indeed, she is. I meant she should get in some such place. I planned for it. You know what my sister once was, Mr. Norman,—you know!" The last word used somewhat in the character of a threat.
               "Well, I don't see what that has to do with the matter. I don't understand why you should come to me."
               "Don't you? Well, the truth is, I'm getting too weak to work, Mr. Norman, and now Lizzie's provided for I want you to take care of me,"
               The man shrank back, ghastly.
               "Good heavens, woman!" he muttered.
               "That'll do. Don't 'woman' me. You know I could ruin you for them that's worse than dead and gone. You're nicely situated, Mr. Norman; you were never so nicely situated before, were you? That hung on to your skirts in the city, and troubled you, didn't it? Now you get such a fine salary, and have such a lovely congregation! You are such a favorite here, too. I heard you talked over when I was in the steamboat,—all manner of good things; and how becoming a cassock is. Positively, one very pretty girl said you looked like an angel in the pulpit, think of that!"
               This long sentence was not spoken without many exclamation points in the shape of that hollow cough, which seemed to grate as harshly on the rector's ear as the words she said. He sat there like one paralyzed, his hand and arm lying passively along the green cloth on his study-table, his face undergoing curious and pathetic transformations,—now of anger, now of horror, now of an intense self-pity.
               "You'll have no more to do with the child," she continued. "If she plays her cards well she's fixed for life, or I'm mistaken. Miss Kate Dyas undertakes to be a sort of missionary. She'll get all the good she can out of her. I hope she'll find it. I never could. There's bad blood in her, and that's no compliment to you, I know, but it's the fact. But I must be seen to. I'm not going to no hospital. I'm not going to be dependent on charity. How long may I live? I seem to see that question in your eyes. Well, that's as Providence pleases. It may be so many months, it may be so many years. But you want your secret kept, so do I. You needn't be afraid. The girl won't show she knows you. She's got her lesson too well for that, and I'm not one of them that likes to foul my own nest. People who know my poor sister think she was married to this day. I mean they shall keep on thinking so; but that don't alter the case, does it? I'm inclined to believe you'll say no."
               He made a slight movement, leaned back in his chair, drew his arm slowly from the table-cloth, and lifted his eyes with a sigh that seemed to come from the innermost recesses of his heart; but still he spoke not. She reached forward, and tapped the table imperatively.
               "Come, what are you going to do?" she said, her hard eyes concentrating a glance in which the light of four distinct orbs seemed to pierce him.
               "I've a great mind to throw up the ministry and defy you," he said, in a hurried yet absent tone. "It is only for that I care, only for the sacredness of this office I hold, and which my soul loves." He ended in a groan.
               "No, you won't do that," she responded. "You're not fitted for anything else. Your very face has rector of All Souls' written on it. It's a lovely church that All Souls'. I never saw it before to-night. You'll never get another like it. No, no; you are a rector, and a rector you will be to the end of your days. But come, this isn't business. Don't irritate me: it makes my cough worse."
               Mr. Norman made another move. He leaned forward a little, both hands on the arms of his chair. His brow was corrugated; there was a sternness in his eye that shadowed his usually frank face, and changed its expression so much that it made his countenance unnatural as he looked steadily into her eyes.
               She drew back.
               "Woman," he exclaimed, in a stern voice, "what are you to me?"
               "Man," was her reply, "what is that child to you? Do you want me to go over the old story? When you first saw my sister——"
               He made a violent motion with both hands, and she started back.
               "Hold your tongue!" he said, hoarsely; "be silent, wicked woman!" Then he seemed to battle with himself for calmness. "God knows, I have enough to do for those whose sins I must cover," he added, a moment after. "If He sees fit to punish me, and deny me still more,—if He has laid this heavy burden on me for my soul's good,—then, amen! His will be done. I will give up all I hope for,—I will live a solitary, abstinent life, looking for my happiness in that future to which I direct the souls He has given in my charge. You have it in your power to injure my influence, to hurt my good name, to make me, sensitive as I am to the claims of my church, a castaway from its blessed doors. Who worketh in you the spirit to do this evil? Woman, have you no mercy?"
               "I didn't come to argue about such things at all: I come in need. Through you and yours my soul has been stung in its love and its pride,—I suppose I have got a soul, and may talk about it as well as you, though it is not gathered into the fold of what you call your church. It is a matter of dollars and cents with me. I'm sick and in need. I don't wish to call upon you for much more than you've been giving all along. We won't say it's paying, because it sounds mercenary: we'll call it giving. A few dollars more a month,—say three; that'll keep me from starvation. I get medicine at the dispensary. And wine I must have. You can send it just the same: it'll come to me."
               
               He sat moodily against the table, an elbow on it, his cheek on his left hand. In the other hand was a pencil, with which he seemed to be doing imaginary sums,—calculating, perhaps, upon how much less he could live, and still keep up appearances decently. He was aware that he was already called eccentric on account of his shabby, last-year's clothes. People wondered if he bought expensive books, or gave away all his salary to the poor. He smiled painfully. It would have done his soul good to be able to corroborate their charitable suspicions; but, alas! what had he to give the poor?
               Presently he drew his inkstand forward, and his note-book. After writing rapidly a moment, he dried the page with his blotter, and, deftly separating a piece from it, handed it to the woman, who received it grumly.
               "Is it like the other?" she asked.
               "Precisely."
               "Thank you! and I——"
               "Not a word,—not another word, if you please, Go! go!" And his face, though he strove hard to prevent it, expressed the aversion he felt. "Don't come here again; let me pray you, in God's name, keep away from the parsonage!"
               "You told me not to speak. Oh, no; sinners are not allowed in this man's house: 'tis holy ground; and he's a saint, a saint!"
               "When you come as a confessed sinner, Bertha——"
               "When I come as a confessed sinner, man," said the woman, in a low, suppressed voice, "your church will know the secret that stands between you and—respectability!" And, coughing out this parting sneer, the woman left the room.
               She had no sooner gone than the rector, rising, pushed his chair wildly from him, and began pacing the room with swift, uneasy strides, his white fingers moving restlessly, tapping his coat-sleeves, his arms being folded over his chest.
               "Respectability!" he muttered; "yes, that is Heaven's truth: between me and respectability!" Who is to blame for this man's weakness,—he, or his parents,—that he was born—sensitive?
               He went to the study-window. It was a glorious night. The stately moon rode in a chariot of wonderful clouds, whose drapery of stars fluttered as she moved. All Soul's glittered in every proud window from tower to steeple-top, in the white splendor of the heavens. How the man loved that beautiful pile! When he had first come there, a sordid little chapel, with doors and windows like a barn, with a wooden arm-chair for a pulpit, had offered the only accessible place for the preaching of the gospel. One by one he had seen the stones settle to the foundation of this glorious new house of worship, until his exertions were rewarded by the erection of this most beautiful edifice. Every day he went up to its silent altar, to offer up his prayers. Its study was a holy place. There he was lifted as by unseen angels, till his intercourse with Heaven was rapture.
               And now to have standing in his way—threatening, bringing back old recollections, whose cruel fangs yet lacerated him—that woman! To see among his audience the miserable child connected with whom were all these gloomy forebodings and fearful memories, was a torture for which he had not been prepared.
               He left the room, took his hat from the rack in the hall, and passed out into the cool, sweet evening.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE UNWELCOME RECOGNITION.
               TO add to his other perplexities, the rector of All Souls' was in love. Minerva Champlin's fine face had enthralled him. Her vivacity, her intellectual ability, her keen, fine powers of criticism, all seemed fitting qualities to inspire the heart of one who sought no common woman for his wife. How pleasant to sit in his study with her beside him, herself guiding the pen, and pausing occasionally to listen to some point upon which her judgment was solicited! How delightful to read approval in her sweet, steady, blue eyes; to know that in all the large congregation sat one who listened to his words with something more than the perfect appreciation of an ordinary hearer! In how many ways he had fancied her his adviser, his helper, his second self!
               And must all this happiness be foregone? Must he move beside her with a mask on his conscience, a scorpion eating into his heart, a mystery forever barring the honest confession he longed to make? He knew that she professed to dislike men. Well she might, ordinary men. He had not the least objection in the world to that, if only she could have faith and confidence in him.
               On that same evening, Kit Champlin had chosen to remain at home. Minerva and he were at present the only occupants of the large sitting-room. Mr. and Mrs. Champlin had gone out for a walk. As usual, Kit had stretched his graceful length along the lounge, and held an unlighted cigar between his lips, occasionally biting at the end.
               "I wish you would put that cigar away," said Minerva, a little petulantly.
               "I'd put it out to please you, Nerm, if it was lighted; but it isn't. You must not be so sensitive."
               "I hate cigars!" said Minerva.
               "And the men who smoke 'em, generally, eh, Nerm!"
               "Yes, I dislike machinery of all kinds."
               "Comparing us to machines!"
               "Yes, machines are oily, and nasty, and smoky. Men are oily in their usual talk to women, they have objectionable habits, and they smoke."
               "Very well put, my sweet sister. But about these objectionable habits: couldn't you name a few of them?"
               "You know what I mean very well, Kit. I wouldn't soil my lips with the mention. I wonder if God intended men to be so very different from women! We are expected to have good habits and to grow up pure and free from corrupting tendencies; while men——"
               "Were made for the especial purpose of being reclaimed and purified by such angels as yourself," added Kit, snatching the benefit of her pause, and lightly laughing.
               "You are beyond all purification, I fear, Kit. After twenty-three a man's morals are not susceptible to any reclaiming influences."
               "Unless he marries," said Kit, holding his cigar at arm's length, and making believe to puff smoke.
               "Heaven forbid!" cried his sister, indignantly. "It is sufficient for him to have ruined himelf." 
                     
                        "'But while the lamp holds out to burn,
                        The vilest sinner may return,'"
                     
                   repeated Kit, with a school-boy inflection of tone
               "I don't believe that," muttered his sister
               
               "Mr. Norman does," said Kit, maliciously. "Don't he preach it at such sinners as myself every Sunday?"
               "Yes, while you are playing billiards."
               "Billiards are highly moral," argued Kit. "By a skillful carom I learn how easy it is to kill two birds with one stone: time and ennui, for instance. When I balance my cue——"
               "Stop talking such nonsense!" said Minerva, in an impatient voice. "I will not hear it."
               "You won't even allow a fellow to discuss morals," responded Kit, pathetically. "I believe I will let you severely alone after this. I am going to improve my evenings by spending some of them at the house of Mr. John Dyas."
               "I'll put Kate on her guard, then."
               "You will, will you?" he exclaimed, suddenly rising, while the faint light from the dining-room showed the white passion in his face. "My charming sister, I think I have rendered it beyond your power to injure me in that direction."
               "How?" queried Minerva, in a surprised voice.
               "By having already met Miss Kate Dyas several times. By having already enlisted Miss Kate Dyas's heart in my favor; by having determined, spite of my learned counsel's, otherwise sister's, frequent objections, to go in and win. What does my learned counsel, otherwise sister, say to that?"
               "I say you will never marry that pure, good girl," she responded, tying a knot in her handkerchief, and pulling at the ends energetically.
               "And I say that I swear I will," he returned, "and that before the year is out. Have you any objection"—his manner suddenly changing, as he pulled a dainty little book from his pocket—"to take a bet on the result?"
               "Put up that horrid thing, Kit," said Minerva; "bringing your low, betting propensities in connection with a subject so sacred."
               "All right," he replied, lightly. "I was hoping to make a brilliant thing of it,—my next quarterly allowance against your publisher's first installment. I might have to wait a year or two longer than I cared."
               "Your allowance!" said Minerva, with a sneer that was not quite sisterly. "It's a pity you ever had an allowance. That's what has spoiled you."
               "Yes, but it's extremely pleasant for all that," responded Kit, in his usual tone, "as my fastidious tastes incline me to fancy little luxuries that can't be conveniently had without money."
               "Your fastidious tastes!"
               "Yes, my dear, the same fastidiousness that inclines me to partake of poached egg instead of boiled, and the wing of something, in place of your vulgar beef and mutton; that inclines me to prefer silver to plated ware, spotless linen, unlimited neckties, a coat in the fashion and trousers of Gautier's cut; a hat that costs seven dollars, and boots at Halstead's; gloves of genuine French extraction, and studs of plain, expensive diamonds; a carriage instead of a street-car, and so on indefinitely. To look the gentleman is the important thing, you know," he added, with a motion of the mouth as if he were busy at smoke again.
               "And to be the gentleman is not of any importance whatever, I suppose?"
               "I didn't say that; it makes one something of the real article to keep clean and wear fine linen. That's my philosophy!"
               "Clean inside and out," murmured his sister.
               
               "Oh, hang the odds!" he said, impatiently, springing, at sound of footsteps, to put up the gas.
               Some one stood in the doorway, while others seemed, by their voices, to be lingering at the porch.
               It was the rector of All Souls'.
               Kit welcomed him with his usual graceful, half-trifling manner, and placed a seat for him, not far from Minerva. He had read, with a penetration born of his own newly-awakened feelings, that the rector was fond of his sister, and with all his heart he wished him success. If Minerva could only forget her prejudices long enough to fall in love, he thought she might yet become a sensible girl. He sometimes regretted that he had so thoughtlessly placed himself before her in an unenviable light; but the force of habit had grown too strong for him.
               "You are losing the lovely evening," said the rector, addressing Minerva.
               "I had forgotten the moon," Minerva responded, suddenly rousing into activity; "and here I have kept out her beautiful beams with these odious shutters." Throwing them wide, the pale light divided with the gas, which was not bright, the honor of an illumination irradiating the girl's pure, straight features with a splendor that made them seem divine. The rector, himself etherealized by the soft, silvery rays, looked not unlike a becomingly-bearded saint of the Raphael school. The conversation turned upon church matters. Minerva was an enthusiast, and rather inclined to the highest round of the Episcopal ladder. She was for fine linen and embroidery, and often spoke her mind to the rector because, in the benediction, he did not turn his back square upon the people; as if the Lord had stationed Himself at one particular angle of his own house! They were discussing Sunday-school matters, when a little rustle, and talk, and mingled laughter preceded ceded the entrance of Mr. and Mrs. Champlin, Miss Kate and the parent Dyases, and a lighter figure that stopped short at the door, hat in hand, and then turned, bidden by somebody, into the dining-room.
               Kit instantly vacated his seat, and, with a shyness not usual with him, made welcome the party, which included his father and mother. They were all very merry. Kate, who had placed herself as far from Kit as she conveniently could, and as near her friend Minerva, seemed running over with geniality, while Kit was absolutely dumb.
               "We've been down to Mrs. Gillimaccuddy's," laughed Kate; "papa wanted to see Patcheen. And what do you think we heard?"
               "I'm sure I couldn't imagine," responded Minerva; "some of Mrs. Bride's bright sayings?"
               "Oh, no! we only hear of them through her husband," said Mr. Dyas, laughing.
               "No, nothing of the kind," said Kate. "You'll never believe it! Old Mr. Rickson has brought home a bride."
               "Old Mr. Rickson!"
               "Yes; you know, the parcel-man."
               "Oh, I know him very well," said Minerva; "there's no accounting for tastes."
               "Mrs. Bride told me about it," resumed Kate, "while mamma and papa talked with Patcheen. The bride is not yet sixteen, and Mrs. Gillimaccuddy says, as pretty and fresh as a brier rose."
               "Wonders will never cease," said Mrs. Champlin. "What a very absurd thing! what a very absurd thing!" she repeated, with annoyed emphasis.
               "There must be a story,—there must be something romantic about it," said Kate. And suddenly meeting the absorbed gaze of Kit Champlin, she turned hastily, feeling the color mounting to her cheek, and toyed with a richly-chased goblet, which chanced to be standing on the table, empty.
               "Kate dear, would you like some water?" asked Mrs. Champlin. And Kate in her momentary confusion said she would.
               The servant came in with one hand wrapped up, holding a small silver pitcher in the other. Somebody followed her, a slight girl with the eyes of forty in the face of fourteen. Sarah had a swelling on her finger, but could pour the water in the glasses on the silver waiter. There was but one more goblet left.
               Mr. Norman was addressing Minerva, and had moved a little away from the rest of the company.
               "Mr. Norman, there's water for you," said Minerva. And he turned full upon the girl, who stood holding the silver waiter, and, forgetful of all propriety, was staring at him curiously and yet with a glance of recognition in the face, her hands powerless to hide the ugly twitch in her lips.
               The instant his eyes met hers, a transformation, which Miss Champlin never forgot, took place in the rector's mobile features. He grew pale as death, his eyes glittered, the veins came out on his forehead. Twice he essayed to take the goblet, and when at last his almost nerveless fingers clutched it, he carried it shaking to his lips.
               That strange, inexplicable pantomime did more for the rector of All Souls' than months of patient waiting might have done.
               Minerva Champlin for the first time in her life was interested in this man.
               How to conquer the sudden weakness; how to appear composed as before; how to efface the recollection from those calm, observant eyes! These queries passed like lightning through the rector's brain as he put back the goblet, more discomposed than he had ever been in his life.
               "There's a mystery here," thought Minerva Champlin. And then she said aloud,—
               "You haven't seen papa's new purchase; there's one of the volumes on the stand at your elbow. Papa gives every one to understand that he bought them at a bargain."
               "Yes, you know, Mr. Norman, what such books are worth," chimed in Mr. Champlin.
               "Very splendid, very expensive!" murmured the rector, as he absently examined the binding.
               "They say you have a passion for superb books," continued Minerva.
               "Ah!" He looked at her with a look she could not understand; there seemed in it a dull, unspoken pain. "Yes, it is true; I have a passion." His eyes fell on the book again, and his ears heard the relation of the purchase; but his heart was aching, and his thoughts were full of anguish.
               How it happened nobody knows. Kate Dyas had been lured by some magnetic influence to the window looking upon the grand old lawn and its poky trees, as Minerva called them. And by the same subtle influence, perhaps, Kit Champlin stood near her. They talked in a low voice, of indifferent things,—indifferent to them,—the moon—the weather; the haze that circled that mild luminary threatening storm. Kit thought he should go fishing to-morrow, and did she like trout?
               Minerva all at once spied them together, and an angry flame spread over her face.
               That man, though her brother, should never carry off that sweet, pure girl, before her eyes.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               PLAYING HER CARDS RIGHT.
               "YES, miss, he picked her up at the crossings."
               "So you know her?"
               "Yes, miss; my aunt knew the woman what took care of her very well."
               "Who took care of her, Lizzie?"
               "Yes, miss, who took care of her," said Lizzie, mechanically. "Please, miss, I won't——"
               "You know I told you you need say nothing about it," said Kate, as the girl's hand went up to her mouth.
               The young lady and the little maid sat in the sewing-room which adjoined Kate's bedroom. They were quite alone, and, when they were alone, Kate could not resist a girlish inclination to talk.
               "Was she a very nice-looking person?"
               "So nice looking, miss," replied the other, with a twinkle in her old, odd-looking, bright orbs, "that all the gentlemen stopped to speak with her. I seen that Mr. Kit you was talking to last night, laughing and chaffing with her more than once."
               "Don't say chaffing, child," said Miss Kate Dyas, almost petulantly, feeling a blush in her very throat. "She must have been a bad-minded girl, very had indeed." And then she felt a sudden anger against Kit Champlin.
               "You see the boat-folks all goes that way, miss; they have to, to get the cars; but she wasn't bad-minded, for I've heard my aunt say so. She said she was the innocentest centest creature that she ever see; but all the same, the young men would be impudent to her."
               "What did the girl do?" queried Kate.
               "Swept the crossings, miss. And her feet was so pretty! I've seen her many a time."
               "Lizzie, I despair of making you talk as you ought to, unless you go through a regular apprenticeship," said Kate, heroically striving to put the careless Kit Champlin out of her thoughts. It was only a young man's thoughtlessness; he could do nothing really wicked with that noble, handsome face.
               "A which, miss?" was the girl's response.
               "An apprenticeship; just like putting you to school. I believe you know your letters."
               "And words of one syllable, miss," with a dash of her hand over the twist.
               "I shall give you lessons every day, at a certain hour. I want to see if there is anything in you."
               "And the pianny, miss?" queried the child, with a shrewd expression.
               "Well," responded Kate, taken aback, "I rather think we'll wait a few years first. I'm not much of a pianist myself; in fact, not quite through my own education."
               "Is it hard to learn, miss?"
               "For some it is; it depends upon the natural aptness or talent of the pupil."
               "Isn't that the minister, miss, coming up the path?"
               Kate looked out. It was the rector of All Souls'; coming, no doubt, to make his fortnightly call. "I hope mother won't send for me," said Kate to herself.
               "Do you like him, miss?" queried the girl, with that shrewd underlook in her eyes. Kate was a little amused at the creature's daring.
               
               "Yes, I like him, rather; he's a good preacher," replied Kate.
               "Has he got any wife?"
               "No, indeed. Why, what is your mind running on, child? Why do you ask if he has got a wife?"
               "Because, miss, most ministers has got wives, I suppose; and some of 'em children, our way." She cast another furtive glance, looked a little frightened, and pushed her seat away.
               "I'm afraid you ask too many questions," said Kate, industriously turning a hem, and still seeming to hear that item of news concerning Kit Champlin, that made her ears tingle the more she thought of it.
               "I should like to see him in his gownd," said Lizzie, after a little silence.
               "You will see him, next Sunday."
               "Will I sit with you?"
               "Why, of course,—the servants always do," said Kate, thinking to check her familiarity.
               "And is your pew pretty near up?"
               "You'll see when you get there," replied Kate, annoyed as somebody came with a summons from her mother.
               The moment she had gone, Lizzie hugged herself with an elfish movement.
               "I'm to play my cards right, and to become a lady, aunt says," she muttered, in great glee. "Now, it won't be playing my cards right if I tells her of the minister; but, oh, what'd she give to know! My mouth was in fits to do it,—but I mustn't. Aunt would kill me, she told me she would.
               "Oh," she broke out again, with a disagreeable laugh, "but I hope the pew is right under his pulpit! And won't I stare? I'll take his countenance all out of him, and onct in awhile I'll twitch. He knows that, and it hurts him, awfully. Didn't he look at me last night? My! but didn't he stare? I might have called him—oh!" And she chuckled in her hand. "What I might have called him! Wouldn't it made him ashamed? Wouldn't it made him fall down and die if I'd done it?"
               She threw aside her work and ran to the glass, pulling her shoulders, up, perking her hair, tossing her head from side to side.
               "I'm handsome, aunt says I'm handsome. I ought to be somebody; but, oh, dear, I've got to work so hard for it! Maybe by-and-by folks 'll take me for her sister, if I learn, and then I'll be miss somebody,—not that hateful name that isn't mine, and never was mine, and never will be mine,—perhaps hers, perhaps his. How can I tell? I'm only a child now, but I knows a good deal o' the ways of the world; as much as she does, maybe more. And if I plays my cards right,. I'll get new dresses now and then; not the old cast offs, though they're very nice, and beggars mustn't be choosers. But didn't he look at me? didn't his senses almost be taken out of him?" And she chuckled in her hand again.
               Her thoughts seemed to take a new direction.
               "I'll go down and see that girl some day, I will, as sure as I live,—and won't she be astonished? To think we should both of us come out here! To think that she should have a house of her own, and I as good,—if I only plays my cards right! Lord, what good times we will have talking about it!"
               Presently she was in Kate's seat at the window, her chin on her hands, as she took an outlook, for she was a veritable eye-servant.
               Meantime Kate had gone down to the parlor, had been graciously welcomed, and in a few moments found herself quite at home with the minister. After a little conversation, a touch of his on the keys of the superb piano elicited a request for music.
               "I am sure you play, Mr. Norman; for I have heard All Souls' organ when there was nobody but yourself inside."
               "And the blower," he responded, smiling.
               "Of course," said Kate.
               "Who happened to be young Mr. Champlin the last time," said the minister, quietly. And he might have wondered at the sudden red in Kate's face if he had been looking at her. "He had a fine taste for music. I was astonished with his rather intimate knowledge of the best masters, when I found that he did not play at all."
               Then he trifled a little with the keys, and after that suddenly broke into a rich chorale of Bach's, in which the sleeping soul of the music seemed to leap into life under his touch.
               "That is wonderful!" exclaimed Kate. "I can play the self-same thing; but I could never give it that expression. It sounds like another instrument. Doesn't it, mamma?"
               "I was about to give language to the same thought," said Mrs. Dyas. "Kate dear, turn to the third page after that. If Mr. Norman will be so good as to favor us."
               "I do not know it, madam."
               "But you——"
               "I am quite ashamed to say that I don't know one note from another."
               "Is is possible?" exclaimed both ladies, looking the astonishment into which his singular assertion had thrown them.
               "No, madam," he said, smiling towards Mrs. Dyas. "I have merely perfected myself in compositions that particularly pleased me: these I have learned by heart; and as to my execution, which you are good enough to praise, that, I think, is a matter of instinct. I don't remember the time when I could not play chorales and airs to enjoy by myself, but I am blind when you put the music before me."
               "It is very wonderful," Kate said again. Had he heard Miss Champlin play Beethoven's sonates?
               "Yes," with a curious expressions, and an unintentional discord, "he admired Miss Champlin's musical talents very much."
               "I shouldn't be a bit surprised, mamma, if Mr. Norman likes Miss Champlin," said Kate, who had been studying over the rector's expression after he had gone. "And here is Minerva herself. How curious!"
               Whether it was curious that the young lady herself should make her appearance so soon after the rector's leave, or that the rector should admire that lady in a peculiar and fervent way, was not explained by Miss Kate Dyas, who sprang up on the instant to meet her friend, whose purpose in calling was soon apparent.
               "I am working an altar-cloth for All Souls'," said Minerva, speaking very rapidly, "and I knew you were in receipt of some Berlin newspapers. I wonder if I could find a pattern to suit me in them?"
               The Berlin newspapers were procured. Mrs. Dyas also brought out some patterns of embroidery which a friend of hers had designed, and among these latter Miss Champlin found what she needed.
               "Did you meet Mr. Norman on your way here?" asked Kate.
               "No; has he called?" queried Minerva, looking up, frankly. "I was afraid he might grow to All Souls' study, particularly as there's to be a confirmation next week."
               "Do you know how splendidly he plays?" Kate asked, studying the composed face before her.
               "Oh, yes; he is a genius that way,—natural talent, you know; but I think it makes him appear odd and absorbed,—though he is always queer, I have thought."
               "I should suppose you might like him," Kate said, impulsively.
               "Why?" laughed Minerva, the faintest suspicion of color tinging her cheeks. "Of course I like him, as my spiritual director,—and—I find my gentlemen friends are good studies; that's about all the use I ever make of them. Even my brother and I fight a little at times. He has the prevailing opinion about women. Never talk to him upon that subject, my dear Kate; if you do you will get your feelings hurt."
               At this home-thrust Kate felt her heart sink. It was not unpremeditated. Miss Champlin had been thinking it over, honestly believing she was doing Kate a favor by putting her on her guard. She did not once suppose that her friend's feelings were really enlisted in favor of that gentleman, or she might have implied a more stringent reproof.
               "There's not one man in fifty, my dear Kate, fit for a decent woman to associate with," said Minerva, with quiet bitterness.
               "My dear, don't you put it too strongly?" asked Mrs. Dyas, feeling that in some way a corrective was needed.
               Minerva's eyes glistened.
               "On the supposition that I may have done so," she replied, with a short laugh, "I will add, for the sake of your good opinion, that all my heroes are nearly perfect men. If I can't find the virtues in those I am acquainted with here and there, I create them solely for the purpose that I may not lose faith in my kind. Now you know how bitter I am!"
               "Some good man may teach you to think differently in time," said Mrs. Dyas, very gently, and then stole an anxious glance at Kate, who had always before been ready to agree with her new friend. Now that young lady was turning over and over the bit of embroidery in her hands, and finding little knots to pull and little wrinkles to straighten out.
               "At least, you must have a reasonably good opinion of Mr. Norman," she said, biting at a thread without lifting her eyes.
               "Look how she persists in drawing me out about Mr. Norman," lauged Minerva; but the laugh was a little constrained, and the cheeks were more deeply flushed. She had been perplexing herself that very morning with reference to the strange indisposition or sudden emotion of that reverend gentleman the evening before at sight of Kate's new maid. Indeed, the matter was scarcely ever absent from her mind.
               "Mr. Norman is a clergyman, my dear Kate," she added, "and a clergyman's character should be above suspicion,—generally is. We will leave him out of the suspected list altogether after this."
               Kate rang the bell and dispatched Lizzie, who came obediently down, for her scissors.
               "That's a strange-looking child!" said Minerva, wrapping up her papers as she followed the girl with her eyes. "Where did you find her?"
               "I saw her selling oranges on the Swan once or twice, and took a fancy to her," Kate replied, indifferently.
               "What curious eyes she has!"
               
               "Are they curious?" queried Kate, unaccountably absent.
               "Since mamma has gone out," said Kate, as Mrs. Dyas excused herself and left the room, "I may tell you that I once had a sister who, if she had lived, and I don't know why I say that, for she may be living yet, would have been, or is, the age of this girl. Do you know I have always been haunted with the idea that in some way I might make good her place?—or not exactly that, but have some one about me as she would have been, naturally, I being the oldest sister. Of course I might have gone to an orphan asylum and chosen some superior little thing, and made as much of her as I might possibly of my own sister; but that didn't seem the thing to my Quixotic ideas, as mamma calls them. I fancied it would be better to give the place to some poor creature who had never known the kindness or the care of loving friends; so this girl's face rather pleased me, and, mamma consenting, I took her."
               "Do you mean to say that your sister was lost?"
               "Lost so completely that she was never heard from. All we know is that mamma found the nurse who had taken her out that day, in a hospital, quite delirious. Just as she was discovered she died. It nearly killed mamma, and to this day she never mentions the child's name. All her little clothes are up-stairs in drawers by themselves and mamma still takes the greatest pains with them."
               "What a romance! How long ago was it?"
               "I was five years old; it was fourteen years ago."
               "But this girl will never fill her place?"
               Kate gave a little cry.
               "Oh, no. Fill her place!—become like a sister to me!—oh, never, never!"
               Putting this and that together, wondering why her friend should have chosen this creature with the thoroughly selfish eyes, and why Mr. Norman should have shown such unmistakable signs of terror or remorse or guilt at sight of her, Miss Champlin rose to go.
               "You'll never hint of this when mamma is present?" said Kate, laying her hand on her friend's arm.
               "Oh, never; and I won't put it in a book, either, unless you find her."
               "We shall probably never do that," sighed Kate. "There is little doubt but that the child was drowned, the woman having been last seen in a wild state down by a certain wharf, wringing her hands and weeping. But I think mamma has always had a lingering hope."
               "Well, I must go my rounds to look after my Sunday scholars," said Minerva; "three of them are to be confirmed next Sunday. Do you know you ought to take a class?"
               "Ought I? queried Kate, in a passive voice.
               "Yes; begin with your curious child,—she needs Sunday instruction, and I'll get you plenty of pupils. Say you will."
               "I'll consult with mamma," said Kate.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               KATE'S LECTURE.
               "MY dear!" said Mrs. Dyas, who had resumed her seat when Kate returned from seeing her friend at the door; and everybody knows what that little scene is at the door, saying last words so often, calling out that one must not forget and the other must remember, and catching at some overlooked remonstrance as the threshold is past, and giving a last injunction on each of the three or three dozen steps of the paternal mansion, and finally calling at each other over the garden-palings and echoing faintly up the street and out of sight.
               "Well, mamma?" And Kate took up her embroidery, happily unconscious that her new treasure up-stairs had gone deep into the inspection of her laces and pocket-handkerchiefs, and intended to play her cards so as to come into inheritance of the same at some future time.
               "I think Miss Champlin must have some reason for disliking gentlemen, as she says, and we must believe, that she does," remarked Mrs. Dyas, never lifting her eyes from the work in her hand.
               "I suppose she has, mamma," responded Kate, plunging a small ivory dagger into the heart of an innocent-looking rose, and proceeding to work round it.
               "Her father has the reputation of an easy, extravagant man, but an exceptionally honorable one," said Mrs. Dyas, wondering how she should come to the point,—"so your father says."
               "I should think so; he is a very handsome man," said Kate, slipping a stitch and unthreading her needle.
               "They are both of them handsome, father and son; but, unfortunately, not both alike respected."
               Kate held her needle up to the light, frowning in her effort to find the eye. After awhile she remarked,—
               "Did father say that?" and felt herself tremble from head to foot.
               "Yes, my dear; he hears a good deal in the city."
               "A good deal that is false, perhaps." And Kate stopped short, feeling that her voice was not steady.
               "But I am afraid, and he is afraid, that this is true; and Miss Champlin's aversion to young men gives color to the supposition. She seems a girl of too good sense to condemn any one without sufficient grounds."
               "I should not call it good sense"—and now Kate's voice is steady, but there is heat in it—"to condemn everybody because I knew of the shortcomings of one, or even more."
               "Well, my dear, sisters have the best opportunities of judging. For instance, the brother has companions, tastes, books, manners, arguments that are thoroughly known at home. And I do not and cannot think well of a young man who lives upon his parents, and follows no useful occupation."
               Kate's face burned and her throat was dry. She felt a sudden uprising of indignation against her mother and against Miss Minerva Champlin; but wisely she held her tongue.
               "To be sure he has an allowance, but it is only a small one, sufficient to admit of his dressing fashionably, and perhaps expensively. But after that he does nothing."
               "You don't know what he may do, mamma," Kate felt herself compelled to say.
               
               "No, of course not; but at his age the character is generally formed, and your papa hints that his habits are not the best. It is whispered that he games and indulges in drink."
               "Mamma, I don't believe he can drink to excess and look so fair and clear," said Kate, forgetting herself. "I think papa ought to be very sure before he gives heed to such charges against a young man's character; and—I——" Her lip trembled: the angry tears would come. She turned abruptly away, and held the bits of embroidery to her eyes while she searched blindly for her handkerchief.
               A look of pain crossed the mother's face.
               "My dear, I am sorry if I have hurt your feelings," she said a moment after, as Kate, shamed and wounded, battled with her tears.
               "Not particularly my feelings, I don't know that you need to say that," she sobbed forth, a little defiantly.
               "Whose, then, my dear? His sister is not so very sensitive on his account."
               "Mamma, please don't say anything just now; I am nervous," whispered Kate, braving it out. "I don't like to—hear—any—anybody—talked about, and I do—don't exactly know why I feel so, either. I'm sure Mr. Champlin is nothing to me." And bravely uttering this little lie, which, nevertheless, at that particular moment, she tried to make herself believe was the exact truth, Kate flourished her handkerchief and tried to steady the wavering lines of her embroidery.
               Mrs. Dyas was silent; she was even considerate enough in a few moments to leave the room, whereupon Kate sprang up with a flushed face an stamped her foot. Having made this totally unfeminine movement, she clinched her hand; and her embroidery, with the needle cunningly imbedded in the stalk of a flower, being still held in the palm, a slight cry of pain ensued.
               "Oh, how dreadfully everything goes to-day!" ejaculated the excited girl, stanching the blood with her handkerchief; "and how miserably like a fool I have behaved! Oh, I could bite myself, beat myself, for such childishness! Always tears and whimpering, and I boast so much of my strength! What shall I do to make myself stronger? Men are not so weak; and I don't believe it of him, and I won't believe it of him. Minerva Champlin is hard, hard as marble; I begin to see through her. She hates men just because she can't be a man herself. She's strongminded; she's a—a—female, and I'll never believe in her again."
               Meanwhile the "female" was making her way to Pepper Point in search of her scholars, as well as to find possible materials for a sketch. For the borrowed money which Providence was to replace had not come back to her, and, hard as she was, Miss Champlin inherited the tastes which led to her brother's love of purple and fine linen, to look upon it in a Dives point of view, and she was intending to apply herself more energetically than ever, even to the extent of a blind headache and an oatmeal diet, in order to gratify those tastes.
               She had become accustomed to an atmosphere of repression. The family debts and the family expenses had always crushed down or crowded out the natural exuberance of her nature. Her mother's easy disposition had not helped her bear the burden; her father's peculiarities had often, and, indeed, always increased it. Kit's total obliviousness of his duty as a man and a worker had kept a sore spot, caused by her pride in and love of him, forever rankling in her heart. She had tried for years not to despise him; she had in various ways essayed to stimulate his ambition and hurt his self-love healthily, but she had not succeeded. He was a dead weight upon them, and she bitterly reflected that from her hardly-earned, seldom-filled purse his animal wants were sometimes supplied.
               In this way she was thinking, and pitying herself, when suddenly somebody said,—
               "Good-evening, Miss Champlin."
               "Why, Dan! is it you?" she exclaimed, as she stopped for a moment. "I hear you passed a fine examination."
               "Yes, madam,—I have a place as teacher in the academy now," he replied, a touch of pride illuminating his manly face.
               "That is good, Dan; but I hope you aspire to something even better."
               "Oh, yes, Miss Champlin; I intend to study law."
               "And I wish you every success," she said, heartily.
               "How bitter it makes the contrast!" she murmured, as the young man went on his way. "He, son of a poor carrier, so ambitious, so likely to get on in the world and make himself a name, while Kit——" Her lips trembled, but she was at the corner facing the river, and the dressmaker's little sign stared her in the face; a little gold-lettered-sign in a gilt frame, hanging against the cherry-colored panel.
               The dressmaker appeared at the summons, a brown little woman in a brown dress, very choky at the neck and baggy in the skirt, and adorned with a large black bow in place of brooch. She welcomed Miss Champlin cheerfully, and set a chair for her. The room seemed to have broken out into an eruption of color; even the forlorn melodeon, that gaped and showed its yellowish teeth, as if threatened with symptoms of the ague, had got itself curiously entangled with a lot of blue stuff, and the sofa wore a cheerful shroud of white.
               "Why, how busy you must be!" said Miss Champlin, looking round.
               "That busy that my thimble-finger aches to the joint, Miss Champlin, and my needle-finger is black and blue." She held up her hands as she spoke, two meagre, hard-working hands, and then fell almost savagely upon a great pile of bright-stopped calico, into which she drove the needle with such energy that Miss Champlin felt a sort of relief that it was no material of her providing.
               "It all means so much money," said Minerva, smiling.
               "Or I wouldn't do it, miss. When you come to think of the seams and the ruffles and the biases and the cordings and the hemmings and the darts and the puffs and the button-holes, a dressmaker don't get so very well paid, after all; but," as she thrust back a lock of gray hair with her steel, thimble, "it's better than nothing. These things, miss, all these things is for the bride." And she swept round the room with a motion of her queer little head.
               "What bride?"
               "Third from the corner," with another jerk of the head, "You must a' heard of it. Mr. Rickson's bride,—carrier."
               "Oh, the parcel-man. Yes, I heard of it. Wasn't it rather odd, his marrying at his time of life?"
               "Odd!" responded the woman, solemnly, suspending her work; "it's entirely out o' the course of human events. I told him so, but he only laughed. Why, she's a child. Never mind, it brings me work. "And she made dreadful thrusts at the unoffending calico.
               "Mr. Rickson is rather well off, isn't he?"
               "Rather!" exclaimed the woman, with a one-sided glance. "Why, he's no end of rich. He owns his house; he's got money in the city bank; he's making money all the time, and he's got a childless uncle,—an uncle in stocks, I think it is,—who's been making money every since he could talk; he rolls in it,—money! Mr. Rickson will get all he has, too, when he dies; and a shame to him," she broke out, a moment after,—"a shame to him for his treatment of Miss Rose, who lies in her bed sick along of it, this day."
               Miss Champlin felt that the little brown dressmaker was growing too confidential, and must be checked.
               "And how is Tommy getting on?" she asked.
               "He suits," was the reply. The dressmaker felt aggrieved at being cut short, and replied accordingly.
               "He will be ready for his confirmation, I hope."
               "Two shirts, Miss Champlin, which I've struggled through with, and the old clothes brushed up. I did hope to get a new coat, but his wages isn't due for a week, and that wouldn't be time."
               "No matter about the coat," said Miss Champlin, "Tommy will appear very well in the old one; they will look at his face, not at his clothes, and a nicer round face boy never had."
               The little dressmaker was mollified. Tommy was her nephew, and as dear to her as a son. So, as Miss Champlin left her door, she was all smiles, promising she would bring Tommy herself.
               Miss Champlin made a little detour, and walked down the river-bank for a few moments.
               Far down the blue, shining stream she saw the busy boats plying, with gayly-dressed fishermen on board. Not far from her the ribs of a sunken boat bared their rotting ugliness to the sun.
               "It was once a bright and goodly boat," said Minerva, to herself, "and just so come lives are wrecked. I wonder if mine will be?" She shuddered. The rector's face camp up before her, wearing that look of deadly terror, and sent a pang to her heart.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               LITTLE MRS. RICKSON RECEIVES A CALL.
               MINERVA had not been gone long before the dressmaker's solitude was brightened again.
               "Anything ready for me to try on?" queried a cheerful voice, and in came Bessy Rickson, very trimly dressed with a blue ribbon round her waist.
               "Oh, yes, plenty, Mrs. Rickson," said the dressmaker.
               "I wonder if it is absolutely necessary now that everybody should call me Mrs. Rickson?" said Bessy, brightly, as she put both small hands on the keys of the melodeon, and marveled that they did not answer to her touch.
               "Why, no, not necessary, only with strangers, except you wish it," said the dressmaker; "and you play with your feet on the treadle, my dear; leastways that brings the wind up. Now, which will you try on,—this chocolate or the blue?"
               "Oh, the blue! the blue! I've got a lovely new bonnet to wear with it; father brought it home last night. Father will keep bringing home things, and I'm to wear 'em to church next Sunday, which, you know, I didn't go to last Sunday on account of the rain." And she came forward, holding out her arms submissively towards the dressmaker to be tried on to, as she said.
               
               The sweet, childish face, and the clear, musical voice seemed to create sudden sunshine in the brown little woman's heart, as well as her domicile, which was kept rather shady for fear of injuring the various fabrics under her care. She looked with a certain admiration in her hard-working eyes, and forgot that her thimble-finger ached.
               "I take notice that you always call him 'father.' Why do you call him father when he's your, husband, child?"
               "Because he wants me to; because he asked me to when he first brought me home; because he says I am a daughter as well as a wife. I don't know, you know, or care; it's all the same to me."
               "There! do you like that?"
               The little dressmaker turned her round to the glass, where she could see the trim little figure down to the feet.
               "Indeed, I do like that; how much you must know, to fit so well! I used to wish I could make dresses when I was in the other life, you see. There was a dressmaker, not like you, but tall and very ugly; but, oh! she had such pretty patterns in the window, all pinned on to large paper dolls; and I never, never got tired of looking at 'em. Do you know, never having had one, I'd like Mr. Rickson to 'bring me a doll! but I'm so grown I'd be ashamed to ask him."
               The dressmaker looked curiously at her, and smiled.
               "What would you do with a doll?" she asked.
               "Wash it, and dress it, and trot it, and do as people generally do with such things. You should make the dresses, and I'd pay you well for it, too; or else you might show me how, you know."
               "Oh, yes; I'd be very willing to show you how, and maybe I shall have the chance," said the little dressmaker, with a smile.
               "Thank you, you are very good; everybody is very good to me," said Bessy, continuing to try on, till all the skeleton waists and skirts had been pinned into shape. "And now I think I'll go into Mrs. Gillimaccuddy's," said the little woman, throwing back her beautiful sunny curls.
               "I can't make it out," muttered the dressmaker, as Bessy and the sunshine vanished. "I cannot make it out." And, shaking her head, she proceeded to inflict additional stains upon her needle-finger.
               "All the time in soap-suds, Mrs. Gillimaccuddy!" cried Bessy, her hand on the latch, as she descried Mrs. Bride and her inverted sugar-bowl belaboring the foam.
               "Ah, honey, it's healthy business it is," said the hearty Irishwoman, catching up a heavy oaken stick and giving twenty vicious thrusts at the mouth of the boiler, swelling to the rim with inflated sheets and dropsical pillowcases. "Don't mind me, if I've got my washing-clothes on. As Patcheen says, one niver looks so well in his night-cap as he does in his wig, but a dress for arl occasions says I."
               "I wish I could wash," said Bessy, almost dolefully. "I wish he would let me wash."
               "Och, an' ye'd plot agin yer best friend. Sure an' haven't I did washing for the Ricksons since my mimory sarves me? Git out wid ye."
               "But I have so little to do."
               "Attind to your readin' an' cipherin,' then."
               "Oh, Mrs. Gillimaccuddy, that's all settled now. May I bring this little old stool here right close up?"
               "An' may I splatter ye wid the suds?" merrily responded Mrs. Bride, shaking some snow-white foam on the girl's shining head. "Ye darlint that ye are, sit where ye plazes."
               "You see it's all settled," said Bessy, crossing her arms, and leaning in a quaint manner upon her knees. "I'm to learn everything,—everything!"
               "Ye don't say!"
               "Yes. Mr. Dan 'll do it. We're to give up every evening. Oh, won't it be hard work?"
               "For which, dear?" asked Mrs. Bride, almost pausing, and giving the girl a keen look.
               "For which? Why, for me, Mrs. Bride. Not that it mayn't be tiresome for him, but he don't seem to think so. He seems very willing."
               "And a stick or a stone if he wasn"t, shure," muttered Mrs. Bride beneath her breath, and with a perplexed countenance.
               "You see, I didn"t think I should like him. Wasn't it queer? I said so to him,—to father. I thought it would be so snug and cosy with me and him,—father,—and I was almost ready to cry when I found there was a grown son taller than his father. What would he be to me? I thought. Surely not my son. Why, I couldn"t reach his shoulders with my hands stretched up ever so. But never mind. He didn't come in to breakfast next morning, but stole out; and I saw him, and then I felt mean as if I'd taken his place like, and sent him away from his own proper home. That made me sorry, ever so, and I begged his father to ask him not to go out that way, and so he asked. That's how it came about, and now we're all so used to each other that I don't think of it at all. It just seems natural to have him about."
               "Does it, indeed?"
               "And such a scholar as he is, too! Oh, he reads so beautifully about Indians and men going to foreign parts! and I never should get sleepy. Ah, such a different, different life from that other!"
               She hid her face in her hands for a moment, and sighed.
               "Wasn't it hard, a bit, leaving the widdy?" asked Mrs. Bride, losing her face in the steam, as she put the artful question.
               "What widdy?"
               "Your mother, child, there in the city."
               "Oh, bless your heart, I never had a mother!" said Bessy, innocently.
               "You mean that you don't remember her," said Mrs. Bride, her body rising and falling with the inflection of her voice, as she vigorously knuckled the washboard.
               "Mother! don't call it of that creature!" shuddered Bessy. "She was going to do something dreadful to me, I don't Know what it was,—sell me, perhaps, to a frightful, monstrous-looking man. Mr. Rickson overheard it, and he pitied me; for he'd ever looked kindly on me, and given me many a penny at the crossing, and never chucked me under the chin, as that horrid other one did, till I was like to fall with fright; and once I put my broom in his face,—yes, I did,—and a policemen took me, but he pulled me away from the policemen, and, oh, how he hurt!" She rubbed her arm, as if it smarted yet. "That was the last of his wickedness, though; for Mr. Rickson, who had always been so kind to me that I blessed the sound of his cane on the crossing, he came to me; and he made me understand that some harm was meant to me; and then he said that he had a little home, and owned it cleat, and he could take me out of the danger if I would be married to him; but that I should only be a child to him then, and do just as I pleased.
               "Ah, wasn't I too glad! He made me drop my broom, and go a piece behind him, and then he took me inside a carriage,—me, with my bare feet and all,—and carried me to a house, where I was dressed all clean, and then to a nice brown church, where a minister married us out of a book. Wasn't he a kind, dear, blessed old father?"
               "Sure, wasn't he that same always?" ejaculated Mrs. Bride, with tears in her eyes.
               "I'm quite at home with him now," said Bessy, naïvely.
               "And with his son?"
               "Of course, why shouldn't I be? I call him Dan, and he calls me Bessy."
               "Sure it's but proper he should give you your title, Mrs. Rickson," said Mrs. Bride, the perplexed look in her face again.
               "Oh, dear, no, I couldn't bear any one to call me that," said Bessy, shaking her head. "Besides, father settled it: I'm to be Bessy, if I like, to everybody."
               "You don't look like one that's been used to the streets of the city," said the Irishwoman, lifting a huge piece of washed goods in curves and circles, preparatory to wringing it.
               "I should hope not," said Bessy, changing her attitude, and putting both hands under her chin. "But I don't know as the dreary old light-house was much better."
               "The light-house! Lord love us, what does the child mean now?" asked Mrs. Bride, stopping short, and gazing at the lovely eyes looking up into her own.
               Suddenly a shrill voice was heard.
               "Bessy! I say, Bessy! I want to see you!"
               Bessy sprang to her feet, and ran out into the little front garden.
               The girl with premature eyes stood looking over the paling.
               "How do you do?" she asked, holding her gloved hand over.
               "You here?" queried Bessy, with a half-frightened look. "What did you come for?"
               "Come to see you. Don't you worry: I ain't married to anybody; couldn't find and old man to pick me up. Come, make haste, and I'll tell you all about it. I want to see your house. Is this it? or that one? Why don't you hurry?"
               For Bessy was slowly lessening the space between the door and the fence. Her instincts revolted against this girl, whom she had never liked. She opened the gate, and took a key from her pocket.
               "You ain't glad to see me, are you? I don't mind. Say, are you glad to see me?"
               "Not particular glad," said Bessy, applying the key to the keyhole.
               "What nice dresses you've got, haven't you? You must show 'em all to me. Miss Kate Dyas shows me hers. Ain't this a jolly house? Do you live here all by yourself? Miss Dyas says they call 'em pepper-boxes. So this is your pepper-box. Do you like it?"
               "Yes, I like it," said Bessy, slowly, as she looked with dismay upon the precocious eyes peering into everything, taking covers off of boxes and poking among baskets.
               "Miss Dyas and me was walking together, and she picked up somebody, you see," Lizzie went on, not discontinuing to make great use of her eyes, though she had ensconced herself into the hair-cloth rocking-chair and thrown her linen parasol on the floor. "She picked up that Champlin man,—him with the goldish hair and whiskers; and so when I asked her if I might go on a little by myself, she was mighty willin'. You don't remember that goldish-haired one, I suppose, that used to chaff you at the crossings?"
               
               "I don't want to remember anything about the crossings," said Bessy, petulantly.
               "I s'pose not. We are grown proud now, with our own pepperpot house and our own husband. I'm living at Miss Dyas's, and she is going to educate me. Come, please tell me what you do?"
               "I do—everything," said Bessy, seeing there was no help for it; "wash dishes."
               "And make beds?"
               "Yes."
               "And scour up?"
               "Sometimes."
               "And make bread, do you?"
               "No—father—I mean I'm going to learn to make bread."
               "Does he come home from the city every day?"
               "Why, of course he does."
               "And do you"—the elfish eyes looked round again—"do you wash all the clothes?"
               "No, I don't; I don't wash any," replied Bessy, heartily tired of her new visitor.
               "It's to be hoped you'll play your cards right," pursued the girl, with a wise look.
               "I don't play cards," responded Bessy, crossly.
               "Then what do you do when you want any fun?"
               "I don't want any fun."
               "Goodness gracious! catch me to be like that if I get a house, and I mean to have one one of these days; but not a pepperpot house, like this. I mean my house shall be exactly like Eagle Terrace; that's what we call where I live now. It won't be a carrier I'll marry, neither; and I would have a piano."
               "I don't think you're polite," said Bessy, keeping back the tears.
               "What's the use of being polite, us two? Lord! when I think of you with that great long broom-handle, and your feet all spattered with the mud, and that woman a-flying at you if you didn't bring home the money, and them follows chaffing, and you flaming up at 'em, I can't help laughing. I didn't mind 'em, if they only bought my oranges they might say what they pleased; but, then, I ain't one o' your sort. I am playing my cards better then ever you did. I put for rich people and big houses. But I must go and find Miss Kate; she's been talking long enough with that goldy-haired Champlin. It won't do to leave young ladies too long by theirselves, especially when you're playing your cards as you ought to. Well, good-by," she added, shaking her parasol; "are you going to ask me to come again?"
               "No, I believe I'd rather you wouldn't," said the practical Bessy.
               "Just as you please, Mrs. Rickson," smirked Lizzie, with a mock curtsy, shaking her parasol after every sentence, "and I shan't ask you to come and see us. I don't know as Miss Kate would a' let me here at all, if she'd knowed it; she's very particular what company I keep." And off she went with another little flourish, while poor Bessy, whose heart had been swelling with indignation and wounded pride, shutting the door upon the outer world, flung herself down in her own little chair, and wept bitterly.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               KIT CHAMPLIN AND HIS EXPECTATIONS.
               AS Lizzie said, she had left her mistress with the "goldish-haired" Mr. Champlin. Kate had gone for a walk, Lizzie accompanying her as a sort of dumb companion; for the girl knew at such times she was not to speak unless she was spoken to.
               Perhaps Kit had taken the first vital step to the reformation of an aimless life, when he began to find that he seriously loved beautiful Kate Dyas. It was the birthday of his better purposes, whether he knew it or not. He began to hedge and ditch his mental property, and to see that it might be turned to better account than growing here and there a stalk with a gaudy, scentless flower, with the intervening spaces filled in by weeds. Her pure, clear eyes shamed his shallow thought. It had been a favorite idea of his that love was moonshine,—very nice for an occasional illumination, but as evanescent and impalpable. It frightened him a little when he found a rapid motion under the left side of his waistcoat invariably followed the mention of her name; when her presence seemed to stand between him and the light or ignoble sentiment he would utter. Nature, however, had settled the matter for him; speculation or resistance were alike powerless. The flutter of the folds of her white dress in the distance, the strange intuitive knowledge of her presence, before he saw her, when she was near, the sound of her voice imparting a rapture that he could not define; these were indications sufficient to show him where he stood. Was it dangerous ground? He neither knew nor cared now. He was conscious that the presence of certain individuals was becoming odious to him; that sometimes he could have knocked down the retailer of a scandalous joke; that he began to appreciate his sister's efforts, and to wish he had not been so ready in admitting as truths what were in reality libels upon his real feelings and character. And still habit, or the force of that subtle tyrant, continually asserted itself. He carried his betting-book, used slang words without being conscious of it, and did not break at once with some of his fellows who were known secretly to be notorious for general bad character.
               Kate's little trouble had made her eyes dewy and her cheeks brighter. As she walked along the grassy path, turning in to the by-streets along the river, she meditated, not in a spirit meek and mild, but restless and a little defiant. The strange, unreasoning love had got the better of her; indeed it was so wild and resistless that at times it frightened her. Suppose he loved her, and her parents forbade the suit, would she be desperate enough to fly with him? to leave home and its luxuries, that fondest mother and most doting father that child ever had? to brave poverty, and obloquy, and all sorts of trouble for the sake of one who, till within a few months, had been a stranger to her? Or, if she dared not do this, for Kate was good, honest girl, and tried truly to honor her father and her mother, would she in case there were a convent (a Protestant convent, she preferred), seek its quiet retreat, and there under a shapeless head-gear, administer charity to the sad and afflicted, and cling to the solitude of such a life?
               She had just lifted her poky bonnet from the sick-bed of a poor, dying penitent, encountering unexpectedly the eyes of him as she glanced towards the dim window of the squalid hovel; when, walking with her glance fixed upon the puny grasses struggling up from the sandy soil, she saw suddenly a tall shadow darkening the path.
               Woman-like, she divined who it was in less than a moment. Her gray eyes sparkled, but otherwise she was cool and calm, and quite indifferent to the rich "goldish" whiskers, and the wonderful eyes so brown and clear.
               A nod, a smile, and they were strolling side by side.
               "Please, miss," said Lizzie, who played her cards cunningly even there, "somebody I know lives round the corner,—the sweeper, miss. May I go and see her?"
               "Yes, you may go," said Kate, after a little seeming hesitation.
               "Pray is it a chimney-sweep?" asked Kit, swinging out his gold-headed cane.
               "Oh, no;" and here Kate was her quiet, critical self again. She had not forgotten that occasion upon which Lizzie had used a slang word, which at the time had hurt her. "I presume," she continued, watching his face, admiring its pure Greek outline, "it is the new wife of old Mr. Rickson. She was formerly a crossing-sweeper. Perhaps on your way from the boat in town, you may have seen her."
               He had the grace to look a little conscious, to bite his lips, and pull once or twice at the "goldish" whiskers. Perhaps his cheeks reddened a little, but Kate could not tell that. Her heart beat faster, and her manner cooled sensibly. In a vague way she had the feeling of having been trifled with.
               "I have seen her. Oh, yes, often; and my patent-leathers have been under obligation to her broom more than once."
               "Pretty, wasn't she?"
               "Yes, undoubtedly; yes, very pretty, and had the manners of one above her station. I used to wonder how she became reduced to such a pitiful occupation. I remember once when one,—a fellow I knew by sight,—was rude to her, I felt like knocking him down. I despise a man who insults or fights with his inferior."
               "Do you, really?" queried Kate, in a tumult of gratitude, for she remembered what her mother had said of him.
               "Do I? really?" The glory of his brown eyes fell full upon her; his face, bright with a luminous wonder, looked as grand as Achilles, or Jupiter, or any of the godlike ancients you may chance to recall. "I wonder what you meant by that curious inflection?"
               "I—I—thought—all men," blundered Kate, making little dents in the sand with the point of her parasol.
               "Perhaps you think, with my sister Minerva, who has peculiarly cheerful views of human nature, that all men are villains, and knock down and drag out without any regard to the proprieties."
               "Oh, no. Don't, pray don't think that," it was in Kate's heart to say, but she was a little willful, and not inclined to be thought too yielding, so she said instead, "Not quite so bad as that, Mr. Champlin. There are exceptions."
               "Thank you," he replied, rather stiffly, "that is a concession, to be sure."
               They walked on a little while in silence.
               "You were not in the city to-day," said Kate, catching hold of the first subject that offered.
               "Oh, yes; I was in the city. I came out in the train that stops at Devon, and rode the rest of the way with my friend Mr. Hilbert. Have you ever met Mr. Hilbert?"
               
               "I never have," responded Kate.
               "Splendid fellow! and—and one of the exceptions," he said, pointedly, laughing as he spoke. "Rich and honest," he added, a moment after. "I don't think there's a fault in him. He don't even smoke."
               "That's not such a dreadful thing," said Kate, and then she would have given much if she had not said it, for Kit looked at her perfectly beaming.
               "Then you don't object to smoking. Well, that's consolatory. I do get so rowed up river by Nerm. Not but what she has a right to object; but what is life without cigars?"
               "I didn't say I did not object to it, if you remember, only that it was not such a dreadful thing. There are worse habits, of course."
               "Yes, of course," responded Kit, who felt his smoky support as it were cut from under him. "Perhaps, like my sister, you are a thorough-going reformer, and object to wine."
               "Through a very sad thing happening in our family years ago," said Kate, "my father has never allowed wine to be kept in the house. I suppose, Mr. Champlin, that I lost a sister through the concealed intemperance of her nurse. And really I don't know the taste of wine."
               "You don't?"
               "No; and I'm rather glad I don't. Perhaps through a little pride of liking to be singular."
               "Cigars and wine!" thought Kit, moodily, as they walked on. "Twin gods, how can I give you up? Oh, it's quite out of the question. Sweet Kate, farewell; farewell, my dream of love!"
               This was very easy to say, gazing far down the solemn depths of the sky, where sky and river seemed to meet and mingle; but looking into the exquisite face beside him a moment after, a rush of something so powerful jarred every living string of his heart, that he felt himself growing pale and weak. Consequently the next thing he said was not remarkable for coherency.
               "That's a curious sun of the reflection, I mean reflection of the sun, on the river; a—by Jove! I forget what I was going to say,—liken it to a something or other——"
               "Gold, perhaps," laughed Kate, "little gold dollars bobbing about. I believe, whatever approaches yellow, whether curls, or clouds, or water, it is the proper thing to liken it to gold. What a dearth there would be in half the novels written, if that suggestive word were blotted from the language!"
               "That's so," said Kit, growing sensible, "and by the way, I forgot to tell you the Cambria has signaled; she is expected in to-morrow morning."
               "Oh, Mr. Champlin," cried Kate, eagerly, "I thank you! Then she is safe; then all the dear ones are safe."
               "If you will pardon the presumption, may I ask, how many dear ones have you?" he said, and his glance sent the blood to her cheek, and her eyes to the ground, as he slowly added, "in the Cambria?"
               "Well, I don't know as my brother-in-law is so very dear," she said, covering her confusion with a laugh, "but my sister certainly is, and I believe that Mr. Gould is very nice."
               "One of the wealthiest men on Change," murmured Kit, dubiously, feeling at that moment how helplessly poor he was.
               "They will come out here, of course."
               "For a time, yes; but papa is engaged in fitting up a house for them in New York."
               "Fifth Avenue, I suppose," said Kit, still sotto voce.
               
               
               "Yes, Fifth Avenue, a beautiful house, though quite, quite too splendid for my taste," added Kate, a little eagerly, her ears tingling as she said it.
               "That would suit Nerm," said Kit, "she has no idea of love in a cottage. Neither am I sure that it would correspond with my own views," he added, frankly. "My tastes repel the idea and associations of poverty; but I fear I shall never be rich, or—or famous—or—anything."
               "Oh, Mr. Champlin!" said Kate, earnestly, touched by the wistfulness in his voice.
               "What a beautiful spire! that of All Souls'," he said, a moment after, his voice changing, as he pointed from where they stood to the graceful structure that just dimpled a cloud. "I have heard that Mr. Norman remodeled the plans of the architect. If I remember rightly, the spire was not high enough for him, and he fought, architecturally, till he gained his point."
               "Have you heard him preach?" asked Kate.
               "Occasionally," said Kit, looking down, uneasily.
               "Oh, Mr. Champlin, I think you never go to church; you ought to go to church," said Kate, earnestly.
               "Do you go?" he asked.
               "I think it very wrong, Mr. Champlin, not to go to church," she said, decidedly, energy in her soft voice, energy in every motion of her graceful form.
               He drew nearer; his voice sank almost to a whisper, as he said, looking down into her sweet face,—
               "Whatever you think of other things, Miss Dyas, try to think the best of me. I beg and implore you always to try and think the best of me. They may say—but no matter," a touch of pride straightening his fine form, "I am not half good for anything, I suppose; maybe I am spoiling, I don't know." He looked far and wistfully down the river, and Kate, more moved than she had ever been in her life before, followed his gaze. What did he mean by saying that maybe he was spoiling? Oh, if he was in any danger, any moral danger, be it hers to strengthen and uphold him, to be his good angel and ward off temptation! What could she do? What might that half-distrustful, half-hopeful appeal imply? Possibly there might be some truth in the dreadful rumors her father had heard; perhaps he had become hopelessly entangled in the wiles of some artful adventurer. She did not exactly think it out in this way, but all the same she thought it, and hardly knew what to answer.
               "Of course I shall hope well of you, Mr. Champlin. I—I am very fond of your sister."
               A smile, quickly repressed, broke over his lips, succeeded by a sad expression that was not as readily banished.
               "I'll fight for him," thought Kate, drawing a long breath. "Why should he talk in this way to me? He has never told me—but I know, I know!"
               She knew that she loved him; she knew also that he loved her. There had been no need of words. He knew that he loved her, loved her so much that the love made his present life seem hopelessly mean; but he did not know—for Kate was modest and good, and not given to the modern style of gushing—that she loved him. Interested she possibly might be, and he only longed for something better, hoped for it, determined to earn it, if he must.
               "Please, miss, I'm back," said a small voice.
               "And I must go to the landing," spoke Kit, as if the Swan had been the theme of their conversation for the past hour. "Good-evening, Miss Dyas; I hope your dear friends on board the Cambria may soon be with you."
               
               "You will call sometime—with your sister?" she said hesitating a little as she gave him her hand.
               "With your gracious permission."
               "He needn't have been quite so lofty," thought Kate, her eye following his retreating figure, conscious that he was carrying some part of her individuality in that easy, graceful walk of his.
               "And now what shall I tell mamma? I didn't come out to meet him,—I didn't expect to meet him."
               She turned uneasily. Those old ubiquitous eyes said in their glance as plainly as if the words had been written there,—
               "I know all about it; I know more than ever you think; I know more about some things, I guess, than you do." And still the girl played her imaginary cards, hopeful of turning up trumps and hearts and diamonds. Oh, yes, they would bring her diamonds at the last, she was sure.
               "Well, did you see your friend, Lizzie?"
               "Yes'm; she lives ever so."
               "And what do you mean by 'ever so'?" queried Kate, a little sharply.
               "I mean she's got a little pepper-pot for a house, and it's chock full of furniture,—the chockest full I ever saw for such a little place!"
               "Lizzie, I must begin your lessons to-morrow," said Kate, quite hopeless of her charge.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               ALL SOULS'.
               THE beautiful church of All Souls', sir, madam, erected, as you see by these quaint old figures let into the marble entablature over the door, in the year 1868. This gray granite is much more pleasing to the eye than the uniformity of shining white marble, and is in harmony with the matchless view beyond the bridge in the distance, magnificently spanned; the winding river, sloping banks, far reaching, stately forests, and the grand hills bounding the horizon to the west.
               All Souls' is terraced. Here and there little dots of children, living flowers in blue and crimson and white, make the terraces like gardens.
               There is a sweet hush about the place. It is only broken by bird-twittering, the sigh of the low-breathing trees, the little, laughing, humming talk of the children, the occasional appearance of a carriage that turns a winding road to the sheds.
               Within, the sabbath stillness is entrancing. In pale, gilt letters on one side of the chancel the dimmest eyes may read the Ten Commandments; on the other, the Creed.
               The bishop is coming to-day, and the church of All Souls' will be full, perhaps crowded.
               In one seat not far from the door, but in the central aisle, sits Dan Rickson. His brown hair falls, half-curling, over a brow boldly prominent; his eyes are restless, and turn often to the door.
               
               The sexton brings in a small seat and places it at one end of the Dyas pew, one of the widest and longest in the house, containing, in all, ten sittings. There are three servants; and Mr. Dyas makes it a rule of conscience that they shall all appear at church, and in the Lord's sight, before whom all are equal, occupy seats as good as his own.
               Near that, and a little forward of it, the rich, mellow stains of the illuminated chancel-window wind their way from the beautifully carved pulpit, from the great Bible, and the broad, white silk ribbon-mark brightened with a golden fringe, and lie upon the back, and over the gilt bindings of the prayer-books of the Champlin pew. All the way up the broad aisle the softly cushioned and lined seats speak in damask voices the wealth and respectability of the Bogwood church-goers.
               Quietly they come in by twos and threes, and silks or satins, or humblest serge, down they all kneel upon the bench before them, and it is to be hoped pray with devout hearts.
               The Dyas pew is just comfortably filled, as the strains of the great organ float out; and the rector of All Souls', grave and beautiful as a picture of some bearded saint, comes from the little door to the right, followed by a small man, whose flowing white hair glistens down to the gathered plaits of his lawn-robe, and whose face is full of a fine, pathetic sweetness that makes one long to hear him called father.
               After that, after the choristers have intoned the universal prayer, in which a whole world's wants are wondrously embodied, the people may be pardoned for quietly looking around them. They steal one glance at lovely, somewhat haughty Alice Gould, whose lace shawl, fine as the down on the wing of a butterfly, must have cost at the least a hundred pounds. And Alice has altered. Whereas she was once like the lily, fair and fragrant, she looks now the regal rose. Her husband, an eminently aristocratic, thin-faced, voluminous-whiskered gentleman, looking indifferent to all the pleasures of this world, or the promises of the next, is quite as closely scanned. Millionaire is written on his spare, yellowish cheek, in his thin, narrow lips, on his spectrally white forehead, and glistens in every pale hair of his round, compact, gentlemanly-looking head.
               Everbody had said when they were married that "Dyas prospered in everything, by George!" He had done well with his daughter, as he had done with all things else.
               Kate sat next her mother, and just as the first "amen" sounded, came Kit Champlin to his long unused seat. Kate triumphed at this with a heart that beat almost audibly, and tears in her beautiful eyes. Never before had she seen him at church.
               "It is because I asked him,—it is because I said what I did. Oh, what a face he has!—the handsomest face in the house. Handsomer than Alvord Gould's hansomer even than Mr. Norman's. Oh, my Claude, my Claude! you must be as good as you are handsome. You must be, you must be,—for one stain would mar your beauty to me, though it never changed my love. My heart might break, but it would go right on loving you."
               Dan Rickson at last saw what his eyes had evidently wandered for. Little Bessy, pure as a virgin rose, modest and bashful and self-distrustful, never raising her violet-like eyes, came in with the old man, her husband; and Dan, sitting as close as he could to the end of the slip, seemed to crowd farther away, as if she were an imperial little ladyship, and needed twice the room that would suffice for ordinary people. There seemed to shine or slide a sudden vivid light over his fine face as they entered,—the old man and the young girl. How eagerly he caught the old leather-bound prayer-book! and how his hands trembled as they found the place! and how pale he was when, as he offered the book to his father, the old man silently declined to spell out the words with his worn eyes, motioning that he should divide the book with Bessy!—eager to hide the fact that the sweet soul could no more read those staring characters than she could read Greek.
               There was a shrinking in Bessy's face as Dan offered the book, till he said, "I think father would like you to." And then she turned to the old man, who said, "Yes, yes," with a quick smile. So she snuggled up to Dan, and held the book as he turned the pages and read, with his deep, sonorous tones.
               "Was he not a brother to be proud of?" thought Bessy, as the music of his voice sank into her heart. "So learned, so tall, so noble-looking! What wonderful things had been done for her! She, the castaway in poverty's slums; she for whom so long nobody had cared, to be standing here in this grand arched interior, with light and beauty and wealth all around her; she, once standing at the filthy crossings, dressed now like a little princess, with a real ostrich feather in her hat, and delicate French gloves on her hands! Oh, to whom ought she to be thankful?" And as she lifted her eyes to the far chancel, and saw standing there, in the calm and brightness of the day, God's ambassador, the tears, like so many round white pearls, brimmed to her eyes and dropped heavily to the floor. She gave one pathetic glance at Dan, one great, thankful sigh, wiped her eyes with her dainty little handkerchief, and fortunately stained her gloves. To that trifling circumstance she owed her sudden self-possession.
               Minerva Champlin was so taken aback—I believe that is as expressive a phrase as I can use—at the sight of her brother, that for a moment she could not move and give him his place next the counselor, his father. She had been watching her pastor,—nor did that interfere, I opine, with the genuineness of her devotional feelings. She had always looked at him before, with a certain sort of pride in her partnership in him, as being one of his flock. The church of All Souls' had hitherto been the crown and glory of her life. Every stone in its sacred walls was dear to her. But to-day she looked at the rector with changed eyes. He was not now the angel of the covenant, the exalted, faultless man of God he had seemed before. Had she not seen the signs of sin—yes, she went so far now as to call it sin—upon his sacred face,—the coward white, the conscious red, the trembling and the shrinking of lip and hand? And did any one observe beside herself, she wondered, the quick side turn of his face, and catching of his breath, as he happened to look in the direction of that strange child, who devoured him with her eyes? And did any one beside herself notice with what extreme abasement of manner he repeated the closing of the sentence of the Litany, "God be merciful to us, miserable sinners"?
               Many and many a time she chided herself for studying the pastor instead of the book, but, as if fascinated, she found herself going over again and again the same old ground. What could he possibly have done,—he, with that heavenly face, as pure of imperfection, as separate from grossness, as if he had never known a human desire, never felt a human pang? The more she thought, the more confused her thoughts grew. Always, always she saw in his countenance that horror, that dumb terror, that visible shrinking, that no ordinary recollection could cause.
               And with all this, thinking that there might have been one black spot, perhaps not of guilt, in his life,—she hoped, not of guilt,—one secret thing that none knew of save his Maker,—she began to pity him and grow tender towards him. Often he had told her that a sister's love had never blessed him, that he had never known a mother's kiss, for she died when he was born, that he felt himself almost alone in the world; and she knew now how he must yearn for sympathy; and then she roused herself to the realization of her wickedness, thinking these things in the house of the Most High. It would never become her, after that, to lecture Kit; and then she fell to wondering just as irreverently as before, why he had come, and what power had sent him. Was it what she had said to him on that memorable evening?
               At that moment, Lizzie, wearied with her self-imposed task of watching the minister, turned round and looked at her.
               Great Heaven! what revealing was there in that one glance, so swift! so almost unconscious! Her heart throbbed and sank; she covered her face with her hand, not even daring to look at the clergyman again, her whole soul sick almost to death. No, it could not be, and yet it was! She felt sure,—she felt as certain as if she had seen the minister's pew, if he had happened to be married, occupied by his own little ones. Softly to herself she cried out, as one in pain, "Oh, how can I believe it? How can I believe it? And yet I do, I do! God help me! what can I think of Mr. Norman? what can I think of him? What can I do? what shall I do? what does God want me to do?"
               The bishop preached. Fortunately Mr. Norman was hidden, all but the white length of his gown as it folded over his knees; so that soon Miss Champlin was calm again,—calm all but that flush on her usually pale cheek, and the nervous movement of her gloved hands now and then. So she sat all through the service, which was rather long, and went from the church feeling burdened and old.
               "What wretched singing!" said Mrs. Alice Gould. "Cathedral service has spoiled me for All Souls'. There, the boys sing like angels. Patti herself could not excel them."
               "Lizzie!" said Kate, severely, disappointed at not getting a glance from Kit Champlin, "you really must break yourself of that odious habit with your mouth. I think, if I were your sister, I should be tempted to box your ears. I never was so nervous in my life as I was this morning, all through your horrible mouthing. What is it?"
               "Please, miss," said Lizzie, who felt just then as if she had played too strong a card, possibly, "I won't never, never do it again;" and up went her hand. "I—wish—I—may—be—struck——"
               "Hush, Lizzie! there's no need of your saying anything more. If you can't help it, you can't; but I believe you can."
               "Yes, miss, I'll try," said the submissive child.
               "Wasn't it beautiful?" cried the half-entranced Bessy. "I didn't think there might be such beautiful things in the world. Oh, Dan, what a sweet, sweet face that old bishop had! and what a sweet, sweet face the minister had! and how many lovely ladies, and noble men there were there! and, oh, I never saw anything like it!"
               "We will have you baptized some day, and then con firmed, my dear," said the old man, smiling serenely upon her. "We won't have no pretty little heathen that might make in place of her a pretty little Christian, will we, Dan? She must get on with her learning, she must, and we'll teach her the Catechism and the Commands, and then we'll have her, in a white frock, up to the railing, for the bishop to put his hands on to. We ought to do it by next confirmation, hadn't we, Dan? Yes, I think we really must do it by next confirmation."
               "What! me go up there before all the people?" said Bessy, shrinkingly. "Oh, no, I—I couldn't, unless—Dan'll go with me,—Dan or you, father."
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               MRS. CHAMPLIN SUGGESTS A PARTY.
               THE summer had passed, the autumn declined.
               In all the streets of Bogwood the snow laid evenly. All Souls' was a beautiful white picture, without flaw or blemish, or any such thing, from terrace to steeple. There was a keen wind stirring, which took occasional liberties with erratic drifts that had lodged on small promontories in out-of-the-way places.
               Champlin Place looked very picturesque with its pointed cones of pine-trees. Standing sideways to the road, as it did, it had only caught the snow in spots, and its fine brown shadows and deep dark windows seemed to set it apart as one of those realistic bits of painting which we meet with sometimes by Flemish masters.
               Kit Champlin was still as deep in love as ever, and nearly as undecided.
               "Only let me know my fate," he said to himself now and then, "and I shall see my way clear."
               Minerva was busy writing a long novel, and almost too much absorbed in her work to visit at all. Consequently, though Kit often threw himself in her way, he could not seem to take advantage of the opportunity, she was so preoccupied. Something had changed her. At times her moods were capricious; she would never allow any one to call her nervous, but the houehold laid it to the score of her exhausting labors.
               Even the rector of All Souls' saw a decided change in her manner,—a change that, added to his other troubles, was hard to bear. All her engaging frankness of demeanor towards him was gone. Even in her pew, as one of the congregation, she seemed totally altered. Her handsome face grew haggard; in her eyes were questions that received no answer, doubts that were always baffled.
               Part of this was due to her washwoman—this way:
               Mrs. Gillimaccuddy brought her a bit of folded paper one day.
               "Ye see I know what's in it, miss, but I couldn't screw up my courage to go to the rector, I bein' a Roman. As Patcheen says, if there's a bit o' sin on the conscience, out wid it; and that peaper seemed a sin to concale, though I'm sure I don't know why; nither can I tell why I seemed to want to bring it to yerself, partickler."
               "Have you mentioned this to any one?" asked Minerva, very pale, but quite composed.
               "Not at all, miss; but finding it in the dirt down by the river, I naterally thought it 'ud be of small consequence—till I saw his name."
               "You had better keep it a secret, dear Mrs. Gillimacuddy cuddy; it seems to be merely a matter of business, and I will attend to it."
               "Sure it's safe wid me, for Patcheen hasn't seen it at all, at all, though he's minding of my havin' found such a bit o' paper."
               "Thank you, Mrs. Gillimaccuddy," and the woman was gone.
               Minerva sat for some time at her writing-desk, the paper in her hand. It had stopped proceedings for that day, this unexpected visitation; she had no heart to write now; she could only sit and think till her soul was sick.
               The paper had been lying long in the sand before Mrs. Bride found it in one of the expeditions for water, down by the river.
               It ran thus:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I promise to pay to Miss Bertha Brown five dollars monthly, in addition to the sum paid for the past thirteen years for the support of a child thrown upon my charity.
                           
                              "VICTOR NORMAN.
                              "BOGWOOD, ——, 18—."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               With burning eyes, Miss Champlin perused and reperused this paper, murmuring, "Bertha Brown!—a certain child. What is my duty with regard to this document? Can it be that now—when I know—when I know how weak I am, I must be chosen to prove his—baseness—his weakness—his crime? What shall I do?"
               The only thing clear to her sense of right, at present, was to lock the paper away in a secret drawer, take counsel with no one, and go about her duties with a ghost at her elbow; to attend service just as scrupulously as before, to follow the leadings of Providence, and to avoid the Rev. Mr. Norman as much as possible. She little knew how bitterly the minister had suffered, having been apprised of the loss of the paper which he had given to Miss Bertha on the night of her interview with him, or what would have been his feelings if he had dreamed in whose possession it now was.
               The Bogwood church-people were deep in consultation as to the ways and means by which they might raise their rector's salary. If, indeed, he spent all his money in costly books or among the poor, it was clearly their duty to provide him with broadcloth becoming the dignity of his position. The salary must be raised from three to five thousand dollars.
               Minerva listened and sighed, turned red and pale by turns, but put down a modest sum on her card, while the ghost at her elbow muttered, "Do you think he ought to have it at all? What does he do with his money?"
               "It's confounded dull, here," said Kit, one day, after a long smoke. "Nerm is all the time at her pen, and cross as two sticks when she isn't. I vow, I wish I was in a situation to marry."
               "I wonder at you, Kit," said his mother, busy with two long knitting-needles, whose points were in such a constant fever of irritation that Kit felt it would be a relief if they could only put out something.
               "Wonder at me? What for?" he answered, stalking to the window, and looking upon the white landscape.
               "That you do not take advantage of your opportunities."
               "What opportunities?" He turned short upon her. "You are always talking of my opportunities; as if I ever had any."
               "You know you have," said his mother, calmly; "but to speak out plainly, Miss Kate Dyas likes you."
               "Likes me!" he muttered, with a sarcastic inflection of the voice.
               
               "Loves you, then; does that sound any better?"
               "I don't know that," he said, ungraciously.
               "I do, then."
               "For Heaven's sake, how? She can't have told you?"
               "If she had I should never want her to be my son's wife."
               "Your son fully appreciates the compliment, as he is a pattern of all the virtues, and a great catch in the way of vulgar dollars and cents. He more than appreciates it."
               "Don't be sarcastic, Kit. It is your and your sister's greatest fault."
               "I should say that in my sister's present state of mind she was not equal to sarcasm or anything else."
               "Your sister is very busy."
               "Pshaw! these book-writing women!" sneered Kit.
               "At all events," said Mrs. Champlin, plucking up spirit enough to defend the absent, "she earns her best clothes, and I'm ashamed to say how often I have borrowed from her."
               Kit winced, and was silent.
               "I've thought of something," said Mrs. Champlin, after a pause. "We need a series of parties out here, and as nobody else seems to have public spirit enough to inaugurate them I will. You'll have a good chance then to speak to Kate; and take my word for it, you can win her."
               "Haven't the slightest faith. Her father——"
               "Having already married one daughter to money, will not feel so particular about the other. Anyway, his girls can do as they please with him: he wouldn't cross them for worlds. If you're not very much in love with her, you can't help seeing what an excellent wife she will make, and bring you money."
               "If I'm not very much in love with her," muttered Kit to himself, "may I be hanged. Do you suppose I'd live on my wife's fortune?" he asked, aloud.
               "If you are lucky enough to get her, I don't know why you shouldn't. You give her name and position, she gives you money."
               "I giver her name and position!" laughed Kit, scornfully. "Why, the name of John Dyas is good for uncounted thousands, and Mrs. Dyas comes from Irish kings, I'm told. I'm willing enough to marry Kate Dyas, but not while I am the miserable, shiftless dog I am. No, no. If she does love me, I'll try and win her honestly, and then I'll have something to work for."
               "What kind of work, Kit?"
               "Never mind. But about the party, it's going to be a deuce of an expense."
               "Of course; but we've done it before, and got through somehow."
               "I admire your faith, mother. Somehow is your providence, isn't it?"
               "Never mind about that," said Mrs. Champlain, uneasily. "Set yourself at work, and make out a list. We'll have it on New Year's night, because Kate said her sister would spend that part of the holidays here, and I want her."
               Kit drew an elegant writing-stand up, and tore a leaf from his betting-book. That was the way he had made up his mind to abolish that small institution, by installments, and half its golden-edged leaves were gone.
               "Of course the Bankheads, and of course all the other deadheads," he muttered. "The Shipleys, with their fools of daughters: there's money, now." He drew himself back. "I might have either of those girls."
               "Mercy on me, Kit, wait till I have gone, before you bring anything like that into the family!" exclaimed his mother.
               "The Kirks," continued Kit, counting on his fingers; "the Dikemans, with their great heiress; she'll be here about that time, and they say she's such a guy! Professionals, of course,—two or three of my fellows. Don't look black, the best of 'em, I mean; I've cut the rest. Mr. Norman—there! there's the set of them,—our set; a round robin of wealth and respectability. Stop! mustn't leave out Hilbert. Do you know he's mightily taken with Kate Dyas? Now, he is something worth while for a husband,—all the virtues, and a tremendous sum at his banker's. Do you suppose pa Dyas wouldn't prefer him to me?"
               "Don't, for pity's sake, Kit! Kate's to be suited, not her father."
               "Well, anyhow, there's the list," said Kit, almost crossly, for it occurred to him that on one or two occasions of late Mr. John Dyas had treated him coldly,—almost with marked aversion. "And now may I suggest that you won't bore me, mother, with what it costs? I've nothing to do with that, you know,—overdrawn my allowance."
               "If you will only take advantage of your opportunity, my dear boy, I don't care what it costs." And weak Mrs. Champlin kissed him on the forehead as she took the list.
               Minerva was indignant when she heard of the projected movement, but by that time matters were too far gone. It did no good to gather up bills and throw them into her mother's lap. Mrs. Champlin had taken advantage of her opportunity, and had kept her wiser daughter completely in the dark.
               "I shall hire a set of pearls and a lace train," said Mrs. Champlin, when asked what she would wear.
               "I'd die before I'd do that!" said Minerva, angrily. "I'll wear my brown walking-dress, without an inch of trimming."
               "Just as you please, my dear," said sagacious Mrs. Champlin. She had heard such threats before.
               Minerva went directly to her wardrobe, and looked it over. The splendid dress she had meant to buy was still on its old shelf in the closet of one of her castles in Spain. Her silks had all done duty for years.
               "As I've got to come to it, I might as well not look like a dowdy," muttered Minerva, laying aside a soft Swiss muslin for further consideration. "And he will be here," she added, with a keen pang, and a sudden consciousness of the ghost at her elbow. "I must see him, and talk with him, and know all about it, and be utterly powerless to help myself. Oh, I wish I had never, never met him!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               OLD MAN RICKSON'S WEDDING-PARTY.
               THERE was no parade over Daddy Rickson's wedding-party. He had promised it for months.
               "For you see, deary, we'd no weddin'-cake when we were married," he said, as Bessy stood looking at the monstrous package on their kitchen table; at another great bundle, from which issued so spicy a flavor that she verily believed he had bought Bogwood grocers entirely out of lemons; at other goodly packages of expanded dimensions, containing sugar, and nuts, and "candies various," and toothsome cakes and pies.
               
               "You'll never need it all," said Bessy.
               "Sha'n't we? Well, then, we'll see we will. I've give the invitations by word o' mouth, and they'll all be here; and I give my son Dan strict orders to bring any young ladies as he likes best, in the 'cademy there."
               Bessy suddenly grew grave, and rolled a lemon under her little palm.
               "I leave it to him. Didn't I, Dan?"
               Dan was standing by the shelf, in constant danger of getting his hair pulled by the sundry nails that did duty during the day.
               "Yes, sir, you did," said Dan; "but as I am not sufficiently acquainted with the young ladies there to take that liberty, I shall have to decline your kindness."
               "Hear that for the speech of a schollard!" said the old man, with a proud wave of the hand. "Bessy dear, how far are you on with your reading?"
               "Words of—all kinds off syllables," murmured Bessy.
               "Hear that! what she is capable of mastering!" cried the old man, admiringly. "And whereabouts might you be in 'rithmetic, my dear?"
               "Past multiplication," was the reply.
               "Well, it's a satisfaction as tingles down to my fingers' ends," said the old man, stroking his silvery whiskers, "that she's got through that fur, safe. But there's mountains o' knowledge to climb yet, my little girl; and I shall see ye going there, by-an'-by, till maybe ye'll be clean out o' my sight."
               There was a touch of pathos in his voice. Bessy looked up, but as suddenly looked down again.
               "I suppose the girls of the academy learn a great deal faster than me?" said Bessy.
               "Not a bit of it," Dan responded, quickly. "They don't learn so fast."
               "In course not. They've other teachers that don't have the quickness of Dan. Besides which, you're a whole school in one, and Dan has you all to himself."
               Dan ducked his head suddenly. It was caught by one of the brown curls on the longest and jaggedest nail there.
               "Bother the nails!" he muttered, rubbing the place, and moving away.
               "Dan, bring the carving-knife," said his father, with a sanguinary look. Dan brought it.
               "Now, little lady, it's your cake, and in honor of you and me, but mostly you; as, if you wasn't here, there wouldn't be even half a weddin'-cake. Try your small hand at cutting of it."
               Bessy, childishly pleased, cut away at the beautiful white crust; then stopped in dismay. The point of her knife had divided it into a geographical chart of the land of Nowhere.
               "I never saw anything crack so," she said, half petulantly.
               "Try agen, little un," said the beaming carrier.
               She did try again, and the result was a dozen more geographical boundaries of the land of Nowhere.
               "It's ruined!" she said, looking sorrowful; "and it was so elegantly smooth! It makes me nervous. I'm afraid to touch it again."
               "It ain't a bit like our happy life, is it?" queried the old man, coming nearer to the table. "Nothing can cut that up and crack it into all sorts o' hard lines, can it, deary?"
               "No, father?" she said, a lingering shadow of sadness still in her voice; "I hope not."
               "And ye think ye can't cut it, deary.?"
               "I know I can't."
               
               "Then, Dan, you try your hand: she gives it up," said his father, a little disappointed.
               Dan approached the wedding-cake with reluctance, and Bessy made room for him by marching round the table and stationing herself by the old man's side. He, on his part, put an arm about her and looked in her face, smiling.
               Under the young man's firm touch, the rich mass separated in smooth, unctuous slices of black and brown.
               "There! there's a sight for you!" said the carrier, as three or four plates, full and heaped, were conveyed to the closet. "Dan, I hope you'll cut your own weddin'-cake before many years roll over your head, my son."
               Dan said nothing, but plunged at a paper parcel with such vehemence that the lemons went rolling all over the floor, and that restored all parties to their normal condition. Down they went on their hands and knees, and even pelted each other with the lemons, Dan being the target with Bessy and the old man, and when they scrambled up they were all tired out with laughing.
               "Now," said Bessy, looking up at the clock, "I must go and dress myself."
               "And what color will we make ourself look pretty in to-night?" asked the old man, gayly.
               "I'm going to have a white dress, with blue ribbons," said Bessy, giving his whiskers a tweak.
               "Which white and blue is the prettiest mixter all the world over," was the old man's response. "Not to say that our little girl wouldn't look well in any color, equally, except black; which wouldn't be a nice color for her, if color it is, would it, Dan?"
               Dan looked up with a pallid face, and horror in his eyes.
               "That's a nice question to ask," said Bessy, turning sober; "I couldn't wear black, unless—unless——"
               "Unless your old father died, deary," said the carrier, with a curiously tender smile.
               "But we're not going to let you die, are we, Dan? and I think it's very wrong to be talking of black, and dying, just when we're going to have a wedding-party." And she looked on the point of bursting into tears.
               "There, there, deary, tweak my whiskers; give 'em an owdacious tweak, for he's a bad old father; a mean, miserable old fellow; and he's penitent of his sin, and ain't agoing to do so any more. Come, Dan, stir alive, boy; we must look out for the feelins of that little one; she's a most tender, most affectionate, most innocent little one. There's the nuts to be put in dishes, and there's the raisins to be stirred in along of 'em, and there's the wariety cakes to go on to platters after shakin', and there's knives and spoons and forks to be got out."
               Dan was squeezing the lemons upon sugar in the great stone-pitcher when Bessy came down (for the girl never lingered at her toilet), bewitchingly beautiful in her new white dress, and ribbons just the color of her eyes.
               "Where's father?" she asked, not looking at him, but pulling at the ribbon on her neck.
               "Gone after a table-cloth," said Dan, intent on the lemons.
               She ran out of the room with a little laugh, and presently the two returned together, the heavy, white, damask table-cloth between them.
               It was an heir-loom, that table-cloth, the only memento left of his dead mother and her blighted fortunes.
               "Dan, you must get on to a chair, or something," she said, bustling along.
               So Dan betook himself and pitcher to the dressers, while the old man and the child-woman spread out the cloth, and then stood admiring it.
               
               Presently the table was beautified. The four great platters full of wedding-cake were ranged along the centre. A pile of plates at each end,—knives, forks, and spoons laid at regular intervals; nuts, raisins, and cakes; shining tumblers, snowy napkins; and after all seemed finished, Dan brought out from somewhere a little bunch of sweet, hot-house flowers, and placed them, his fragrant offering, near the wedding-cake.
               "Oh, Dan, ain't they beautiful? Oh, father, see the sweet flowers!" said the little woman, with sudden emotion. "How kind you all are! how kind everybody is! I never dreamed of flowers."
               Dan's dark face grew radiant. He had bought the flowers at a hot-house in the city, and given a high price for them, but he would have given thrice their value for such hearty thanks and sweet smiles.
               By-and-by the gas was lighted. Bessy gave a final shake to the cushions of the old arm-chairs, a final brush with the feather-duster to everything that was capable of receiving that useless commodity, then ran out again to take a peep at the table, where Dan was reading a newspaper, and outside in the little shed she could hear the old father blacking his boots; finally she stole back again to look from the window to see if anybody was coming.
               Yes, Mr. Patcheen Gillimaccuddy and Mrs. Bride Gillimaccuddy, in great state, arm-in-arm, coming up the little walk. Bessy went laughing to open the door. Patcheen's shock of hair stood upright over his ears, which latter were of the broadest dimensions possible to human nature. As he entered he squinted hopelessly with one eye, and laboriously seating himself in the corner, nearly overturned a table filled with china-toys and antiquated gift-books.
               "Now, Patcheen, remember you're company," said Mrs. Bride, impressively, "and stop drawing up your nose short. Shure, then, Mrs. Rickson," she added, briskly, "many happy returns o' the day, and Patcheen says the same, I am sartin."
               "Which of course," responded Patcheen, seeming to lift his ears in the effort.
               "As Patcheen says," pursued Mrs. Bride, who possibly saw the need of some moral reflection, "it's better to be buried than born;" and she shook the sugar-bowl with increasing solemnity.
               "Married, Mrs. Bride; I'll take me oath it was married; ye oughtn't to bring a subject onywise connected wid digging intil a weddin' feast."
               "True for ye, Patcheen; but it's an onaccountable feelin' that just stole over me; an' I hope you'll forgive me, my dear,—an' truth for ye, I never saw ye looking illiganter. But there's the door, sure."
               The next comer was the dressmaker, in a bright brown silk, perked all over with little bows and black buttons, and looking thoroughly pleased with herself, which is the secret of considerable happiness in this world. The dressmaker engineered her way to an opposite corner from the Gillimaccuddys, and sat down in a very beaming state of countenance. "One don't have a slice of wedding-cake every night," her smile seemed to say, "and after a wearing day's work there's nothing so refreshing as a little feast."
               Then came Miss Rose, not quite forgetting her disappointment at being overlooked by the lame widower, yet eyeing the room and the furniture in a posture of dejection, as one saying to herself, "All this should have been mine; but as it isn't mine, I'll content myself with fretting because it isn't."
               In due time arrived the rest of the company, till all the pepper-boxes to right and to left had emptied themselves into this particular pepper-box, and they made a tight fit. There were two or three young lads who could not by any possibility get their fingers out of sight, either through the agency of mouth or pocket, so they sat helplessly staring at them. Mr. Rickson, after making one or two journeys through the room in search of a collar, a wrist band, and a necktie, finally settled down in their midst, like a perturbed house-fly, and buzzed a little to those around him. Mr. Dan still sat coolly in the kitchen, reading his paper, or rattling it.
               "Come, Dan, let us have something brisk!" cried his father. "Give us some news before we go into supper."
               "Which shall I read, deaths or marriages?" asked Dan. "One's as cheerful as the other to me."
               The laugh occasioned by this question had hardly ceased when Dan came in among them, and the talking grew general and cheerful. Mrs. Gillimaccuddy was in full feather, relating to Miss Rose the numerous weddings she had attended, varied now and then by the description of a wake, which last was singularly more suggestive and comical than the other subject; and the little dressmaker, having obtained Bessy's ear, gave her an idea of an order she had once the good fortune to receive, in which there were forty yards of real lace, and something less than a mile of ruffling and cording, and other "fixins."
               The lads, whose painful prominence of knuckle was a too fixed fact, got their hands playfully mixed, endeavoring to pull each other's handkerchiefs from their respective pockets, and laughter and harmony reigned.
               "Good folks, I guess we'll adjourn to the supper-table," said Mr. Rickson presently, starting to his feet, and pulling at his white whiskers as he looked about him. "That is, I don't know that it can be called a supper where there's no cold ham or tongue, or that sort, but we'll give you a rousing cup o' coffee, or tea, or a glass of lemonade, or ginger-pop, and as much weddin'-cake as you feel called to eat. Dan, you go out with Bessy first."
               Dan offered his arm, but Bessy could not have seen it, for she stumbled over somebody's foot, and then, both eyes and hands down, they marched out together.
               "Oh, lovely!"
               "Sure an' did I iver see the like?" queried Patcheen, whose eyes generally went ahead of his appetite.
               "Shure an' he's forgot the widding o' Mrs. Tim O'Coole, where they had a table the linth o' this room" said Mrs. Bride.
               "Which we could have done by knocking out the sides of the houses," said Dan, laughing, as Mr. Rickson poured the coffee into cups which Bessy had already furnished with milk and sugar.
               "An' here's to the bride," said Patcheen: "may she live till she dies, which in the coorse o' nature won't be till there's a needcessity av it. You're health, Mrs. Rickson, ma'am, an' your health, Mr. Rickson, sir. Betther to enter the kingdom o' heaven wid two wives than to go in a state o' single wretchedness."
               "Patcheen, man! what do yes be sayin'?" exclaimed his wife, severity in every lineament of her honest face.
               "Af coorse, me dear, I didn't mane to go in wid 'em togedther. Isn't there a long interval betwane?"
               "But ye shouldn't mention one wid the other. It's foolish ye are intirely."
               Patcheen wilted down into his shirt collar, which was sufficiently large for the purpose.
               "I'm sure I wish 'em joy," murmured Miss Rose, lifting her glass of lemonade, though it was plainly to be seen that she considered that, instead of giving the sentiment ment, she ought to be receiving it rather than that ridiculously young and inexperienced girl. "It ought to ha' been she and that young man," she whispered aside to the dressmaker, nodding towards Dan.
               "Well, one would think so, seeing him look at her. What nice cake! you don't suppose she made it? See him offering things to her. There! there! look! look! Much like brother and sister they are! I really pity that old man, he's so blind."
               That old man was enjoying himself, however, passing the cake, cracking the nuts, pouring the coffee, filling the glasses. It was he who laughed loudest at the jokes, beaming on everybody with a happy face; it was he who applauded the songs; it was he who made the final speech.
               "I'm sure, good friends and neighbors, I thank you for this happy time. Ain't we having a happy time?"
               "That we are," was the response.
               "Of course we are; and it's pleasant to hear ye say so. We've thought of this little feast a long time,—ever since our happy marriage, when in a brown dress and no cake I was give the treasure yonder; and a treasure she is, friends and neighbors, as ever a husband and father in a general way found under circumstances as don't need naming." Here Dan frowned fearfully, and ahemmed as if a piece of the cake had stopped in its passage down. "However, friends and neighbors, we won't say anything of that. We will only say we've got her; and though we be no gentry, or yet grand folks, yet I dare to say we are having jest as good a time as the Champlins, which give a party this day week, and have engaged me to put 'em through. Ahem! friends and neighbors, here's to the prosperity of Pepper Point, and them as lives therein, and do business on the great waters, which means the Swan, along o' goin' in her day by day."
               There was a great stamping and cheering at this speech; and after all were fed, the table was cleared off, and a few rough games succeeded, in which the two knuckly lads forgot that knuckles existed, except for the purpose of belaboring each other.
               As may be supposed, Dan's dignity suffered during this eventful evening. He had at first made up his mind to stay away, but Bessy had begged him not, and how could he? These friends and neighbors were not congenial to him, accustomed as he had been to them in his boyhood: they never would be; and as he bade them a gloomy good-night, after the kitchen clock had struck twelve, he smote his forehead with a very grand and tragic air, groaning within himself, prig that he was.
               The company, unlike the aristocratic gatherings that had taken place in other and more splendid portions of the town, had washed the dishes, and placed the remains of the feast—save what they pocketed—in the neat little cupboard, so there was no miserable confusion of dirty fragments and a soiled cloth to greet Bessy's eyes the next morning.
               "It don't agree with Dan to frolic," said his father, anxiously, at the breakfast-table.
               "I've a bad headache," said Dan; "not from frolicking, because I didn't frolic. I've taken cold, I suppose."
               "See now, Bessy," said the old man, merrily, "the fellow is getting too proud for us. I knew he wanted his sweetheart here last night," he added, turning to Bessy, "but he thought we weren't fit company for her."
               "Pshaw!" said Dan, as Bessy acquiesced with a nod and a light laugh.
               
               "He must have a sweetheart among all those pretty girls, mustn't he, my dear?"
               "Of course he must," said Bessy, her voice faltering a little; "and if he marries her, though we are so humble, he must come and see us sometimes, mustn't he, father?"
               Dan laughed,—if he had been a woman, I should have said hysterically,—got up from the table without answering, went out into the hall, and from the house.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               IN SEARCH OF A LIVERY.
               SCARCELY a day passed in which Kate did not hear evil tidings regarding young Champlin; and strangely enough, the oftener she listened to words of disparagement concerning him, the more decided stand did that unreasoning part of her—the heart—take in his favor.
               To be sure, he had no fixed pursuits yet, but he would have before long, for he had hinted as much; and as for his being mercenary in his attentions towards her, it was never, never for a moment to be thought of. He loved her for herself; of that she was so entirely certain that she could have staked her life upon it.
               Eagle Cliff Terrace was very gay just now, for Mrs. Gould had come out to Bogwood to spend the holidays, and had brought a young party by the name of Chester Gould, just three months and two weeks old, two servants, and a nurse.
               Kate was wild about the young party, as all girl-aunts are over babies, especially pretty ones, and Master Chester combined the aristocratic lineaments on the paternal side with the delicate, refined beauty on the maternal side, and was altogether a perfect model of what a well-born, well-fed young gentleman should be. His wardrobe was extensive and expensive, as might be expected, and Kate was forever finding some new fashion of skirts or body, or golden ornaments, or rich ribbon, to adorn the baby freshly day after day.
               Mrs. Alice Gould was very beautiful, but, I am sorry to add, she was also a little weak. She had married Alvord Gould when her father was not as prosperous as he had since become, and launched at once into splendor and the highest strata of glorified upper-tendom. The transition had spoiled her a little, and her long stay in the capitals of England and France had completed the process. Her heart was not really turned, but her head was. She had sent on directions to have her house in Fifth Avenue furnished and decorated as nearly like the one she occupied in Portland Place as possible.
               "Dear London!" and "blessed, heavenly Paris!" were exclamations that often passed her lips.
               "Alice," said Kate, bluntly, one day, "I wonder you didn't stay abroad, since you found more delightful people and more perfect houses. I never could have come back to a country, if I were you, where everything must seem so dreadfully commonplace."
               "And I wouldn't have done so, Kate dear, if I could have helped myself," said Alice; "but Alvord's business made it a matter of duty, not of choice, I can tell you."
               "And it may be all very proper for you to call a vase a 'varse,'" continued Kate, "as you say that is the correct pronunciation; but if you knew how dreadfully nervous it makes me to hear you talk of giving this darling baby"—here she kissed him six times in succession —"his barthe, instead of that good old homely word 'bath,' I'm sure you would spare my feelings."
               "My dear Kate, you can't expect me in such matters to yield my judgment to yours. Only wait till you go abroad yourself."
               "I don't want to go abroad if it's going to put such ridiculous notions into my head. I'll marry a poor man on purpose, and then I can't go abroad."
               "Don't be ridiculous, Kate,—and put that horrid Kit Champlin out of your head. Oh, I hear such bad stories of him!"
               "Well, you needn't tell me anything about him," said Kate, angrily. "If you don't look out, between papa and you, I shall be driven to marry him."
               "No, indeed; I'm not at all afraid of that," said Alice, with a little laugh that was exasperating. "You have too much of the sterling Dyas sense to throw yourself away, But, oh, my goodness! there's the man I sent for!"
               "Who?—our old gardener!" exclaimed Kate, looking from the window. "What can you want of him?"
               "Why, Alvord sends the carriage up to-day; it's just a beauty, Kate, with red trimmings and such delightfully-scented cushions! It is made exactly after the pattern of the Prince of Wales's own private establishment; and only think! we found horses of the same color as his two favorite stallions!"
               "Oh—you—today!" cried Kate, her cheeks growing more and more crimson. "Baby, is she going to bring you up after the pattern of the Prince of Wales, you precious? A credit you'd be to any decent family, wouldn't you?"
               "Kate, don't be ridiculous," said Alice, leaning back in the deep, fragrant chair, and lazily watching the coming Patcheen. "You see, my dear, Alvord says he can't find a coachman exactly to his liking for so short a time; so mother thought of Patcheen."
               "I've heard he's a famous driver," said Kate. "But such a figure!"
               "Livery will hide that," responded Mrs. Gould.
               "Livery! Open the window, Alice, I'm choking. You don't mean it! You do? And I had promised myself so many charming drives with this dear baby. But I declare to you, Alice, I'll never, NEVER ride behind a liveried coachman while I retain the use of my senses!"
               "We'll see," said the quiet Alice, as Patcheen was ushered in, and stood all elbows and knees and squaretoed shoes before Mrs. Alvord Gould.
               "It's in want of a coachman ye bees, I hear," said the man, making an awkward bow and fingering the brim of his hat, which in winter contrived to get a crown in it.
               "Yes, Mr. Gillimaccuddy, I hear that you understand horses."
               "Brought up wid 'em, ma'am," was the prompt reply. "Knows 'em, fetlock an' mane."
               "I should like to engage you and give you a good price. Of course you are willing that I should choose the color of your livery?"
               Patcheen pressed his lips together till nothing but a firm and still widening line of the blue beard was to be seen in their place; he also shortened his nose by obliterating his left eye, and scratched his perpendicular hair till it laid about right and left like a small wisp of well-dried hay.
               "Is't livery you're maning, ma'am?" he said, when he spoke again.
               "Yes; I wish to get blue and silver. Of course the clothes are my expense, not yours."
               
               "Meaning, ma'am, they'll b'long to yerself? Well'm, ye might be willin' on your own account to wear 'em,—an' shure it's not that I mane; and it's slightly befogged I am,—that is, ye might find some one as is willin'; but, as Mrs. Gillimaccuddy says, says she, 'It's a comfort to git out o' the sight o' stockinged calves, nor yet gold thingumbobbles.' She nor me can't abide the sight of 'em, miss; much less would she and me consent to wear the badge of sarvitude in this free and inlightened counthry, ma'am."
               Kate was making the baby play pat-a-cake with his dimpled, unconscious hands; all at once she hummed "Yankee Doodle," very softly, and still kept patting the little fingers on her own, making much the most noise. The aristocratic Mrs. Gould bit her lip.
               "Would higher wages suit you? Name your own price."
               "Sure, ma'am, as Mrs. Gillimaccuddy says,— 
                     
                        'Where's there a soul wid man so dead
                        That wouldn't jump at buttered bread?'
                     
                   miss, and 'whin there's money in the case the wull's aisy;' but I couldn't quite go the lingth o' that, madam; it ud be scratchin' out me indipindence like."
               "Why, good patience, man, you're an Irishman, aren't you?"
               "Well, sort of, your honor, miss; but I sail under no colors but the Yankee flag. And it's not that I dislikes me old counthrie, that I niver sees a livery that me fingers wouldn't be on better terms wid me sowl if I jist knocked him down. It's 'livery' as makes the Green Isle uncomfortable to live in, as takes the heart out of her, miss,—that's what livery does, ma'am; it's the tail-piece to the kite ov the gintry, miss, and the gintry couldn't be raised to the height they are, widout it."
               "Oh, we won't talk politics, man," said Mrs. Gould, with her loftiest sneer. "If you won't wear livery, you won't; and I must find some one who will. We need have no further words, Mr. Gillimaccuddy."
               "As Mrs. Gillimaccuddy says, ye can niver answer a lady beyant her level," said Patcheen, with one of his best bows; and serene in the consciousness that he had had the last word, he walked composedly out of the room.
               "Do stop that dreadful tune!" called out Alice, more irritated than she cared to show.
               "Why, I was only pleasing baby."
               "As if baby knew the difference between Yankee Doodle and Old Hundred!" said Alice, smartly.
               "Here, take your Prince of Wales!" said Kate.
               "I take him? No, I thank you; ring for nurse: she's just in the next room."
               Kate rang; nurse came in, and behind her followed Lizzie with a package in her hand. Whether Kate's influence and the daily lessons an hour long, sometimes longer, had made the apparent change in that young lady, forever playing imaginary cards, did not appear, or whether the trumps and hearts and diamonds turning up had aided that young person in forming herself, could not be told; it is certain that she was changing, and equally certain to outward appearances that it was for the better. The eyes were still supernaturally odd, and bright, and old, but the rest of the face had grown finer and clearer. Her figure was better, her manner more reticent, but that strange underlook, so full of unexpressed knowing, still marked her countenance.
               She gave the package to Kate, saying that Mrs. Dyas had bid her bring it.
               "Cards for the Champlins, New Year's night," said Kate, looking up brightly,—"cards for all of us, excepting that young savage fighting the air over nurse's shoulder. Are you glad, Alice?"
               "I don't know," said Mrs. Gould; "it's dreadfully dull here. I couldn't have come, just in the season, only I knew how mother would feel about it. Yes, I suppose I like it. I can send in town for my lace over-dress, can't I? It's a comfort to know that it won't be duplicated. Who is that English heiress they were talking about last night?"
               "A Miss Ayres."
               "I suppose she will be pretty richly dressed?"
               "Shouldn't wonder."
               "I don't believe she has a thing in her wardrobe, though, that cost three hundred pounds."
               "Did your dress cost fifteen hundred dollars?" exclaimed Kate, aghast.
               "Indeed it did."
               "What extravagance! even if you could afford it! What am I going to wear? The lovely pink silk you bought me. It is done, and I shall send for it to-morrow."
               "By the way, is there a dressmaker here?" asked Alice.
               "Yes."
               "Nice?"
               "Nice for ordinary work."
               "She could alter."
               "Oh, yes. Patcheen is in the kitchen,—cook always gives him a cup of tea; shall I tell Lizzie to call him? He lives next door to the dressmaker. Or shall I send Lizzie, for I see Patcheen is gone, or cook wouldn't be standing by the gate out in the back yard."
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE LITTLE DRESSMAKER SEES A LIKENESS.
               LIZZIE ran up-stairs and put on her bonnet with great glee. In imitating Kate's airy, off-hand manner, she rather overdid the matter; but it was comical to see her perk her head, and tie the strings with a style, and, after all was done, catch up Kate's bracelet and fasten it round her wrist, only to drop it at the first suggestion of a noise.
               "There's only one drawback about this business," she said, surveying herself in the large mirror. "I'm only a servant, after all; make it out at the best, I'm only a servant, while Mrs. Street-sweeper could hire a servant. She orders me about, though she takes so much pains to learn me, and I'm determined to learn; she never once takes it into her head that I am anything better than a servant. I wonder if I am playing my cards right! It's no use staring Mr. Norman out of countenance, he won't notice me; and I only hope," she added, with a sudden access of anger, "that he'll have to notice me some time. Who knows? Oh, wouldn't it be quite too jolly if he had to take me into the parsonage, after all? When aunt dies, she says she is going to leave a writing; and that writing tells who I am, and that writing will make him feel small, and some other things 'll make him feel smaller."
               She was on her way now to Pepper Point. The snow had melted, and the roads were tolerably dry, nevertheless Lizzie had sometimes to pick her way. She was soon at the little dressmaker's. That busy woman was at the same time eating her luncheon, and solacing herself by playing Old Hundred on the asthmatic melodeon. A cracker and a cup of tea stood on the top of that much enduring instrument. First the dressmaker would take a sup of tea, then a bite of biscuit, then play one bar through; then a second sip, another bite, and go on with her melancholy work of musical dissection. She turned round at sound of the door-bell, took a final gulp and the last half of her cracker, and then opened the door.
               "Oh, it's you, Lizzie Dyas." Someway these people called her Lizzie Dyas. "Come in."
               "Have you much work on hand?" asked Lizzie, graciously seating herself.
               "Well, I might have, if I paraded it all out. I've enough to keep me going, thank heaven, though not to that extent as to make my thimble-finger ache. You're pretty lively up to your house."
               "Yes, we're pretty lively," repeated Lizzie.
               "Does Mr. Norman come there often?"
               "No—not to speak of. What makes you ask?" queried Lizzie.
               "Well, I thought I would. Did you ever see him before you came here?"
               Lizzie remembered her aunt's threat, and her card-playing came in.
               "Why, what if I did? Sometimes I was on the Swan: you know that. My aunt was sick, and I had to work for her; I hope that was no disgrace."
               "If work be a disgrace," asked the dressmaker, with a solemn aspect, "what am I?" And suiting the action to the word, she took up an unfinished dress and laid to with her needle and thimble-fingers.
               "So, of course, I saw Mr. Norman, if not to know him," resumed Lizzie.
               "There is strange likenesses," murmured the dressmaker, rubbing her nose with her thimble-finger as she looked hard at Lizzie,—"so strange that people have been taken to jail for it, or lifted into positions of greatness, or gone into tremengious fortens."
               A quick flash of triumph broke over the girl Lizzie's face.
               "Well, do you see any Dyas in me?" she asked, hurriedly.
               "Lord! no. Dyas! no. I didn't say I saw any—anything in you, did I?"
               "I thought you meant me," said Lizzie, making a little motion as though hugging herself. "I don't look like anybody: not even like my aunt. If my father was living, I might say that I looked very much like him, for aunt says I do; but——"
               "He ain't living, then?" The little dressmaker's needle was suspended high in air for a moment.
               "Well, so my aunt says," replied the girl, with a reluctant, half-sly look.
               "Dear me, dear me, dear me!" muttered the little woman, rapidly, "I'm such a hand at matching, that sometimes I take pieces of one face and put 'em on to another, and take out o' that other a bit o' something,—say a dimple, or an atom of eyebrow,—and I make such perfect fits as never was. But look here, what am I talking about? of course you come for something; what did you come for?"
               Lizzie told her errand.
               "You don't say! Yes, I'll go. I declare it makes me quite flustered. I wonder what she wants. It's dresses or nothing with me. I'll cut, or I'll alter, or I'll fit over, or I'll rip up; but anything under a dress I'll never consent to do. There's plain seamstresses enough for that. I'm going to alter something for Miss Champlin; they're to give a grand party New Year's night. Of course, when people can afford to go to city dressmakers, people that has money, I say nothing. I ain't a city dressmaker, but I'm better than most that live in the country. Tell her, with my regards, that I'll come."
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               BESSY'S JUST INDIGNATION.
               THERE was always a bright little noon-dinner for Dan Rickson. Whenever the old gentleman went into the city, Bessy saved his dinner in his own plate, keeping it warm by the stove. The little pepper-box of a house had an especially cheerful look in winter, when the bright coal burned snappingly in the tiny grate, and the sunshine poured into the parlor-windows, and quite beyond, filling the large, comfortable kitchen, where the table was set.
               Bessy generally ate her dinner with Dan. She looked prettier almost than at any other occupation, seated at the head of the social board, pouring out tea for him and for herself. Sometimes an open book laid at her side, for Dan was never too much occupied to answer her most trifling questions. When she reached over the book, her tiny forefinger running from line to line, till she found the required place, the sweet, though not absolutely perfect profile of her pure face, the little locks of curly hair escaping from the bright ribbon that always adorned her head, invariably caught and fixed Dan's eye, and made him set his lips hard when she looked at him again.
               "Then you think I am really doing well?" she said, one day, as she filled and passed his cup.
               "Better than that. You are doing uncommonly well. In a year you'll be equal to the best of our third divisions, if you keep it up."
               "I'll keep it up five years," she said, excitedly,—"ten years! Why, what else do I have to do? It will be my greatest pleasure and my greatest blessing,—yes, for all my life! For think, when I am all alone, what books I shall read! I shall quite travel the world round."
               "That is easily done, nowadays," said Dan, with an absent look.
               "And then, I shall feel, I shall be so much more like a lady."
               "You couldn't be more of a lady than you are, Bessy,—at least in my eyes," he said.
               "Well, I don't know as ever I shall want to go from home to be admired," replied Bessy, with a happy smile, not seeing the flush succeeded by the pallor on his cheek. "You and father will make me quite vain if you don't look out," she added, laughing. "You had better look out," shaking a spoon at him.
               "I do look out," he said, turning a disturbed face to the window, as he left the table, "and I see a very smart young lady opening the gate; and now she comes hither. What's o'clock? One! Time for me to go."
               "Oh, dear, dear!" groaned Bessy.
               "What's the matter?" he queried, holding his hat in his hand.
               "I see her face. Oh, misery me!"
               "Shall I send her packing? You don't seem to like your young lady-friend. Or shall I let her in?"
               "Let her in, please. Oh, I hope she won't stay! But go, Dan, please go. She'll ring till you do. I know her."
               So Dan opened the front-door, and Bessy shut the door between the kitchen and the parlor, to give herself time to think, she said.
               Presently she came in. Was it her fancy, that Lizzie looked at her with a wicked smile?
               "I was calling this way," said that mature young lady, "and thought I wouldn't neglect you, though you did say you didn't want me to come again."
               "You're welcome," Bessy tried to say, with some show of cordiality.
               "Don't tell a lie, Mrs. Bessy, in order to be polite, for I don't think I'm welcome, at least ever so. Who was that handsome young man that let me in? Who was it?" And she held up a forefinger, shaking it playfully.
               "Why, Dan, of course."
               "Is that his whole name,—Dan of course? It's rather a queer one."
               "He is Mr. Dan Rickson," said Bessy, recovering her dignity.
               "Brother to the old man, eh?"
               "His son," said Bessy.
               "Good land preserve us!" cried Lizzie, with a shrill laugh, pointing at her again, "then you're his mother! Oh, good land! what an idea!" And stopping her laugh short, she said, mockingly, "Why, I didn't know you had any children, Mrs. Rickson."
               "He's no such thing!" said Bessy, angrily; "and if you can't do better than come here to make fun of me, you'd better stay at home. I am like his sister, he is like my brother."
               "But, after all, you know, you can't be his sister, he can't be your brother; and he's a deal handsomer and cleverer than his father. Don't—you—wish—he'd—a—picked you out of the gutter?"
               Bessy rose from her seat, and her little figure grew almost commanding as she drew herself up.
               "How can you dare to say such things to me, I wonder?" she cried, her soft eyes ablaze. "Your place don't better you. You're like my crossings, that sometimes, sweep as hard as ever I would, the mud and slush would come pouring back. I'm a married woman, and we are all honorable people here, if the house is small: Mr. Rickson, Dan, and me. Mind, you may come here if you will, because I can't keep you out. You knew me in that other life, and I knew you; but there's things if you say ever again to me, I'll go call Mrs. Gillimaccuddy, and let her put you out,—or I'll go myself up to the folks where you live, and tell them what you are."
               A vague idea that she was not playing her cards right, not any repentance for what she had suggested, impelled Miss Lizzie to withdraw her venom and apologize for it.
               "Of course I ain't as good as you," she continued, as Bessy tolerated her tongue, "for you never was knocked about the streets like me; but can't you give me time to grow our o' my wickedness? You see there was no need of my being on the street at all if Aunt Bertha hadn't loved drink. I don't mind telling you that there was certain high persons sent money for me to be took care of and made a lady of,—but I was neglected. But never mind; there's no knowing what I may be. I've got a tre—men—dous secret, but I don't dare to tell it; no, not for hundreds of thousands of millions of dollars." And she began rocking to and fro in the little hair-cloth rocker.
               As she rocked, she took out a fine, delicately-scented handkerchief; then jumped as Bessy made a plunge forward, and held the handkerchief hidden against her shoulder.
               
               "Oh, let me see it! please let me see it!" cried Bessy, holding out her hand.
               "See what? I ain't got a diamond ring yet, bless you! You little goose."
               "Only the handkerchief: let me take it in my hand."
               "What for?"
               "For something. I'll tell you, perhaps. Pray, pray let me see it!"
               Lizzie's face was scarlet, for she had appropriated one of Kate's scarcely soiled and most exquisitely worked handkerchiefs. She made a rapid motion, and hid it in her pocket.
               "Won't you let me see it?" pursued Bessy, her face still pale, her hands trembling. "You don't know why I wanted it—you can't tell—I can't tell you, unless you let me see it!"
               Lizzie shook her head.
               "No, no, Mrs. Bessy Rickson, you've been mighty high with me to-day, all because of a harmless joke of mine, and I don't choose to favor you. If you are independent when you please, why, so can I be; only let me tell you that when Miss Kate Dyas makes presents, she makes presents,—and some of her handkerchiefs cost a hundred dollars."
               Bessy stood back, looking at her quite hopelessly.
               "Then you won't let me see it?"
               "No, not a bit of it; not the least tiny corner of the edge of the lace. And I must be going; if I thought that little boy of yours was coming in again, I'd stay; but I suppose he's gone for good."
               "He's gone for good till his father comes home," said Bessy, with spirit.
               "Then I must bid you a farewell. My friend, Miss Kate Dyas, who is going to teach me beautifully upon the piano-forty, will be looking for me."
               She went slowly out, Bessy opening the door for her. Then Bessy went and stood at the window.
               Lizzie turned after she had shut the little pepper-box in, by means of the gate, and there, standing in the middle of the road, she took the handkerchief from her pocket, fluttering it high over her head, to the wonderment of sundry Pepper-pointers, who were seated at their several windows.
               "If I could only have seen it!" muttered Bessy. "But I might have been mistaken; I suppose I was. What a dreadful, wretched, disagreeable girl she is! And to say such things to me! to dare to say such things to me!"
               Bessy's bosom heaved a little; but the tears did not come to cool her flushed cheeks, and her pretty hands trembled as she settled to the task of clearing off the dinner-table.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE RECTOR'S SURPRISE-PARTY.
               MEN often prop their good resolutions by striving to ignore the unpleasant memories of their past experience. They write down in certain corners of a mysterious little diary, which no printer ever set up, and no binder ever covered, "This sentence must be erased; this recollection canceled. To look back must be made impossible from this date;" and with much labor they strive to erase, and paste over, and cut out, until they feel tolerably certain that they have achieved the point at which they aim. Vain hope! for it is the law of human existence that nothing shall be forgotten that has ever touched the tablets of that active workshop,—the brain. The letters will come out again with a distinctness perfectly appalling, at some touch of the master,—some look, some remembered word.
               The parsonage shelves were really very meagrely supplied. Most of the books had the appearance of having descended from father to son; but among them were some wonderful old tomes, whose stains had gathered in the oldest and quaintest of London curiosity-shops. For before one great trial of his life, when Mr. Norman was spending by installments a precious little legacy that had been left him by some doting relative, he had visited Europe, and lingered about those musty, bookselling depositories till his clothes and his very thoughts caught their flavor. Since his return he had managed to get some of them into plain bindings, but by far the greater number stood as they had come there,—moth-eaten and worm-eaten, dogs'-eared and rusted; but I think they were all the more precious for that.
               The people of All Souls' parish had kept the knowledge from thier rector that his salary was to be increased; and he had no idea of all the good and all the bad things that were said about him, which was well. Clergymen's ears ought not to be as sensitive to that mysterious tingling which so often attacks the ears of ordinary people when they are talked about, or they would be able to do nothing but rub them from morning till night.
               Neither Mr. Norman's ears or eyes were as wide open to mysterious noises about the parsonage as they might have been, or he would have suspected that some secret raid upon his precious retirement was in active preparation.
               He was not at all conscious that the maids were unusually noisy; that doors opened and shut with unwonted alacrity; that certain savory smells stole in through the chinks of his retreat.
               As for the kitchen, he would as soon have thought of traveling to the moon as of invading its culinary recesses at ordinary times.
               His parish have recommended old lady Mullins, who is partially deaf, and almost dumb, though still spry and actively intelligent, to supervise, the whole establishment; and he scarcely ever sees her, except when he pays her her monthly wages.
               So it happens that turkeys roast, and puddings bake, and great white loaves come smoking out of the oven, and the largest ham-boiler is on the stove, and cakes of every shade of brown are sent hot to the pantry shelves, to cool themselves against their coming digestive battles; and the rector never dreams anything about it, till one night all sorts of fluttering noises meet his meditative ear, and all kinds of humming, from the shrillest treble to the deepest bass, invade his silence. Then of a sudden the light pours in, and children pour in, and young men and maidens pour in, and all kinds of wishes pour in with the matrons and the elders, and, in fact, All Souls' seems let loose into the parsonage.
               The handsome rector is not taken at all aback, so far as regards his outward man. He is not one of that sort who fling neckties about, and grace the study-chairs with disheveled fractions of his clothes. He can no more write than preach in disordered linen, and an ink-blotch on his pen-finger must be removed before the thoughts he has shaped can be committed to paper. A sort of orderly radiance was visible in the study, and brightened his own calm, beautiful countenance as he greeted his parishioners.
               
               The Dyases were all there. Kit Champlin felt that his attendance at All Souls' for the past few months had imparted sufficient grace to make his presence a matter of course; and his sister Minerva, for whom the rector looked about in vain, was not an absentee.
               "I suppose your sister could not come to-night?" the rector said, having placed himself in Kit's way.
               "Oh, yes. Nerm is here somewhere," replied Kit, smoothing his silken moustache and looking about.
               Kate, leaning on her mother's arm, glanced back radiantly.
               "She's in the kitchen cutting sandwiches," she laughed. And presently the rector found himself, almost without being conscious that he did so, edging his way among the children and youths and maidens to the outer passage, where he could look in, the doors being open, and down and whole length of the cheerful room.
               Yes, there was Miss Champlin. He might have known her by her dainty poise of figure, by the delicacy of all her movements, if that fine, statuesque profile had not been set so clearly against the bright background as it was. He smiled a rare, pleased smile, and then something seemed to come across it and blot all the sunshine into shadow. For beside miss Champlin, and talking with those unreasoning lips, and gazing with those weird, swallowing, know-everything eyes, stood Lizzie; and Miss Champlin looked and listened with fixed attention.
               The great peace which he had that day resolved to attain was gone; the passage he had erased, cut out, and pasted over in that book which no printer's touch had ever desecrated, all came out in burning characters, and robbed him of his hardly-earned repose.
               From that moment he walked and acted like one wrapped about with a cloud. There was plenty of chat, and, after the refreshments were handed round in the dining-room, everybody seemed happy and genial but the pastor.
               Kit espied Kate on the edge of the crowd nearest the library, and, watching his chance, supplied her with some lemonade; gradually they drew their seats to the verge of the study. Kit said he saw an unoccupied table, and Kate peeped in, and then allowed him to lure her there, where they sat down like two contented, silly children, while merry little nothings, in the way of conversation, flew fast between them.
               "To-morrow is New Years's, you know?" said Kit.
               "And to-night is New Year's eve. Isn't it pleasant here?"
               "Very, particularly in this soft, subdued light."
               "I caught father's eye then, I think," said Kate, after a little war of badinage.
               "Do you know there seems a great gulf between your paternal parent and myself?" asked Kit.
               "Indeed!" Kate flushed; then laughed a little as she said, "Is there no practicable way of bridging it?"
               "I think there is," he said, a momentary brightness blazing in his eye and throwing a soft light all over his fine face.
               Kate drew back, and her action seemed to say,—
               "Don't, please." So Kit trifled with the delicacies on his plate, and didn't.
               "I haven't spoken to Minerva to-night," said Kate, after a long silence.
               "She is in league with all the old ladies. Nerm is a little changed; don't you see it?" he asked, eagerly.
               "She's a dear, sweet, good girl!" she said, with enthusiasm. Kit picked some cake-crumbs from his beard. Kate stole a look at him,—a proud, sorrowful look. She knew how hopelessly she loved him, with a love that would never weary, nor change, at the same time that she saw the difficulties that beset them both.
               "If," said Kit, leaning over, "you could let but the shadow of your admiration for her fall on me! I only ask for forbearance; only that you will try to think the best of me." It was the second time he had said those same words.
               Kate did not answer, save with her eyes, for the crowd seemed pressing onward into the study again. During their little tête-à-tête, all sorts of merry sounds had filled the parsonage.
               One old lady mentioned casually, but of course impertinently, because she had a reason for it, that Miss Dyas and young Kit Champlin were in the study—alone!
               
               "My dear madam," said Mrs. Dyas, to whom the remark was made, "I never follow my children; I always trust them."
               Then came the presentation of a very pretty purse, and the announcement of an addition to the salary; and if the pompous Mr. Bankhead did not conclude his speech with,—
               "And now, reverend sir and dear pastor, we shall all look forward to a speedy renovation of your clerical cloth, that we may not be obliged to assure ourselves of its threadbare condition when you enter our palatial houses, and have audience with ourselves, our wives, and our daughters, or qualify the assertion that we are delighted with our rector by an unspoken admission that we are a little ashamed of his rusty condition, when we introduce him to our stylish friends"—the minister felt that this was implied, to the depths of his sensitive soul. He allowed none of his emotions to come to the surface, however, but replied in a neat little speech, in which he only faltered once, and that once when Lizzie, having reached him by many subtle manœuvres, stood looking him composedly in the face.
               Minerva Champlin was very near, and noticed his embarrassment.
               After that speech he turned sharp about and addressed her, before she could move away. He was perfectly cool, calm, and collected; she was flurried, pale, and undecided.
               "Allow me the pleasure of showing you two or three of my curious books, Miss Champlin."
               She bowed, and waited till he brought them from the shelves. Meanwhile the crowd was scattering, dispersing,—some for home, some for a little boisterous fun in the other rooms. Miss Champlin stole a look at the study. It was the thinking-place of a man of method, culture, and fine taste; it had a sort of moonlight look, owing to the mellowly-tinted shades over the central gasburners, that were lowered to the heavy, carved table, whose polished surface was to-night exhibited without the usual cloth.
               This man had attracted her so long and so powerfully, that the strangely-mixed impressions with which she regarded him were sometimes unutterably painful. She tried to concentrate her attention upon the wonderfully-illuminated missals, whose covers, like portals of oak, fell with a heavy clang as he opened them; tried to listen to his eloquent language, as he explained the ancient hieroglyphics of the early fathers, priests, and monks, who wrought their lives into this curious and holy work: but her hands trembled, and her forehead glowed, as if under it some one held a burning coal.
               "If he noticed it I should die," she said to herself, with her usual vehemence; "and yet, without knowing him to be worthy, oh, how I worship him!"
               And when she lifted her eyes at last from the wonders he had pointed out, and met his calm orbs, whose language needed no set interpretation, her strength for a moment almost deserted her. And yet a kind of triumph made her repeat, as she moved away, "He loves me! he loves me!"
               Kit was still keeping Kate in his sight, and feeling very uncomfortable whenever he met papa Dyas. He was never alone, for his playful wit, great personal attractions, and naïve manner, gave him an advantage with women, and the young ladies were only too happy to secure a word, or a smile, or a little merry badinage. One among that assemblage, thin-shouldered and angular, had long loved him, hopelessly; and her peculiarly willowy attitude and gaze of suppressed sorrow, whenever he spoke to her, or she was in his vicinity, made the state of affairs patent to everybody. This was one of the Misses Shipley, whom Kit had said he could have for the asking, when he drew up the names for the party his mother was to give.
               Somebody asked the rector for the notes of his last sermon. With exceeding tact he refused the request, but said a moment after to Miss Champlin, who was seated near,—
               "They would not understand; they like written sermons. I have never preached that way,—or rather read, I don't call it preaching—since I left college. But here happens to be my last Christmas sermon. You shall see it."
               Flattered by this exclusiveness of regard, Miss Champlin took the little card, looked at it, smiled, looked up at him and said, wonderingly,—
               "Is it possible?"
               The card was really a curiosity. A few unintelligible characters: a cross, delicately penciled, with flowers at the base; further on, a sketch of infinitesimal hills, a pictured sun with its rays, a tombstone, a pipe inverted, the ashes falling out, a tree-branch, on which a bird was singing, a steeple with the bell in sight, and a willow-tree.
               "How could you make a sermon out of these exquisitely drawn, but to me unmeaning, signs?" queried Miss Champlin.
               "It is quite as easy as the old way, I assure you," he replied.
               And then Miss Champlin grew cold from head to foot, for Lizzie had come up to say that there was a seat in Mrs. Dyas's carriage, and they could take her home. The rector had turned, and was putting his card into a shallow box where there were many such.
               "I call this my picture-book collection," he said, without changing his attitude till the girl was gone. But it was not soulful Minerva to whom he spoke, but the cold, elegant, stately Miss Champlin, who bade him goodnight with a manner that seemed to freeze him, while her eyes had that far-off look he had so often seen in them at church.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               MRS. CHAMPLIN AT HER TOILET.
               COUNSELOR CHAMPLIN had added his mite to the decorations that were deemed essential to put the Champlin house on good terms with itself. He had sent home three bargains, two famous paintings and an elegant trifle of a fancy-table, that seemed to shrink into itself amidst the heavy furniture as feeling that it was not by descent a legitimate Champlin, and, notwithstanding its beauty and its wonderful carved work, that the Champlin-belongings looked down upon it.
               The grandmother-chair had been covered with an immense worsted tidy, on which two frightened antelopes struggled to look natural, and signally failed. "But no matter," Minerva said, "so long as that grim, dear, dead and gone old ancestor, that seemed to be incorporated with the grim back of that expressive chair, was kept out of sight."
               Mrs. Champlin, fussy and nervous, for she could never be said to possess the Champlin-dignity, had worried herself red in the face long before the hour for dressing, although her husband had sent two or three men with an accomplished caterer from the city.
               "It will cost no end of money, I see that," she said to Minerva, fretfully. "I wish society didn't require such sacrifices."
               "It was your own idea, mamma," responded Minerva, who was for the time her mother's hair-dresser, and at whose side stood the mysteries of the toilet, in sundry delicate boxes, and bottles and braids and curls and twists of hair, and cushions and racks.
               "Yes; but, as I said, Nerm, somebody must begin, and we are first, and they look to us. I should never have gotten over it if the Dyases had inauguarted. I should have felt put down at once, and we always have taken the lead. Besides, I did it for Kit's good."
               "How for Kit's good?" asked Minerva, suspending operations as she wound a sliken string about her mother's hair.
               "He will ask Kate Dyas to-night to marry him, or I am much mistaken."
               "Has it gone so far as that?" cried Minerva, her hands trembling.
               "Yes, of course it has. One might easily see that she worships him," said her mother.
               "I have not seen it," responded Minerva, in a suppressed voice.
               "Of course not; you have seen nothing but manuscript-paper these three months. We never expect you to see such things. Nerm; and as to your ever being married, the idea is preposterous."
               "Of course it is," said Miss Champlin, quietly.
               "By the way, I haven't had a minute to inquire; and there's one of those dradful men coming up now. No, it isn't," she added, after a listening pause. "But how did the party go off last night? Was it really a surprise?"
               Minerva thought it was.
               "And Mr. Norman, was he as nice as ever? I hope we shall continue to be suited with him; but, after a certain time, do you know a man's usefulness begins to wane? And I believe it's because so many senseless, foolish things are said about him."
               Minerva had fastened on the long spray of fair curls, and now she pulled them out, one by one, with her white, slender fingers before she trusted herself to say,—
               "And what's the complaint about Mr. Norman?"
               "Oh, I don't know; because he don't marry, and he's full five-and-thirty, or the spends a good deal of money for a single man, or some such senseless thing. Nerm, how pale you are! Positively, if you haven't any more color by to-night you must rouge."
               Minverva caught sight of her white cheeks in the glass, and smiled with a most unnatural expression.
               "I must tell your father to expostulate with you, or you will wirte yourself into your coffin. I wish you could like somebody, Nerm. You don't know how much brighter life would seem, even if you do go on writing those dreary novels."
               "How much brighter!" Miss Champlin repeated, almost unconsciously.
               "There, that will do! Give me the hand-glass," said her mother, "and then go and look out for yourself. I sent over for that girl from Mrs. Dyas's; so I expect she's here. Would you like her to help you?"
               Minerva drew a long breath of positive agony before she said, with a sharp voice, her delicate nostrils dilating, "No!"
               "Mercy! you needn't bite my head off, child. But I might have known you never need any help. I wish you did. Someway, do you know, I think it seems a little unwomanly to be so very self-sustaining!"
               "I find it very convenient, sometimes," Minerva simply said, conscious that in her heart was lodged a most unhappy, most abhorrent guest, which was not other than an unreasoning hate of the protégée of Kate Dyas. And now this foolish, unwarrantable thing, which her brother Kit had it in purpose to do, complicated her troubles to such a degree that she heartily wished herself a thousand miles away
               How should she warn Kate? Would it do any good? Kate, gentle, true, lovable, honest, and above dissembling, could it be possible that Kit had infatuated her? It did not seem to her as if Kit could be loved by any quiet, earnest nature like that.
               Meantime the lawyer's wife was dressing in the hired lace overskirt and the hired pearls, of which little artifice nobody would suspect Mrs. Champlin, leader of society in Bogwood.
               When Minerva reached her own room, she sat down and reasoned with herself, and all her reasoning came in the end to this:
               That she loved in an utterly unreasoning way, because—and there she earnestly emphasized—she had found a mystery in the life of a man who had never troubled her before, had never seemed since he first came to Bogwood, and she was a girl of fifteen,—that was four years,—other than a kindly, interesting man and a faithful pastor. And more, she was as conscious as if the man had said, "Minerva Champlin, I have loved you all these four years;" just as conscious of the fact, though she had seen it only once in his dark eyes.
               And more, she was determined to resist this passion with her whole strength, unless some miracle proved her fallen idol to be other than she thought him. So her programme was soon made out. Had she not resources in herself which other women had not? She needed no lover to complete the roundness and beauty of her life. Absorbed in the beautiful creations of her fancy, she should in time, should she not,—she inquired, wildly, of some unseen intelligence,—forget this love, forget the man?
               And she must endeavor to banish from her heart that unreasoning antipathy—something more and worse than that—that assailed her with the mention of that girl's name, or at sight of her. Why should the poor child be burdened with the weight of the guilt with which she certainly had no complicity? So Minerva Champlin decided to be merry.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               NEW YEAR'S AT THE PEPPER-BOX.
               IT was pleasant at the carrier's little pepper-box of a mansion that night, to see the cheerful glow of the small coal-fire reflected in the gilded backs of several very handsome books that stood upon a table in the centre of the little parlor.
               First, there was a set of Macaulay in really beautiful bindings, that had been presented by sundry of the pupils at the academy to Dan Rickson; then there was a set of Sir Walter Scott's novels the old man had brought home as a gift for his darling Bessy, and several other miscellaneous works, selected by Dan from out of a shopful. And was there ever a happier little queen than the same little mistress of the Rickson pepper-box? She had been into the Gillimaccuddy's, and the little dressmaker's, to show her treasures, and to the left up as far as she was acquainted with the worthiest pepper-boxes, and had returned just to sit down with Dan and daddy Rickson, and meditate and be happy.
               The clock had struck eight, and the fashionables of Bogwood were just beginning to think of their responsibilities for the evening.
               Bessy had been talking in her merrry, rambling way, when suddenly she said,—
               "Dan, I wonder they didn't ask you to the great folks' party."
               Dan smiled, snuggled into the comfortable easy-chair, and then replied,—
               "I'd a thousand times rather stay at home with father and you."
               "But you're a gentleman. Why didn't they invite you?" persisted Bessy.
               "Because I've served 'em, dear, and would ha' served 'em to night as I was engaged for, but Dan he thought better not. To be sure Dan's a gentleman, to be sure," said Rickson.
               Her hand caressed his rough, knotted hand, as she said,—
               "And so are you, father, so are you; indeed, you are."
               Old Mr. Rickson smiled as he looked down at the sweet face, then his shrewd eyes sought the fire.
               "There's a little controversy in the world about them matters, deary, and these fine distinctions and things puzzle my old head sometimes, considerable. I've never owed a man a penny, to my knowledge, and my little property's fairly and squarely arned, by labor as has made these arms ache sore for many a long hour. There's never a penny of morgige on anything I own, and I've tried, sense I was that high," holding his rough hand level with his knee, "to do by others jest as I'd hev 'em do by me. I do thank the Good Man, I've tried to steer clear o' the shoals an' pitfalls that men find in the humblest business, and I can't bring my mind to bear on that minite as I didn't tell the truth, bang up, let it help or let it hurt.
               "I'll not deny that I have been tempted pretty considerable, and that I've seen times when a little leaning on to one side a might heftier than square yes or no, would 'a' put a nice bit o' money in my pocket; but the Good Man alleys seemed to give me a knuckle on the elber, and I've been carried through honest.
               "Now, ther's the 'tother side o' the question. My business is called me to people's back-doors, consequently I've lost in gentility. It's kep' me in overalls and cowhide-boots boots, and hasn't give me no chance to wear gloves on my hands,"—he spread out his honest, brawny palms,—"therefor my fingers is all knuckles, and the flesh is leathery. I never had no chance to pick up much larnin'. I can go through the Bible by calling all the hard names Hezekiah, an' I ken write my name, an' perhaps somethin over, but that's all; consequently I ain't what folks popularly calls a gentlemen; or, if I got it in me, it never struck out so to show in them ways. There's men I know owes the grocer and the butcher, and never pays if they can help theirselves; there's men I know swears powerful, after their fashion, and does things an honest dog would crawl tail-down into his kennel if he was charged with the tenth on't, and I can give my Bible-oath them men is called gentlemen; but if you take away what belongs to their gentility, you don't have anything left but thier clothes. But then I don't argy like a gentleman; I don't profess to be only a honest man; that 'll stand, I guess, as long as the other."
               "A good deal longer," said Dan, earnestly, who, though he had sometimes blushed for the clothes and calling of his father, had manhood enough to understand the old man's character, and be, in a way, proud of it; manhood enough to choke down those unmanly feelings that led him to shrink from being mentioned as "old Rickson the carrier's son, or the cartman's son, or the ashman's son," or any of those contemptuous flings at his birth which are so thoughtlessly made and so seriously taken. He knew that his father was universally respected for his sterling integrity.
               "Thankee, Dan, thankee, Yes, I dare to say," was the reply.
               And now the little round table winked to the lazy old chest of drawers, and the chest winked at the pictures, and the pictures winked back to the pleasant coal-fire, and that in turn to Bessy, who had improvised a little feast, that it was time to begin. And Bessy went out into the kitchen, and after an incredibly short time came back again with a tray that winked and laughed all over with good things, such as oranges (which must have cost something at that season) and grapes (which ditto) and figs and raisins, and delightful little sweetmeats that had been syruped in sugar since the previous holidays; and Dan in great surprise, and with a great many needless exclamations, cleared the table of its beautiful burdens, and the three drew up together with such innocent, hearty happiness, that I do not believe the guests, who were just sweeping with great state into the sombre, glittering Champlin parlors, began to enjoy themselves as much.
               "You see I took great pains to get these things," said Bessy, "though I didn't go into the city; but I gave a little list to Patcheen, who carried the covered basket, and brought them in to-day, along with this dear little white slate, which is so nice for rubbing out." Here she displayed a pretty porcelain tablet, framed with something that shone like silver. "That's a present I made myself," she said gayly, and then put it by for the better disposal of the fruits and the sweetmeats.
               The table and the pictures and the chest of drawers kept up a sympathetic winking with the jolly little fire, till, the appetites of the three being sated, Dan carried the tray into the kitchen.
               When he came back the old man had arranged himself in his chair for a quiet nap.
               "Do what you like, children, but excuse me," he said, and forthwith threw a brown silk bandanna over his face, that so disposed its pliant folds to his aquiline features that it gave him the appearance of a large bird cut in mahogany.
               The handkerchief had been in wear a great many years, and, though it appeared whole enough, was curiously honeycombed. Hence, if the old carrier had not been disposed to sleep, and perhaps he was not, for a time, he might have pleased himself with the bright homeliness and simple beauty of the little parlor, and the very effective tableau made by the two persons,—the dark, good-looking son, and the delicate, lovely little wife.
               But the old carrier was not sentimental, though some of his friends did say he was a soft old fellow.
               Dan took a book. He opened at the title-page. The letters so magnified themselves there, and changed with such curious transformations, that that page seemed to keep him occupied.
               Bessy was busy with her slate, sending imaginary little boys after imaginary apples, and putting it to them how many apples there were in such a given space. She was very fond of figures.
               It was noticeable that the furniture no longer winked after its former jolly fashion, possibly because the fire had changed a little, and threw out duller gleams. The chest of drawers wore a preoccupied and anxious look; the pictures drew themselves into shadows, and seemed trying to hide themselves; and still Dan's eyes were reading curious hieroglyphics, and Bessy's pencil moved on with its dots and its strokes.
               Presently Bessy's little forehead grew clouded, and presently Dan's eyes, tired fo the crooked dancing letters, were lifted, and fell upon the little figure with the gleams and touches of gold coming and going over the beautiful head, and the earnest, pathetic lines deepening and vanishing over her young brow.
               And the dimples and the twinkling fell out of the atmosphere altogether, and a dull brooding set of shadows seemed to troop out of all the corners, till Bessy, startled at she knew not what, looked up, and caught Dan's vanishing eye.
               "How still it is!" she exclaimed, her pencil still pointed at the slate.
               "Yes, it is very still," Dan echoed, a little confusedly.
               "Is it because father is asleep?"
               "That makes a difference, I suppose."
               Bessy looked into the fire; then she smiled at Dan, the edge of whose glance she caught again; and then she said, a little dolefully, "Oh, dear me!"
               "What is it?" queried Dan, without moving.
               "I can't make it out."
               "Can I help you?" asked the young man, a slow light breaking over his face as a smoldering fire breaks into flame sometimes.
               "Perhaps. See here." And she pulled her seat nearer, till she sat at the centre of the table. He pulled his seat nearer her, a quick attention in his face.
               The old man must have slept soundly; he never stirred, though more or less noise came of the moving.
               Dan ciphered, speaking a word now and then. After he had done he placed the slate in her hands, their fingers coming in contact. There was nothing unnatural or dreadful in that, till, instead of giving back the pencil, Dan caught the small hand, grasped it rather, and, as she looked up, almost in pain, her eyes full of a sharp surprise, he cried, like one in mortal agony,—
               "Oh, Bessy! Bessy!"
               Like a flash of lightning that on a dark night reveals temples amidst the clouds, so in that one instant was the innermost temple of his soul laid bare to her, with its curtain rent, and herself filling all the space beyond.
               A start, a look of unutterable feeling, a flush that dyed her very temples, a revelation as wonderful to her as the pyramids to those who saw them slowly emerging from their ages of sand: and Bessy could never be again what she had been, before that man, crouched in his chair with his hands held to burning eyes and throbbing temples, had seized her hand, had uttered that cry of pain and passion.
               And still the old man never moved, not so much as the folds of this brown silk kerchief by his sleeping breath.
               For one brief moment Bessy sat stunned; then a helpless, frightened expression stole over her sweet face. She laid the slate by, with the figures face downward; she placed her pencil beside it, all the time looking at him with a grieved, trembling fear. She arose,—her movements were very quiet,—drew back into the shadow, stood for a moment yet gazing dumbly at him, drew her chair softly after her, placed it by the side of the old man, and there seated herself.
               Dan let his hands fall; he strove in vain to steady the muscles of his face, to act, to be natural once more; but he could not dissemble. He sprang to his feet with an almost fierce movement, and she, shrinking, laid her hand on the old man's knee.
               He never stirred.
               "God be merciful!" breathed Dan. And he took a step forward. He must go by her to reach the kitchen.
               "Father!" she called; "father!"
               "And you are afraid of me!" groaned the young man.
               For answer she dropped her face on her arm, and burst into a passion of tears.
               Then the old carrier seemed to rouse himself. He came as from a groping after something in dream-land into the outer world. Bessy turned away, and stopped her sobs. Dan was already gone.
               "Why, deary," said the old man, smiling, "I was dreaming about you and Dan."
               "Were you?" asked Bessy, with a nervous little catching of her breath that sounded like a laugh.
               "Yes, deary; it seemed Dan'd got his fortune at last. Where is the boy?"
               "What fortune?" murmured Bessy, faintly, ignoring his question.
               "His old great-uncle's, deary. Do ye know there's a round million and over, maybe, coming to my Dan? He'll be a richer man than ever his father was. I hope he'll be a better."
               "No, no!" Bessy choked and broke down again. The old man roused himself. He looked at her; then he reached over and turned her pretty, tearful face towards him. Over the brimming lids the tears were running,—great liquid, limpid pearls.
               "Why, deary!" he said, in a grieved voice. "My little girl crying! my little child unhappy!"
               "Father, will you try, please, and not mind it?" asked Bessy. "You don't know but I am crying for joy, and because I am so happy!"
               The carrier's countenance fell; he shook his head and seemed to meditate.
               "I don't know as I could think as my little one wasn't the soul of truth," he said, slowly.
               "Then you needn't think it's for joy. I'll never be so foolish again, if—if—only you'll please forget it."
               She hid her face on his knee, and he stroked the pretty head.
               "If I don't forget it, deary, I won't mind it. It's few in any place has such a pure pearl as mine in any house, and the Good Man, He knows how happy I want to make you. Tried gold, deary, is best and brightest; it's put into the fire, little girl, always remember, it's burnt and burnt till there's nothing left but the purest gold; and we've all got to be tried, deary, to see if there is anything good in us. You've got to have your trials, my little girl, along with the rest of us."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               MISS CHAMPLIN SPEAKS HER MIND.
               THE Champlin parlors had glittered and paled again. The cream of Bogwood was the thickest and best of cream, and consequently, when whipped into magnificent wardrobes, or stirred to a sparkling conglomeration of wits and fashionable effervescence, or thickened by just a dash of the acid of sarcasm, of moulded into the delicacy of girlish figures, or the statuesque proportions of noble men, was to be considered without one grain of allowance,—the veritable crême de la crême. One of the rooms had been turned into a conservatory, and Patcheen Gillimaccuddy, who kept a small green-house on the edge of Bogwood, had loaned all the brightest and hardiest of his exotics for a consideration.
               Patcheen had performed marvels with evergreen and apple-tree branches; the latter had, by a process known only to himself, had been to bloom in great pots, and all the air was perfumed with their sweetness.
               Great things had been done that night, if that is not rather a crude way of putting it.
               First, Kit Champlin had made an almost passionate declaration of his love; and as it is not to be disguised that this is a love-story, and as my reader will see by the time he, she, or it comes to the end, that I have no first-, second-, or third-rate villains in process of creation to mar these fair pages, I do not care if I insert a paragraph or two, cut out of the wooing. I like to depict fair, honest, and above-board love-making, and I like to see through what trials love will come pure and exalted.
               Kit had scarcely sought Kate out that evening, through she could not help seeing that, however surrounded, or however employed, his eyes followed her.
               When, at last, through the mediation of a plate of ice-cream, he craved her forgetfulness of his neglect, he had only to tell her that a certain honest, good gentleman was very much smitten with her, and point out Chester Hilbert, who, he assured her, had never before been on the search for a wife.
               Kate laughed, blushed, and did everything that became her on the occasion,—Kit all the time luring her forward to the greenery, which had been long empty.
               Once there, Kit employed his time to advantage, and Kate listened with a throbbing heart, remembering certain cautions she had that day received.
               "Mr. Champlin, I do love you," she said at last, with but little of the flutter that usually accompanies such a declaration, for she felt that they had long understood each other. "But what shall I do with my father? He says you are an idle fellow."
               "And I don't wonder," said Kit. "I vow I'll make over my annuity to Nerm."
               "That would be very unwise."
               "I know it; but if I had nothing, absolutely nothing, to depend upon, why, perforce, I should work."
               Kate shook her head.
               
               "I'm afraid you are lazy," she said. "I have been flattering myself that you were waiting for an opportunity."
               "Which has come. Only continue to love me, only consent to plae your happiness in my hands, and you shall see."
               "Papa will put you on probation," she said, archly. His face changed.
               "Let us put papa on probation," he said, a moment after.
               "How, pray?"
               "By marrying after the old romantic fashion," he said, unwisely. "Let us give the Bogwoodians a nine days' wonder."
               "Mr. Champlin, do you counsel a clandestine union?" exclaimed Kate, rising to her feet, her face white as the snow, her figure seeming to dilate. "Please take me into the parlor."
               "My thoughtless speech has offended you."
               He touched her fair arm; there was so much contrition in the very motion, such unaffected sorrow in the eyes; there were tender words pleading for forgiveness, a thousand protestations of love!
               And she listened. Presently they seemed to come to an understanding.
               "And after this, remember, I shall call you Claude," she murmured.
               "Yes, consider Kit dead and buried out of sight."
               "No, no; I think too well of him for that. Only when I am not pleased, or have unkind duties to perform, I shall call you Kit."
               "Forewarned, forearmed," he said, gayly.
               "And those companions?"
               "I cut them."
               "And those little, foolish habits?"
               "I forswear them."
               "As to smoking?"
               "I humbly listen."
               "You must be restricted to two cigars a day for the present, sir."
               "Most kind! I feared you were going to taboo them."
               "In which case?"
               "I should submit. I'll do anything for you, Kate Dyas,—I solemnly vow I will."
               "Hush! No foolish speaking. Does it agree with you to attend church?"
               "When you are present!"
               "A very poor motive. Do you get no good from Mr. Norman's noble sermons?"
               "My dear Kate, I should be false to myself if I said no."
               "Then you must go solely to hear them."
               "Then you must stay at home."
               "Which I sha'n't do, Mr. Sauciness."
               "I'm afraid, then, I shall still go to see you."
               "Then I'll sit in Lizzie's place, with my back to you."
               "You'll be all the nearer."
               "And then—but never mind." There was plenty of music, and the rustling of silks grew nearer; and presently Kate escaped, flushed and a little rumpled, but more beautiful than ever.
               Second. Miss Champlin and the rector had had a passage at arms.
               They talked of church-matters, discussed the interior of All Souls', and Minerva hazarded an observation. It was to the effect that the rector should turn his back to the audience when communing personally with God.
               The led to a little discussion, in which Minerva held her own very well, but the rector came off victor.
               
               "I don't wonder," she said, with some heat, "that clergymen dread to withdraw themselves and stand, as it were, alone in His presence. Such should lift holy hands, Mr. Norman."
               Something in her look made him wince.
               "They should assuredly, Miss Champlin," he said. "Then, if ever, a man feels his littleness, his imperfections."
               "The man that stands at God's holy altar, it seems to me," she continued, "should be without spot or blemish or any such thing. He ought to be wholly sanctified. Especially should he have no haunting recollections of committed sin or past transgressions, to mar the purity of his devotions."
               "You are uncompromising, Miss Champlin," he said, gravely, the color all fading from his face. "God has had occasion to forgive before now the most devoted of his saints. Look at David."
               "You are unfortunate in your selection, Mr. Norman," said Minerva, almost bitterly.
               "Unfortunate in my selection?" He crimsoned. "Suppose I say Paul, then."
               "That is better; but we have neither Davids nor Pauls in these days, I suppose. I return to my first declaration. A minister should be reared, as it were, at the very altar, so carefully, so blamelessly, that the finger of suspicion may never be pointed at him. If I could have my way, and it were possible, he should know absolutely nothing whatever of evil."
               "How could you expect him, then, to reach the hearts of men, having known no infirmities, experienced no temptations, been in effect something less of more than a human being?"
               "And," added Minerva, hurriedly, almost breathlessly, "his past should have been such from his childhood that the breath of scandal should never presume to touch him with its soiled lips. All his surroundings, all his family relations, should have been as good and pure as possible; or the church is no gainer through his apostleship."
               "You are very exacting, my friend," he said, gravely, almost sadly, "but you are partly right. Your words are the words of truth and soberness. Pardon me, I—I——"
               "Oh, Mr. Norman! you are not well?"
               "Quite—quite well!" he gasped. "One moment—there—quite—quite well! And you will allow me to make my adieus. If this faintness should come on again I shall be better in the open air."
               "The rooms are very close, Mr. Norman; don't go. I am afraid you will think I have overstepped the limits of courtesy in my freely-expressed opinions."
               "Miss Champlin—I think—I dare not tell you," he smiled a sickly smile. "It is better that I go. Some other time we will have a little talk over this matter, and I will tell you then what I think, all I think, perhaps."
               He looked so ghastly, so sorrowful, so utterly, utterly alone, that Minerva's woman's heart ached as it had never ached before,—as a woman's heart seldom does ache,—for did she not worship him?
               She was waylaid a moment after by Alice Gould, who, radiantly happy in the consciousness of being by far the best-dressed woman present, put her hand on her friend's shoulder, quite patronizingly.
               "We all said, do you know, dear, that Mr. Norman looked as if he had made an offer of himself and been rejected! Ah, Miss Champlin, you couldn't have been so cruel?"
               
               "Mr. Norman has never given me a chance to refuse him," said Minerva, almost haughtily.
               And the gilded throng enjoyed itself, and the trailing dresses compared notes with each other, and the diamonds sneered at the pearls, and the pearls ignored the modest, blushing garnets, and everybody, in his or her fashion, enjoyed the party, and called it charming, and stupid, and frivolous, and ridiculous, and delightful, and so aristocratic!
               Miss Ayres, the great heiress, had by turns electrified the company with her daring, and charmed them with her beauty. She seemed infatuated by the redoubtable Kit, expressed her preference in the most original manner, and, indeed, if Kate had not been a girl of extraordinary sense, she would have been jealous.
               As for Kit himself, he laid out six cigars as soon as he could betake himself to his room, placed himself on a chair and his feet on the mantel, which happened to be conveniently low, and smoked right through till morning looked grayly in upon him.
               His cogitations were peculiar.
               On the one hand, long waiting for Kate, hard work, and vulgar bread-winning.
               On the other, the English heiress, of whom he felt sure,—he generally felt sure of any young lady who was pleased with him,—plenty of money, a house with parks and fields and tenants, and a life of self-indulgence and of ease.
               On the one hand, a beautiful woman for whom he had not the least spark of regard.
               On the other, a beautiful woman whom he loved, and who loved him; with whom he might pass a happy, self-respecting life.
               Which should it be?
               Which does the reader think it was, when he left his chair as the light came obtrusively in, shut the heavy blinds, undressed, and went to bed?
               Why, on certain conditions—stop, I will not tell you, but let the story work out to its dénouement without betraying confidences; albeit they were only made to the white ashes that strewed the hearth. To-morrow was perhaps to be a day of penance, and only two cigars.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               BESSY FINDS THE MONOGRAM D.
               SO the rector took his smitten pride, and his shrinking, sensitive spirit, home. His life seemed to have lost all the freshness of its prime. The hindering load of circumstances weighed him down, so that he walked stooping, like an old man.
               "Nature desires, and the soul consents," he murmured, as he seated himself in his study, and turned the gas on. "If only God had made his servants without passions! But I must not think and say hard things of my Maker. I can live through this. Yes, I can live, and in time grow out of all human liking. I can create my heaven here, as men have done. Religion has hitherto been my servant; she shall henceforth be my master, God helping me."
               This with his tongue, but the set white face told of the anguish that stirred his usually gentle lips to rebellious words.
               His mind was of an exceptional make, and recognized the church as its especial sphere. It was all in all to him,—the institution with which he had joined himself for time and eternity. So Miss Champlin's words seemed to ring in and out of his brain,—words that implied so much,—that had, as he thought them over, a hidden and significant meaning. Possibly his life-guarded secret was leaking out; possibly some word had been dropped, whose seed was quietly germinating to bring forth a fresh crop of trials.
               If so, what had he better do? Clearly, leave Bogwood and his beloved All Souls'. It was with a bitter pang the man thought this, as leaning back he covered his eyes with his hands. Exceptional in his abiding love for his church, he was also exceptional in his manhood.
               His character was like a monogram,—so many distinctive good qualities were woven into one,—but he was conscientious to the verge of morbidness.
               It seemed to him that if any stain attached to him,—if by any chance his character or qualifications should be scandalously mouthed by the rabble,—then it was clearly time for him to betake himself from her borders. He had no fear but that he could support himself after the first fierce pang was over.
               It was very still in the study; that is always a solemn place where a human soul does battle with its unadjustable griefs. The very atmosphere seemed surcharged with the sobbing breath of sighs. The pageant he had that night witnessed, fleeting color, breezy voices, fictitious mirth, passed like fragments of a vision before him. Among them all, in its beautiful white distinctness, Miss Champlin's face was set with that look which in some unaccountable manner told him that she suspected him.
               Lifting his head he saw, what had escaped his notice, that two letters laid beneath his paper-weight. He examined amined the post-marks narrowly; and lingered before he opened them.
               One was merely an invitation to a clerical gathering to take place in two days; the other was a formidable-looking bill. This latter he ran his eye over, eagerly, but hastened to the sum total. Then he groaned.
               "Larger than ever," he murmured. "It is getting intolerable. I cannot endure it; it will break me down. I must take off my mask; I have been halting and lingering long enough. In some other way I can show my fealty to my church: I cannot consent to serve as its stainless priest, I cannot wear its robes, I cannot stand at its altars any longer: I will not! Let me see: the day after to-morrow I will go to this meeting, consult my bishop, and put an end at once to this miserable life."
               On the following morning he called according to appointment at the little house of the carrier. Bessy was soon to be baptized and given a lawful name.
               She met him, not without constraint, for she stood in great awe of the minister, and answered his questions with simplicity and clearness.
               "Who has been training you, my child?" asked the rector, when he had finished.
               Bessy looked up and looked down, the red blood pouring all over her childishly sweet face.
               "Mr. Rickson taught me, some," she said, with a strange hesitation, "and his son, Mr. Daniel sir."
               "I have understood that you are progressing very favorably, from young Mr. Rickson," responded the rector, a shade of severity in his tone.
               Bessy felt the change, but her eyes were still fastened upon the little red circles in the carpet.
               "At all events you must be baptized," he said, a few moments after, during which he had seemed lost in thought, "we will see then to the rest."
               "Even this poor little soul has her trials," he said, pitifully, as he left the house. "My habit of observation tells me that young as she is, and apparently artless, her heart is not quite at rest. I hope those silly rumors are not true; I hope not, for her sweet young sake; and still I wonder why the old man Rickson made so strange a move,—so singular a choice. It seems to me he might have put her out of the way of temptation without having married her. Well, well, God help us all!"
               The moment he had gone, up sprang Bessy, threw a little cape over her shoulders, which she pulled down from its peg in the kitchen, and ran out of the back-door and over to Mrs. Bride Gillimaccuddy's. She had never felt so troubled, so humbled, so wretched in her life. She had not seen Dan that morning, and old Mr. Rickson had seemed very grave and absent-minded over his coffee.
               At present, the girl not being grounded in any avowedly religious faith, Bride Gillimaccuddy's kitchen, variegated with tubs large and small, green and yellow, hot and cold, as the particular stage of her business might require, was poor Bessy's place of refuge.
               "Goody me, gracious, child! and what's ailin' of ye? Ye're looking for all the world like a chicken wid the gaps on. As Patcheen says, there's a tear in your smile, me darlint."
               Mrs. Bride was sorting clothes, and good housewives know that means putting the fine things and the coarse by themselves, and dividing the colors from the white.
               "Do let me help you, Mrs. Gillimaccuddy, won't you? I've nothing to do at all at home. You don't know how I've swept and dusted to get ready against the minister came; and now he's gone, and I'm so—so——"
               "Why, your mouth trimbles, child, an' it does. There, there, I won't speak till ye—jist have your cry out!" And Mrs. Bride punished that particular pillow-case under process of wringing till every fibre in its body hung limp and helpless as she shook it out, protesting against her cruelty.
               "I'm better now, Mrs. Bride," said Bessy, very meekly, "and I'll—oh!" And she sprang at a small heap with a shrill cry, that set the Irishwoman spining again.
               "Well, what's the matter of the child now? As Patcheen says, there's no faith to be put in a woman once she goes quare. Well!" she added, more emphatically, "there's Miss Kate Dyas's hankerchefs; the young leddy didn't like the washing to home, so she and her sister sinds the nice things to me. My faith and patience, what's come over the child?"
               "Nothing, Mrs. Gillimaccuddy, nothing; I'm only looking; I only want to see—isn't it a curious mark?" she added, with a strange, nervous little laugh,—"isn't it a curious, pretty letter?"
               "Sure, nothing so very so; it's the family trait o' the linen, that's all; and nothing o' hers, great or small, coarse or fine, but what's knowing by that same. They're a very proud old family, them Dyases, and the best of old Irish blood runs in their veins,—thrue for them."
               "Oh, Mrs. Gillimaccuddy," said Bessy, in a low, concentrated voice, which had a thrill of music in it as in the crooning of a bird, "it's so rare and pretty, isn't it? and I'd like to copy it: don't you believe I could? Why, I might; it wouldn't take me long, you know, holding it over a window-glass. Mightn't I take it into the house just a minute?—just a little minute?"
               "An' it's that way you come visiting, Mrs. Rickson?" said Mrs. Bride, with a toss of her sugar-bowl-cap; "but be off wid ye; stop, let me see it. Ach! an' it's one o' the illigint ones,—you'll find a commoner; say there was iver the scratch of a thrid gone, and it ud be two months' work out o' me, intirely."
               Bessy looked over the heap for a plainer handkerchief, and found it. Then stealing a furtive glance at Mrs. Gillimaccuddy, whom she caught in the very act of stealing a furtive glance at herself, she hurried out by the way she had entered.
               "There's somethin' wrong wid her," muttered the Irishwoman, as she punished the clothes with her teeth set. "There's somethin' wrong with the colleen. My faith and patience, but it's unhappy she is, or my name's not Bride Gillimaccuddy, of the Cuddies of Gillinamcoe. The Virgin save her! she's in peril; the saints purtect her!"
               As for Bessy, she sat down for a moment, breathless, when she had gained her little room, for she had not stopped down-stairs, but made directly for the small apartment over the back porch.
               In her hand she held the bit of linen, gloating over it as a miser might over his hoarded gold, unlawfully gained.
               "I've got it," she whispered. "Oh, if it is, if it is, what shall I do?"
               Her hands began to tremble, and she looked round the room, as if expecting witnesses to start out of the silence. Presently, still holding the handkerchief, she took from a gilded receptacle, which represented itself as a book, cunningly bound, a quaint old china snuff-box, which, from the singularity of its designs, and the marks of age upon it, must have been nearly two hundred years old. A bit of the porcelain chipped away showed that the basis was copper. This little box again she opened, and took therefrom a bit of frayed linen, very fine and very yellow, on which, in faded green, the fac-simile of the monogram in her hand had been wrought years and years ago.
               Side by side she placed them, the fresh and dainty linen, the frayed and yellow fragment, and sitting with her head bowed upon her hands, she studied them with eyes that saw many pictures therein, blended with thoughts it would be impossible for me to analyze.
               She heard the wash of water against a mighty light-house, whose gray walls defied the thunder of storms and the roll and beat of waves mountain high. She saw herself neglected, toiling, unrequited; saw all the old, sweet haunts at low tide, where treasures of coral and many-hued shells, and, perchance, the beaten, broken wings of brilliantly-plumaged birds, had gathered, as if God knew how solitary she was, and had left them there to comfort her.
               All these she thought of; then of her present situation, and shuddered.
               "Dear old father Rickson!" trembled on her lips; "but, oh, how dreadful it all seems! If I should belong to them! they so wealthy and so proud! and I here; and Dan! poor, poor Dan! and oh, how wretched it all is!
               "Granny said it might come, some day," she resumed, wiping her eyes. "Poor, old granny, sitting in the corner! She said it might come; poor, old, sorrowful granny!
               "The good rector says everything is right, everything is just as God has planned it. I wonder can it be? Things seem snarled up. Will He smooth 'em out, I wonder? And can I tell the dear old man? Oh, I can't! I can't! I shall have to keep this secret till I have courage——What shall I do? Who can tell me what to do? My best friends! my best friends! I cannot hurt them!"
               
               Pale and wan, and looking like a poor little ghost of the woman so blithe and joyous yesterday, Bessy carefully put away the frayed bit of linen, wiped her eyes, even with the delicate Dyas handkerchief, and placed the box, which could have been formerly in the possession of none but a very old and very careful granny, back in the bit of gilding that called itself a book with such brazen assurance.
               "I suppose I must trace it over the window," murmured Bessy. And accordingly she found a pencil and paper for that purpose, and industriously copied all the outlines. Then she washed away the traces of tears, and, with an assumption of perfect indifference, she carried the handkerchief back.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               A REBELLIOUS DAUGHTER.
               "MY DEAR KATE,—Your father said a good many spiteful things to me, among them, that he would never! never!—no need of my saying more. I don't think I shall ever have the grace to cultivate a forgiving spirit towards him. He has evidently been studying up my antecedents, which, pray believe me, are not as bad as they seem. Once for all, I pray you to think the best of me. John Dyas is a hard man, forgive me for saying so, but he has wounded my feelings. I know I am not good enough for you, Kate; who is? But I shall not tamely give you up. I have the liberty to write this one note, no more. He had perfect confidence in Miss Dyas, he said, etc.;" and a few passionate sentences at the close.
               Kate was inwardly frantic, though outwardly cool. She clutched the letter in her hand, stamped her foot, and said a great many uncomplimentary things of John Dyas, after she had reflected a few moments.
               She would have Claude Champlin, if she had to walk over bleeding hearts: that was the summing up of all for the first day.
               Kate was a determined girl, and full of spirit. She had a stormy interview with John Dyas that evening, and so surprised him that he almost questioned his own identity.
               But that inexorable gentleman remained firm. He knew what he knew! Was he going to stain the ears of a pure woman? She had better defer to his judgment. Suppose she should run away with him? Why, if such dishonor awaited his family escutcheon, she must take the consequences and be wiped out,—obliterated; but he didn't believe that. A Dyas knew too well what belonged to the dignity of the family.
               "Very well, papa," then said Kate, lifting her small figure: "do you know what I'll do?"
               "You'll be a dear, little, dutiful daughter, as you always have been; and you'll live to thank me for having saved you from a life-long sorrow."
               "Never!" And Kate's eyes flashed. "I'll—I'll study, to be a doctor!"
               That put the climax on what John Dyas called his child's absurdity, and John Dyas forgot his own youth and laughed. Of course Kate marched out of the room, like a tragedy queen, and never came down to her meals for three days; not from inability, but because she was too angry. Even her mother could not comfort her, though her heart ached to see Kate's tearful face, for when she first tried her woman's wit, her small lioness of a daughter turned upon her with,—
               
               "I'll marry him, mamma, if I have to wait till I'm a hundred!"
               "I'm afraid then he wouldn't have you, dear," said that gentle creature.
               "It's wicked,—wicked of you all, to make me suffer so!" cried Kate, chokingly. "Suppose some one had to set you against father? Not that I should have cared particularly."
               This ridiculous clause nearly upset her mother, who tried to explain the difference between the two men. But Kate put her hands up to her ears and acted like a perfect little termagant. She was totally inexperienced in the troubles of life, and thought her first duty was to rebel; her next, to fight.
               "We'll wait,—we'll wait and see how he conducts himself, my dear."
               "Oh, yes, you are glad enough to find fault with him; but do wait, and see," added Kate, coming out of her sobs, "if he don't conduct himself like—a King!"
               And so she sobbed and marched and talked, and talked and sobbed and marched, till Mrs. Dyas felt a little mild despair.
               The next day was Sunday. Kate would not ride to church, so her mother walked with her. A few moments before they came in sight of All Souls', what did Kate see but Kit Champlin, by the side of Miss Ayres, apparently as radiant as ever!
               "I don't blame him," said Kate, restraining her tears with difficulty, though her mother had not spoken; but there was a great pain at her heart.
               She behaved very sweetly in church; she delivered all the responses with a perfectly even voice, perhaps with a trifle more dignity than usual. But many and many a time what aching hearts those soft, quiet voices cover!
               She might have spoken to Kit; there was one chance: but with a little womanly spite, she remembered that he had walked to church with the heiress.
               "Catch me to die for love!" she said to herself, determinedly; "if he can be happy so can I."
               She had not his resources, however. Kit did not limit himself to two cigars a day: he smoked himself stupid, and drank wine with perfect abandon. During the intervals his imagination was busily employed with inventing varied little revenges with which to punish John Dyas. "When, some day, John Dyas, no longer a bloated aristocrat, but far down in the scale of business reverses, should apply to Kit Champlin, rich, famous, and courted, then the said Kit would pour the largest and the hottest coals of fire upon his bald head. Would he lend him money to set him up in business? Oh, yes; a little favor that he, John Dyas, once did for him was never to be forgotten; he took great pleasure in repaying the obligation."
               Minerva saw that something was amiss, but was full of her own trials. The family-bills were in a terrible way, and the family peace was disturbed by threatening letters. At such times, how cool and peaceful was the retrospect of All Soul's study! Why, Miss Champlin asked herself, had she taken deliberate pains to anger the rector? He had not been to Champlin Place since that evening of the party. He had only spoken to her with restrained cordiality. He would outlive his love, he would forget her. Sometimes she said to herself that no matter what he had done, no matter what that child was to him, she could forgive him freely, fully,—could marry him, and wipe out the stain with her love. But it was too late, and she was doomed still to listen to his eloquent voice, still to watch the play of his grave, noble features, and feel that she had lost the most priceless blessing of her life.
               But she put power in her book,—in her pages, rather, for the book was not yet completed. She wrote out of the sweetness and the pain of her own experience, hoping that if creditors would only wait she might defray the expenses of that party at which, perchance, she had received her death-blow,—none the less dreadful that it had been aimed by her own hand.
               Mrs. Champlin told her one day she had reason to believe that Kit had got the mitten.
               "I'm so glad!" said Minerva, wearily.
               Just as well, my dear, perhaps," continued the anxious mother; "the coast is clear, and I just hope he'll revenge himself by marrying Miss Ayres."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE RECTOR DOWN IN THE SLUMS.
               AFTER a short family consultation, it was decided that Kate should accompany her sister back to New York. That young lady was perfectly indifferent, she said. If they were to put her bonnet on, and say Kamtchatka, Kamtchatka let it be.
               "But remember, papa, if worst comes to worst, I shall study for a doctor."
               That was her standing threat. Nobody believed her.
               The Swan had its usual complement of passengers. Among them were the rector, on a second visit to his bishop; Kit Champlin, who came aboard with the Bank-heads and Miss Ayres; Dan Rickson, a thorough gentleman man in appearance, though wearing an abstracted look, and all the business population of busy, beautiful Bogwood.
               The day was exceptional. Just enough snow lay upon hill and valley to create that harmony which is produced by contrast. The sky was one serene upper sea of violet, the air was cool, and the sun poured its splendor down the river, making it seem, at times, a wide bed of liquid gold.
               Kate was quite hemmed in by her father, her mother, the Goulds, and Lizzie, who had partially overcome the tendency to twitch, but who watched the rector as subtly as ever.
               For the moment he was talking to Dan, asking after the old man.
               "My father is not well to-day, Mr. Norman," was the young fellow's reply; "and that is why I am here. I obtained leave to go to the city. Some business of his requires attention."
               "I am sorry to hear of his illness," replied the rector.
               "He is not so ill, sir; a little home-nursing will set him up again. He would like to see you, though, I have no doubt. He was speaking of it this morning."
               Kate caught, now and then, a glimpse of that fair, Saxon face that was all the world to her; and just as the rector was saying that he should certainly call at the Ricksons, Kit's eyes suddenly met hers. Certainly she might have been flattered by his manner just then, for he turned abruptly from the heiress, who was speaking, and grew pale as he stroked with quick, nervous movements his reddish-yellow moustache. A perfect athlete in figure,—as graceful as perfect,—no wonder Kate's heart beat faster and the tears crowded to her eyes. The two did manage just a word between the cabin and the landing, for he, finding an opportunity, said, in an undertone, as he passed her,—
               "Still mine!"
               And she answered back,—
               "Forever!"
               How many would have envied our Kate as she was assisted into that eminently aristocratic carriage at the city wharf, and found herself behind a gorgeous coachman, whose livery was the astonishment of all beholders!
               "So you have got livery at last," she said to Alice, drawing a long breath.
               "Of course I have," was the quiet reply.
               "I never dreamed you could be such a toady, Alice; and, if I knew the way, I'd get out and walk. I blush to be seen behind those horrible silver buttons. What has become of your dignity?"
               "My dear, it adds to my dignity," laughed Alice, who seldom lost her temper; "but please don't speak so loud, the man will hear you."
               "What if he does? A man that has descended that low would not even feel manhood enough to resent an insult. Catch me ever to ride behind him again! I glory in republican simplicity, and there isn't enough ape in me to copy such foreign fooleries."
               "Oh, you'll get over it," laughed Alice. "You're a little cross now."
               As that was quite true, Kate subsided, and arrived at her sister's stately home in a highly sulky condition. What to her were its splendors, its imported novelties, its wonders in the way of upholstery, its really costly and rare paintings? Given a cottage, to evolve love—was the problem which seemed at the present time to have more interest for her than palaces and Fifth Avenues.
               She wandered through its magnificence, dreary to her, and only found comfort in the nursery, where that prince of babies held his court, and a very imperative one it was, daily. How her sister could sit down in blue silk rocking-chairs and yellow damask lounges, and do nothing and be happy, was beyond her comprehension.
               "She's got a husband and a baby, and everything she wants," she repeated to herself. "But even then there is so much to do in the world beside dressing and eating and lounging! I shall die here."
               Meantime Dan had gone off on his mission on foot, and Mr. Norman had walked the whole length of Broadway, or nearly, before he found his friend, with whom he took counsel and dined.
               Towards evening, still very much perplexed and exceedingly disheartened, disinclined to take the advice he had asked for, and afraid to trust himself, yet the rector walked in the direction of the lower part of the city. He had a mind to stand on the edge of the Battery and study the outlines of ships, or possibly smell the salt-breeze from the sea.
               Not finding it to his liking there, he left the parapet and turned off into one of the by-streets, led, it seemed, against his will into the squalid haunts of miserable, unreasoning poverty.
               It was getting late, and the lamp-lighter was going his rounds. The ghastly faces that passed him, the foul-mouthed men, the gaunt, impertinent, children holding out their dirty palms for a penny, had a strange fascination for him. The miserable shops, whose stock in trade was a consumptive cabbage or a shriveled loaf; the rag-cellars, with their dreadful occupants sorting out filthy bits of soiled remnants seemingly past all use; the junk-shops, with their colossal coils of chains, red with the rust of shipholds holds and the chafings of distant oceans; the gin-shops, more filthy, more horrible than all, with their swarms of human vermin,—hatless, coatless, all-but gownless,—these also had a singular fascination for him. What had that well-dressed, clerical gentleman to do down in these slums? What affinity was there between his sleek broadcloth, his pale, refined face, his gloved hands, and their naked imbecility? Did not his soul shrink from their coarseness, their vulgarity, from that nameless nerve-atmosphere from which one recoils as the sensitive flesh from the instrument of cruel torture?
               He was thinking of the souls of these people. He was conscious that they were the miserable children of his Father, who had made him in some small part responsible for their well-doing. He was even thinking of asking for an humble place among them. They would scarcely question his right to break the Bread of Life; they would never ask what the past of his or any of his had been; and challenge his respectability.
               He had turned a corner and come upon a better class of buildings, squalid enough, wretched enough, in all their shaking old joints,—some of them looking as if they had been paralyzed for scores of years; others with dropsical tendencies; others with here and there a limb lopped off, or a huge scar, through whose thin surface all the rotting bones could be distinguished. But in these fourth-class tenements some respectable people lived. Through shabby curtains he saw here and there the decent, though scantily-furnished, table, and the poorly-clad children, with the hard-working mother and toil-worn father eating cheerfully.
               He had gone scarcely half the length of this street when a familiar sound smote his ear,—a touch was laid upon his arm. Shuddering, he stopped.
               "I thought it was you," and then the hollow cough. "I caught sight of your face, and threw on my shawl. I wanted to see you."
               "Then you live here?" he said, not looking at her haggard face.
               "Yes; I moved here last week, and carried my lodgers with me. I'm not a taking woman, but my lodgers won't leave me. That's my house where the second lamp-post is. That saves light; it shines right in to the old lady's winders,—but the old lady is took very bad and she moans for a minister. I made up my mind to go after one, to-morrow, for she's a 'piscopal; but I hated to call on these city men. Then I saw your face; it does seem as if you were sent to that poor soul."
               "Who is your lodger?"
               "She's a Mrs. Ray: woman upwards o' seventy; and her son, who is bad enough, a common sailor, but who always saves something out of his wages to pay for her, put her in my charge. Since this last sickness she's been a little out now and then, and I can't git enough together to understand quite what she means. But I know who it's about. What man was that in your town married a crossing-sweeper? Rickson?—yes. Well it's about the girl he married; and if it's true as I piece it together, it's important. Will you go and see her?"
               The man turned with his unwholesome companion, and presently stopped. A carriage drove by as he stood under the vivid light of the gas.
               "It's seldom such pass here," said the woman, nodding her yellow face toward it, as she pulled a key from her pocket and applied it to the door.
               A gush of stifled, mouldy air escaped as the door flew open, revealing, by a dim light from above, a long, boarded, carpetless, comfortless-looking hall.
               
               "You go in there and stop a little; mind the step." And the caution was needed, for the floor sank down at an angle of I dare not say how many degrees from its right angle, and the rector found himself in a large, scantily-furnished room, quite clean, but with that dead and stifling odor which ever accompanies slow decay.
               A broken rocking-chair stood near the smouldering fire, on a broken hearth. A rusty tea-kettle bubbled almost cheerfully above the scant blaze; a table was set between that and the window, with a loaf, a plate and knife, a spoon and saucer, and a small pitcher. An oil-lamp burned gloomily on the high shelf, and cast uncouth shadows that seemed forever plunging at each other, pushing each other into the darkness beyond, and then rushing out and at it again, like a legion of black imps.
               He had plenty of time to gather in all the details as he sat there, for the woman seemed gone, as he said to himself, an unconscionable time; but presently the short, harsh cough came down the stairs, and she followed it.
               "Now, if you'll come up," she said.
               A tall window, covered with dust and grime at the head of the rattling staircase, which doubled itself, let in the street-light sufficiently to show the way. The room was over the one he had just left, quite as large, though not quite as bare of comfort. A calico-covered lounge and a large, old-fashioned rocking-chair, gave it something of a cosy, cheerful look. A decent bed stood at the farther end, hung with old-fashioned curtains; and through the opening in these could be seen a figure, gaunt and long, lying in the bed.
               Bertha, as the rector called the landlady of this cheerless house, had brought up the oil-lamp, and set it at one corner of the fireplace. Now she went towards the bed, stifling her cough, and, bending over the woman, said,—
               "Granny, the minister has come; him you wanted to see."
               A much-worn prayer-book laid on the shelf, and the rector took it before he went to the bedside.
               "She wanders a little, but she'll come to," whispered Bertha; "she always does." And she drew the rocking-chair up to the bed.
               The old face that greeted him, though thin and pinched and pale, still bore the marks of considerable beauty. The lack-lustre eyes looked up at him, but just at present he was not in her thought.
               "John," she said, "how it storms! Don't let that child go up alone. The lamp's a hard one to light, and beyond her strength. Stop drinking, John, and go yourself; do you hear?"
               "You see I waked her up," whispered Bertha, "and she never comes to all at once. She's in the light-house now."
               "It's a burning sin and a shame to let her go up when the storm is this wild," muttered the old creature. "It's not as my John was once, and that woman has ruined him."
               The rector waited patiently.
               "Come up to the fire, Bessy, child; why, you're dripping wet. You shouldn't go out in such a storm. Dear Lord, but the waves strike through to my heart."
               "Mother," said the rector. And, as he stooped over her, he seemed to see a picture of fitful light and stormy sea; a gray pile wound about with sea-weed and sea-foam, and holding defiant, rocky front against the almost over-powering billows that leaped and struck at the warning light above.
               
               "Well, John!" was the quick answer.
               "You are mistaken: I am not John; I am a minister; I have come to try and give you spiritual comfort."
               She seemed striving to struggle into consciousness.
               "I wanted to do something about that child," she said; "but I was hindered till she died."
               "Who do you mean by she?"
               "John's wife."
               "John is your son?"
               "Yes, sir; my ruined son," she added, with emphasis.
               "And the child?"
               "Bessy?"
               "Yes; you wish to tell me about her?"
               "Yes, I do. She was not the woman to care for such a one, though she never hurt her more than skin-deep, anyway."
               "I take your meaning; she was cruel to her."
               "Sometimes. It was not here, you understand. We came here afterwards; it was miles and miles away."
               "In another State?"
               "Yes; John brought her home. He had gone for provisions. There was a pile of things in the boat: a sack of flour; a sack of potatoes; a good many little matters."
               "Yes."
               "And a sail-cloth thrown over them. So when he came home and unloaded at the lighthouse-landing, he found a little child sleeping among the bags."
               "He never knew how it came there?"
               "Never; he never wanted to, for she was wild for it. She loved it and tended it while it was little, and, if she'd never had a passion for drink, I think she might always have been kind; but she ruined John, while the child sort o' growed away from her. I knew the child belonged to good kin by her clothes, and I tried my best to have 'em do right about it; but no, neither of 'em did as I wanted 'em to."
               "Was there anything about the child by which she might be identified? any peculiar mark or blemish?"
               "There was clothes, sir; everything was marked. If you'll give me my prayer-book, sir,—you've got it; thank 'ee, sir. You see I pasted it on, inside here,—a queer sort o' letter, sir, I 'spose it be, and which was on all her little clothes. Many's the time, sir, my heart has ached for them who lost her, and I thought that someways this, though it be a small evidence, might help her come by her own. She never knew I kept it; and I don't think prayer-book or Bible was ever opened by her. Likewise I give one of the letters to the child herself, when we left the light,—she were pretty well a grown woman then,—and I told her to keep it; told her how we came by her, and all about it. I would a' done it, sir, if she had killed me for it. Then she went on to evil ways, and God knows what would a' become of the child if she hadn't been took by his providence the second time. I'd like to see her, the pretty! A purer heart God never made. I tried to do my duty by her; and, though she were wild and ignorant, she hardly knowed what wickedness meant."
               All this time the rector was studying the monogram in faded green. He did not remember that he had ever seen it; and still there was a floating recollection which he could not fix, of having caught sight of such a mark; was it in Bogwood?
               "You'll help to find her, sir?"
               "I certainly will."
               "You bein' a minister will have opportunities. And now can't ye read me somethin' comfortin'?"
               He read her something comforting.
               "The music of the great organ keeps going through my head," she murmured, moving restlessly. "I used to hear it when the sea run loose and there was wild storms in the air. I wish I could hear it now. When I was a girl I played a bit myself; you mightn't believe it, but I was brought up fairly, and had good parents and grandparents. That's why I don't despair o' John. You'll maybe see him sometime, if ever you come here again."
               Mr. Norman, with dim ideas of what new mission for the degraded, assures her that he will come again; that if he sees her son John he will try to do him good.
               "If I could hear just a bit o' music," she said, after a little silence. "My ears ache sometimes to ketch somethin; beside the cart-wheels and the screamin' of the children."
               Mr. Norman thought for a moment, and then lifted his rich voice in "Jerusalem the Golden."
               It was, as he afterwards remembered, one of the sweetest recollections of his life, the lifting up of that impassive face, the soft glow that suffused the thin cheeks, to which the worn-out channels seldom sent their life-force now; the raised fingers softly clasping and unclasping in delicate accord with one of the saintliest hymns that human lips ever chanted.
               "Oh, sir!" she said, her old mouth trembling, when he had finished, "when you come to lie down at your last, may you be done by as you have done by me!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               RECOGNITION OF MONOGRAM.
               THE rector had a room, whenever he came to the city, in a very respectable house, kept by a window in Madison Avenue. To that temporary home he repaired after his strange interview with the party who called herself John's mother, much perplexed in his mind, and revolving over and over again the singular news he had so recently listened to. He had always felt a shadowy conviction that the little girl (she seemed a little girl to him) had shown a superiority of face and manner to the people of her own class. Brought up, it had occurred to him, among the same surroundings that had degraded the girl Lizzie, she yet seemed of infinitely purer clay. He had never stopped to inquire why he thought so; it had been a mere passing impression. In one, the good predominated over the evil; in the other, the evil came uppermost, and cropped out in grotesque but unhealthy flowering.
               He grew restless as he thought, trying to fathom this mystery, the clue to which he held, for he had rapidly copied the complicated letter. His room was snug, crimson-lined, and lighted. Presently there was a knock at the door, and at his "come in" the landlady entered.
               "Mr. Norman, you'll excuse me, I know, but I always ask for you at the post-office when you are in town, and here is a letter for you."
               He thanked her with a pleasant smile, took the letter, and the bright-faced landlady left the room.
               On looking at the postscript, he knew at once where to place the letter.
               
               "So soon can they want a remittance?" he queried, with a distressful face, and opened the letter.
               A slip of paper fluttered out, and lay at his feet.
               The paper was old and yellow. He stood looking at it for a moment before he stooped and picked it up. The suddenly his face flushed and grew radiant with a great joy. He devoured the contents. Again and again he read, till strength and eye-sight seemed to fail, and he sank upon his chair with the exclamation, "Thank God!"
               A part of the letter I transcribe:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "The man whose name is down on our books as Leslie died last night. For several days he has been failing, and has refused his wonted stimulants, but we none of us thought him so near his end. Yesterday, at noon, he was sitting in his usual manner at the window. He asked for bread and milk, which when given him he ate heartily. When the attendant took the empty bowl from his hands, he said,—
                           "'Now I am going to be a good boy.' And in an instant he was gone.
                           "Among some old papers, which he seems to have guarded very sacredly, we found the inclosed. Thinking it might be of great importance to you, I inclose it in this letter. The other papers, as well as the body, await your disposal.
                           
                              "We remain, etc.
                              "BROOKDALE ASYLUM, New York State."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The little yellow paper that he held in his hand, and which came very near changing all his ideas of duty, was a marriage certificate.
               "Happy!" he murmured. "Yer how can I be happy, and that dead face——"
               He moved to the window and parted the heavy crimson curtains, for this was a very thoroughly-furnished, homelike house, and looked out on the lovely night. A dull, bluish-gray halo tinted the clouds, but presently the moon sailed out and silvered everything with her pale glory. Here and there the clouds were thickly banked, but the stars stood like angels in every rift, and seemed to look down upon the mysteries and miseries of the world with compassionate eyes.
               Another time he would have seen no beauty in those piled-up clouds, in those far, sweet, gracious lights; but now a face that had once been fair and pure and innocent seemed gazing out of that same heaven. Whether God had lifted it up among the angels, he could not tell; tried not to think of what might be, but what had been, and so kept his mind balanced.
               "I could weep," he said to himself, softly, "as if all my trials were past and I in heaven; but it is not so,—may not be so. The worst of the blackness of this disgrace is gone. From to-night I hold up my head among men; but, oh, God! at what a sacrifice!"
               Another knock.
               "A thousand pardons, Mr. Norman," cried the vivacious landlady; "but this was overlooked. It was the carelessness of the servant. I never knew him to do such a thing before."
               "You are very kind to apprise me of it yourself," said the rector as he took the note; and she, with a smile and another apology, floated away.
               He opened the note hastily, a very pretty, scented envelope inclosing it; then, as he neared the light, grew pale at what he saw.
               A monogram D in light green, on a rose-tinted ground!
               
               "This is very singular," he said, his hand trembling as he held the envelope and compared the letters. "Perfectly alike, not a curve missing; a singular involvement! God is dealing strangely with me. But let me see what the note says."
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MY DEAR PASTOR [so it commenced],—My sister is somewhat concerned about her little son, who has not been well for a day or two. She begs me to ask you, as her husband is away and she is apprehensive of our little boy's serious illness, if you will come to us this evening, between eight and nine, and baptize little Chester. Mr. Gould will be at home by that time, and we shall be fully prepared. I am to be my nephew's godmother, and papa will be his godfather.
                           "Hoping this may reach you in time, I remain very truly, etc.,
                           
                              "CATHERINE DYAS."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The rector pulled out his watch. Just eight to a second. He was in time. Placing the envelope and the monogram he had copied in his breast-pocket, he lowered the gas and hurried from the house, found a carriage, and was soon on his way to the avenue of palaces.
               Arrived there, he was ushered in by a gigantic foot-man in livery, who looked as if he had taken lessons in the art of door-opening, but did not feel himself quite perfect yet. He made a clutch for Mr. Norman's hat, but that gentleman avoided him and quietly placed it upon the rack himself. He was directed to an exquisite little room, whose dainty portals plebeian feet had never crossed,—a room with lace and blue hangings, sweet and pure enough to be photographed for the pleasure of all beauty-lovers, to be hung in the heart as a perpetual remembrance.
               After all, the money-lovers, these people of professed aristocratic tastes, have their uses; for them the ripest skill, the unabated energies of the artist, are brought into play. He touches the canvas and tints the walls and carves the marble, and even drapes the curtains; he frosts with inimitable skill the pendent shades, and carves from dead gold and silver the daintiest leaves, rivaling nature's handiwork. All this for some appreciative eyes, for some tender lips to praise, for some hearts to glow over and remember as one remembers a rare cabinet-picture.
               Presently Kate came down. Possibly, as she gave him warm greeting, she wondered a little why he looked at her with such unwonted earnestness. Kate had grown handsomer since her trial. She sparkled on the top of her trouble, coming, as it were, out of the wave into the fresh sunlight. She always had a little glow on her cheek, that came of small altercations with Alice over the adopted habits and foreign tricks of the latter.
               "How kind you were to be so prompt!" she said. "If you will put up with my company for a few moments my sister will have her little boy ready. There is some delay about his robe, but it will be here soon. Do you feel musical, Mr. Norman?"
               "Thank you; I am in a very unmusical mood to-night, I believe. Excuse me, but I am a great admirer of curious monograms, and that one——" He nodded towards her handkerchief, which she had laid carelessly on the table between them.
               "Oh, that is very ancient; many people admire it. I have the old family seal, or rather Alice borrowed it to show it to a friend. It is in this little cabinet, I think."
               She procured it, and put it in his hand.
               "It is very rare and very beautiful," he said. "I have a fac-simile which I copied from a little bit of old linen. You see they are alike."
               She looked at it; from it to him.
               "You copied it?"
               "In a strange place, Miss Dyas."
               "Was it? Why, I wonder who could have had it? I don't believe there's a duplicate; mamma is rather queer about having it copied. She works them herself in a stitch that has fallen into disuse. It is one of her hobbies that everything in the house shall be marked with it. Her intimate friends always called it the Dillaby D."
               "Ah! then Dillaby is your family name?"
               "My mother's family name."
               "It is worked in green, I notice."
               "Always green. The Dillabys were of Ireland."
               "The one I saw was green; though, necessarily, much faded."
               "Why necessarily?" asked Kate, paling a little.
               A servant appeared.
               "Mrs. Gould would like to see Miss Dyas," she said in a quiet, well-bred tone.
               Kate made a step forward.
               "I'm to tie his bows, I suppose; I always do. We will send for you, Mr. Norman." And she was gone.
               He was not long left in this beautiful solitude. The same maid came soon after, and told him that the mistress was ready; and he was led into the state parlor, where sat a few guests, among them Mr. Dyas and Mr. Chester Hilbert, who stood high in the merchant's esteem as a suitor for his daughter's hand.
               Some choice floral decorations had been hastily arranged. There was a cross flowers over the improved altar; the great golden font was imbedded in sweet-smelling azalas. Mrs. Gould was exquisitely attired in her bridal-dress, not even a pin omitted, for everything had been sacredly kept in cedar-wood and lavender. Mr. Gould was quite as faultlessly arrayed. The nurse stood near with the babe in her arms; and next to her was Lizzie, as much at home amidst all the splendor as if she had been born in the purple.
               Baby looked royally languid, but quiet and composed, as if sensible of the responsibility that was to be taken for him. His large, blue eyes moved from object to object in the splendid parlor, and then rested on the clergyman with a serene wonder in their gentle depths, while his mother watched him with a proudly-tender smile.
               Never had Mrs. Gould looked to better advantage than when she took the babe in her arms. Her motherliness steeped her beauty as in a most sacred aroma, while she, it that solemn moment, built castles of wonder of her boy.
               Oh, mother-faith! beautiful, even terrible, when we think what giants of remorse have grown from just such fairy limbs!
               The ceremony over, there came a magnificent collation, and, during that and the subsequent hour, Kate was somewhat struck with the change in the rector's manner towards Lizzie, her protégé. He spoke to her more than kindly, even affectionately. He asked Kate if she was to be baptized, and said it ought not to be deferred. The girl herself was somewhat abashed. Indifference or dislike emboldened her; kindness from an unexpected source softened her. Once or twice she put her hand to her mouth, for her nerves were not quite under her control.
               "Kate," said Alice the next day, as the two sat in the nursery a few moments, "I wonder you and Mr. Norman haven't made a match."
               
               "You almost surprised me into a vulgar start," said Kate, looking up. "Mr. Norman!—of all things!"
               "He's as handsome as a picture."
               "Granted; but it's one of the pictures I don't fancy. I was never partial to saints."
               "No, a clever sinner for you. For shame, Kate! I suppose you see papa's preference?"
               "I can hardly help it."
               "Hilbert is a splendid fortune; he's richer than Alvord."
               "Makes no difference; if he owned all New York and gave me Central Park for a croquet-ground, I wouldn't look at him."
               "Don't be absurd, Kate."
               "I will be absurd,—it's my way."
               "You can't cling to that lazy fellow yet? Why, Kate, he'll marry the heiress; that's fixed."
               Kate changed color, but stoutly denied it.
               "We'll see," said Alice, who thought she had her sister's good at heart. "Well, what is it?" for Kate was looking with fixed eyes at Lizzie, who stood bent over the cradle, intently watching the sleeping boy.
               "I—never—saw it before," she murmured, slowly.
               "Never saw what?"
               Kate pointed.
               "That girl's face, and Mr. Norman's,—do you see the likeness?"
               Alice looked long, and her eyes meeting Kate's told that she did.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               BESSY RICKSON'S TROUBLE.
               OLD man Rickson had for some time been "running down," as he expressed it.
               "A little home-nursing, deary, and a little quiet,—that'll set me up," he said, one morning. "Dan must go to the city for me, and I'll stay home and take some yarb-tea and play sick."
               "But I'm afraid you are sick, father," said Bessy; "your eyes are heavy."
               "Nothing to speak of, deary. You just sit down over there and talk to me, or read to me, an' I'll git well fast enough. Home is a nice place when one's head is bad."
               Bessy laid her cool, little hand on his brow.
               "Thank'ee, deary; but don't mind me. Just you go on as you always do, and I'll be a clumsy old bird on my perch, only I can't sing to ye. How is it, little one? I don't see no more books and slates about. Seems to me the lessons is stopped; seems to me the bell don't call to school, and the classes don't come up no more to recite. You and Dan quarreled?"
               "Oh, no, father," said Bessy, with a frightened, blushing face.
               "Then it's his fault. He's found some girl to run after as the 'cademy, and he forgits his duties to home. It won't do,—I'll speak to him."
               "Oh, no, no, father!" exclaimed Bessy, with an energy unusual with her. "Don't you know we can't always go on doing the same things? And—and I—I'm having a vacation now."
               
               "Oh, that's it. Well, it's right to take a little time for retribution—a little time for retribution."
               That dreadful word set all Bessy's pulses fluttering. It seemed somehow to have a death-knell in it.
               "Don't you mean recreation, father?" she asked, timidly.
               "Most likely I do, deary. Being little of a schollard, I git things mixed, no doubt. Why, what a sunny, little place it is!—and what a sunny little wife the old man has got!"
               Bessy shivered from head to foot, and all the color drifted slowly from her pretty cheeks.
               "It's a morsel of a wife, though, just a morsel; and she looks a bit weary, too, as though the hard world didn't quite suit her. And maybe this old man don't suit her, either; be a'most too dull, too slow in his wits, for a little, bright young thing like her!"
               "Oh, father, father!" murmured Bessy, with an imploring gesture. But the old man seemed pitiless.
               "And Dan, too. Dan used to be a fellow fond of his home. I used to think he was fond of you, too, little oue."
               "Yes, father!" And the bright head fell lower and lower.
               "And at last how you thought you could make him happy?"
               "I—I remember it all." Her lips were very dry as she spoke.
               "And we did make him happy, and we two wanted to make a lady of ovr little darling, and so he took her in hand, and we had such nice times with our school—calling up the schollards to recite reading, 'riting, 'rithmetic—till—all of a suddent everything dropped. I don't understand it, little woman—leastwise as I wish I did."
               Bessy's eyes were full of tears; her cheeks had been very pale, but now they burned with the hot, surging blood under their surface.
               What could she say but make dumb, helpless protest? She was frightened and half angry, and it seemed as if the very ground were slipping away under her feet
               Mr. Rickson looked at his watch, and then he sighed. The sigh went to Bessy's heart. She longed to lay her head on his shoulder and tell him all, and cry there like a baby. But how could she tell him all without exposing Dan?
               "I guess I'll sleep a little, deary." And up went the old brown handkerchief. So, when she thought he was sound asleep, the young wife indulged in a few tears, letting them fall silently on her work.
               Bessy nursed the old man very assiduously; but still he seemed to fail, grow weaker and weaker.
               "It wearies me to be a burden on ye, deary," he said, one day.
               "Never say that, father." And Bessy brushed and rumpled the silver hair, and brushed it again, standing behind his chair.
               "What with this sickness, and Dan's going off, it's a hard time for me," he added querulously.
               "Dan's going off!"
               "Yes, child; he's making ready to clear out to the other end of the world."
               The brush had suspended operations, and Bessy sank down, down so noiselessly that the old man never knew it, but waited for the soothing operation of the hair-dressing in which the poor girl had been interrupted.
               Presently he called her. There was no response. He looked round, trembling from head to foot. There she lay all in a white heap behind him.
               
               To lift her, place her on a lounge, sprinkle her pale face with water, was but the work of a minute.
               "I've been too harsh, too cruel with her, poor little thing! Bessy, sweet child! Ah, there you are! You're coming round." He chafed her hands and bathed her forehead.
               "Oh, father, don't!—it's all along of me."
               "What is it, deary?"
               "It's all along of me that Dan is going. I haven't made the home right for him,—I came between you and him. Send me away! please send me away! I make everybody miserable."
               "Not me, my dear, not me."
               A face with a china border peeped into the parlor, and then quietly withdrew. A loud voice exclaimed:
               "Sure if it's Irish sthew, then Irish sthew it is, wid a dash of red pepper in it, to keep it from worriting the stummich. As Patcheen obsarves, the way to a man's heart is by the road o' good vittles. You'll find it on the table, Mrs. Rickson, and axcuse me, for the tubs is callin'."
               So Bessy, happily diverted for the moment, smoothed out her tumbled little face and hair, and tried, as the old man recommended, not to think about it.
               "But, oh," she thought, "if he only knew what I know about that dreadful letter! and if I only dared to tell him of it!"
               Bessy tasted the Irish stew, and put it aside for Dan, who was expected home that night, and then set herself to work to atone for her weakness in fainting away.
               She read three chapters of "Robinson Crusoe," made an early cup of tea, toasted some bread in thin, crisp slices, insisted upon pouring the tea out for him, and holding the cup to his lips herself. Thanked him again and again, for having taken her from that other life, and giving her such peace and content in this; began to think that Dan's going would be a real blessing after all, and that she should keep on in her old, quiet way, in spite of scandal and monograms and other miserable devices.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               TROUBLE FOR BESSY AND DAN.
               DAN came home at the usual hour. He looked blue and cold, and Bessy was glad to exert herself and give him his supper. Dan, since that night in which he forgot himself, had scarcely looked at, much less spoken to, Bessy. To-night, after he was thawed out, he seemed a little more like his old self.
               "How is father?" he asked.
               "Poorly. He went up-stairs at five."
               "I hope he's not going to have a run of fever," added Dan.
               "Oh, indeed, I hope not!" responded Bessy, fervently.
               "Poor old father!" And the boy's voice was very sad. "I'll be half sorry I made arrangements to study in the city," he said, in a low voice.
               "In the city? you mean you're to study for a lawyer?" said Bessy, timidly.
               "Yes," he replied, in the same low, absent tone, his cheek on his hand.
               "Then you're—not going—out—of the—country?" said Bessy, with averted face.
               "Not just this week," responded Dan, more roughly than he thought, never dreaming he had started tears. The poor fellow was hard at work, striving to overcome that which had been the sweetest and the bitterest trouble of his life. The best of us know what such struggles are. But these raging things we call passions are not to be packed away in a corner and labeled "to be used when called for." He, poor fellow, thought he had put his love and his shame under his feet; but it was very hard to be so near her, and yet, as the old song hath it, "so far away."
               Bessy felt very uncomfortable. The old avenues of study and cordiality had been closed. It was dreadful to sit there, under the gas, and knit and think, while he crouched so moodily by the fire, neither stirring nor speaking.
               Presently she lighted a taper.
               "I'll go up and see if father wants anything," she said.
               And next he heard her scream.
               "Oh, Dan, Dan!"
               "What is it? Don't be frightened, my darling! I'm coming." And he dashed through the door and up-stairs, where she stood on the landing white as a sheet, her eyes staring.
               "Bessy, dearest love! what has happened?"
               "Don't, don't!" she cried, throwing his hands off. "Hark! do you hear? Oh, Dan, he is very sick! he don't know me at all. If you could have seen how he looked at me! He called me by another name!—your own mother's name! He is quite out of his head; only listen! He is calling her!—your mother, Dan, who has been dead in her grave so many years! I shut the door because I was frightened; he don't want me. What shall we do, Dan? Shall I go for the doctor?"
               "Yes, Bessy." He sobered instantly and drew back. "Forgive me, dear; yes, you must go. I won't forget myself again, by Heaven, I won't!" And he clinched his hands. "Poor old father! I must stay with him. Yes, Bessy, if you are not afraid, go."
               She was too frightened to be afraid. One fear counteracted the other, and in a few moments she was flying over the roads in the keen, cutting air, her thin shawl but a poor protection.
               Arrived at the doctor's, there was no one at home. The servant thought that the "doctor and missus" were at Mr. Champlin's or at Eagle Terrace. They had spoken of going to both places. So Bessy, cold to the heart and shivering with mortal dread, plunged first in the direction of Champlin Place.
               A fine snow was just beginning to fall, and the wind cut keen, like a razor newly edged, and blew what little dust there was straight into her eyes. All Souls' looked like a gray-black ghost standing in deathly stillness a-top of its dusky terraces.
               She gained the Champlins'.
               Minerva herself came to the door, the servants being out or ill. In great trouble as she was, Bessy noted the pinched, haggard look of the handsome Miss Champlin.
               "Why, Mrs. Rickson! What is the matter?" she asked. "Come in out of the cold."
               "Oh, I thought I should find the doctor here! They told me he was either here or at Eagle Hill. Mr. Rickson is very sick—out of his head. No? Then I must go over to Mrs. Dyas's; he's sure to be at one of them," she said.
               "You poor little thing!" said Minerva, pitifully.
               "Doc is over to Dyas's," called a manly voice.
               
               "And you must trudge up there. Let my brother go for you."
               "Oh, no, Miss Champlin. I must see if he is there myself."
               "I'm going right by there," said Kit, with alacrity. "I'm going up to Dikeman's. Tell her to wait till I get my great-coat on."
               He came out of a blaze of light well wrapped up.
               "You'll take my arm," he said, pleasantly,—"the wind's hard to go against?" And, as she hesitated, he delicately lifted her hand and held it close.
               They were soon at the Terrace.
               "Yes, there are lights at the front," said Kit; "he's there. I'll wait till you get to the door."
               "Thank you," said Bessy, fervently, but her lips were numb.
               A servant spoke to Mrs. Dyas, and she went out into the hall.
               "I think she asked for the doctor, ma'am," she said, as Mrs. Dyas's glance fell upon the fair little figure seated in the great chair, half fainting.
               "Why, my child!" exclaimed that sweet woman, for Bessy looked so little, so fair, so fragile!
               "I—want—the doctor," said Bessy, struggling against her weakness. "Mr. Rickson—is—sick."
               "And so are you, my poor girl! Here, lay your head on my shoulder a moment. Why, you're like a little clod of ice! Who sent you out in these thin wraps?"
               "No one," whispered Bessy, feeling all through her being are infinite content as her head rested against that montherly breast; and she sipped something sweet and hot. "I don't think I should have gone faint but for getting where it's so warm. I didn't feel cold, not very."
               "You didn't know you did, child. Now, can you stand? Come into the room here, and I'll send the doctor right away; he sha'n't linger a moment, I assure you. And then we'll get you warm, put on something thick, and send you after him. Will that do?"
               Bessy looked in those kindly eyes and shivered from head to foot, as she thought,—
               "I that is true; if I belong to somebody—and she—is—my——"
               She dared not lisp the word even in her mind,—dared not, looking at this woman so like a beautiful, happy queen, and remembering what she had been, the lighthouse drudge, the crossing-sweeper.
               So she followed mutely; and the way those two women, for the doctor's wife also did her best, coddled and cosseted her, asking her such needless, nice little questions,—making her sip that sweet, hot drink, making her take off her shoes and warm the two half-frozen bits of feet, and then comforting her by telling how much the doctor could do, how many he had cured, wondering in their hearts all the while how this child could possibly be the wife of that old, old man!—I say the way those two, dear, blessed women went on was sight to see.
               "I declare!" said Mrs. Dyas, after she had been warmly wrapped up and a servant sent home with her. "I believe I have fallen in love with that little creature."
               "So have I," echoed the doctor's wife, putting her feet on the silver-coated fender.
               "I felt almost as if I had known her all my life," said Mrs. Dyas.
               "And what a pure face she has!"
               "Ah, little motherless thing!" sighed Mrs. Dyas.
               "Is the motherless?"
               "I'm sure I don't know," responded Mrs. Dyas. Then the two women looked at each other, and laughed at this whimsical aspect of the matter, and Mrs. Dyas resumed.
               "I feel as if she was, at any rate. Now, if Kate had found a girl like that, I can tell you I should have felt very much like adopting her."
               "I don't know, my dear."
               "But I do. That pretty face haunts me like something familiar, and I've hardly ever noticed her before. If it isn't wrong, I hope that old man will go to heaven."
               "Why, you wicked woman!"
               "I believe I would adopt her then."
               "There's a good deal of talk floating about, you know."
               "There generally is."
               "Have you heard that Mr. Norman thinks of resigning?"
               "No; I wouldn't believe it if I did. Mr. Norman! Why, he and All Souls' are one and inseparable; it would break his heart. Do you know I think he had the over-seeing of every stone from the foundation? He even took a trowel himself one day, just to say that he had helped build the church. All Souls' itself would protest in some gray, stony manner. I think the steeple would fall, or the bell would crack, or something dreadful would happen."
               "You are an enthusiast. I do wish people would stop talking," said the doctor's wife, with a look that implied she could tell much if she was pressed very hard.
               "Oh, they never will; depend upon that."
               "The least scandal is so hurtful to a clergyman."
               "Poor Mr. Norman! Have they got it round that he is after my Kate?"
               "Worse than that."
               "Then," said Mrs. Dyas, very composedly, "I don't want to hear it. If ever there was a good, simple, true man, Mr. Norman is one."
               "But his salary,—what does it go for?"
               "That's none of our business, I think, my dear."
               Minerva Champlin went back to her room as Bessy left Champlin Place with her brother.
               She had received good news that day. Her book was probably a success. She saw a way out of some of the family difficulties, especially as her father had received a large sum of money, which, fortunately, he had not spent in bargains. Indeed, it had been a thoroughly-golden day, for Kit had shown her in confidence that he was the author of several wonderful little squibs, not half a column long, that were fast making a reputation for the writer, who signed himself "Quilp."
               "I've already had a dozen offers, Nerm," he added, showing as many letters to her; "and I've only to go on and pile up the cash. What do you think?"
               "I think," said Minerva, with tears in her eyes, "that I never dreamed what you were to me till this very night. Oh, Kit! how I shall rejoice in your success more than in my own!"
               "Well, I believe you will, Nerm; and, if it's any consolation to you to know it, half my deviltry was feigned to teaze you. You were always such a perfect little man-hating soul, my dear."
               And so Minerva Champlin ought to have gone to her room contented and happy. But where is the human being who, if all outward circumstances are favorable to his peace of mind, will not forthwith religiously go to work and invent some scarecrow to set up in his mental field, that he may enjoy himself by being miserable?
               Minerva's bête noire was the fear that she had driven the rector of All Souls' away from her forever.
               If she could only have seen his heart at that moment!
               To add to her other troubles, she was haunted by the remembrance of that innocent face with which her brother had just marched off. A vague feeling that she had not done her duty by her as a faithful child of the church oppressed her. And now that she was in trouble, her way was hedged up by her previous neglect.
               "I'll call there to-morrow," she said.
               Why, in connection with this girl, did Kate's bright face intrude upon her meditations? She felt, a little too late perhaps, that she had not been just to her brother Kit. But, then, had not the foolish fellow himself to blame that she had whispered warnings into the maternal ear, and even poisoned Kate's mind a little? The more she thought of it the more heinous the offense seemed. She felt herself to have been woefully wanting in sisterly affection; and now she feared there was no help for the harm she had done. Kit seemed bewitched with that trifling, light-headed girl, Miss Ayres, who actually had been seen to kiss her hand to somebody in the street, and who set all the rules of lady-like decorum at defiance, flying hither and thither, calling staid, elderly gentlemen by their first names, and behaving with a hoydenish, thoughtless abandon that put all the fast American girls Miss Champlin had ever met clear out of sight of competition.
               "There's one good thing," Mrs. Champlin said, on occasion of one of her visits, when she had shocked that superior lady by her rendering of two or three hearsay stories, "if Kit marries her, he'll go out of the country. That woman would shock me to death before she had been in the house a year."
               Minerva loosened her hair, that fine golden cloud that had made her in the rector's eyes so like the best conceptions of the Holy Mother, when Mrs. Champlin came in with the paper in her hand. "Only think!" she exclaimed claimed, "Mr. Hilbert is up for Congress! See what a chance you have lost!"
               "Mother, you talk like a lottery director," said Kate, passing the comb through her long, silken hair.
               "But wait," added her mother, impatiently; then read:
               "It is rumored that this gentleman will soon lead to the hymeneal altar the beautiful daughter of our esteemed fellow-citizen, Mr. John Dyas."
               "Oh, those vulgar papers!" snarled Minerva. "Can't they let one's private affairs alone? I don't believe it."
               "Kit does," said her mother.
               "How do you know?"
               "Oh, the way he looked and laughed when he read it. Now, I suppose he'll go in, in earnest, for that dreadful girl!"
               "That ought to please you, mamma,—she has money."
               "I do not consider money as the chief good, Miss Champlin," said her mother, loftily.
               "That's because papa and I have had a streak of luck," thought Minerva.
               "I don't believe we shall ever get another rector like Mr. Norman," said Mrs. Champlin, plaintively, changing the subject.
               The comb fell from Minerva's helpless fingers,—its silver top changing on the floor. She picked it up, biting her lip almost till the blood came, and then prayed softly for Christian resignation. By that time there were tears in her eyes.
               "Your aunt, in her letter to me, says there is no doubt of it. She's an intimate friend of Bishop Hoadly, you know. He has got a notion in his head that he can do more good among the poor. I mean that Mr. Norman has."
               
               "I think he can," said Minerva, finishing the great golden coil, which became her better than a crown.
               "Nerm, I did think Mr. Norman liked you at one time."
               "Did you?" The voice was cold and wonderfully steady.
               "You might do worse than marry the rector of All Souls'; but as to going to New York to do mission work, and catch the scarlet fever or the small-pox, I couldn't consent to that."
               "It wouldn't be pleasant," responded Minerva, still keeping her voice up.
               "He's very foolish, very," continued the passive woman, with a wise shake of the head. "If these rumors have no foundation in fact——"
               "They have not!" cried Minerva, biting every word short.
               "I say if they have not, and probably they have not,—though there's always fire where there's smoke, I've noticed,—he ought to stay and fight them down, not run away."
               "He won't run away; he'll go because he feels it his duty. Talk about such a man as Mr. Norman running away! It makes me angry."
               "Why, Nerm! I should think you liked him."
               "I should think I did, or ought to," replied the girl, as calmly as if she were not fighting with all her might to keep the wretched tears back. "I ought to; he is my pastor, and I won't hear him traduced behind his back, not even by the shadow of an if."
               "Good gracious, Nerm, you are on your high horse to-night! I don't say anything against the man."
               "Because you, because no man or woman, can say anything against him."
               "If I remember right, my dear, you were not always so charitable," said her mother.
               "Perhaps not," replied the girl, half choking; "but I have seen the error of my ways."
               "Well, then, I won't tell you what I've heard, or we shall quarrel. Good-night, Nerm."
               "Good-night, mother."
               Minerva waited with dry eyes till her mother's footsteps were lost down the passage; then she sprang to her feet, with a frantic energy that was by no means in consonance with her usually staid demeanor.
               "Go with him?" she exclaimed, her hands clasped and rigid. "I would go to the darkest dens and the meanest alleys of that New York wilderness of crime and woe. Go with him? Yes, to the farthest ends of God's earth, among the wildest savages. I would cross oceans, brave pestilence, live with heathen, go to my death, anywhere, with him! And, oh, I am rightly punished! Did I expect to see him come whining to me, I wonder? Then I know I should have despised him."
               She took two or three turns about the room, and stopped at last before her mirror, on which a strong light was turned.
               "How I fade!" she murmured, with a short, rasping laugh. "By-and-by I shall be the sharp-faced blue, and nobody will ever know what sort of a heart the popular Miss Champlin has hidden out of sight, or that in her history she ever said, 'I am sorry for what I have spoken, written, and thought about men, since I have found that they can be noble and pure and good, and that there are heroes among them who brave the world's scorn for the sake of shielding the innocent.'
               "How do I know that Mr. Norma, in sacrificing himself self for some sufferer? Because God and my own heart tell me so,—no others. Oh, how hard, how unjust, how unwomanly he must think me for the harsh words I said!
               "I remember that, during the war, one of my friends told me that I should be cured of my uncharitableness towards men if I could only walk the hospitals for a month. 'Such tenderness, such heroism, such self-forgetfulness, such patience,' she said, 'I never thought to witness!'
               "God forgive me. He knew the depths of the human soul who wrote our wonderful Litany. 'From all blindness of heart; from pride, vainglory, and hypocrisy; from envy, hatred, and malice, and all uncharitableness, good Lord deliver us!'"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               DAN'S TEMPTATION.
               NOW that Bessy was in sorrow she had offers of assistance on every hand. The Gillimaccuddies were ready night and day, and but for Mrs. Bride's hopeful brogue Bessy would have sunk under her trouble many a time.
               Miss Champlin came often to the little pepper-box, now, alas! so barren of its old spice, bringing delicacies to tempt the appetite of the old man, sinking, it seemed, so rapidly out of life.
               On several occasions she saw the rector there, but she was shy and he was preoccupied; so she generally avoided taxing his attention. Once, when she did not know he was up-stairs, they met on the threshold, as both were leaving.
               "I go your way for some distance," he said, quietly; and they walked on side by side. As they passed All Souls' he said, in a low undertone, more as if speaking to himself,—
               "I must come here sometimes and refresh my eyes with its beauty. Miss Champlin," he added, "that mute pile, though I know it is stony as ribbed granite, seems to me full of a dumb, human feeling, which I cannot describe. As soon as I enter its portals it comes over me, that mysterious sense of oneness with its lovely solitude. There is no voice, but I think there is language."
               "Perhaps it is the presence of a Greater than the church, Mr. Norman," said Minerva, in a low voice.
               He raised his hat reverently.
               "Yes, yes you correct me, Miss Champlin. In his best estate, man has a tendency to overrate that which his hands have created; perhaps I should say a leaning to idolatry——"
               Just there their eyes met, and his face flushed scarlet.
               "Which needs the strong, sharp sword of suffering," be continued, as Miss Champlin, not seeing his agitation, turned deathly pale, "to lop from the halting Christian as one would cut the dead branch from the living tree. We are at your door, Miss Champlin, or rather at your gate."
               "Will you not come in, Mr. Norman?" she asked, her voice unsteady.
               "No, thanks—I—had—better not. Good-evening."
               "Then was the opportunity, and I have lost it forever!" groaned Minerva. "It was on my lips three times to tell him that I had wronged him, that I begged his forgiveness ness for my unkind, unchristian words that night. No matter what he had thought of it!" she exclaimed to herself with energy, as she pushed open the door. "Mamma's worldly maxims always come uppermost. I should have thought better of myself; and he—he is a gentleman."
               Days and weeks passed, and the fever still raged in that once happy home at Pepper Point. The February storms were frequent and severe,—a dull, gray mist brooded at the windows, the rain and snow beat upon them, the river-bank was full of vapors, the trees were haggard as well as bare, and Pepper Point looked a point of desolation to the weary eyes that watched so faithfully by day and night.
               "Yes, I think he'll pull through," the doctor said, one day,—"his constitution is like iron. Few men at his age live over the crisis of a fever of that kind. There are ten good years in your father yet."
               This was just at dark, and it was Dan's night to watch.
               The old man lay seemingly unconscious, though there was the color of coming life in his thin, gray face. Sickness had refined him and brought back the beauty of his youth. The hands, once so brown and horny, were deathly-white and very thin now, as they lay there so helpless on the snowy linen. There was a fire in the grate, the curtains were not yet drawn, and the rain streamed down the misty window-pane.
               Dan sat in an easy-chair near the centre of the bed, where he could see every motion of the invalid. Two or three books were piled upon a footstool conveniently near. The door opened softly, and, after a moment, Bessy appeared with a small tray, on which were toast and tea and a little saucer of jelly.
               "Bessy, you shouldn't do that," said Dan, as he took it from her hands. "I was just coming down."
               "But I was so glad! I thought I must do something. Besides, I wanted to see him; the doctor says he is better."
               She stood there looking at the sick man with folded hands, a shade of concern on her sweet features. Dan sat there looking at her. Never once did he take his eyes off her face till she turned towards him.
               "Oh, Dan, how thankful I feel! and what must you be,—you who are his own child?" she said, simply.
               "Yes," murmured Dan, "indeed, I am." He said it absently, and with a meaningless smile.
               "He will sit up pretty soon, won't he?" she whispered, as the invalid moved a little; "and then, by-and-by, he will get down-stairs again. Oh, Dan! to see him in the old place! Then home will seem like home," she sighed. "It has been so dreary here!"
               "Yes, it has been very dreary," he echoed, dismally.
               "And the rain doesn't sound so sadly now, does it?" She turned her bright face to the window.
               He shook his head, longing with a troubled brow that she should go. Why would she stay and torment him? He had not wished for his father's death; but I will not undertake to say that he had not seen visions and dreamed dreams of what might be, should the old man's course be run. He was a moderately good fellow, who had not yet come into his legacy of faith, who was not yet controlled by a religious principle, fixed as fate and powerful as the Great Hand from which it is sent.
               So in his limited human nature evil was often present with him, and the fire was about him, though the dross had not yet begun to be consumed.
               
               "Do you feel lonesome here, Dan? Shall I stay?"
               "No, the doctor says it will not be best for you to be here long at a time. I have books, you know; I am not lonely."
               "You don't eat."
               "I shall. At present I am not hungry."
               "Then let me pull the table to the fire."
               "No!" said Dan, in an explosive voice, which Bessy was getting accustomed to, but by which she knew she had better be gone.
               Then Dan groaned and hung his head, and was left to fight with himself. How many devils were fighting for him, who can tell? While the shadows grew deep, and the old man's face paler and more indistinct, the struggle was still going on. Dan writhed, and groaned, and hard dreadful lines came out on his face.
               Then he seemed to have conquered all suddenly, and took one of his books, and sat himself to reading; and the atmosphere was, oh, so deadly still; and nothing of earth or heaven was stirring, so far as human eyes could see.
               It lasted but a few brief moments, however, and Dan's book went whirling into the opposite corner of the room, and Dan seemed to set himself up for a good square battle. As he gazed at the helpless, unconscious old man, he breathed hard, and smote himself on the forehead, and groaned so loud that he looked up startled the moment after, to see if it had wakened him.
               No,—nothing moved. The serene face, the pallid lips, the shining silvery hair,—all were distinct and quiet.
               "Oh," groaned Dan, "what a devil I have become!" And with that he seemed to straighten himself, and his features grew set and rigid. He did not take a book up this time, but, after some moments of labored breathing and perplexity of countenance, he went over to temporary shelf filled with phials.
               At present he did not touch anything there, only stood and looked thoughtfully into the fire. Heaven knows what he saw in the coals, as the pale-blue and yellow gleams flickered over his face, showing a countenance so perturbed, eyes so gloomy, lips so fixed, attitude so expressive of utter misery! The rain struck the window-pane with a sullen dash, now and then the wind whistled and moaned and bellowed, and seemed laden with the sighs and agonies of a thousand breaking hearts.
               Did he see a home of beauty and refinement, very different from this snug little cottage of Pepper Point?—a home that had come to him, as it were, with the wish but not the effort of Aladdin, in the midst of whose elegance bloomed this lovely wild-flower, Bessy,—bloomed only for him? Did he see himself heir of the old stock-broker in the city, rich and respected, promising to rise in his profession, but moving about with a dead heart within him, because he could not have the old man's one ewe-lamb?
               He tried not to think bitter things of his father; but might he not have foreseen, he, the sage of seventy, that ultimately only trouble would come of such a marriage?
               And Bessy,—nothing seemed to disturb the serenity of her mind. That she liked him, honored him, was proud of him, rested in him, learned of him with the patience and docility of a little child, he knew; and this much more he knew, that he should not have feared to press his suit if she had been free. He had just so much insight into her nature as to feel sure that with a little patience he might win her love. Her manner toward his father had puzzled him so much that he had half angrily said time and again, Is she an angel or a fool?—and then repented. But why should he spend his time thinking thus? The barrier was between them which nothing earthly could remove.
               The doctor had said there were ten good years in the old man stretched out there. How the shadows flickered! how ghostly was the silence! how strangely corpse-like that thin face with the white hair lying back from the whiter temples!
               And then, somehow, in that vague hour, so black with temptation, the saintly countenance of his dead mother came before him. He seemed to hear the voice which in dying accents had said to him, "Always honor your father, my boy; there are few men like him."
               He knew that was so. A purer mind—a mind permeated with a finer sense of honor—could not be found. Instinctively, and all through, whatever the employment might be that he felt called to engage in, he was a gentleman. And Dan knew that he had been his idol; that the money and the lands and all that came into his possession were intended for his boy.
               If he could only put aside this dreadful, all-absorbing passion, that grew in intensity every day! If only in going to the ends of the earth he might forget her! But that was not his nature, and he shuddered at the heinousness of his sin; shuddered at the blackness of the thoughts he drove from his brain; shuddered and prayed and groaned.
               And so the battle went on. There was no danger that he should dishonor the old man; he would not have harmed one gray hair on that venerable head, no matter how much that sin might tempt him. But he was in such a state of nervous unrest that he thought the worst of himself,—feared the worst for himself. He shuddered at sight of the flickering, meaningless things on the wall; shivered when the rain drove against the window; trembled at his own fancies; was, in fact, afraid of himself.
               He turned slowly towards the phials.
               I cannot say that there were any poisonous mixtures among them. Some medicines, given when a man's vitality is at its lowest ebb, will kill. Dan knew that, for he had studied medicine a little.
               He selected a bottle nearly full of red liquid. He took out the cork and sniffed at it, and nodded his head. Then he looked again to see if his father stirred.
               No, there was not the slightest movement, no more than if the old man had been dead.
               Then Dad, still with the cork in his fingers, went on tiptoe to the fire, and poured all the liquid out. It hissed and spluttered for a second over the red-hot coals. It was gone. Dan drew a free breath.
               "Not that I meant any harm," he muttered; "but God knows, a man's head reels sometimes, and his senses seem paralyzed. It's best to put an evil thing clean out of the way; it's best, God forgive me!
               "Good-by, Bessy,—for ever and ever; as if I were going out of the world, and you drifting from me, I say, good-by."
               For the rest of that night he was comparatively calm. Every time the weak old man moved, or whispered to himself, or so much as stirred the bedclothes, Dan was at his side, sorrowful in face, but tender in manner, arranging the pillows with almost womanly tact, shading the gray face from the light, moistening the dry lips, doing all sorts of affectionate little offices.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               THE OLD MAN'S STORY.
               MEANTIME Mr. Norman's character was undergoing dissection.
               Men who could not for the life of them have told the properties of the meanest weed or the humblest flower played fast-and-loose with his motives, glibly reproducing, with the fidelity of a Dutch painter, what every miserable gossip said.
               One had seen him on such a night, talking with every sign of secrecy, under a gaslight with a common woman. Nay, they had even watched him enter the house, after looking stealthily round, to see that he was not observed.
               Some thought there was a tragedy written in his face. "Observe his deep emotion," said they, "over certain condemnatory passages of Scripture."
               Paltry natures, who had never measured the height of any sacrifice, sneered at the old coat which he still wore.
               Others whispered that it was easy to read treachery in his manner; it was too soft and smooth: these very nice people were seldom to be trusted.
               And yet, while they gossiped and hoped and whined, they went to church and watched him, reading his pure face by the alphabet of their own vulgar suspicions.
               Now, what did these people talk for? They had all professed to like the rector. They said they liked him none the less, but they wanted to get to the root of the matter,—fully expecting that the root was very bitter.
               Did Mr. Norman hear of these rumors? Possibly. If he did, he was very calm under so much suspicion, very courtly, very kind. He knew how they felt towards his old coat, and smiled as he brushed it. He performed all his duties faithfully; but a clergyman under suspicion finds it hard to gain lost ground. Perhaps it is better so, though it is only an evidence of the real evil latent in common, untaught natures.
               The most dreadful thing that was circulated, ay, and readily believed, was, that he was the father of a child. It was not spoken of boldly, but so cunningly hinted that everybody said at once,—
               "I see! Can it be as dreadful as that?"
               It was getting time, therefore, to leave Bogwood, or rake the town through for that original slanderer who first told the story.
               Dan, looking into the good face at his father's bedside, would not believe it. There were many gentle souls who turned a deaf ear to the slander. But one fly in the throat of a pitcher will fill a room with noise.
               The old man Rickson looked longingly for his pastor, and seemed as pleased as a child when he came. One day he asked him if he would be so kind as to read him the burial service.
               Dan was startled, and frowned a little.
               "Are you quite sure you care to hear it?" asked the rector.
               "Sartin I am. I want to hear every word of it, and from the lips of a schollard like you."
               "And I thank you," he murmured afterwards, with eyes full of tears; "it's beautiful! it's very beautiful! Dust and roses: I alleys thinks of 'em together."
               
               "That was a queer notion of yours, father," said Dan, when the rector was gone.
               "Rayther so, perhaps; but then—I never rightly thought about it, or heard it afore."
               "But you are getting well and strong, you know; there's no need to think of death."
               "Dan, your father's an old man," said the carrier, with a tremulous voice,—"and—there's some one a-waiting for me—up there—up there!"
               He lifted his shaking hand, and his faded eyes grew solemn.
               "But there's some one waiting for you here, father."
               The old man smiled as he looked Dan full in the face.
               "Yes, my boy; no doubt you'd like to keep life in the old frame; but there's a conviction come over me, Dan, that maybe me and this bed 'll never part company till I'm carried from it into my coffin."
               "But, father, I meant—I meant Bessy. Had you forgotten her?"
               "Ah!" And the smile grew sweeter. "Bessy—little Bessy. The little wife—eh, Dan?"
               Dan faltered. His face grew pale beneath his father's curious look.
               "Yes, Dan, I think I know all about it," sighed the old man, and turned his head on the pillow.
               Dan could not speak. What did he mean by knowing all about it? The quick blood crimsoned his face to the roots of his hair.
               "You're young, Dan, you're young. I couldn't find it in my heart to—to blame you—even—to—speak to you."
               Dan moved his dry lips.
               "Father!" he said, in much the piteous tone that Bessy had used that day.
               "I'm going to tell you something, Dan; wait a minute. I've got to gether a little strength."
               "Can I do anything for you?"
               "Only sit still, Dan, and don't speak jest yet."
               The old man lay with his eyes closed. Dan waited. The tick of the kitchen clock sounded from below. Then Bessy began to hum over her work. They both heard it.
               "I never explained to you, Dan," said the old man, after a silence of minutes, "how 'twas I came to—to take that poor, little thing from the city. If you saw a lamb standing there, and two wolves on either side quarreling for it, you'd save the lamb if you had to kill the wolves, wouldn't ye?"
               "I certainly should, father?"
               "Well, Bessy was that lamb. Here's a man on one side bargaining for her; here's a woman on the other selling on her,—a woman as professed to be the mother, which I'd almost took by Bible-oath she wasn't, even afore Bessy told me so. Well, I happened to hear of it. I knew the character of that man; he'd a' give five thousand dollars for that child. What fur? To win her,—nothing less than to take her in her innocence and ruin her.
               "Ther' wasn't any way out on't that I could see jest then and there, but to go to the church with the child. I didn't reason much about it. I suppose I might a' done better; but that's neither here nor there. I done accordin' to my best judgment.
               "But the parson waren't through five minutes before I'd repented of it. Every time I looked in her tender face I repented of it. It's wore upon me more or less ever since.
               "I could see what it done, when you come into the case. If you hadn't a' been in the case, it wouldn't a' made any difference as fur as my intentions was concerned; but you being in the case complicated it. Is that the right word, Dan?"
               "Yes, father," said Dan, mechanically.
               "I was a watching at all times; had a' odd sort o' feeling which I can't explain. I wanted to see you both come out pure gold. Do you understand?"
               Dan hid his face in the pillow.
               "Father, father," he half sobbed, "you've found me anything but gold!"
               "Dan'l," whispered the old man, patting his arm,—"Dan'l!" And there was a queer expression on his face, whimsical from mingled grief and pleasure. "That was the 'loy coming to the sarface. I'm sure it's good gold underneath."
               Dan sobbed like a baby; his strong frame shook.
               "There, there, my boy," said the old man, in a broken voice, "it's all coming right. Now, perk up, and don't trouble yourself that way, dear boy, because I hain't told ye all."
               Dan lifted himself, and his wet eyes and cheeks did him honor. After a little struggle he was calm again.
               "So when I'd come from the church, and 'ad had a little time to think of her youth and of my own age and 'cetery, I made up my mind, Dan'l; and she's only my wife by the words that good minister in the city read out o' the prayer-book in the brown church where Bessy and I stood up."
               "Do you mean to say——" gasped Dan, leaning forward.
               "I mean to say," rejoined the old man, "that's her little room in there. You can see for yourself. This is mine. She's as dear to me as a daughter, but nothin' nearer."
               "Father," cried Dan, "dear, noble old father! I am not worthy to touch your gray hairs; I am not worthy to be called your son!"
               The old man opened his arms wide.
               "Come," he said,—"come." Nor was he satisfied till he held the manly head close to his nearly-worn-out but kingly old heart.
               "And now," he said, when both had regained their composure, "I'm thinking what had better be done. If I was going to live——"
               "Live, father! you must live! I can't lose you now! Don't, don't talk of dying!" said Dan, half fiercely.
               "My boy, I'm weary for a sight of your mother's face," murmured the old man. "You don't know how near she seems sometimes,—so near that I think she is calling for me."
               "I won't hold you back, father," said Dan, solemnly.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               IN FASHIONABLE SOCIETY.
               "DEAR old Bogwood!" murmured Kate Dyas. "And he is going to marry that heiress,—and I won't go back there till that wretched man is gone! I never believed it! I couldn't believe it!" she murmured again, and now her lips quivered.
               She sat in the room allotted to her in the Gould mansion, in a charming wrapper of blue-and-white silk.
               Kate had never been so fashionable, and, oh, how sick she was of it all! She received, mornings, and sat there half wild under the infliction of brainless fops, rather of men who tried to ignore what brains God had given them. She was very charming, for the natural desire to please made her affable. She was very much sought after, for John Dyas was known to be a man of wealth.
               It was reported that she was engaged to Chester Hilbert, but the report never reached her dainty ears, or she would not even occasionally have been seen in public with that eminently handsome, eminently grave, eminently popular political gentleman. It did good service, however; it kept lesser moths from getting irreparably singed.
               Kate had held her head up bravely since the news had come, apparently well authenticated, that Kit Champlin was really going to marry the heiress. Grief, indignation, and the unsubdued fires of love made her inwardly miserable, though not one of her thousand admiring friends suspected it.
               Kate had just read her mother's letter, and she sighed once, twice, three times, as she held it in her hand.
               "I'll never marry!" she said, with angry emphasis. "And I won't live in this idle, miserably way!
               "Item. To rise at eight and spend an hour in dressing.
               "Breakfast an hour, and, except when there is company, baby-talk from Alice, or business from Alvord. If he don't talk stocks, he keeps his mouth shut.
               "Another hour dawdling in the nursery with an officious nurse, who fancies the baby belongs to her, and my sister is in her employ. I should be inclined to think so if I didn't know.
               "Item. An hour with Lizzie, who is an impertinent little minx, and I'm heartily tired of her.
               "Item. Receiving a pack of stupid fools till lunch, and to lunch. I beg the pardon of one out of every dozen.
               "Item. Lunch, with all sorts of delicacies, which I haven't the common sense to refuse.
               "Item. Sleeping and reading, reading and sleeping, till dressing-time.
               "I will not ride behind that abominable footman, so I drive the pony chaise and take Lizzie for my lackey.
               "Item. After dinner, company, or opera, or theatre, or some other nonsense: sometimes a sensible companion; but Mr. Hilbert is too stupid for anything. They say he is a brilliant 'speech-maker,'"—another sigh—"Now there's a day!
               "What shall I do? what shall I be! Yesterday I went into an anatomical museum, and fainted away. I daren't study for a doctor, I've no talent for the law, and I can't write like Minerva Champlin. Good!" she cried, at a sudden thought. "I'll ask her down here; yes, I will. She can share my room,—and she hates men; and she'll tell me what to do. I'll go right away and see what Alice says."
               Alice said yes.
               So, a week after, Minerva brought news from Bogwood, and a Saratoga trunk.
               Mr. Rickson was failing very fast; he had just lost a relative who had made Dan a rich man. She never mentioned Mr. Norman; she said little about her brother, and Kate was quite too proud to ask.
               Minerva told all this news with great vivacity. She thanked Kate a dozen times an hour in her heart for thus calling her from her brooding solitude at Champlin Place. She was glad to get away, for her mother was busy buying quilts and bed-linen. The house looked like a dry-goods shop, and her taste ran in quite a different direction. Besides, this style, this endless excitement, pleased her, for the time. Her mind had been so long engrossed by graver subjects, so tensely stretched, that this sudden cessation of active thought, this opportunity to study living subjects in all their variety of feigned or natural circumstances, gave delightful and refreshing rest to both heart and frame.
               Strange to say, Kate was a little disappointed in her friend after awhile. She seemed to have lost her brilliancy,—to have grown, in fact, quite commonplace. So Kate studied her, but could find no reason for the change satisfactory to herself.
               One day Kate bounced into their room with cheeks like red coals and eyes like freshly-cut diamonds.
               Minerva looked up from a note she was writing, quite startled at this unusual and rather electrical exhibition.
               "What is the matter?" she asked.
               "Matter! Oh, I do hate men!" cried Kate, with vehemence, and dashed her handkerchief across her eyes. "I wish they'd never look at me, or come after me, or trouble me even by their presence. That's what I most devoutly wish." And she shook out her handkerchief with vim. "I just think men are awful!"
               You do?" Minerva responded, with so meek an air that Kate stood transfixed.
               "Yes, I do; don't you? You did once," she said, vehemently.
               Minerva smiled, and blushed, and answered by such a sorrowful, pained look that Kate turned away, silent and constrained.
               "I can only say," she remarked a moment after, searching a box for some fancied article, "you look very pretty with a little red in your cheeks."
               "Kate, give me your confidence, if it will please you; perhaps I can help you."
               "With a little womanly advice?" laughed Kate "Would you believe it, though I have discouraged him in every way, that odious Mr. Hilbert has proposed to me!"
               "That odious Mr. Hilbert!" exclaimed Minerva, laying down her pen in great astonishment. "Why, I thought you were engaged to him!"
               "My dear," said Kate, with forced calmness, "several ourang-outangs visit here, who can find no other means of keeping themselves awake than that of sticking rimless glasses between the eyebrow and the cheek-bone. I wonder you never heard that I was engaged to one of those men-monkeys!"
               "But, Kate, it was certainly in the paper in black and white as a local item," persisted Kate. "We all supposed it true."
               "And nobody ever told me of the abominable thing!" said Kate, angrily. "It's monstrous, such liberties as these miserable newspaper men take with the names of decent people. I wish I had seen it. That's why I'd like to run away from the party Alice is about making preparations for. To see yourself caricatured by some silly Jenkins, who finds out how many yards there are in your train, and whether you wear false curls, is one of the abominations of society. But there's one good thing, Mr. Hilbert won't trouble me. I was hateful enough to him!"
               "Kate, I'm going to ask you something," said Minerva, sitting bolt upright; "and you will please overlook it and pardon me, if it seems too personal, won't you?"
               "I shouldn't wonder," said Kate, composing herself as she sank into a chair near her friend.
               "Then did you really like my brother Kit?"
               "Like him?" flashed Kate. And her bosom heaved with suppressed emotion. She turned a little, and hid her face in the back of the chair.
               "Because, Kate," said Minerva, softly, "I did him, unintentionally, a great deal of harm."
               "You never liked your brother, Miss Champlin," said Kate, in a smothered voice.
               "I liked him better than I knew; but—and he tells me so himself when it is too late—perhaps it was greatly his own fault."
               "How does that help the matter?" queried Kate, her face still hidden.
               "It don't help the matter, only I chose to humble myself a little, that it all," said Minerva. And then there was a long silence, and she sat with her head averted.
               Presently she heard the rustling of soft silk, and something fell heavily on her knee. It was Kate's forehead. She had just thrown herself on the floor, and all she said was, with a half sob,—
               "Oh, I am very miserable!"
               Miss Champlin pressed her hand over the shining, dark hair.
               "Did you ever think what that bright emblem on the spire of All Souls' meant?" she asked.
               "The cross?" murmured Kate.
               "Yes, dear; we must all bear it sooner or later."
               "Mine is not so very heavy," Kate said, with assumed lightness and an attempt at ease, as she lifted her head and shook back the curling tresses. "When worst comes to worst, one always gets through some way. I suppose we may be allowed to choose our own burdens; but I want you to help me choose mine. What profession shall I take up? In these days, you know, a woman is not hunted down if she has the courage to work for herself."
               "I can't seem to think of anything for which you are fitted, outside of home," said Minerva; "there you ought to be a very sunbeam."
               "Home, always home!" said Kate, a pained look crossing her face. "A sunbeam!—as if——But I'll find out what's in me, and see if I'm not something beyond a mere automaton in society. Oh, how I hate it!" she cried, shutting her hands hard. "And I hate Mr. Hilbert for proposing, and I hate everything."
               "There's the church," said Minerva, casting about in her mind how she should help her.
               "I never was much of church-woman, you know," responded Kate. "Such duties would be irksome. I can't interest children unless I love them very much; and I don't love them or anybody. I know I'm an intolerable little nuisance this morning, and I wish I could change myself into somebody else; but I can't. I thought you would comfort me," she added, after a little silence. "You used to have such glorious schemes for the advancement of women; but you are a dumb oracle to-day. I wonder what has come over you."
               "I still have glorious schemes for the advancement of women; read my new book. But I am changed, dear; suppose you call me more charitable. Since I was so strangely mistaken in Kit, may I not have been too harsh in my judgment of mankind generally?"
               "No!" said Kate, shortly. The allusion to Kit was unfortunate. They neither of them liked to pursue the subject; but Miss Champlin added a line in her note, which would not have been written but for Kate's new phase of confession that day. "Perhaps," she said to herself, "everything might come right; who knew?"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               THE RECTOR RIGHTED AT LAST.
               THE rector looked grave over his letter. Should be say, "My dear Miss Champlin," or "Miss Minerva," or simply "Miss Champlin"? Finally he decided upon the latter form, and accordingly wrote thus:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MISS CHAMPLIN,—I deem it my duty, for sundry reasons, which will make themselves apparent to you in the course of this communication, to address you in this formal manner.
                           "You will remember the little conversation we had together on the occasion of the party given by your mother in Champlin Place. You must also have noticed my sudden agitation on one or two occasions; and as I did not at the time deem myself at liberty to enter into any explanations, I feel that now, the weight that oppressed me being lifted from my shoulders, I am free to tell you,—and certainly I would not thus unbosom myself to any other friend,—the cause of my silence, trouble, and constraint.
                           "To begin at the beginning. My brother and myself were left orphans at an early age. Leslie was only a year younger than I. The property settled on us by our parents was put in the hands of an uncle, who managed it well for us.
                           "Leslie was a beautiful, wild, headstrong boy. I loved him as I loved my own soul, but through him I have suffered untold agonies.
                           "Years ago, when but a mere boy, he ran away and went to sea. He returned at the age of nineteen, still handsome, witty, brilliant, and wild. Before he was of age he contracted an alliance—as it was thought, unlawfully—with a very degraded person. Not many years after, there was a crime committed which shall be nameless. Suffice it to say that to repair the wrong done took all our fortune.
                           "I was then just entering the ministry, and God knows I used all my efforts to save him from ruin. Fortunately he had changed his name, but he was still my brother, though his disgrace did not attach to me.
                           "Finally, after a long series of excesses, his health failed, mind and body were diseased, and I had him placed at a certain establishment, where I have supported him for nearly fifteen years.
                           "I have also supported the child thrown upon my charity, and whom I did not take from her lowly, miserable position, because of the threats of her mother's sister, who has been kept silent through my constant money-efforts in her behalf. To say that this has been so far a lifelong torture, is simply speaking the truth. Only the grace of God could carry me through with it.
                           "Lately I had decided to leave the church, which, through my misfortune, was liable to injury at my hands. I had quite made up my mind to become a city missionary, and by thus taking a lowlier station, serve my Master, and run no risks of injuring his cause.
                           "But my unfortunate brother, and the woman who stood between me and my brother's good name, are both dead. To my great joy and surprise, I find by papers left by my poor brother, that he was lawfully married, and now my bishop advises me not to relinquish the parish of All Souls'. That decision rests with one to whom I am about to speak with absolute clearness and, perhaps you will say, a plainness too direct and abrupt.
                           "I have always admired and honored Miss Champlin; for two years I have loved her, devotedly, absolutely, next to the Master in whose service I intend to spend my life. My decision, then, rests also on hers. If she says with the sweetest of womanly lips, 'Stay with All Souls' and me,' I shall remain at Bogwood, and consider myself the happiest and richest man within its limits.
                           "But suppose we put that answer in the lips of some delicate flower. I shall do myself the honor to send you a bouquet. If to-night, at Mrs. Gould's reception, I see a white rose in your hair, then, my beloved, All Souls' and you shall share my heart. You will not be jealous of All Souls', will you? If, on the contrary, I see a red rose in your bosom, then I shall turn to my self-appointed work, and live for Christ and his man-neglected souls.
                           "You see I leave myself in your hands. In the hands of a true woman a man is always safe, whether she answers him according to his folly of otherwise.
                           
                              "Yours, etc."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               What did Miss Champlin do when she received this letter? It was so utterly unexpected that she sat for a moment like one in a trance. Here was the whole mystery solved,—the child, whose wonderful resemblance had so often startled her, was the daughter of this man's brother. A sweet content stole into her heart. There was no more room for regret, or sorrow, or humiliation. "Jealous of All souls'!" she carried the letter to her lips, and blushed and smiled. Then, as she thought of the past and her ungenerous suspicion, she changed color again.
               "How can I meet him,—how tell him all?" she murmured.
               Kate came dancing in with a hothouse bouquet.
               "Who do you suppose sent it?" she asked,—then retreating. "Why, Minerva Champlin—how queer you look!"
               "Do I?" ejaculated her friend. "Well—something has happened—and—I—I fear my head is playing me false."
               "Now, I'll venture there's some gentlemen in the case," said Kate, solemnly.
               "And your venture will be correct. my dear. I had a friend who was always kind to me: of late, rather more than kind. His character has been somewhat under suspicion for the last year——"
               "You mean Mr. Norman!"
               "And now the suspicions are all cleared up." said Minerva, nodding an affirmative.
               "Well, it's a fact that Lizzie does look like him," said Kate, bluntly. "I see it myself, but I never spoke to you of it, because I dislike to talk scandal about a clergyman, particularly my own."
               "Well, my dear, why shouldn't Lizzie look like him, seeing she is his own brother's child?"
               "Is that the news?" cried Kate. stopping, aghast. "Minerva Champlin! Lizzie! whom I have treated as a servant, Mr. Norman's niece? Please explain, for I believe I'm getting a little light-headed."
               Kate listened while Miss Champlin told all she chose.
               "That is a surprise! exclaimed Kate, with numerous ejaculations.
               "I have a little bit of news to tell you," she said, by-and-by. "Quilp is coming here to-night."
               "Quilp!" Miss Champlin flushed.
               
               "Yes; brother Walter Knows him very well; and Mr. Hilbert promised to bring him. If he is nice, I mean to set my cap for him."
               "I predict that he will be nice, as you call it, which means gentlemanly and good-looking, I take it, and that he will be very much in love with you."
               "Oh, that as a matter of course," said saucy Kate, carelessly. "Mr. Hilbert says he is young and goodlooking.
               The bouquet arrived, and Minerva placed it out of sight, Not, however, before she had selected her white rose of all the world.
               "My dear Nerm, You want color!" cried Kate, turning round in her splendor. "Here, Lizzie, take this lovely fuchsia to Miss Champlin."
               "Thank you, Kate, very much; but I have a reason for wearing white," said Minerva.
               "If I looked as lovely as you do when you blush, I should be tempted to pink my cheeks." was the laughing response.
               Lizzie turned from one to the other. Miss Champlin gave her the sweetest smiles! Miss Kate had given her the sweetest dress! And she was not to appear in the character of a servant to-night, but really and truly, if she would not make herself conspicuous, as one of the company, by Miss Champlin's desire.
               Did all this come of playing her cards right? she wondered. And was Miss Kate or Mrs. Dyas, after all, going to adopt her? At all events, she saw the way clear to her diamonds.
               All the rooms overflowed. Miss Champlin bore the heat, and fatigue, and occasional squeezing, with wonderful philosophy. It was ten—it was eleven; still the rector had not come.
               Kate was elbowed out of a little circle to go and be introduced to Quilp. She had prepared her most fascinating smile, if there could be a choice. She held the arm of Mr. Hilbert, thankful that he was only a friend of the family now. Suddenly she confronted Kit, and utterly lost her composure.
               "Allow me to introduce to you our celebrated feuilletonist, 'Quilp.'"
               Hilbert left her standing there, and, as there was nothing else to lean on in that vicinity. she was forced to lean on Kit Champlin.
               "I am so—surprised!" she said, as soon as she could gather breath.
               "I am so delighted!" exclaimed Kit, pressing her hand, which, half angrily, she tried to withdraw.
               "You said 'forever!'" whispered Kit, detaining it.
               "And you? you know you are engaged to that dreadful heiress. Let me go! let me go!" murmured Kate, her lips trembling.
               "I know I am not engaged to any one but you. I know that I am an idle scamp no longer,—and this time I shall not let you escape me. My darling! how could you think I could ever look at another with thoughts of love? Wait and see if I don't thaw John Dyas out."
               "But is it possible that you are Quilp?" she asked, laughing.
               "It is just possible. That humble individual has taken up his quarters in an obscure corner of the Champlin brain, and by fits and starts springs upon the public in quite an original fashion. The elf is a very precarious fellow, however. He gets his host up, sometimes, at midnight."
               "And how about the two cigars a day?"
               "Peace to their ashes!" laughed Kit. "The fact is, your father put a veto on that arrangement; but I'll begin again to-morrow."
               "Pray what is the matter with mamma?" asked Kate, as that lady appeared on the arm of the rector, looking about in a wild state of anxiety.
               "Oh, here is Kate! My dearest child, come here, I've something so strange to tell you! Your father knows it, and so does Alice." And off went Mrs. Dyas with her daughter.
               It is perhaps needless to say that the rector had been in communication with Mrs. Dyas for the last half-hour. At first he had spread before her two small pieces of frayed muslin. At sight of them Mrs. Dyas changed color.
               "Suppose I tell you they were found on the body of a little child, as can be proved, nearly seventeen years ago, Mrs. Dyas. Be calm, madam, pray be calm, and hear me to the end." For she had clutched at his coat-sleeve, and her hands began to tremble.
               "That this child," continued the rector, "was found in a boat belonging to the keeper of a light-house; that the wife of the lighthouse-keeper willfully kept the child, and made no inquiry concerning its parentage. That when the light-keeper was displaced for neglecting his duty, the girl, then well-grown, was brought to New York; that there, for nearly a year, she swept the crossings of a certain street. That finally a good old man, seeing her peril——"
               "Oh, my God! Mr. Norman, stop! stop! What are you telling me?"
               She put her hands distractedly to her head. "A little water, Mr. Norman, or I shall faint."
               He brought it to her with all haste. She drank and seemed revived.
               "You need say no more, Mr. Norman; you mean that—that old man's wife, that pure, sweet rose of a girl—is my lost child?"
               "I fully believe it, Mrs. Dyas. And further, I have reason to know that she is only his wife in name, and that negotiations are on foot to have the marriage canceled, though there is no need of that, for the old carrier is not long for this world."
               "It is overwhelming!" murmured the happy woman. "After all these years! How can I believe it? And yet when her head laid on my bosom, was it nature that spoke in the warm love that went out towards that sweet, childish face? Does she know?" she added, eagerly.
               "She does know; has known for some time, I find, by a little conversation I had with her a few days ago."
               "Mr. Norman, will you help me find Kate?" And the two appeared as I have described.
               Then, when this matter was off his hands, Mr. Norman went quietly from room to room. He had been talking some time with a friend, when a voice near him thrilled him to the heart. Correspondingly with the thrill came a fear, that for the moment seemed to pluck the strength from body and brain; but, though hardly able to turn, he managed to look in that direction.
               And saw the white rose in her hair!
               His life was crowned. The fetters of the past slid from their fastenings and left him free. There she stood, his queen among women, his chosen wife, his future counselor, comforter, and household star.
               Their hands touched as they met. What need was there of words?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               BESSY'S NEW ESTATE.
               "THIS fortin' of yours, deary, I hope it won't be a snare to ye," said old Mr. Rickson, half reclining in the great sick-chair.
               "It shall not be a snare to me," said Dan, valiantly. "I am no longer the weak boy I was, and though I love Bessy with all my might and mind and strength——"
               "Stop, Dan'l!—them words b'long to God," said his father, solemnly.
               "Yes, that's true, father."
               "Just say you love her, Dan. You couldn't do more, you know."
               "Well, then, father, I love her, and I'll wait and win her, honestly."
               "That's right. You won't be in too much of a hurry, my boy?"
               "No, father; for I can't tell if she likes me or not." And Dan heaved a big sigh. "Besides, her family is a proud one."
               "You're a match for 'em, my boy, with your fine edication. Don't put yourself down, noways. As for fambly, your mother come of as good as any of 'em; there's the 'coat of arms' up-stairs; and you've got money enough to keep her like a lady."
               "Yes, if ever I get her," sighed Dan.
               "You will git her, my boy, I'm sure on't. She likes you, Dan, no matter how I found out, the dear, innocent child; but there's no danger of her not loving you."
               "Father, are you sure?" asked Dan, standing over the old man, his hand on his arm.
               "Son Dan'l, did I ever tell ye anything for true that I wasn't sure on?"
               "No, father,"—and Dan fell back, drawing a long breath,—"you never did."
               "Hark!" said the old man, holding up a trembling finger, "that's my pretty."
               Presently Bessy entered; not the Bessy of old, not quite, but a radiant, richly dressed, quaintly dignified Bessy, with the Dyas stamp on manner and clothes and face. It was the old Bessy, however, who ran up to daddy Rickson, and threw her arms about his bent shoulders, and kissed him, and tweaked his white whiskers playfully, and gave Dan such a sly, blushing glance, with her whole heart in it.
               "Now, I'm to stay the whole of the afternoon, and I'm going to tell you all about it," she said, as Dan brought up her favorite chair. "You want to know how I like my new home, don't you? Well," she looked around with a longing in the lingering farewell she seemed to take of the pretty little parlor, "I like it; I can't help it. All I want in this world is to take up this little house, with you in it, father, and carry it off and stand it right beside Eagle Terrace. It is very strange, too; you can't tell how strange. They keep me talking about the old light-house, till sometimes I could cry, for I never liked it. But, oh, mamma is so sweet! I wonder how I ever lived without her; you would love her, oh, dearly! And Miss Kate,—how she does laugh at me for calling her Miss Kate!—she teases me just a little, but then she loves me dearly. Her brother is just come home from college,—I said her brother," she added, laughing, "when he is just as much mine a hers; he treats me like a little child. I don't think he wholly believes I am his sister yet. And father,—you won't care if I call him father?—oh, I'm so proud of him, and he's so fond of me! Mamma will treat me like a little baby," and it was the old, sweet voice, like small silver bells, ringing out; "she says she never got any baby-good out of me, and she means to have it now."
               "And the larning, little one?" queried the old carrier.
               "I'm to have masters." Here she stole a glance at Dan and grew confused. "I'm to learn everything,—piano-music, and all."
               "And the baptism, my dear?"
               "That is all arranged: you're to be godfather! What do you think of that? She tweaked his whiskers.
               "That can't be, deary."
               "Then I shall break my heart."
               "How can I get there, sweetest?"
               "You shall be carried,—never mind how you get there,—you will be my godfater, and I won't have any other. They all know it at home."
               "Thank you, dear child," said the old man, brokenly.
               "And I'm coming over here every day if I like."
               "Till I'm called, deary."
               Bessy was silent.
               "You see, deary, I'm about ready to go, now."
               "Oh, father, you'll make me cry! It seems so dreadful to die."
               "To you, dear, naterally, because life is just opening. But I'm old,—and there's a-many waiting for me. It's all right."
               "We won't talk about it, though, will we, Dan? And I'll run in and see Mrs. Gillimaccuddy, and then come back, and get tea for you. Yes, I'm determined to get tea."
               So Bessy ran in to dear old Bride Gillimaccuddy's, and found her stacking up Patcheen's red locks with a pile of towels. The good creature was radiant.
               "It's on'y the Cuddy colds he has, which takes him generally along o' this month; an' I think now if I was to put him in the biler, I might mabby sweat it out o' him. But Patcheen says he's nobody's old clothes, an' that's true fer him. Well, my dear, and so you've found your place in the world, my jewel?"
               "I've found some new friends," said Bessy, "but I mean to keep all the old."
               "There's for ye!" cried Mrs. Bride. "None of the shoddy aristocrats in her, but the thrue old blood! Stick to it, my dear; as Patcheen says, 'if a man can't be shuparier to his station, then no man is he.'"
               So Bessy visited the little dressmaker, and promised her an unlimited amount of work; and then called upon all her old friends in succession, having a kind word for each of them.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               THE CHANGED RECTORY.
               AH, that rectory study! Look within. Is there not a change discernible,—a something in the daintier arrangements,—a finer finish than ever housemaid's fingers imparted, and that tells the story of woman's loving partnership?
               For, you see, Miss Champlin is married. Mrs. Gould insisted on having the wedding at her house, and the Champlins consenting, the affair came off in great state. At first Mrs. Champlin was so taken by surprise that she wrote on to Minerva, advising her not to wed in a hurry, and penning many lively comments, which her daughter only laughed at.
               On receipt of Minerva's reply, sunshine came out again on the Champlin face. Secrecy was observed, and very few, save only the special friends, knew that the ceremony was coming off.
               It was not till Minerva came back to Bogwood that the bridal presents poured in. Everybody felt at once that there was a change in the parsonage. The blinds were open on the sunny side of the house, for there Minerva had selected her sewing-room.
               It was curious, so rumor went, that the minister's wife had taken Lizzie,—adopted her, they heard. "And there was Kate Dyas and Kit Champlin as thick as bees, when everybody thought Kit was booked for England."
               "Wonders will never cease!" cried the Bogwoodians, when they saw the old carrier's wife made one with the Dyases; and was it possible Mrs. Dyas meant to adopt her, she that had been a poor little crossing-sweeper?
               The news leaked out very slowly in Bogwood, because the parties chiefly interested held their tongues, but how all the other tongues did wag!
               And, the next Sunday after the rector came home, there was to be a baptism.
               As for Lizzie, the knowledge of who she really was had rounded the sharp angles in her character, and made her more and more amenable to kindness and caretaking.
               "I never though he was my uncle," she said one day, in confidence to the rector's wife, "but I really and truly did believe he was my own father."
               "You dreadful child!" said Minerva.
               "But it was my aunt made me think so, and I knew he sent her money. And I'm glad she grew better before she died,—and now I needn't play my cards any more." She made a deprecatory motion as if she washed her hands of them.
               "I hope you'll grow up a true, good woman," said Minerva, "and care less for show and fine clothes than for better things. Your uncle will educate you, and I will do my best to improve you as far as I can. I can't be a mother, but I'll try to be the nicest of aunts."
               Sunday morning rose clear and bright. It was a sharp April day, but kindly and a little frosty. And Souls' had been invaded the night before by the Dyases, the Champlins, the Bankheads, and sundry others, carrying baskets of flowers brought from city hothouses. Mrs. Gould sent a magnificent cross, resplendent with lilies.
               The church looked singularly beautiful. The altar was hung with chaplets. The grand, white interior of pillars and arches seemed filled with broken rainbows. The rector and Minerva stole over there in the early morning.
               "My wife!" murmured the rector, fondly, yet solemnly, as he stood before the altar with Minerva's hand in his. "My wife—and my church!"
               "You are quite happy, quite contented, now?" whispered Minerva.
               "Quite; how can it be otherwise? And you?"
               "Sometimes I fear I am too happy," she murmured. "God knew what was best for us when He placed the cup of suffering to our lips. But how often I have sat over there in that pew, tormented, because of my doubts!"
               "And your love?"
               "Yes, and my love."
               "But we must go, my dear; several of my friends will come over this morning, at least four clergymen, and we must be ready for them. What a difficult matter is was once to entertain! I felt so odd, and alone. Now it is—well, altogether delightful."
               She smiled in his radiant face. "Everything is different," she said.
               And so they went home together, to breakfast. After that, Kit drove up with two rectors under his charge, and he even kissed his sister, a thing he had not done for years. And he told her in confidence that John Dyas took any amount of stock in him, now that he was growing famous, and that he meant to be married before the year was out.
               After that, Dan drove up to the door, to make some inquiries, for his father was to be taken over to All Souls', to see little Bessy baptized.
               "Shouldn't wonder," said Kit, after he was gone, "if he and that little sister of mine, that will be, were to make a match of it. Isn't she a nice little thing? And as for him,—well, he's a star of the first magnitude now in Bogwood."
               "He certainly is a very handsome young man." responded Minerva, "and I don't think Bessy could do better."
               The clerical breakfast was eaten. All the rectors, who were single men, agreed that the rector of Bogwood had done a fine stroke of business, metaphorically speaking, in winning such a woman as Miss Champlin to do the honors, particularly as she had not the appearance of a literary person. That seemed to please them vastly.
               At an early hour the church of All Souls' was filled; there was scarcely a standing place to be had. It was so full that when four men came in, bearing the old carrier on a lounge, they could hardly make their way to the altar.
               The old man had longed for this day. Three months had elapsed since he had set foot in the church, and it was observable that a serene and holy peace seemed to settle on his white features as he smiled welcome to those he knew. Dan stood near him, attentive to his slightest wants.
               The altar was filled with white-robed priests. The organ tones rolled out jubilantly. The choir of singing-boys filled the air with melody.
               Then came the baptism. Bessy looked like a little angel, arrayed in fresh white robes. Lizzie, attired in a similar fashion, had lost her brazen air of confidence, and seemed to understand what was required of her. She looked very gentle and very handsome.
               Then men and women gazed at each other with startled faces, as the names were called.
               "Elizabeth Norman!"
               "Bessy Dyas!"
               "So, after all, it was the rector's child; and Miss Champlin had married him with that knowledge! Well, she must have loved him," etc.
               Let them wonder,—in good time they would know all that was needful for them to know.
               Mr. Hilbert was there, and Kate felt very grateful to him, for, with a magnanimity almost unparalleled, he had brought round John Dyas to look with complacency on the destined marriage of his daughter with Claude Champlin the younger.
               At last the ceremonies were all over. The priests were disrobing in the anterooms, and Minerva was talking to a little knot near the door. Presently Daniel Rickson appeared in their midst, and, rushing hurriedly from the door, hailed the Dyas' carriage, which had not gone far. When it stopped he spoke at the window.
               
               Immediately the door was opened by Dan, who helped Bessy out, and the two went into the church, while the Dyas' carriage drove back, and stood at the porch-door.
               The little group moved down the aisle, and saw Bessy kneeling at the head of the old man's couch. She was very white, but they heard nothing. They only saw her bend over and kiss his brow.
               "He thinks he may never see her again, I suppose," said the rector's wife, "and so he felt called to take a special leave of her. Poor man! he can't last very long."
               Presently they noticed that somebody was busy with the flowers, taking them from the altar to place over the grand old face of the carrier, and in his hands. For in the dimly beautiful light of the Rose-window of All Souls', the old man had gone up to heaven.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            POPULAR WORKS PUBLISHED BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., PHILADELPHIA.
            
               WILL BE SENT BY MAIL, POST-PAID, ON RECEIPT OF PRICE.
            
               Forgiven at Last. A Novel. By Jeannette R. HADERMANN. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     A well-told romance. It is of that order of tales originating with Miss Charoitte Bronté"—N. Y. Even. Post.
                     
                     "The style is animated, and the characters are not deficient in individuality."—Phila. Age.
                     
                  
               
               The Old Countess. A Romance. From the German of EDMUND HOFER, by the translator of "Over Yonder," "Magdalena," etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1. 
                     "A charming story of life in an old German castle, told in the pleasant German manner that attracts attention and keeps is throughout."—The Phila. Day.
                     
                     "The story is not long, is sufficiently involved to compel wonder and suspense, and ends very happily."—The North American.
                     
                     "An interesting story."—The Inquirer.
                     
                  
               
               Bound Down; or, Life and Its Possibilities. A Novel. By ANNA M. FITCH. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.50. 
                     "It is a remarkable book."—N. Y. Even Mail.
                     
                     "An interesting domestic story, which will be perused with pleasure from beginning to end."—Baltimore Even. Bulletin.
                     
                     "The author of this book has genius; it is written cleverly, with occasional glimpses into deep truths. Dr. Marston and Mildred are splendid characters."—Phila. Presbyterian.
                     
                  
               
               Henry Courtland; or, What A Farmer can Do. A Novel. By A. J. CLINE. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     "This volume belongs to a class of prose fiction unfortunately as rare as it is valuable. The whole story hangs well together."—Phila. Press.
                     
                  
               
               Rougegorge. By Harriet Prescott Spofford. With other Short Stories by ALICE CARY, LUCY H. HOOPER, JANE G. AUSTIN, A. L. WISTER, L. C. DAVIS, FRANK LEE BENEDICT, etc. 8vo. With Frontispiece. Paper cover. 50 cents. 
                     "This is a rare collection."—Chicago Even. Journal.
                     
                     "Admirable series of attractive Tales."—Charleston Courier.
                     
                     "The contents are rich, varied and attractive."—Pittsburg Gazette.
                     
                  
               
               The Great Empress. An Historical Portrait. By Professor SCHELE DE VERE, of the University of Virginia. 12mo. Extra cloth. $1.75. 
                     "This portrait of Agrippina is drawn with great distinctness, and the book is almost dramatic in its interest."—N. Y. Observer.
                     
                  
               
               
               The Old Mam'selle's Secret. After the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Gold Elsie," "Countess Gisela," &c. By MRS. A. L. WISTER. Sixth edition. 12mo. Cloth, $1.75. 
                     "A more charming story, and one which, having once commenced, it seemed more difficult to leave, we have not met with for many a day."—The Round Table.
                     
                     "Is one of the most intense, concentrated, compact novels of the day. And the work has the minute fidelity of the author of 'The Initials,' the dramatic unity of Reade, and the graphic power of George Elliot."—Columbus (O.) Journal.
                     
                     "Appears to be one of the most interesting stories that we have had from Europe for many a day."—Boston Traveler.
                     
                  
               
               Gold Elsie. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of the "Old Mam'selle's Secret," "Countess Gisela," &c. By MRS. A. L. WISTER. Fifth edition. 12mo. Cloth, $1.75. 
                     "A charming book. It absorbs your attention from the title-page to the end."—The Home Circle.
                     
                     "A charming story charmingly told."—Baltimore Gazette.
                     
                  
               
               Countess Gisela. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "The Old Mam'selle's Secret," "Gold Elsie," "Over Yonder," &c. By MRS. A. L. WISTER. Third Edition. 12mo. Cloth, $1.75. 
                     "There is more dramatic power in this than in any of the stories by the same author that we have read."—N. O. Times.
                     
                     "It is a story that arouses the interest of the reader from the outset."—Pittsburg Gazette.
                     
                     "The best work by this author."—Philada. Telegraph.
                     
                  
               
               Over Yonder. From the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Countess Gisela," "Gold Elsie," &c. Third edition. With a full-page Illustration. 8vo. Paper cover, 30 cts. 
                     "'Over Yonder' is a charming novelette. The admirers of 'Old Mam'selle's Secret' will give it a glad reception, while those who are ignorant of the merits of this author will find in it a pleasant introduction to the works of a gifted writer—Daily Sentinel.
                     
                  
               
               Three Thousand Miles through the Rocky Moun-tains. By A. K. MCCLURE. Illustrated. 12mo. Tinted paper Extra cloth, $2. 
                     "Those wishing to post themselves on the subject of that magnificent and extraordinary Rocky Mountain dominion should read the Colonel's book."—New York Times.
                     
                     "The work makes one of the most satisfactory itineraries that has been given to us from this region, and must be read with both pleasure and profit."—Philada, North American.
                     
                     "We have never seen a book of Western travels which so thoroughly and completely satisfied us as his, nor one written in such agreeable and charming style."—Bradford Reporter.
                     "The letters contain many incidents of Indian life and adventures of travel which impart novel charms to them."—Chicago Evening Journal.
                     
                     "The book is full of useful information."—New York Independent.
                     
                     "Let him who would have some proper conception if the limitless material richness of the Rocky Mountain region, read this book."—Charleston (S. C.) Courier.
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
