
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Mermet Ben, or, The Astrologer King .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6972
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  THE CRIME. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               MERMET BEN; 
               OR, THE ASTROLOGER KING. 
               A SEQUEL TO ROSE SEYMOUR. 
               A STORY OF MAGIC AND WONDERFUL ILLUSIONS. 
             
            
               New-York: 
               HILTON & CO., PUBLISHERS,  
                     128 Nassau Street. 1865. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by HILTON & Co., in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New-York. 
          
       
      
         
            Mermet Ben, or, The astrologer king 
             
            MERMET BEN; 
            OR, THE ASTROLOGER KING. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               MR. JAMES BRIGGS, an accomplished man of fashion, supporting a fine house in town, as well as a country residence to which was attached the premises occupied by the gang of counterfeiters of whom he was the chief, and in which the nefarious process of coining was carried on, had been last seen by his wife Clara in the room where he awaited the return of his mistress, called the "Beautiful Fiend" from her departure with Clara to obtain the valuable jewels which were an object of desire with each of the three. 
               The wife's rival had been cunningly locked in the safe by Clara, who subsequently found therein only a skeleton and the valuables. 
               The skeleton was that of the Beautiful Fiend. 
               Briggs had been alarmed by the cry of "fire," and aroused himself only to find it impossible to escape. 
               Undoubtedly, he had, on the scene of his crimes, perished. 
               The affair created great excitement with the public at the time. 
               At all events, the rascally gang had been broken up. 
               The wife, Clara, with her chosen aid in her heartless crimes, had sailed for a foreign clime, with the plunder. 
               The vessel in which she and Jesse Dumar had sailed was wrecked, and she was thrown, apparently lifeless upon the beach, where a fisherman received her, and was, with the aid of a companion, about to possess himself of the jewels and money, when she revived, and opening her eyes, gazed at them. 
               Taking affright, they ran away. 
               What had become of Jesse Dumar, her servant, then companion, then lover? 
               We shall see, in due time. 
               Rose Seymour, the beautiful ballet-girl, after many thrilling adventures and escapes, caused by the persecutions of Briggs, had fallen into the hands of the miners, two of whom struck up a dispute for her possession. One having been killed by the other, Penryth the survivor, found, upon rescuing her from a watery grave, that she had been conveyed away. 
               He traced her course. 
               He descended into what was termed the Danger Quarry, and a quarrel ensued between him and her abductor, during which Rose sought to escape by grasping the rope leading to the entrance, and had nearly reached terra firma when the Danger Quarry earned its title to the name by caving in. 
               This incident attracted the populace around, who immediately set to work to ascertain whether any one was within the quarry or not. 
               The first comer had perceived the impress of recent footsteps near the rope. 
                
               Another had discovered the piece of muslin which had been torn from the dress of Rose as she was borne through the doorway by the quarryman. 
               As soon as this was made known one of the bystanders made a statement still more startling than anything which had been said. He 
                     avered
                     averred
                   that he had heard a shriek just before the last portion of the quarry fell in. He could, moreover, swear that it was a woman's voice uttered it. 
               A staff of men were wanted to work upon the ruins. Fifty volunteered for this arduous service at once. 
               Rude machinery was speedily constructed by the people, enthusiastically in the hope that their efforts might save a human life. 
               Hours were spent by these rough people in digging violently-working twice as hard as their own daily avocations demanded of them in the ordinary way. 
               But no result. 
               From the bulk of earth about most were of opinion that there was yet a cavity below. 
               That there was probably a space sufficiently large to allow one to breathe and move about. 
               At length there was a startler for the expectant beholders. One of the diggers gave a cry of astonishment. He struck his pick into a hard substance. 
               Upon examining this he found it to be the boot of a man buried in the debris. Moreover, the boot enclosed a foot, and before many minutes had elapsed a body was dug out of the mine, yet warm. Some one said that it breathed. This was found, however, to be an error. 
               It was found a corpse only recently, it is true, but life was quite extinct. A litter was soon constructed, and the body was placed upon it. In crowds the miners and the startled women and children gathered around the deathly spectacle. 
               Jostling each other for a front position, the better to observe what would have been to more refined people a repulsive sight. 
               "I know 'un," cried one. 
               "Who is it?" 
               "Penryth." 
               And Penryth it was-Penryth the ruffian miner-Penryth the murderer of his brother quarryman Trunnion. 
               The miners continued the digging with a vengeance after this discovery. 
               Presently one cried out that he had come to an opening. It was there as had been supposed. A large open space was still below. The earth in falling had lodged upon some large projections, leaving a kind of tunnel beneath. 
               And now the digging was prosecuted with considerable personal risk. Still they kept to it. Presently an opening was formed in the earth large enough to admit the entrance of a man. One individual volunteered to venture into this dangerous tunnel to search for any one else. 
               Presently the man cried out that he had come across the second body. 
               In rushed half a dozen of the miners all excitement-heedless of danger. Then, in the space of a minute or two, three of them reappeared, carrying a second body. This was already cold and stiff. A cry of horror ran through the assembled multitude as this second body was brought forth. 
               Then, after a considerable lapse of time, there was a third movement in the mob. 
               A third body was brought forth! This was that of a girl! 
               Rose Seymour, pale and ghastly, was laid beside the two miners-the two sufferers who had caused her so much anguish. 
               The women crowded eagerly around, and tendered their assistance. Presently one cried out that she still breathed. 
               "Let me approach," said a gentleman in a plain black suit, who had at that moment arrived upon the scene. 
               The medical man made his way to the three bodies, and began to examine them. 
               "Yes," said he, with a casual glance, she is still alive." Then a cheer burst from those within hearing, and was speedily taken up by the whole assemblage. 
               "But," said the doctor, "life has not much hold upon her now. She must be very tenderly handled." 
               "She shall be," cried an enthusiastic woman. "I'll look after her myself, doctor." 
               "And she must be taken away immediately, or I cannot answer for the consequences." 
               "Ay, ay." 
               A hundred hands were ready for the service ere the words were barely spoken by the doctor. 
               The doctor then made a careful examination of the bodies of the two men. 
               Both were past aid. 
               With much care Rose Seymour was carried off to the home of one of the more humane of the miners' wives. 
                
                
               "Well, my dear, and how do you feel now? better, I think." 
               It was the owner of the cottage who spoke to her patient. Poor Rose was returning to consciousness once more. For a weary time she had hovered upon the verge of the grave. Nature had asserted its strength, however, and Rose lived. 
               "Thank you, I'm better," said Rose. "But how came I here?" 
               "No matter for that now, my dear." "The doctor says that the subject is not to be mentioned at present." "Will you take your medicine now?" 
               "If you please." 
               The good woman took up a small physic bottle, shook it, poured out the requisite dose, and gave it to the patient. 
               As the bottle stood by the bedside Rose could just perceive that there was a name written upon it-"Margaret Black." 
               Then the quantity was mentioned, and the frequency of each dose. 
               "Who is that for?" demanded Rose, pointing to the bottle. 
               "You, dear." 
               "But whose name may that be?" 
               "Yours." 
               "Mine." 
               "Yes. Margaret Black." 
               "Margaret Black," repeated Rose. "Where did you learn it." 
               "It was marked upon your linen." 
               Rose was dumbfounded. Suddenly the truth flashed upon her. 
               Margaret Black was the name of the servants clothes she had taken as a disguise when escaping from the Whartons. 
               "You mistake," she said. "My name is not Margaret Black." 
               The woman looked 
                     incredlous
                     incredulous
                  . 
               "All right, my dear," she said. "Don't worry yourself about that. Black or White, it's all one to me." 
               "But-" 
               "There, there. I can understand that you should wish to keep your name a secret on account of the dreadful place you was all found in." 
               "Not at all. My name is Rose Seymour I 
                     assur
                     assure
                   you." 
               "Yes." 
               She spoke this in a kind of coaxing 
                     assentnig
                     assenting
                   voice, much in the way that one talks to a maniac. Rose, seeing that she could not convince her, held her peace. A day passed thus. Rose was rapidly improving in health. Her hardy constitution only appeared to grow more vigorous from the repeated and violent sufferings which she had undergone. 
               Upon the second day of her stay at the house of the hospitable miner's wife Rose heard a piece of intelligence which created fresh alarms, or rather renewed her old fears. 
               Mr. Wharton and his son Maurice were arrived at the scene of the disaster. Moreover, they desired to confer with the fortunate survivor. Rose was in 
                     dispair
                     despair
                  . Would her troubles never come to a termination? 
               Alas! she seemed doomed to fall into the clutches of these unscrupulous men. 
               She had struggled boldly to avert such a doom, but 
                     unavilingly
                     unavailingly
                  . 
               She was now, indeed, at her wit's end for means of escape. It was indeed a dilemma. She thought it over and over again, but could arrive at no satisfactory means of avoiding seeing the Whartons. 
               She put it off for two days by feigning to be worse. But this could not last forever. As she improved she would have escaped by flight during the night, but her kindly-disposed nurse never quitted her side. 
               She thought of confiding in the doctor. But this seemed a very dangerous expedient at best. How could she hope to convince a man of the world, as he appeared to be, of her innocence of wrong, and of the guilty intentions of the Whartons? 
               She was there under circumstances highly suspicious. They had a high repute in the country for their humane dispositions. No. Some other means must be adopted. She feigned to grow worse each hour. Then, suddenly hearing that the Whartons were about to leave the country for some time, and desired an interview, she came to a resolution to aid herself by a bold stroke of acting. 
               She feigned death. Still the Whartons came. They wished to see the body. This was a trying moment for Rose. They were shown into the still chamber and allowed to inspect the presumed corpse. Terror kept the poor girl motionless, and thus aided her project materially. 
               Neither father nor son betrayed the least surprise at the discovery that the rescued woman from the Danger Quarry and Rose Seymour were one. 
                
               They had evidently learnt of the abstraction of Margaret Black's garments, and, coupling it with the account of the rescue of a girl of that name, had arrived pretty nearly at a correct solution of the mystery. 
               "As I suspected," she heard the elder Wharton say, as he looked up at her. 
               "Yes," said Maurice. "There is no mistake this time, I think." 
               "Occular proof." 
               "Well, well," said the father, "she has met with a dreadful end. Had she been able to understand her own interests, as we would have had her, all would have had been well." 
               "And have saved us a deal of unnecessary trouble." 
               "Ay, indeed." 
               It was a trying ordeal. But Rose bore it through with a boldness deserving praise. At length, however, the trial was over. The Whartons departed. They were pressed for time, as they were that night starting for home. But now that this difficulty was got over another remained. She had to hear her own funeral discussed. The Whartons had in the most liberal manner provided for the burial, and an undertaker arrived. This was dreadful. However, she was now left in tranquillity, Another day she felt must cause her a relapse. No. That must not be. Then she must be irretrievably lost. Night arrived. She rose from her couch when all was still, and dressed herself. Then gently unfastening her window, she climbed over, gained the road, and fled. Fled she scarcely knew whither. No matter, so that she quitted that dreadful place. The sight of everything about her created fresh alarms. She walked on at a great pace throughout the whole night. Homeless, friendless, and destitute. Not a penny did she possess in the world. Yet she felt light of heart, for she had her liberty. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE fire which occurred in White street, at the residence of Mr. Briggs, completely gutted the house from the basement to the attics. 
               A heap of charred timber and the blackened brick walls were all that remained to tell of the fatal fire. 
               How it occurred remained a profound mystery to all. 
               The strictest investigation was instituted by the authorities. 
               But with no result. 
               Not the faintest trace could be obtained of its origin. 
               Many people in the fashionable quarters were vastly interested in the matter, and their inquiries inspired the diligent officials to greater exertion. 
               But it baffled all. 
               The strangest thing of all in connection with the mysterious occurrence was the fatal end of the owner of the mansion, Mr. Briggs. 
               So fearfully must he have been burnt, every one remarked. 
               Not even the remains of his body were ever discovered. 
               Search the most minute was made over the ruins for the body, but not a trace of it was to be found. 
               A coat, which he had been seen to wear before the occurrence of the fatal fire, was discovered near the back entrance to the house. 
               From this the more inventive deduced the most wonderful reasonings. 
               Many averred that he had got clear off and disappeared with a purpose. 
               But why? 
               This was also answered by the wiser and better informed. 
               He had, they did not scruple to assert, some very weighty reason. 
               The precise nature of the reason was-like the fire itself-a mystery. 
               Dark hints and significant shaking of heads were only known upon the subject. 
               At "White's," Col. Harold King became quite a lion, because he had been rather intimate with the deceased Briggs. 
               Col. Harold's information appeared to be inexhaustible upon the subject. 
               The incident of the detected cheat, Captain Roper, was made the most of by every one-and by Col. Harold in particular. 
               Truth to tell, Harold was just a whit weak-minded and given to the old-maidish weakness of gossiping. 
               Like most of the class, he told all he knew to everybody he knew. 
               Then when his information ran short, his invention supplied little, ingenious fictions which were really very harmless and amusing, while they gulled the credulous. 
               Captain Roper had disappeared, too. after the fire. This looked strange. 
               At least, it looked so to those who were anxious to solve an impenetrable mystery. 
                
               With the disappearance of the detected cheat the world did not hesitate to couple the unexplained fire in White street, in the freest manner. 
               He had returned to take revenge upon the house in which he had been detected. 
               To take revenge upon Mr. Briggs, who had degraded him. 
               So said the wisacres. 
               And yet this was strange. 
               If the swindling Captain Roper had so panted for vengeance, how was it that he had not sought it upon the author of his undoing? 
               Wherefore should he have carried his animosity so against Mr. Briggs, and yet have permitted Harold to escape? 
               This was not easily to be argued, and, therefore, probably was never mooted by the overwise. 
               Mr. Briggs and the mystery of the White-street fire died a natural death. 
               A few weeks and it was never mentioned in society. 
               This wonder was succeeded by a new sensation. 
               Folks grew more marvellously pious. 
               The ladies all worked slippers and braces for churchmen. 
               Altars and candles, priests in gay robes, and holy confession were now the order of the day in these Protestant (?) churches. 
               This was not enough. 
               One bold man-an adroit fellow, who drew upon the attention of the whole world of devotees-donned a serge gown, girded his waist with beads and a cross, walked about in sandals, and shaved his crown. 
               He called himself Brother Stiggins, and had it all his own way in the clerical line. 
               There were also a variety of lights in the cloth who created smaller sensation in their circles. 
               One, who was a bull-headed, closely-cropped individual, was reported to perform gymnastics in the pulpit in the way of gestures of enthusiasm. 
               Another, who was semi-dramatic, and of whom the wicked world said wicked things. 
               Another, who predicted the end of the world. 
               The latter, we may remark, was slightly out in his calculation, or the globe should now be chaos these ten years. 
               Then the clergy, having had it to themselves too long, the lower orders of the laity became of a sudden inspired. 
               "Reformed" dustmen doffed their fantails and smocks, donned the clerical choker, and were elevated to the pulpit. 
               One Isaac Kingsley became a great magnate. 
               He "reformed" (i.e. foreswore, his "baccy," abjured his "heavy," washed his face, and did not use bad language), and carried the whole world by storm by his eloquence in preaching. 
               Then, when this had become used up a new sensation awaited the blase world. 
               Spiritualism became the leading attraction of the day. 
               A pair of wonderful brothers created marvels innumerable. 
               About this time-or, rather, after the sensation was beginning to pall upon the public taste-a strange fellow contrived to establish himself a wonderful reputation as a profound scholar, a wonderful doctor, a compounder of a certain elixir, a specific for every known malady, an astrologer, and, in short, a magician of the greatest skill ever known. 
               Of course he got greatly laughed at, but everybody visited him-in secret. 
               It was not only the petticoats who patronised him, it was well known. 
               Men-wits and scholars-men of rank and reputation were numbered among his visitors. 
               He had established himself in a fashionable quarter, too. 
               Quiet and secluded, but yet in the precise position to be easy of access to the fashionable world, to whom he evidently looked for patronage. 
               He was an Arab. 
               His name was Mermet Ben something unpronounceable, but was known to every one as Mermet alone. 
               As this strange character will have to figure largely in these pages, we propose at once introducing the reader to his abode. 
               By way of a short introduction we will be present at a seance. 
               Mermet was short in stature, a cripple of the most unprepossessing, almost repulsive, appearance which one can possibly conceive. 
               His head appeared to be monstrous. 
               A thick shock of grey, grizzled hair, and a long beard of the same hue, a hideous seared face, ferret eyes, surmounted by a pair of bushy eyebrows, and we have his portrait complete. 
                
               He always wore a black velvet skull cap. 
               Whenever a visitor was ushered into his presence he was ready. 
               This alone would always have secured him a great deal of respect from the credulous fair sex. 
               But the general effect of the chamber in which he received company was weird and sepulchral. 
               It smelt musty, and everything seemed to flavor of ether. 
               At the back of the room was a small recess separated from the rest of the apartment by a dingy tapestry curtain. 
               Near the top of this curtain was a small opening, through which the curious visitor could just discern the outlines of sundry crucibles, large bottles, and stuffed monstrosities in reptiles, &c. 
               Mermet was seated upon a low ottoman smoking a hookah-smelling suspiciously of opium-and which had an endless amount of tube. 
               There was a low rap at the outer door. 
               "Enter," said Mermet. 
               A servant, a man of color and evidently a countryman of his master, came into the room. 
               "What is it, Ahmet?" 
               Ahmet salaamed and then explained. 
               "A gentleman would have speech with you, sahib." 
               "Good, admit him." 
               Then a tall, handsome-looking man of four or six and twenty was ushered in. 
               He had a base, dissipated appearance, and the Arab studied him attentively as he advanced. 
               The visitor bowed and coughed. 
               Then smiled and looked uncomfortable. 
               "You are Mermet-Mr. Mermet?" he said, after a minute. 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "Good. I wish to speak with you." 
               "Good." 
               "And in private." 
               "Good. Ahmet." 
               "Sahib!" 
               "Take the sahib's hat and walking cane-place a chair for him-go." 
               With another salaam, the Arab servant fulfilled these orders and departed. 
               All was done so quietly, and with so little noise or fuss, that the visitor was divested of his walking gear and seated in a luxurious easy chair in the space of a few seconds, and before he well knew where he was. 
               "Now, sir," said Mermet, laying aside his amber mouthpiece, "I am all attention for your business." 
               The young man was evidently impressed with all this. 
               He appeared rather embarrassed. 
               "Ahem!" he began. "I-I wished to consult you upon a matter-" 
               "Pardon me," said the Arab calmly. "You do not wish to do anything of the kind." 
               "Sir?" 
               "You have come here to see Mermet the Arab, to gibe and scoff." 
               "I-sir, I-really-" 
               "Nay, I read it in your face. This is some wager-some idle boast that you would show me up to the world as an impostor." 
               The visitor was dumbfounded. 
               Speechless with astonishment. 
               "Have I said aright?" continued the Arab, perfectly collected. 
               "I confess." 
               "Enough," said the Arab, waving his hand. "I know what that means. But you might have spared me your ridicule. I court not the world: 'tis the world that runs after me." 
               The visitor bowed. 
               "Now you are here, if you would have aught of me, I am at your service. If not, I pray you to leave me to myself." 
               "I would have something of you, then," said the young man, recovering himself slightly. 
               "I know you would." 
               "You know?" 
               "Ay. I read your face as a book; it needs no necromancer's skill to do that." 
               "Then what do I desire, pray?" 
               "A proof of my skill." 
               "Granted." 
               The visitor was even more impressed at these words. 
               "You would learn that I am a quack, a charlatan." 
               "Nay." 
               "Pardon me, you would. Put me to the test. I ask no more." 
               "I will," said the visitor. "You read men's faces?" 
               "Some men's." 
               "Can you read men's hearts?" 
               "My reply must be again the same-some." 
               "What is now passing in mine?" 
               "The sensations are varied." 
               "To use your own words, it needed no necromancer's skill to tell that much." 
               "Right," said the Arab. "But I can give you the outline, I believe." 
                
               "Do so, then." 
               "You are wondering now whether I am really a charlatan." 
               "Nay." 
               "And mixed with this is a desire to know if I could tell you how to restore your scattered fortune." 
               The stranger started. 
               "Ah!" he exclaimed. "How, in the fiend's name, know you that?" 
               "It boots little to know that," returned the Arab, with great coolness. 
               "One word more," said the visitor, "These may be all guesses." 
               "Doubtless." 
               "A lucky hit, by which you would secure a reputation for hidden knowledge." 
               "Granted." 
               "Your proof, then. If you know so much it would seem but natural that you know me." 
               "I do." 
               The visitor jumped back two or three paces, quite amazed. 
               "You know me?" 
               "Ay." 
               "And who am I?" 
               "A spendthrift." 
               "Ay, and-" 
               "Gambler." 
               "Sir!" began the stranger, indignantly. "You become personal." 
               "You ask for it." 
               "Not so. I ask, as a proof of your boasted knowledge and skill-" 
               "I boast none." 
               "I ask, I say, if you can tell me who I am-in short, what is my name?" 
               The Arab paused. 
               Bent his gray head and pursed his bushy eyebrows. 
               The visitor watched him with a sarcastic smile upon his lips. 
               "You are at a loss," he said. 
               "Not quite." 
               "Yet you cannot say." 
               "I can and will." 
               Here Mermet clapped his hands and his attendant appeared. 
               A few words were spoken in a foreign tongue, which the visitor could not comprehend, and the attendant brought in a musty-looking volume, filled with strange hieroglyphics. 
               The Arab studied a page in this attentively for some moments. 
               Then looked up. 
               "You have found it?" said the visitor. with a satirical grin. 
               "Yes." 
               "The devil!" 
               "You are called Col. Harold King." 
               The amazement expressed upon the Colonel's countenance is beyond conception. 
               He turned pale. 
               Then red to the roots of the hair. 
               Then glanced towards the door uncomfortably, evidently wishing himself out of such a strange man's presence. 
               The Arab sat leaning upon his hands, porting over the contents of his book, and peering occasionally at the electrified Colonel from under his beetle brows. 
               Then, when the visitor's astonishment had full sway, he looked up. 
               "Are you satisfied?" he asked, in a tone implying that he had plenty in reserve, if he desired to know more. 
               "Yes." 
               "You think now that I am no juggler, no charlatan, quack or humbug?" 
               "Really, I-" 
               "Enough," said the Arab. "I know the world too well, young man, believe me." 
               "Well, I confess that when I came here it was to see if I could-" 
               "Detect me in a cheat." interrupted Mermet. "Now look here, Col. King. I can, if you like, run you through the whole story of your life. Every little incident could be made known to me even while you wait." 
               The Colonel here interrupted him hastily. 
               "Nay, I thank you. I have quite enough in what you have already said." 
               "I thought so," returned the 
                     necromencer
                     necromancer
                   drily. 
               The visitor was silent for some minutes. 
               Then he rose and looked about him, as if doubtful as to the next step to be taken in this mysterious visit. 
               "You have nothing more to know of me?" demanded the Arab. 
               "Nothing." 
               "Good." 
               Mermet clapped his hands and the attendant reappeared. 
               "Ahmet," said the Arab. "The sahib's hat and cane. He would go." 
               Ahmet salaamed and withdrew. 
               "I beg your pardon," said the Colonel, as if broaching an unpleasant matter. "But before I go I believe there is a little matter. I believe that I-" 
               The Arab glanced up inquiringly. 
               He would not help him at all. 
               "There should be some little consideration, I believe?" 
                
               "I don't understand." 
               "A-a fee." 
               "Oh! payment," said the Arab. 
               "Well, yes." 
               "No. I don't barter my knowledge for dross-my learning for coin." 
               "Pardon me, but in our country everything is bought and sold. Therefore I deemed-" 
               "Oh! I know well. I am not of this land, but I know well your customs and respect them. But I have no need of wealth. My servant, however, is more worldly in his views. He craves for gold. He is avaricious. If you would indulge the generosity of your nature, give him what you will. You will then gratify me and Ahmet too." 
               With this the conference terminated, and Col. Harold King was shown out. 
               As soon as he was gone the colored domestic re-entered the room. 
               "Well, Ahmet," said the Arab necromancer. "And how much did he leave?" 
               "This." 
               And he placed five sovereigns upon the table. 
               "Five!" said the Arab in a low tone. "Fool! he's as prodigal as ever with his gold. One would have done as well and given him a great name. Well, well, one thing I see from all this which is useful to know-they haven't yet bled him to death. I must look him up again." 
               Thus speaking, the Arab swept the gold into a bead-worked bag. 
               Rising by the aid of his crutches, he lifted the cushion of the ottoman and deposited the bag in a small metal box. 
               While he was thus engaged another visitor was announced. 
               He was a tall, handsome man of a military appearance. 
               He bowed stiffly as he entered the room. 
               The Arab eyed him curiously from beneath his bushy brows. 
               "Strange," he muttered to himself. "But that face is not unknown to me." 
               Then he continued aloud. 
               "You desire to have speech with me?" 
               "I do." 
               "May I ask the nature of your business?" 
               "I have heard much of your skill in compounding drugs." 
               At this point the Arab half rose from his seat. 
               It would almost appear as if something wonderfully familiar in the visitor's tone had struck him. 
               Calming himself, however, by an effort (marvellously concealed, by the bye), he resumed his seat, and begged the other to proceed. 
               "I was about to ask, too, in reference to your drugs, have you any deadly poisons for vermin?" 
               "Humph!" 
               "That do not affect human life?" 
               "Yes. I have none other." 
               As the Arab watched him closely he could trace a faint shade of disappointment stealing over his face. 
               His object in this being achieved, he hastened to make an amendment to his speech which completely changed its character. 
               "That is, I keep none but such as those for use." 
               "You have others?" 
               "I have." 
               "And you would dispose of them?" demanded the visitor eagerly. 
               "Yes." 
               "You have them now?" 
               "I have, but I only keep them prepared in certain doses for certain maladies." 
               The visitor eyed him eagerly, as if he would read his very soul. 
               "No matter," said he. "Let me have such as you have by you. I will pay handsomely if they answer my purpose." 
               "Who is it you would slay?" 
               The visitor turned pale, and looked up half tottering from his seat. 
               "Slay?" 
               "Ay." 
               "Who? What do you mean?" 
               "I forgot," said the Arab, with his piercing dark eyes fixed upon his visitor, "In my tongue the form of speech would be the same. Who would you slay? would apply equally to a human slaughter or the killing of reptiles." 
               "Here it is different," said the visitor, somewhat 
                     reasured
                     reassured
                  . We should rather phrase it 'What would you kill?'" 
               "Thank you." 
               "Well, I would poison a dog." 
               "A dog?" 
               "Ay, a treacherous animal." 
               There was a brutal intensity of passion in these words, which the Arab mentally noted. 
               "You think it dangerous?" 
               "No." 
               "Then why would you slay-I beg your pardon-kill it?" 
                
               "Because it has bitten me once." 
               "And it is rather a revenge-" 
               The visitor changed color at the expression. 
               But Mermet proceeded. 
               "Upon the poor brute than aught else?" 
               "Possibly." 
               "Then bring me your dog, and I will put him out of your way, so surely and so safely that you may rely upon it that it will never trouble you more." 
               "No, no, I cannot do that." 
               "Then I can charm his life away." 
               "Charm?" 
               "Ay, involve it in spells so potent that in an hour he dies." 
               The visitor burst into a coarse laugh. 
               "Come, come, my friend," said he. "You do draw it a little too strong. I can stand much, but really, 'pon my soul, that's too much." 
               The Arab frowned. 
               Then he looked up perfectly calm and collected. 
               "My words sound strange?" 
               "Not exactly strange," said the visitor. "I may say ridiculous." 
               "Silence!" 
               The visitor looked indignant. 
               "You rascally old impostor!" he ejaculated. "How dare you presume to address me thus? I've half a mind to trounce you." 
               The Arab's long bony hands might be seen to clutch nervously at the cushions of his seat at these words. 
               But when he spoke his voice betrayed no emotion of anger. 
               "Silence, I say!" he continued. "Remember that you address one whose age alone should secure the respect of such as you." 
               "Such as I?" 
               "Ay. But be calm. Since you doubt my skill, I shall not condescend to give you explanations, believe me. You refuse to bring the dog to me?" 
               "I do." 
               "Then I shall get him here without your aid." 
               "You?" 
               "Ay." 
               "But how?" 
               "No matter. Will you give me your dog's name?" 
               "No." 
               "His 
                     initals
                     initials
                  ?" 
               "Not I." 
               "No matter, I can procure both." 
               "How the devil would you manage that?" 
               "Shall I show you?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Good. Be seated. It will be a proof of my skill for you." 
               "Indeed it will." 
               The same ceremony as before was gone through, and the book filled with hieroglyphics was brought. 
               Mermet studied it attentively for a while before he looked up. 
               "This troubles me," he said at length. 
               "I thought so," said the visitor, with a sneer of triumph. 
               "Yes, because there are two names." 
               The visitor started to his feet, and an oath burst from his lips. 
               "Two?" 
               "Ay." 
               "Since you can say that, perhaps you can give them to me." 
               "Yes." 
               The gentleman was startled. 
               "You can give me both names?" 
               "Ay. Will you wait?" 
               "Willingly." 
               "Now, will you have the names or the initials simply?" 
               "The initials will suffice." 
               The perusal of the hieroglyphics was resumed. 
               "I see at first," said the Arab, "an H and-" 
               The visitor interrupted him with an ejaculation of surprise. 
               "Go on." 
               "And then a K." 
               "By Heavens, it is wonderful." 
               "Are you satisfied now?" demanded the Arab triumphantly. "Or do you still doubt?" 
               "No. But say, what more do you know upon this matter?" 
               "Nothing more than yourself-as yet." 
               "Then you can learn more?" 
               "At your desire." 
               The visitor rose from the armchair and paced the room greatly agitated. 
               "And about this dog. You say you can bring him-I mean it-here?" 
               "I can." 
               "When?" 
               "When you will." 
               "Now?" 
               "I could. But there is a spell to work, which involves more time than I could well give it." 
               "When will you, then?" 
               "To-morrow." 
               "The hour?" 
               "This." 
                
               "Good. I'll be here." 
               Then as he was turning to depart a thought appeared to strike him, and he turned sharply round. 
               "By the same rule," said he, "I suppose that you could learn my name or initials." 
               "If you wish." 
               "I-no, no-not now. You can do this equally well at any time." 
               "No. Only in the presence of the person or one closely concerned." 
               A smile of deep satisfaction stole over his face at these words. 
               Then he departed. 
               As soon as he had left the house Mermet summoned his attendant. 
               "Ahmet," he said, "Follow the stranger you have just let out." 
               "Yes, sahib." 
               "Dog him as his shadow." 
               "Good." 
               "But he must not see you." 
               "He shall not, sahib. I shall be even by his side and he shall fail to see me." 
               "Away. Learn his name and abode. Quick, or he will be gone." 
               The attendant hurried off. 
               "Ha-ha!" muttered the Arab when he was once more alone. "I wondered much what had taken him from this part. I well knew that he could only live here a schemer. But he seems now in flourishing circumstances. Strange if he can escape detection. I recognised him even as he entered. But these fools have no discernment-no wit. That long beard failed to deceive me. And so after all this time he still cherishes his vengeance. Well, well, he shall serve my purpose, and then-But Harold, too, must be made to give a hand in this business. I think that I can work the two into my purpose." 
               Thus musing, he sat until Ahmet, the attendant, returned. 
               "Well?" 
               "I have seen him." 
               "And he went to-" 
               "A club in Fourth Avenue." 
               "Which?" 
               "White's." 
               "Never!" exclaimed the Arab. "The same club, too. What boldness?" 
               "And he is called Major Strangeways." 
               "Good," said the Arab. "Now you will return to the club, and leave this note for Harold King." 
               "Yes, sahib." 
               A note was speedily written and sent. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               BEFORE proceeding further it is necessary that we should take a glance at the further doings of Mermet, the Arab necromancer. 
               A day has passed since our last interview with him. 
               The Arab is holding a second seance, which we purpose to relate. 
               At the same hour as upon the previous day, Col. Harold King, the spendthrift foreigner, arrived, according to an appointment fixed by letter by Mermet. 
               "Good day to you, Colonel Harold," said the necromancer. "You received my note, I see." 
               "I did." 
               "And I have to offer my acknowledgements for your courtesy." 
               "How so?" 
               "In obeying it." 
               "Charmed, I assure you." 
               "Thank you, Colonel," said the Arab. "But, believe me, I should never have thought of making such a request unless I had some inducement to offer you." 
               "Indeed?" 
               "Ay, and some startling inducement, too, Harold." 
               "What may be its nature?" 
               "That you shall learn presently. By the aid of my much-ridiculed charms I have discovered that your life is jeopardised." 
               "My life?" iterated the Colonel, not a little startled. 
               "Ay." 
               "By whom?" 
               "That I know not." 
               "Not know by whom? Oh! oh! Mr. Mermet, then pray pardon me if I doubt-" 
               "The correctness of my information?" 
               "Ay." 
               "I cannot tell you his name. But I will show him to you." 
               "When?" 
               "Shortly. Will you retire this way with me a while? and I will show you." 
               "Whither?" 
               Col. Harold King looked rather dubiously in the direction indicated. 
               "You have no fear, Colonel?" said the necromancer, smiling. 
               The Colonel colored to the roots of his hair before speaking. 
               "Fear? Oh, no-not the least. I am not more of a coward than most men I believe." 
                
               "I know it," said the necromancer, "and can duly appreciate your doubts." 
               The Colonel appeared to be debating within himself for some little time. 
               Then suddenly he looked towards the Arab, and exclaimed frankly: 
               "Well, well-I will trust you. I'm sure I don't know why I should doubt. You can mean me no harm." 
               "Indeed not," said the necromancer, "and that you shall see." 
               "At least, tell me the name of this enemy I have to dread so much." 
               "I cannot." 
               "Why?" 
               "He has none." 
               "No name?" 
               "Not one. He has a hundred, two of which, according to my studies, you should well know." 
               "I? Two?" 
               "Yes." 
               The Colonel looked more perplexed than ever at this. 
               "Pardon me," he said. "I know no one who sails under false colors." 
               "Precisely. You do not know them." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "That you have not the discernment to tell friends from foes." 
               "That's plump!" 
               "Pardon my words for the good intention. 
               "Oh! I do." 
               "I am not skilled in the vain and idle courtesies of life." 
               "Well, well, my friend," said the Colonel, with a light laugh, "I know you are right. I am not over strong aloft-else I should not be here conjuring in the nineteenth century." 
               "True," said the necromancer. "But the so-called strong minds frequently overreach themselves." 
               "How?" 
               "They are too matter-of-fact-never admit aught that does not come within reach of their comprehension-deny all that bears the slightest appearance of mystery-and lose many truths-" 
               "Which they are perfectly well acquainted with." 
               "Perhaps." 
               "Well, so it seems to me," said Col. Harold. "I come here for a little hokus-pokus, because it is something new-something a little exciting, and because I'm thoroughly used up. Else I know well that I had better stay away." 
               "And wherefore?" 
               Col. Harold hemm'd and ha'd, but could give no reason for this. 
               As he was speaking the faint tinkling of a bell reached the Arab. 
               We say the Arab, because Col. Harold apparently did not observe it. 
               Mermet looked up and summoned Ahmet the attendant. 
               "Ahmet." 
               "Sahib." 
               "Conduct this gentleman to another apartment." 
               The servant salaamed both his master and the visitor in great humility. 
               "Will the sahib follow his humble slave?" 
               "By all means," said the Colonel, "since it must be so." 
               "I will join you instantly," said the Arab. "I have to see a visitor. I shall be with you as soon as I can dispose of him." 
               "Good." 
               Ahmet then led Col. Harold to the next apartment by rather a circuitous route-promenading an unnecessary amount of passages. 
               Here he ushered him in. 
               "Do you require anything, sahib?" 
               "No. I can amuse myself here while old Hokus Pokus gets ready for me." 
               The servant left. 
               As Col. Harold looked around him he perceived that the walls were decorated with all kinds of anatomical drawings and scientific diagrams. 
               The room contained half a dozen globes. 
               In the centre of the room was an arabesque flower-stand, filled with artificial flowers and leaves, most naturally worked and highly scented. 
               The flower-stand was in the centre of a small platform, elevated some few inches above the level of the boards. 
               This was the first object which attracted his attention. 
               "A neat little contrivance that," he thought. "I wonder if they are real." 
               Taking a chair he placed himself beside the flowers and leant over them. 
               "Delicious!" he said, in raptures of delight. "What beautiful perfume!" 
               Each flower was differently scented, and it was an intoxicating effect which they all produced together. 
               Never before had he experienced such sensations. 
               Never had such odors been inhaled. 
               They seemed to steal upon the senses, bewildering and enrapturing at once. 
                
               "Strange," muttered the Colonel incoherently. "Strange effect." 
               The final syllable of the latter word almost died upon his lips ere it was barely uttered. 
               He remained with his eyes fixed upon the flowers, perfectly still and motionless. 
               His expression was rather that of a lover gazing upon the face of his mistress than aught else. 
               Rapturous delight was there clearly delineated, although he neither moved nor spoke. 
               He appeared insensible to all that was passing around him. 
               A slight sound like the sliding of a curtain failed to arouse his attention. 
               There was a fresh stream of light admitted from the further end of the appartment. 
               A long tapestry curtain was drawn aside, showing the next room. 
               Still the Colonel never moved from the same position. 
               And yet the opening of the curtain disclosed a sight which of all others would have been the most likely to excite his curiosity and attention. 
                
               The Arab necromancer meanwhile has received another visitor. 
               This is the gentleman who called upon him the previous day. 
               Major Strangeways, as Ahmet had ascertained at the club. 
               "Well, sir astrologer," said the visitor as he entered. "I am here." 
               "I see." 
               "And now to the little bit of mummery we were discussing yesterday." 
               "Mummery?" 
               "Ay." 
               "You are not choice in your expressions it appears to me." 
               "True, I am not." 
               "Then I would have you a little guarded. Remember that you seek me and my council, not I you." 
               "Pooh! pooh!" 
               "And if I am further annoyed by you I shall decline." 
               "Woa!" said the visitor with a coarse laugh. "Not quite so fast. Do you think I'm going to let you off like that? You are endeavoring to knock up a shine, it strikes me, in order to get out of a fix which you got into by your wonderful promises yesterday." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "That you're a humbug." 
               "Sir!" 
               "And that I shall expose your devilish humbuggery." 
               The Arab fixed his eyes quietly upon those of his visitor. 
               "And the dog?" 
               These few words, so smoothly uttered, had a striking effect upon the visitor. 
               He changed color visibly. 
               He endeavored to smile, but met with a lamentable failure. 
               "I see you are growing to know that I am not the fool and charlatan you take me for," said the Arab. 
               "I-I don't understand.' 
               "Truly?" 
               "No. I really mean no offence in anything I may say." 
               "And your threats?" 
               "Threats? Absurd! I offer threats, Mr. Mermet? Preposterous!" 
               "So say I," quoth the Arab drily. 
               "But touching the matter of which you spoke yesterday?" 
               "The dog?" 
               "Ay." 
               "You want the drug for him?" 
               "Ay. Unless-" 
               "Speak on. Unless I can bring it here, as I said?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Then I can. But this can only be done upon one condition." 
               "Name it." 
               "That when I have it here before you you do not speak a word-that you make no noise." 
               "But why?" 
               "Because the spell is destroyed by the sound of human voice." 
               A sneer curled the visitors's lip, but he remained silent. 
               The Arab clapped his hands, and Ahmet appeared. 
               Then a conference in some foreign tongue took place, and the attendant left. 
               Mermet then arose from his seat, and took from an adjacent shelf a small blue phial, from which he poured into a saucer some few drops of a colorless liquid. 
               Ahmet entered with a lighted taper, which was applied to the liquid. 
               Then the window curtains were drawn, and the chamber was lighted only by the bright blue flame of the burning spirit. 
               From above the flame arose a thick grey vapor, which rapidly filled the chamber with an odor which was far from being unpleasant. 
                
               Like the fatal opium, it seemed to steal upon the senses. 
               The visitor could not fail to be impressed by the proceedings. 
               All was silent. 
               The only noise he could discover was an occasional faint rustling of the necromancer's garments, as he moved about the apartment, hatching his spells and charms. 
               Faithful to his contract, the visitor neither moved nor spoke. 
               His eyes remained all the time fixed upon the burning spirit, and the gracefully curling smoke as it wreathed up over the flames. 
               He seemed to be growing very comfortable. 
               A blissful sensation stole over him. 
               He appeared ignorant of all care or sorrow. 
               Nothing but tranquillity and peaceful happiness. 
               His eye-lids began to drop. 
               "I wish he'd finish his conjuring," thought the visitor. "I shall be off asleep as soon as it is all ready." 
               Noiselessly Mermet at this moment appeared upon the other side of the flame. 
               The reflection of the spirit light upon his hideous face and dark grizzled beard had a most peculiar and weird effect. 
               The magician's right hand grasped a wand, which he held pointed at the curtain. 
               Slowly, and as if in obedience to a mentally-uttered command from the Arab, the tapestry withdrew. 
               Beyond it was discovered a scene which caused the visitor the utmost wonderment. 
               Seated over a vase of flowers in the centre of the place was Colonel Harold King. 
               A fixed expression was upon his face, He neither moved nor spoke. 
               Motionless as a statue he sat. 
               He appeared to be rather a beautifully executed figure in wax than aught else. 
               The effect upon the visitor was electrifying. 
               His eyes dilated and his lower jaw fell as if at the last breath of life. 
               He essayed to rise, but his limbs were powerless. 
               "The dog!" said the Arab, in a low, but impressive tone. 
               The words sent a shiver through the visitor's frame. 
               "Stay!" he muttered, hoarsely. 'I-I-" 
               As he uttered these words the startling vision was over. 
               The curtain closed to, shutting out the strange sight. 
               "You have spoken," said Mermet, sternly, "and the charm is dissolved." 
               The few faint syllables which the visitor had uttered, however, it would appear, had taken what little power of speech remained to him. 
               His head rested motionless upon his hand. 
               At first it might have been thought that the effect of the singular illusion which he had just witnessed had caused him to swoon. 
               But no. 
               His eyes were wide open. 
               His face remained immoveable, the expression which it had last worn resting upon his features. 
               Still he could see nothing. 
               Hear nothing. 
               All that passed around him was utterly unheeded. 
               And yet a second vision was there which would have caused him even more astonishment than the first. 
               The curtain was again withdrawn, and the figure of Colonel Harold King seemed on a sudden inspired with life and animation. 
               And yet he saw it not. 
                
               "I'm at your disposal, sir." 
               The magician entered the apartment in which Col. King was seated over the flower-stand. 
               As he spoke the Colonel looked up and smiled. 
               The spell which had seemingly held his faculties enchained was broken. 
               "What beautiful flowers!" said the colonel, rapturously. 
               "They are pleasing." 
               "They are most choice." 
               "And have been frequently admired," said Mermet. "You are at liberty to take them with you, if you will." 
               "Nay. I could not deprive you of them for worlds." 
               "Then I will make you a boquet." 
               "Make them?" 
               "Ay. These are all my work." 
               "Indeed?" 
               The magician was advanced another step in Col. Harold's esteem. 
               "Touching the matter of which I spoke to you," said Mermet. 
               "This hidden foe?" 
                
               "Ay." 
               "Well, well. What would you?" 
               "Pray you to be upon your guard." 
               "But at least let me have some clue. 
               "You shall. I dare not speak his name, but you shall see his image. Behold!" 
               The tapestry glided aside and disclosed the motionless figure of the visitor. 
               "Strangeways!" ejaculated Col. Harold King. 
               "Hush!" 
               And the curtain fell. 
               "One moment more," said the Colonel. 
               "Too late." 
               "But how too late?" 
               "You have spoken." 
               "And-" 
               "And the spell's dissolved." 
               Col. Harold looked rather startled. 
               "So," said he, "this is the man against whom you would warn me?" 
               "So says my information." 
               "But this is one of my most intimate friends." 
               "I know it." 
               "How!" 
               "Ay. But since when does he count amongst your friends?" 
               "Why, in truth, it is only a recent acquaintanceship-that is, comparatively recent." 
               "That man's a parvenu," said the magician-"an upstart." 
               "Why, he had the best of introduction to us, I assure you." 
               "Possibly." 
               "The Mayor is his most intimate friend I hear." 
               "Possibly." 
               "And the whole club court his society." 
               "Possibly." 
               "But, hang it! how can he be what you say with all these advantages?" 
               "No matter. You shall see a knave exposed." 
               "A knave; Strangeways?" 
               "Ay." 
               "But what proof?" 
               "This is the best that I can offer. At an early date you will be drinking with your friend-" 
               "Doubtless. But that happens every day, I should say." 
               "Good. Well, say to-morrow, when you will see him drinking from one decanter alone. Abstain from touching the other." 
               "What?" ejaculated the horror-stricken colonel. 
               "I say, refrain from drinking any bottle that your best friend will not touch. No matter the pretext, and he'll have one, I warrant you; for he is as cunning as the fiend." 
               "I will," said he, with a 
                     resolnte
                     resolute
                   air. "I'll do as you say." 
               "But," said Mermet, "pray, observe this-on no account mention to a living soul what I have said-on no account mention it to the assassin himself." 
               "But tell me at least his motive." 
               "That you shall learn hereafter." 
               And with this assurance the colonel was obliged to content himself. 
               "Let silence and secrecy be your watchword," said the Arab. 
               "Trust to me." 
               "And be sure to bring me some of the poisoned decanter." 
               "If what you advance be true, I will." 
               "Good. But bear in mind that all will be frustrated unless you preserve the strictest silence upon this business." 
               "I will, believe me," said the colonel "I think you mean me well." 
               "Think!" interrupted the magician, in a tone of angry surprise. 
               "I'm sure you do. To-morrow night I will be with you." 
               "Good." 
               And with this Colonel Harold King departed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               TO return to Rose Seymour. 
               We left her after her flight from the cottage of the hospitable miner's wife, who had deemed her dead. The whole live-long night did the poor girl pursue her dreary promenade. 
               At length there was a break in the dull black clouds. 
               They began to grow grey. 
               "Morning!" murmured Rose in grateful satisfaction. "How beautiful!" 
               It was not exactly beautiful at the present, however. 
               Everything goes by comparison, and thus the dull leaden-looking sky which succeeded the grim and sombre hue of night was beautiful to our heroine. 
               At every fresh piece of light which appeared above, she felt her spirits and her courage rise. 
               She had at length escaped from the terrible bondage. 
               At length she was free. 
               Homeless, houseless, and friendless, she still felt that she possessed at least the greatest boon of mankind. 
               Liberty. 
               "Thank Heaven!" she murmured fervently. "Had that darkness continued much longer I feel that I should have given myself up to despair." 
               The morning had now fairly set in. 
               At length when she found herself fairly free from the Whartons, and the terrors surrounding that dark and tragic chapter in her career, she began to give a thought to her future movements. 
               This caused her some alarm. 
               She had no notion of any line of conduct-no idea even of the name of the place in which she now found herself. 
               A kind of vague notion possessed her that she must proceed at once to the city. 
               But then? 
               No matter. Once in the metropolis she might obtain some kind of employment, although utterly friendless. 
               Suddenly the thought of the friendly young scene-painter and his good-natured mother occured to her, and her conscience smote her for her ingratitude. 
               With such good and sterling friends as these worthy people, how could she be without hope! 
               As she contemplated the joyous prospect of again meeting with one she could grasp by the hand and call friend, her heart beat quickly. 
               Instinctively her pace increased as if she would have strode to their sides upon the instant. 
               It is impossible to say how long Rose had continued this dreary walk, or how many many miles of country she had got over. 
               At length the courage which had buoyed her up could no longer sustain her. 
               It was a false strength for all. 
               Nature began at last to assert her sway, and Rose felt that she was utterly exhausted. 
               Worn out by toil and travel. 
               The country in which she now found herself looked more civilized. 
               Upon every side were signs of the place being inhabited at no great distance. 
               Up to the present, however she had not encountered a single dwelling. 
               Not a house had she passed since she quitted the mining country. 
               Presently she arrived at a turn in the road. 
               Here the sound of some kind of a vehicle struck upon her ear, and on gaining the turn she perceived at no very great distance a wagon laden with hay coming in that direction. 
               With all speed Rose hastened to meet it. 
               "What is the name of the next village, pray?" she asked the wagoner. 
               "Woa!" said the wagoner, pulling in his horse. "What say, mum?" 
               Rose repeated her question, 
               "The next village, is it?" 
               "Yes." 
               "'Taint a village at all." 
               "Well then, town." 
               "Ah, that's better," said the wagoner. "It's Springfield, that is." 
               "Springfield." 
               "Yes. And who d' ye want." 
               "Nobody in particular, thank you. Is Springfield far hence?" 
               "'Bout three miles." 
               Three miles! 
               This was anything but cheering intelligence for Rose in her present condition. 
               Our heroine proceeded on her journey. 
               Poor Rose now began to foresee an endless list of difficulties which were to spring from her strange position. 
               She turned round to look after the wagoner when some distance on. 
               There he stood, stock still, looking after her in great astonishment. 
               How could she be able to reply to similar questions? 
               The time would doubtless arrive when some explanations would be necessary. 
               A weary weary journey did it now become for Rose. 
               Still she kept up. 
               At length she saw a house. 
               The first she had come in sight of since the commencement of that night's troubles. 
               It was a road-side inn, and not the precise place she would have chosen to sue for charity. 
               But food she must have or perish. 
               She was a brave girl, and she gulped down her scruples as best she could, and then boldly advanced. 
               From the early hour she judged that the business of the day had scarcely began. 
               The door was open, but there was no one about yet. 
               No matter! Up to the door walked Rose, advanced to the threshold, and- 
               Walked off! 
                
               No. The pangs of hunger must yet be sharper ere she could beg. 
               Just facing the door were a few wooden benches and rough tables, and upon one of the former Rose sat to rest herself. 
               Until she sat down she had no conception of the severity of the fatigue which she had undergone. 
               It was suffering indeed. 
               Sitting there, she had time to reflect upon the miseries she had passed through. 
               But, what was far worse, the trials and troubles were yet ahead. 
               "Oh! it is hard, cruelly hard, to have such misery to endure!" murmured Rose, as a big tear trickling down her careworn pallid cheek. "Why, oh! why is such a lot of trial and sorrow 
                     to to
                     to
                   be mine!" 
               Her grief gave way. 
               Her heart was overcharged and she fell to sobbing as if it would burst. 
               Her head sank upon her hands on the table. 
               There she sat, insensible to all that was passing round her. 
               "Lawks!" exclaimed a shrill female voice. "Why me! if there ain't a woman half dead here!" 
               Rose raised her head. 
               Her big bright eyes were now dimmed with the bitter tears she had shed, but her pretty face was still beautiful in its pallor. 
               "Why she's been a-crying!" said the girl, a stout slapping country wench, whose ruddy cheeks and robust person presented a wonderful contrast to the emaciated girl before her. "What's the matter with you, my girl. 
               Rose could not speak. 
               "There, then," said the girl, "don't trouble yourself. Have your cry out, and then speak when you've done. You'll choke yourself." 
               Rose looked into the girl's face earnestly. 
               There was good nature in every feature, and she would tell her trouble. 
               "What is it?" again asked the rustic maiden. 
               "I am weary," answered Rose, "footsore, and worn out with suffering." 
               "Poor creature!" said the girl. "Have you had your breakfast yet?" 
               Rose shook her head. 
               "Well, I suppose not. But you don't mean to say you have walked far this morning." 
               "I have walked all night," 
               "What?" 
               "It is true-too true." 
               "But you must be half killed." 
               "I am sick and faint. 
               "Of course you are-and hungry too, no doubt-ain't you now?" 
               "Indeed I need food seriously." 
               This appeared to shock the well-fed rustic more than all. 
               "What are you going to eat?" 
               A faint flush suffused Rose's pallid cheeks at these words. 
               "I have no money." 
               "None?" 
               She shook her head. 
               "I am destitute," she said, with a rising sensation at the throat, which almost choked her utterance. "I haven't a cent in the world-no hope of getting one. And, oh! great Heaven! this is fearful!" 
               And once more did the unhappy Rose fall sobbing over the table. 
               The country girl grew moist about the eves at this fresh outbreak. 
               "What's all this for, my girl?" she asked in a very thick voice, and with a lamentable failure at an appearance of easiness which she was far from feeling. "Surely it ain't for a meal-else we could easily settle that little matter." 
               Rose tearfully offered her acknowledgements of the kindness. 
               "There, there," said the good-natured rustic, interrupting her, "we don't want any thanks. Get into the house, and if you are tired you shall lie upon my bed." 
               "Heaven bless you," said Rose fervently. 
               "Amen." 
               "And if ever it is in my power to repay your kindness, believe me-" 
               "You will, of course." 
               And with this she bustled the thoroughly worn-out wanderer into the house. 
               Fortunately for Rose, the buxom young woman was the mistress of the house-newly married-and had the power to befriend her. 
               Half dozing with want of rest and the great exertions of the night, Rose sat over the kitchen fire until a bowl of steaming milk and some eggs were brought to her. 
               This she devoured eagerly, much to the delight of her good benefactress, who stood by to survey the effects of her charity. 
               Then, the rest of the meal having been discussed, Rose was hurried off to a neat bedchamber to rest. 
               It was beautifully clean and fresh, and the comforts of such a lodging were most welcome to the weary fugitive. 
               At first she was even too weary to sleep. 
               After a while, however, she sank into a deep slumber. 
               So heavy and so long was this that it was dusk when she awoke. 
               The kind treatment she had received by such a hazard completely restored her. 
               She arose refreshed and strengthened in body and spirits. 
               Then, dressing herself and making such improvements in her toilet as she could, she descended. 
               The hostess was in the bar. 
               "Well, my dear," said the kind girl, "you've had a long nap of it." 
               "Yes," said Rose, "thanks to your goodness. But I hope that I have not abused the kindness which you lavished upon me." 
               "Nonsense." 
               "How to express my acknowledgements-how to offer adequate thanks, I'm sure I cannot tell." 
               "Lor, my dear," exclaimed the hostess, "if you can't tell with all your fine words, how the dickens can I?" 
               "No, but-" 
               "There, there. Suppose we let it drop." 
               "You are so good." 
               "Am I. Well, you don't know me yet. But I've no time to hear what you've got to tell me. I'm busy." 
               And with this she darted off to the parlor with two jugs of foaming beer, which she had drawn whilst speaking. 
               In an instant she was back again. 
               "Lor! what people these are," she said. "I declare they quite perplexed me." 
               "Who?" 
               "My parlor customers. It's the manager and the head man of the theatrical company that opens to-morrow night at the Theatre. 
               Rose pricked up her ears at this. 
               "The Theatre?" she asked. 
               "Yes." 
               "Of this place." 
               "Yes." 
               "Is it only just opened?" 
               "Just re-opened. The last man that had it failed. In fact, it never did pay; only old Nym managed somehow to make a decent living out of it. He never paid the salaries, though, and some people declare that to be the cause of his success. I can't say." 
               Rose was not thinking greatly of the hostess' words. 
               An idea had occurred to her. 
               A chance here offered itself, and, pay or no pay, she would risk it, if possible. 
               At any rate she would most probably be enabled to live. 
               Presently, while the youthful landlady was busying herself about, Rose strolled into parlor. 
               The entrance was screened off by a dingy green baize curtain, probably put there to keep away draughts, and her appearance was unnoticed by the occupants of the parlor. 
               As she entered, the manager and his "heavy lead" were engaged in an earnest but agitated conversation, of which we give a brief portion. 
               "Well, Chowler," said one of them in sonorous bass tones. "Unless she does turn up before rehearsal we must turn it up." 
               "Turn up what?" demanded the person addressed as Chowler, in a trumpet voice. "Not open with Richard the Third?" 
               "No." 
               "Pooh, pooh. Cut out her part." 
               "What! cut out Lady Anne?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Nonsense, Chowler-might as well leave out Gloster." 
               "Well," said Chowler, "I have seen that done before now." 
               "May be, but mark ye, Chowler, I haven't done it, and, what's more, I don't mean to do it. By Saint Paul! I would sooner cut out 'My horse! my horse!'" 
               "And you'd get goosed." 
               "Never. You don't know me yet, Chowler. I revel in the subtleties of character. I like hidden depths." 
               "Yes," said Chowler, with a squeaking laugh. "So hidden that very few persons get to the bottom of them." 
               The heavy man would not appear disconcerted at his sally. 
               He laughed with Chowler, and heartily. It was a manager's joke! 
               Suddenly he stopped short, with such an abrupt termination to his boisterous hilarity that its falseness was apparent. 
               "Well, Chowler," he said seriously. "No matter. Once for all, if Miss Lotty Siddings don't show up at rehearsal I don't go on for Gloster to-morrow night." 
               The manager was in despair. 
               He begged, prayed, and threatened by turns, but all in vain. 
               The heavy lead was inexorable. 
               "Then what do you propose?" asked the manager. 
               "We must open with 'The Stranger'" 
               "And Mrs. Haller?" 
               "Oh, Mrs. Wilkins is up in the part." 
               "That won't do," said the manager. Wilkins ain't bad at a distance. But that glass eye of hers does for everything it touches." 
               "Then 'George Barnwell.'" 
               "No. Where's Millwood?" said the manager. "If we don't open with Richard III., then we'll do 'The Mountain Gorge; or, The Hunchback of the Torrent.'" 
               "What!" exclaimed the heavy lead, aghast. "Cut the legitimate?" 
               "Yes." 
               "My dear Mr. Chowler, you get really absurd." 
               "Thank you." 
               "Excuse my little personalities," 
               "Dear, dear; don't mention it. Quite agreeable." 
               "But there's one little matter you overlook. Where's your boy?" 
               "What boy?" 
               "Why, Juan, the dumb boy, that Lotty Siddings is down for." 
               "Oh! Wilkins must double it." 
               "No, hang it! Chowler," exclaimed the other. "she can't double two characters that are on together." 
               "No, no; of course not. I never thought of that. Then we'll cut it out." 
               "Cut out the dumb boy! The thing's then impossible." 
               "Well, it is odd, ain't it? Hang it! it is a fix. I'll fine Siddings a week's salary when she does turn up." 
               "Good," said the heavy man. "It can go off three weeks' arrears." 
               Chowler coughed a short dry cough. 
               The allusion was unpleasant. 
               At this moment Rose advanced into the room where the theatrical gentlemen were sitting over their beer. 
               "Hullo!" exclaimed both simultaneously. 
               "Excuse me," said Rose, "but I have overheard something of what you have said." 
               "Oh!" 
               "Listening." 
               Rose colored slightly. 
               "Unintentionally-yes," she returned. "But as you are in some difficulty, I came to offer my services." 
               "In what line?" 
               "Anything I could do." 
               "But what have you done before?" 
               Rose hesitated. 
               She scarcely liked to say she had been in the ballet. 
               "Have you been on the boards?" asked Chowler. 
               "Oh, yes. I have danced." 
               The manager pricked up his ears, and grew interested at once." 
               "You dance?" 
               "Yes, sir," 
               "Fancy dances?" 
               "Some. All ballet practice." 
               "But hornpipes, jigs, tallygorums, and cachucas?" 
               "Yes, I can." 
               "And do you sing?" 
               "A little." 
               The manager and his heavy lead exchanged glances. 
               Rose watched them earnestly, and saw that their looks were of great satisfaction, and said clearly enough. "Here is the girl for our money." 
               "Have you a quick study?" demanded the manager. 
               "Not very; but I will do my best." 
               "Could you do a dumb boy to-morrow night?" 
               "Yes. I think so." 
               "Good. Then I am all right. You may consider yourself cast for Juan, Miss-Jones?" 
               "Rose Seymour." 
               "Rose Seymour," said the manager. "Good. Capital line in a poster." 
               "Yes," said the heavy man. "But Seymour's been done so much. I did the midland counties once myself, starring as Leo Seymour, and drew immense houses." 
               "I remember. That was Bob Wilkinson's speck I think. Eh?" 
               "Yes." 
               "And he smashed up." 
               "Ahem! Yes." 
               "Well, Miss Seymour," said Chowler, "we are going to rehearse a farce to-night. Would you like to attend the theatre with us?" 
               "I should," replied Rose. 
               And accordingly they prepared to depart. 
               Rose hastened to the hostess to inform her of the good fortune which had befallen her. 
               A brief explanation of the sad plight from which the kindly-disposed woman had rescued her had to suffice for the present, with promises of a lengthy account of the horrors to which she had been subjected at an early date. 
               It was arranged that Rose should continue to reside there. 
               The village was a short distance only, and she could easily reach the theatre. 
               The only difference now was that our grateful heroine took the footing of a lodger and a customer, instead of a poor houseless wretch suing for bread. 
               The contrast in her present prospects and in her past career was so great that Rose could scarcely deem it possible that so much good fortune should fall to her all at once. 
               Not to dwell too long upon this position of our history, the rehearsal was attended, and Rose had the satisfaction of receiving some small compliment from the manager. 
               Then, when it was concluded, Mr. Chowler gallantly offered te escort her back to her hotel (as the heavy man designated the public-house). 
               Rose begged him not to trouble himself, but Mr. Chowler insisted, and she gave way. 
               Between the town and road-side house at which Rose was to stop there was but one house. 
               This was a residence of some importance, the property of some wealthy and retired gentleman, and was a fine building situated on a large piece of ground. 
               The grounds were noted in that part of the country for their beauty. 
               Mr. Chowler drew up as they passed, and called Rose's attention to such parts of the garden as they could see from without. 
               "Why hullo!" said the manager, "here's the gate open at this hour. There, look in." 
               Rose looked in as desired, but drew back immediately. 
               "What is it?" demanded Chowler. 
               "Somebody there." 
               "Is there? By jingo, so there is-and somebody who doesn't want to be seen." 
               It was true. 
               Creeping along the garden with stealthy cat-like strides, they could see the figure of a man. 
               The faint creaking of the gate evidently caught his ear, for he turned round sharply and looked about him. 
               "See, see!" whispered Chowler to Rose, "he's got a black mask on! Here's something queer on. Let's follow!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               TREMBLING, and rather pale with the exciting position of her new character of a spy, Rose followed Mr. Chowler into the garden. 
               The man they were watching had not observed them. 
               This they could easily perceive by the unconcern in his movements after a while. 
               The whole house was in darkness, with the exception of a faint light which burned in a side window upon the ground floor. 
               To this, with stealthy strides, the masked intruder made his way. 
               The window was guarded by a wooden shutter, which stood just the least bit open, and a faint streak of light shone through it upon the grass plat. 
               The man advanced and placed his hands upon the shutter. 
               It creaked, and its rusty hinges sent forth a discordant sound which seemed to grate most harshly upon the man's nerves. 
               From the distance even they were from him they could perceive that he started and shivered in very apparent alarm. 
               "He's going to break in," whispered Chowler, laying a trembling hand upon Rose's arm. 
               Rose endeavored to take him from the spot, but he could not stir. 
               There was a fascination in watching this masked marauder. 
               What could be his motive for this? 
               A minute's patience, and we shall see. 
               The shutter having been opened to its full extent, the man endeavored to raise the window. 
               But it was firm. 
               It was fastened upon the inside. 
               This appeared to cause the man some annoyance. 
               A whispered malediction reached the trembling lookers on. 
               A second effort to raise the sash proved unsuccessful, he turned away, with an exclamation of disgust, and quitted the spot. 
               "See, see," whispered Chowler to Rose, "he can't do it, and he's going off." 
               "Yes." 
               And Rose felt great satisfaction at this, although she scarcely knew why. 
               Instinctively she had dreaded to pass the threshold of the garden gate. 
                
               But they were wrong. 
               The masked man was evidently baffled only for a moment. 
               Not yet defeated. 
               Quitting the window which was inaccessible, he approached the main entrance. 
               Here he produced a key from his pocket and opened the door. 
               A deathly stillness prevailed. 
               He glanced around him, then entered, noiselessly closing the door. 
               "He's in!" whispered Mr. Chowler to his companion. "I'm glad he's gone." 
               "And I, too." 
               "But why did he attempt to get in by the window, when he had the key. 
               "I can't think." 
               "And yet that was evidently his object. 
               "Yes." 
               "I wonder what is taking place in that room there. Let us see. 
               Rose would have preferred not going. 
               However, Chowler pressed her to wait and see the mystery out. 
               To the worthy little manager there was something vastly interesting and exciting in all this. 
               It was dramatic. 
               They crept across the lawn to the window which had been the object of the masked man's attack, and peered in. 
               A glance showed the two watchers why the man had not entered by the front door at first. 
               The room was the bedchamber of an invalid. 
               They could see an old man with snow-white hair and beard laying asleep upon a bed. 
               A peaceful expression was upon his face. 
               His lips murmured some words, too, which were apparently heard by the masked man who stood by his bedside, but which were quite inaudible to Rose and her companion. 
               Suddenly they perceived a second figure within the room. 
               It was a woman. 
               With slow and measured strides she approached the bedside. 
               Now they perceived that she also wore a short black visor. 
               Her right hand grasped a dark lantern, which she held above her head. 
               She surveyed the room around, as if to be the more sure that they were un observed. 
               Her close scrutiny seemed to result in a conclusion perfectly satisfactory to herself. 
               She held the lantern down. 
               Then turned its rays upon the sleeper. 
               A nervous twitch agitated his placid countenance for an instant. 
               Then his expression was serene again 
               She beckoned her masked companion to her side. 
               Then a whispered conversation took place, which apparently interested both parties, to judge by their earnest gestures. 
               Then they parted. 
               The masked man assumed his station by the bedside. 
               The woman moved with a phantomlike gliding motion about the room, opening several drawers and boxes. 
               At each her expression of disappointment was strongly marked. 
               Papers in bundles were eagerly searched, but with very little result, as far as Rose could judge. 
               At length, however, a smile of satisfaction showed that the masked woman had found the document of which she was in search. 
               She eagerly perused it. 
               Then hastily concealed it. 
               "She's found something there," whispered the manager to Rose. 
               "It appears so." 
               "I wonder what it is." 
               "Some paper of importance I should say, by her evident satisfaction," replied our heroine, in a whisper. 
               "A will perhaps." 
               "But what can they be about to do with the old man?" 
               "I cannot say." 
               This was very soon answered. 
               The old man moved restlessly in his sleep, and now they could see by the movement of his lips that he was muttering something. 
               The woman pointed to the sleeper and raised her right hand-letting it fall of a sudden with a fatally significant motion. 
               What could she mean? 
               Another instant decided this also. 
               The sleeper moved, turned restlessly upon his side, and then opened his eyes. 
               As he looked about him dreamily, his glance changed to light upon the woman, who stood close beside him. 
               "Is that you, Evelin, my love?" they could now hear him say. 
                
               Then the woman made some reply, which they were unable to catch. 
               From her movements they judged that it was some business of which they were unable to divine the meaning. 
               Then the expression upon the old man's face changed upon the instant. 
               Like a summer storm, he was rapidly changed from sunshine to thunder. 
               He looked unutterable things. 
               The two watchers were not a little astonished at this, for they could scarcely have deemed his earnest pale face capable of expressing so much intense passion. 
               Then an animated  discussion took place-angry and fierce. 
               To judge by their gestures, it was something equally unpleasant on both sides. 
               The attitude of the woman, was one of supplication-of earnest entreaty. 
               That of the old man of stern refusal to her prayers. 
               At length the woman appeared to be wearied of the discussion. 
               She put a final question. 
               The old man replied before by a positive and angry refusal. 
               Then her whole face changed color. 
               Her expression changed also to one of the most demoniacal, the most diabolical that the human countenance can wear. 
               She hissed out a whispered threat or defiance-evidently the former. 
               Her eyes flashed fire and her parted lips showed a set of pearl-white teeth clenched in the deadliest hatred. 
               She moved a step forward. 
               Then suddenly snatched up a pillow, pushed back the old man in his bed, and thrust the pillow over his face. 
               Rose tried to scream. 
               Her tongue clove to the roof of her mouth-utterance was denied her. 
               After a minute a sound came from her-but a whisper. 
               "Great Heavens?" she muttered, with a shudder, which communicated itself to Mr. Chowler, "she is going to smother him!" 
               "Hush!" 
               "Oh! Murder! murder!" 
               But the words died upon her lips. 
               "Hush!" said Chowler. "We shall come to certain grief if we are not 
                     carefu
                     careful
                  ." 
               "Oh, how awful!" 
               "But silence." 
               "Oh! See! See!" 
               Another episode in this tragic business was now taking place. 
               A few feeble struggles beneath the coverlid of the bed. 
               A slight rising in the murderous pillow. 
               Then all was still for a moment. 
               The man whom they had first come to watch had all this time been standing in the back part of the apartment, evidently unobserved by the old man. 
               The woman now beckoned him with the hand which still grasped the lantern. 
               It was truly a fearful deed. 
               Murder most horrible. 
               A trembling old man, apparently an invalid, and one who in the ordinary course of nature could scarcely reckon upon many years of life, to have his time cut short so cruelly! 
               After passing through so many years of life-through its trials and temptations-hopes, fears, and sorrows-to have one's few short remaining days cut still shorter by the hand of the assassin. 
               Who could that assassin be? 
               This was a question which Rose and the theatrical manager asked themselves in the greatest doubt of horror. 
               There was a strange resemblance between the woman and her victim. 
               So marked, so striking, in spite of the opposite sexes, ages, and complexions. 
               It was his daughter. 
               This they felt assured of. 
               While this and similar thoughts were hurrying through the disordered imaginations of the two trembling watchers, another phase in this hellish business was about to be enacted. 
               The masked man, in obedience to the woman's imperious gesture, drew near to the bedside. 
               A few words were exchanged. 
               Then both bent their heads to the coverlid of the bed. 
               "They listen if he breathes," murmured the horrified Chowler to Rose. 
               "Villainy!" 
               The woman after listening coolly for a while arose. 
               Then she shook her head with determination. 
               The pillow was taken off the pale face of the old man, now distorted with the agonies he had undergone. 
               At this very moment there was a kind of nervous twitching of the lower lip. 
               "Thank Heaven!" murmured Rose fervently. "He is not dead, then," 
               "Hush!" 
               "He lives! he lives!" 
                
               "Hush! my dear Miss Seymour, said Chowler. "Be careful, I beg you." 
               "They cannot hear." 
               "They might." 
               "And then?" 
               "And then? Why I wouldn't give an hour's purchase for our two lives, that's all." 
               "We are safe." 
               "I doubt it." 
               "They would not dare-" 
               "Pooh! pooh! pooh!" said Chowler. "You see what they have dared." 
               "Ay, but-" 
               "Hush! What's that? Oh! monstrous!" 
               His eyes were fixed upon the woman. 
               His venerable face wore but one expression only. 
               It was rather of sorrow than of anger. 
               To judge from appearances, he was grieved and heartbroken by the scene which had been enacted, rather than hurt by the agonies which he had undergone. 
               He glanced into the woman's face for the first time during the interview. 
               Then, for the first time apparently, he observed the mask. 
               A deep sigh burst from him, and he gazed mournfully upon the masked face. 
               But the woman was a fiend, a shedevil of villainy. 
               No veneration for grey hairs would restrain her hand. 
               No tie of love or friendship-nay, or blood-could stop her. 
               The prostrate old man stood in her path, and he must be removed. 
               She looked upon her wicked companion, and pointed to the old man, but spoke not a word. 
               A glance conveyed all the fatal meaning which she desired. 
               The man drew yet nearer to the bed. 
               Approached the half-murdered victim to their villainy. 
               He raised his arm above the dying man, his hand grasping a long knife. 
               The agonising apprehension of his doom was a fearful thing to the old man. 
               His lower jaw fell, his eyes distended, and he could not speak. 
               The hand fell. 
               Deep, deep into the old man's breast rank the ponderous blade. 
               And a sob-a sigh of agony and grief-burst from the slaughtered man. 
               Then all was still. 
                
               For several minutes both the watchers stood motionless, gazing upon the scene of the bloody episode. 
               Neither could speak a word. 
               Chowler shivered so violently that his hat slipped over his eyes and tapped the window shutter. 
               It was ever so light a touch, but they felt that they were discovered. 
               Chowler with wonderful presence of mind, dragged Rose aside. 
               "Hush!" 
               "What?" 
               "Hist-silence on your life!" 
               The reflection of the lantern now showed at the window. 
               The woman was alarmed, and probably searching for the cause of the noise which had caught her ready ear. 
               It was an alarming moment. 
               Would they be discovered? 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               ROSE'S courage left her. 
               She turned giddy, and must inevitably have fallen had not the supporting arm of the theatrical manager been there to aid her. 
               Chowler felt that she was tottering, and stretched forward his right hand just in the very nick of time. 
               "Come away; let's go," said Rose. 
               "Gently, my dear Miss Seymour. Gently, or we shall be discovered." 
               Both felt unwell. 
               Chowler's face was ghastly pale. 
               His hair stuck bold upright. 
               The deed which they had just witnessed had spoilt his rest. 
               They moved towards the gate, and paused to look round at the fatal window. 
               It had a kind of fascination for them which they could not at a I understand. 
               Horror and loathing filled their breasts at what they had seen. 
               Yet they clung to the scene of the outrage. 
               "Oh! how fearful!" said Rose, with a shudder which shook her whole frame. 
               "Dreadful!" said Chowler, his teeth chattering audibly. "It is too terrible. 
               "Poor old man." 
               She shut her eyes, but in vain. 
               The vision was there before them in startling reality. 
               There was the old man-his long white hair and beard giving such a venerable appearance to his face, and forming such a contrast to the ensanguined stream flowing from the death-blow in his breast. 
               A tear of sympathy stole down our heroine's face. 
               Again she pressed Chowler to depart. 
               "Come then," said he. 
               Now suddenly pulled his arm and arrested his progress. 
               "What is it?" 
               "Hush! See, see!" 
               "What?" 
               "Something moved there." 
               "Where?" 
               "Along that path-there, under the shrubs-hist-we are observed." 
               As he hurriedly whispered these few words the figure of a man emerged from some thick shrubs growing upon the side of the very path upon which they were walking. 
               Fortunately Rose Seymour and Chowler were still in the shade. 
               The man turned round and peered anxiously in their direction. 
               A cold perspiration seized Chowler as he perceived that the man was masked. 
               "See," whispered he to Rose, in a very hoarse voice, "he's masked!" 
               "So he is, and it's the same man!" 
               "By heaven it is!" 
               Yes, there was no mistaking the fellow. That slouching gait, that stealthy stride, seemed to express murder most terribly plain. 
               So it seemed to Rose. 
               Another little startler awaited the two trembling watchers. 
               The masked man advanced towards them. 
               Neither could move nor speak. 
               They remained as if paralyzed for the time-frozen with terror. 
               From beneath his cloak he now produced a lantern and his right hand grasped a long Spanish knife. 
               Its blade was draped with blood. 
               The knife! the very knife! 
               With dilated eyes Chowler and Rose stood there awaiting every moment the ruffian's approach. 
               Both anticipated the worst should they be observed. 
               And nothing appeared more probable now. 
               Had he advanced to their sides, threatening them with the bloody dagger which had just wrought one fatal deed, neither could have offered the least resistance. 
               So thoroughly entranced were their faculties and their powers by the fearful crime which they had just witnessed. 
               On came the mask. 
               A pair of coal black eyes glistened furiously through the holes in the black visor. 
               It was a glance never to be effaced from the beholder's memory. 
               And now only a tree, a lilac, and that not very bushy, separated the assassin from the witnesses of his deed of blood. 
               The light from his lantern flashed around. 
               Its rays even rested within a foot of Chowler and Rose., 
               Nothing could the man discover. 
               So near was he that they could now even hear him speaking. 
               "Oh! it's all quiet enough," he muttered to himself. "It must have been my fancy. I'm growing weak and womanish I suppose." 
               The search was resumed. 
               The non-success was evidently 
                     consided
                     considered
                   as satisfactory at last. 
               "Confound it!" they heard him mutter as he turned upon his heel. "She's as obstinate as she can be. She no more saw anybody than I did." 
               He walked up the gravel path and disappeared. 
               But where? 
               That it was impossible to say. 
               His sudden departure had been as singular as had been his appearance. 
               They had seen him distinctly in the fatal chamber the very minute before. 
               They had moved in the direction of the front door, by which he entered the house at first, and were, therefore, assured that he had not made his way to that side. 
               This involved the whole proceeding in a deeper mystery than ever. 
               Why had he not chosen this entrance at first in preference to either the window or the front door? 
               He had returned, too. 
               There he was once more in the room. 
               From the distance they could plainly discern the shadows of the two forms about the room. 
               "There's some damnable piece of villainy going on there," said Chowler, "and I should very much like to spoil it." 
               "Come away," said Rose. 
               "Ay, we must," quoth Chowler, "or we might get into trouble." 
               The garden gate was passed. 
               A sigh of intense relief broke from Rose as they gained the road. 
                
               She pressed Chowler to hasten their steps. 
               "Come, come," she said, "it is growing very late." 
               "Have no fear, Miss Seymour," said Chowler valiantly. "But we are turning the wrong way." 
               It was the truth. Both were so confused by what they had just witnessed that they had turned to the left instead of the right upon emerging from the garden. 
               Strange to say, too, they had got some forty or fifty yards before the mistake was discovered. 
               However, they wheeled round and returned. 
               "Oh!" said Rose, "we shall have to pass that dreadful house!" 
               They had not advanced two steps when they heard the sound of footsteps a little ahead of them. 
               "Who's that?" said Chowler. 
               The question was immediately answered. 
               A dark form, whose shadowy outline now began to be familiar to Rose and her companion, stepped forth from the garden which they had only just quitted. 
               He looked along the road. 
               Then, perceiving Rose and Chowler advancing, he raised his hand and hastily removed his mask. 
               Then he came up and confronted them. 
               Rose trembled very much, but Chowler, to do him justice, was tolerably composed. 
               "Good night," said the latter. 
               "Good night," said the man. "Have you seen anybody pass here?" 
               "Lately?" 
               "Yes-this minute." 
               "I have-a man. He's only gone by this instant." 
               "Ah! Where did he come from?" 
               "Well, I can't say. In the same direction as you I think." 
               "From the-" 
               "Yes-as near as I can say. But, to speak the truth, I was better engaged at that moment. 
               The comedian gave his companion a killing leer at this bit of gallantry. 
               "He went there?" demanded the assassin in a hurried manner. 
               "Straight on." 
               "Was he hurried?" 
               "Oh, running." 
               "Thank you-good night." 
               And off he started in pursuit. 
               "May you catch him!" said Chowler with a laugh. 
               And they once more passed the garden of the house in which they had seen so terrible a tragedy performed. 
               "What's that?" 
               "Nothing," said Chowler. "Fancy, my dear Miss Seymour. Nothing more." 
               "I have been so frightened," said Rose, "with all I have seen to-night that I fancy each stirring leaf is a masked murderer." 
               At each word she uttered in fear Rose clung so sharply to Chowler's arm for protection that he grew quite embarrassed. 
               Each trifling movement-her unthinking pressure upon his arm, sent his heart flying to his mouth. 
               Beating, too, as if it were endeavoring to force a way through his waistcoat. 
               But now unfortunately they felt too secure. 
               They were, for the critical position in which they had been placed by the force of circumstances, unguarded in their speech. 
               The full force of this impudence very shortly made itself apparent. 
               Behind them at a distance a woman followed with slow and stealthy steps. 
               As they had passed by the garden of the fatal house she had rushed out and watched them. 
               Then dogged their steps. 
               Now they had arrived at the inn where Rose was to rest. 
               Poor girl! For the first time for many a weary day she felt something like contentment. 
               A tranquility which had been a stranger to her heart for so long. 
               "Good night, Mr. Chowler," said Rose, "and as for what we have seen-" 
               "Hush," said the manager, looking around him theatrically. "Your finger on your lip-nota word-we shall speak of this to-morrow." 
               "Very well." 
               "Don't mention it to any one. We might get into trouble about it." 
               "Very well-" 
               "To-morrow at ten-rehearsal." 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "You'll be 
                     puntual
                     punctual
                  ?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "Good. I like to hear that, my dear Miss Seymour, for we have a sad irregular lot in our company. Now Miss Wilkins is-" 
                
               "Indeed," said Rose. 
               She feared he was about to indulge in a long history, and felt bound to cut him short. 
               Mr. Chowler lingered long over his good night. 
               Rose, however, had her thoughts crowded with the horrors they had witnessed, and she got off as soon as possible. 
               "She's a charming girl!" muttered  Chowler as he turned away. "A charming girl!" 
               Then he walked off. 
               Not far, however. The sudden shooting at the little manager's heart was so sharp that he was forced to rest a while upon a low boundary stone. 
               This was by the side of the road and shaded from the moonlight by some tall overhanging trees. 
               There he sat gazing up at the inn which contained the fair Rose. 
               Suddenly a figure-a woman-clothed in light colored garments passed by him. 
               So close that her dress swept over his boots. 
               But yet he was unobserved. 
               Her point, also, seemed to be the house where Rose Seymour was staying. 
               She stepped off the footpath into the road and looked up at the house. 
               A light appeared at one of the windows. 
               The woman was muttering to herself, but Chowler could not hear what. 
               Then she turned abruptly away and hurried back in the direction she had come. 
               "There's something wrong here!" said Chowler. "I shall wait and see it out." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               MR. CHOWLER was in love. 
               It is useless attempting to disguise the fact-the worthy little manager was struck desperately hard. 
               The object of his passion was Rose Seymour, his latest acquisition. 
               Rose was attached to his excellent theatrical company. 
               Mr. Chowler was attached to her. 
               So poor Chowler not being able to see the pretty face any longer that night-propriety forbidding it, even in the free-and-easy habit of professional life-he resolved to watch her window all night. 
               The deeds which Chowler and Rose had witnessed at the lone house filled them both with horror. 
               The latter's terrors were to last her through the night, to haunt her sleep. 
               Mr. Chowler was happier. 
               The effects of what he had seen in that grim and silent garden were half nullified already by the sudden and ardent passion which consumed him. 
               But then the sudden appearance of the woman who watched Rose had brought back all his fears. 
               He determined to watch. 
               Ay-to watch, even if his vigil lasted through the night. 
               After a close scrutiny at the window in which the light had appeared the woman turned and left. 
               A sigh of relief burst from Mr. Chowler to see her depart. 
               "Thank goodness that she's gone!" said the worthy manager. 
               But had she gone? 
               A doubt crossed his mind, and he grew uncomfortable. 
               It was possible that she would return. 
               To be assured of this he must know the object of the woman's presence there at that singular hour. 
               No, he could not yet look upon danger as being entirely averted, and he was determined to continue his vigil. 
               He began to look upon it as his duty. 
               It was pleasant to contemplate it in this light to Chowler. 
               In fact, at the thought of it being his duty his left waistcoat began to twitter in an alarming fashion. 
               It was now miserably cold. 
               The season was not the warmest of the year, and it was unusually cold for the time. 
               Chowler shivered. 
               His teeth chattered and his nose grew blue. 
               But he kept manfully to his self-allotted post for the night. 
               Was it not a labor of love? 
               He struck his hands with a fixed determination to the very bottom of his pockets. 
               His resolution he kept most firmly-for half an hour. 
               At the expiration of this time the cold which he had with much difficulty endured became alarming. 
               It was suffering. 
               He got up, jumped about, cut a double shuffle, and beat himself in the cruellest (coach-driver's) fashion. 
                
               Still he felt that the circulation could never be restored. 
               He turned his face towards the inn which contained all that he loved in life-as he felt at this precise moment. 
               The light was out. 
               With the extinguishing of this Mr. Chowler's love seemed to flag. 
               The sharp east wind which he had endured so long had somewhat cooled his ardor. 
               "No, I'll have no more of this," thought the manager. "I'm off." 
               He buttoned up his coat with the very greatest difficulty. 
               His fingers were frozen. 
               Numbed and almost without feeling. 
               "This is a pretty go," he muttered, his teeth chattering like a box of dominoes freshly opened. "What a fool I've been?" 
               A final glance at the house, another long one at the window, and then Mr. Chowler started off to get warm-and to town. 
               He had not advanced far along the road when he fancied that he perceived a faint will-o'-the-wisp-looking glimmer of light flickering from a distance. 
               "What's that?" 
               With a startled look Mr. Chowler arrested his progress. 
               The light grew plainer. 
               Then it was advancing towards him. 
               What could it mean? 
               Presently the light grew more distinct, and he could see something move. 
               The light he could 
                     preceive
                     perceive
                   was in the hand of a woman. 
               And, by all that was wonderful, the same woman again! 
               "'Tis she!" muttered poor Chowler, turning pale again. "Alone? No!" 
               Behind the woman came two men. 
               One of them carried a ladder. 
               The other held a long cloak. 
               What could it mean! 
               But they were rapidly approaching, and Chowler would be observed. 
               Rousing himself again, the little manager moved back slowly. 
               He was afraid that, having allowed them to draw so near, they might observe him. 
               He walked back, with his eyes fixed upon the advancing light. 
               In his progress he came upon a gap in the hedge. 
               He subsided into it, and stood motionless, never daring to move-scarcely to breathe. 
               He had barely taken his station here when they passed him. 
               So close did they brush his hiding-place that the woman's skirts actually touched him. 
               What could they be after? 
               A wild suspicion which was realised in the space of a few minutes. 
               They drew up at the inn. 
               Beneath her window. 
               Mr. Chowler's heart went faster. 
               He found that he had suddenly grown much warmer than all his exertions could have made him. 
               He looked on affrightedly. 
               Judge, then, if his fears had been so greatly excited by what he saw so far, what must have been his alarm when he saw one of the men place the ladder against the house beneath Rose Seymour's window! 
               The woman held the lantern up to survey the window. 
               Now he made another discovery. The whole of the party wore masks. 
               What could it mean! 
               That he soon saw. 
               "Go on," whispered the woman holding the lantern. "We will wait here." 
               "Very well." 
               "But if she wakes?" said the man. 
               "The cloak." 
               "Good." 
               All was so silent around that Mr. Chowler heard this distinctly. 
               He was in a great fright. 
               He had no idea what to do, or how to avert this dire calamity. 
               "Take the cloak with you." 
               "Give it to me, then." 
               The cloak was thrown over his arm, and he began to ascend the ladder. 
               Poor Chowler was half beside himself with fear and apprehension. 
               We are bound to say that it was more upon Rose's account than his own. 
               The men had taken half a dozen steps. 
               Chowler could no longer endure it. 
               At all hazards-at any personal risk-he must prevent this. 
               The man made another step up to the window. 
               "Thieves!" shouted Chowler. 
               The man stepped upon the ladder. 
               "Murder and robbery!" shouted Chowler, much louder. 
               Down came the man with a run. 
               "What's that?" 
               "Hush! We are observed." 
               "Away!" 
               To Chowler's inexpressible delight, they did not attempt to search for him. The two men took the ladder, one at each end, and beat a precipitate retreat. 
               The woman led the way. 
               Chowler could not tell in which direction they had disappeared. 
               Truth to tell, he did not much care either. 
               Enough for him that they had gone. 
               For some time he did not dare to venture forth from his hiding-place. 
               At length he grew bolder. 
               He peered out. 
               All was quiet again-that is, the three black masks were gone. 
               Then a window was opened in the house and a head peeped out. 
               It was a night-capped head, but Chowler could not say if it was Rose's, never having seen our heroine in that snowy head gear. 
               "Who's there?" 
               This decided it. 
               The voice he well knew did not belong to Rose. 
               "Who's there?" repeated the voice. "Anybody there?" 
               Chowler longed to reply, but felt his life would be endangered. 
               He was by no means assured that the three masks had left the spot, although they were not to be seen just at present. 
               He allowed the woman at the window-whoever it might be-to call without offering an answer. 
               The head was withdrawn. 
               "That's one," said Chowler, "and they won't attempt it again." 
               Comforting himself with this assurance, he escaped from his hiding-place. 
               He would greatly have liked to give the inmates of the tavern warning. 
               No matter-for to-night he had preserved Rose. 
               On the morrow ne would put her upon her guard. 
               With a lingering look at the window, he once more departed. 
               He hastily retraced his steps along the road. 
               This time he saw no light as he had seen before. 
               No will-o'-wisp lantern to startle the life out of him. 
               But the adventures of the night were not yet concluded for him. 
               He walked along at a brisk pace-but again drew up short. 
               He turned once more to the house, with a lingering, longing look. 
               Some hidden power-some secret impulse stronger than his resolution-urged him to return to the house. 
               Something terrible was about to happen-a worthy end to the dark doings of that awful night. 
               Chowler had a hard struggle with himself. 
               Back he went. 
               But he had not advanced many steps when he paused again, irresolute whether to proceed or turn back. 
               Was he acting foolishly in thus hovering about Rose? 
               Did the something, whatever it was, which urged him on, only mean after all a desire to keep within sight of the house which contained the newly-acquired member of his company? 
               He could not resolve it. 
               While thus debating the question it was answered in a sudden manner. 
               There was a smothered shriek. 
               A loud cry preceded it, and told Mr. Chowler that the second had been stifled while it was upon the utterer's lips. 
               "Oh!" cried Chowler. 
               But he could not move a peg. 
               Near the house he could see some dark forms moving about. 
               Then one appeared up high, and bearing something white in his arms. 
               It needed no conjuror to divine the meaning of this. 
               "Oh! what a fearful place!" said Chowler, half aloud. "They've done it at last, in spite of me. Shall I shout out?" 
               He mentally answered, "No!" 
               To raise an alarm now that the deed was done would be worse than useless. 
               It would be dangerous! 
               If they were such bold and unscrupulous wretches who had borne off Rose-who paused at nothing to secure their ends-what would be his fate did he attempt to thwart them? 
               A life more or less was apparently nothing to the woman. 
               So Chowler kept his own counsel and returned to the town. 
               The unhappy manager spent a miserable night. 
               He slept, it is true, but his rest was disturbed by dreams. 
               He saw murders enacted every hour. 
               Men in black visors came and tore off with the Dumb Boy of the Mountain Gorge, who was dressed in white. 
               Then he went through a ballet of action in dreamland. 
               The plot of this was the same as that of every ballet of action. 
                
               A lover (in which he recognized himself) goes to a house (a road-side inn in this case) to see his mistress. 
               Then a rival (wearing a black mask this time) appears with a lantern and a ladder. 
               The ladder is placed against the window and the masked ruffian enters. 
               Re-appears, bearing the lady (Rose), in the whitest of night garments, in his audacious arms. 
               But there's a sequel to the little manager's ballet d'action in dreamland. 
               The scene changes without any noise, shuffle, or prompter's whistle. 
               And now Chowler finds himself in the lone house, the scene of the murder. 
               In a chamber at the back of the house a lady, still in the snowy night-dress, sits bathed in tears. 
               She raises her head and Chowler sees that it is not Rose Seymour. 
               He forgets the poor creature's woes in his delight, and shouts out joyfully and so loudly that he awakens himself. 
               But it's a cruel disappointment now! 
               "Dash it all!" muttered Chowler, starting upright in the bed, "it was so vivid and life-like. I thought that it was all true. I thought that she was saved-that I had my dumb boy back, and that she-oh, my dear Miss Seymour! Poor creature! Something must be done to-morrow about her." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               CHOWLER arose unrefreshed by his restless slumbers only in time to attend the full-dress rehearsal which was to take place at the theatre. 
               Ten o'clock was the hour appointed and at nine forty-five Chowler yet lingered upon the pillow. 
               However, he sprang from his bed with a frightened exclamation, fell into his garments, and dashed off to the theatre. 
               It was five minutes to ten when he walked down the side of the pit. 
               The company were arriving. 
               Chowler eagerly scanned the faces of all the ladies upon the stage. 
               But Rose was not there. 
               Chowler could not be comforted, although he never thought to see her. 
               "Miss Thingumbob aint come, sir," said the prompter to Chowler. "Miss-I don't know her name. The new singing chambermaid, sir." 
               "Miss Seymour?" 
               "Yes, sir. It don't look the thing for the first rehearsal with us, sir." 
               Chowler frowned. 
               "It is not ten yet, is it?" 
               "No, sir, wants not quite a minute and a half," said the prompter. 
               "What of that?" 
               The prompter was subdued upon the instant. 
               He could not quite understand it, however, for this was one of the few points upon which Mr. Chowler was ordinarily very particular. 
               Ten o'clock began to strike, and Mr. Chowler to tremble. 
               He scarcely knew why, but it seemed to jar unpleasantly upon his nerves. 
               "Three, four-oh! she won't-five-come now-six, seven-Eh? Hullo!" 
               Rose entered, upon the eighth stroke of the hour. 
               Chowler, who was upon the stage, sprang over the floats into the orchestra to greet her, thereby causing some dam age to the green baize of the big drum. 
               "My dear Miss Seymour," he cried, with extended hands, "delighted to see you." 
               "Thank you, sir." 
               She looked very much frightened about something, and he was dying to question her. 
               Yet he felt that he dare not speak of last night's doings before the company. 
               Inquiries would be made, probably, and he would earn the reputation of being a coward. 
               No. That would never do. 
               He must smother his curiosity until he could find a convenient opportunity of addressing her in private. 
               And so the rehearsal proceeded. 
               "Whistle up, Mr. Sniper," said the manager. "The Swiss chalet on." 
               The whistle of Mr. Sniper was heard, and up went the curtain again, upon the Swiss chalet-mountains, with frozen peaks in flat-practical bridge across ravine-slanting rocky entrance O. P., etc. 
               "Now then, chamois hunter," cried Mr. Chowler. "Look alive, please." 
               The individual cast for the chamois hunter had been fetched at the last moment from the public house opposite, and had not time to dress. 
               He had slipped on a little jacket with an infinitesimal tail, and wore a comical hat all over garters, but his lower members were still garnished with a greasy pair of very loud check trousers. 
               "I say, now, Glanville Percy," cried Chowler in disgust. 
               "What now, my trump?" 
               "Do you imagine that the make-up is good?" 
               "Not I." 
               "Glanville Percy, you're beery." 
               Mr. Glanville Percy repudiated the slander most scornfully. 
               "Go on," said Chowler. 
               Mr. Glanville Percy threw himself into an attitude upon a long hunting spear and commenced: 
               "The sun which sinks in yonder blood-red sky may never rise again." 
               "Oh! confound it, Glanville Percy, drop it; please stick to the text," cried Chowler. 
               "So I do." 
               "You don't, sir." 
               "I do, and I can show you my part, if you choose to doubt my word." 
               "Then there's a mistake in it." 
               "Which is yours, ha! ha! not mine, ha! ha!" 
               "Well, but you should have understood that it was an error." 
               "I'm not bound to do that." 
               "You are." 
               "Why, hang it! Chowler," said Mr. Glanville Percy, "you only told me a moment ago, that I was to stick to the text." 
               "Now, Glanville Percy, you take refuge in a base subterfuge." 
               A row ensued, which the company had great difficulty in quelling. 
               However, the rehearsal at length was got over and Rose Seymour made a very favorable impression upon all-that is, those who were not too jealous of her, to see any merits in her person or performance. 
               As soon as the rehearsal was over Mr. Chowler begged to speak with Miss Seymour in "the Treasury." 
               This was a wretched little shed which served for a variety of purposes. 
               It was a weakness of Chowler's in the profession to dignify everything with a grand name. 
               Rose thought the approaching business was the salary she was to receive. 
               "Well, my dear Miss Seymour," said the manager, "I cannot really express my delight at seeing you here this morning." 
               "You are going to complain at my being late," said Rose. 
               "No, no." 
               "I know that I was wrong." 
               "Not at all." 
               "But the first morning, and I should have been here in time but for an event-" 
               "But pardon me. You were in excellent time, Miss Seymour." 
               "An event," continued Rose, "which forms a strange and mysterious sequel to the awful doings of which we were both witnesses last night." 
               Chowler shivered. 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "A blow has been struck at the inn, which was intended for me I fear." 
               "You speak in riddles." 
               "You remember the hostess, the young and fresh colored landlady, there?" 
               "Yes." 
               "She has disappeared." 
               Chowler sprang up. 
               "What?" 
               "Gone-disappeared-leaving but very little trace behind her." 
               "Then it was she-" 
               He stopped short. 
               "What?" asked Rose. 
               "Nothing." 
               Chowler was in a pickle now. 
               He dared not speak, lest his motives for keeping silent hitherto might look strange. 
               "But what do you mean, my dear Miss Seymour, by saying that this blow was intended for yourself?" 
               "So it seems to me." 
               "But why? How?" 
               "She has been carried off." 
               "Yes, yes." 
               Rose looked rather astonished at the coolness with which he learnt this. 
               "Yes, yes," said Chowler, in an unguarded moment. "From her bedroom window." 
               "Why, how do you know that?" 
               "I-oh, no, no, no. Of course I know nothing. I merely hazarded a conjecture." 
               "You are most singularly correct, then," said Rose. 
               "Indeed?" 
               "Ay. After you left us last night did you hear a noise?" 
               "A cry?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Certainly," said Chowler. "It was I who cried out." 
               "You?" 
               "Yes. I saw some ill-looking villains and the woman whom we had previously viously seen in the garden bring a ladder to your window." 
               "Great Heavens!" ejaculated Rose. "It is, then, really as I supposed." 
               "Well. I couldn't attack the lot, so I gave an alarm." 
               "And then?" 
               "They fled." 
               "You must have been mistaken." 
               "How so?" 
               "Listen. Just after you had gone last night, and I had got to my room, Mrs. Davis, the landlady, came to my door, and begged me to allow her to leave open a door which communicated from one room to the other. Her husband, who is a cattle dealer, had gone to the nearest market town, and would not be back till morning, and she was rather timid of sleeping alone. I consented. Then, after I had retired, extinguishing my light, and begun to doze, I was awakened by Mrs. Davis, who came in a great fright. She had heard a scream outside." 
               "My scream," said Chowler. 
               "Yes. I hadn't heard it, but she insisted that a scream had been heard, and she looked out of the window, and kept me awake when I was much in need of rest." 
               "No doubt." 
               "Well, at length we both got to sleep again, and suddenly I awoke with a start." 
               "Yes." 
               "I fancied, that I heard a scream this time." 
               "Yes, yes, said Chowler, with growing excitement and interest. 
               "So I called out to Mrs. Davis, asking her what was the matter. No reply came. I therefore supposed that she slept, that what I had heard was a dream, and I slept again until morning." 
               "Yes." 
               "In the morning Mrs. Davis was missing. She had left her bedroom-not by the door, for it was fastened upon the inside. The window was open, and upon the ground beneath it are the marks of a ladder having been placed against it." 
               "And are those all the proofs you have of this strange affair?" 
               "Not quite, A cloak and black mask were found beside the bed." 
               "Then we must make it our business to sift the matter." 
                
               It was night. 
               Night-the day and glory of the theatrical professional world. 
               The Theatre was full. 
               This was an unusual occurrence for Chowler in his trips, and was duty appreciated by the worthy little manager. 
               He darted hither and thither in the greatest glee. 
               The prompter had the word and "rang up" for the opening farce. 
               A screamer it was, to play the people in. 
               Chowler played the comic man of the piece-an outrageous cockney, with impossible h's, and a reversion of the w and v which was never yet met with out of a comic novel or an Irish or American farce. 
               But in the provinces the farce had been found (in professional slang) "to go no end of a pot." 
               So Chowler produced it upon every conceivable occasion. 
               Every joke brought down the house. 
               When Chowler appeared with his hat crushed, his coat torn, and his hair hanging all over his forehead, every one roared with delight. 
               And Chowler, in his professional pride, forgot everything else. 
               The terrors of the night which he had passed with Rose in the garden of the house, and the misery and the alarming termination to his vigil outside of it were no more thought of. 
               Chowler eclipsed himself. 
               At length the farce was over, and down came the curtain to a shower of applause. 
               Chowler had to make a gracious answer to a unanimous call and amidst thunders of applause. 
               Then the prompter rang up for the Mountain Gorge. 
               The audience were now put into admirable humor by Chowler and the farce, and were prepared to like anything and everything. 
               The opening scene, sunset effect, brought down the house with a run. 
               Then Miss Seymour, the dumb boy, made her appearance. 
               Rose's pretty face and comely person were set off to great advantage by the dress she wore for the part, and she had a greeting that set all the rest of the company dying of envy. 
               Rose was in excellent spirits now, and played with much animation. 
               The first scene closed with a dangerous tableaux which stirred up the audience. 
                
               Then Rose had to open the second scene with a bit of solo pantomime. 
               This brought her close to the footlights, and she had time and opportunity to survey the whole of the audience. 
               But of all the company present she could only see one individual. 
               In the right hand stage-box a lady and gentleman were conversing in a low tone the whole time of the performance evidently not in the remotest degree interested with the adventures of the dumb boy. 
               Once Rose caught the sound of the lady's voice in a little higher tone than that in which she had previously spoken. 
               Great Heavens! It was a voice she well remembered. 
               The form, too, she felt she had seen upon some former occasion. 
               A wild suspicion flitted through her mind, but she hushed it at once. 
               It was so improbable. 
               She almost imagined that the lady in the box and the wicked woman who held the lantern over the old man for the perpetration of the assassination in the lone house, were one. 
               "No, no," she thought, "it is impossible. She would never be here if it were she. 
               Here Rose's thoughts were so abstracted that she quite forgot the dumb boy and the expressive pantomime which she ought to have gone through. 
               She stood still some few minutes with her eyes riveted upon the box. 
               The audience, thinking that this was a portion of the play and most naturally acted, began to applaud. 
               The prompter, however, was in the greatest despair at her strange conduct. 
               "Miss Seymour," he whispered at the wing, "Miss Seymour." 
               But Rose could not be brought back to her presence of mind with a word. 
               The prompter was frantic. 
               Chowler came running up. 
               "What is it?" 
               "Our new hand, Miss Seymour, has made a dead stop." 
               Chowler caught a glimpse of our heroine just as she had recovered her presence of mind, and was continuing the piece. 
               Chowler could not understand it, 
               He was all impatience until Miss Seymour came off the stage. 
               Then he eagerly questioned her. 
               "Oh! Mr. Chowler," said Rose, "I have seen that woman, I am sure." 
               "Who?" 
               "She whom we saw last night." 
               Chowler looked frightened. 
               "The lone house?" he demanded in a hoarse dramatic whisper. 
               "Yes." 
               "Where?" 
               "The O. P. stage-box." 
               "She? Impossible." 
               "No; I feel convinced it is she." 
               "But why?" 
               "I heard her speak." 
               "And you recognized her." 
               "Ay, I'm sure it is she." 
               Chowler gave another glance at the box. 
               "Well, we'll test her," he said, "I'm on almost immediately." 
               "No, no," said Rose, "I would not do anything to arouse their suspicions." "Nor will I," said Chowler. "Leave it to me. The play's the thing! I'll attend to this little matter, and be sure that we are on the right track." 
               "Very well." 
               Shortly after this Chowler made his second appearance as a comic Alpine lover. 
               In this character he had to be an awful coward. 
               His great fear was a certain brigand, a kind of Mazzaroni-Fra-Diavolo-Marco-Spada individual, who haunted the mountains with a ferocious band of the vilest followers. 
               In Chowler's part he had to narrate some of the brigand's atrocities, and in another he contrived to introduce, impromptu, a sketch of a little affair which bore a very close resemblance to the adventure of the previous night. 
               At the outset the lady in the O. P. stage-box became interested. 
               She clutched her companion by the arm, and drew his attention to it. 
               Then both listened with the most intense interest. 
               As Chowler warmed, denouncing the villain, he observed that the lady's color had completely fled from her cheek. 
               Chowler had retired up the stage, making way for the terrible brigand himself, when he noticed that the party in the O. P. box were leaving. 
               Some one had come to the door of the box, and the lady had left in apparent consternation. 
               "It is the same," exclaimed Chowler to Rose Seymour at the wing. 
               "I was certain of it." 
                
               "Would you tell the call boy to come to me, please, Miss Seymour?" 
               The call boy came, and Mr. Chowler sent him round to the front of the house to see if he could learn who were the occupants of the box. 
               The boy shortly returned full of news. 
               It was Miss Bellisle and her cousin, Mr. Spencer Bellisle. 
               This was not all. 
               A most alarming tale had just gone round the house. 
               The proprietor of an old and large property, the lady's uncle, and an aged invalid, had been found murdered in his bed. 
               Chowler was amazed. 
               Rose in a perfect state of bewilderment. 
               She was certainly not fit to go on the stage now. 
               Chowler questioned the boy eagerly, but that was all he could glean. 
               How was it that the deed of violence had only then been discovered? 
               This remained to be seen. 
               Chowler had better be patient. 
               There was yet another act to be played in this fearful tragedy in real life. 
               A drama in which he had played one of the small audience who attended. 
               The particulars enlightened them upon some points in connection with it. 
               Some, however, threw a deeper mystery over it for the present. 
               All in good time. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               LET us shift the scene from Mr. Chowler's theatre for a little time. 
               We open in the city. 
               Our destination is a club in the West side of the city, where a strange scene is about to be enacted by two gentlemen who have appeared several times in these pages. 
               One is Col. Harold King. 
               Major Strangeways is the other. 
               These two gentlemen, who were great cronies, although their acquaintance was only believed to date from the major's introduction to Whiter's were seated in the card-room at the club playing a quiet little game at ecarte-just the mildest bit of gambling. 
               However, one thing was certain. 
               They might commence with half-dollars, but the game was sure to end in five, ten, fifty dollar stakes and higher. 
               And it was always the loser-Col. King-who proposed to increase the stakes. 
               Major Strangeways had got a little mountain of Colonel King's money beside him, and, strange to say, the Colonel to-night was remarkably cool and collected. 
               Still he kept on. 
               Major Strangeways urged him to conclude, as the game and the luck were all against him. 
               But the Colonel obstinately kept on. 
               "No, no, Strangeways," he said. "You don't leave me like this." 
               "But-" 
               "Nay, you shall not." 
               "Shall not?" 
               "No. Do you think you are going to take home all that heap of my losings? Never. I should disgrace my family." 
               The major laughed uproariously at Colonel King's pleasantry. 
               "Well, Colonel," said the major reluctantly, "Since you will have it so-but really I should say-" 
               "Tush man, let's have some wine, eh?" 
               "With all my heart." 
               "Hochheimer?" 
               "As you please." 
               Colonel King called for two bottles and glasses. 
               Meanwhile the play continued. 
               Colonel King appeared quite calm, as we have said, the only difference to be observed upon a close study of his movements was the anxious glance he threw towards his companion from time to time. 
               As he proposed wine he fixed his eyes so intently upon the major that he could not help noticing it, and he looked up. 
               The Colonel turned away his glance and looked at the cards. 
               "What is it, Colonel?" demanded Major Strangeways. 
               "Nothing, nothing. Merely an old recollection, nothing more." 
               The major changed color. 
               Without appearing to be anxious upon the point, he pressed Colonel King closely upon the nature of the old recollection. 
               "I have no particular idea," said the Colonel. "Only a kind of vague remembrance that we have met sometime before our present acquaintance." 
               "No," said Major Strangeways. "But I have frequently observed that where one meets a friend to whom he grows speedily attached a similar impression arises. I have noticed the same thing with music. On hearing for the first time an attractive air of a new opera it has frequently seemed quite familiar, in the same way I suppose." 
               The major appeared so anxious to prove to Colonel King that he was mistaken that he rather overreached himself. 
               When the hock which the former had ordered arrived the major hastened to serve it out. 
               Now, although Colonel King had previously complained of thirst, when the wine came he had his head turned in another direction. 
               He pretended to grow listless and yawn. 
               But all the time he had his eyes fixed upon the major over his shoulder. 
               He saw him take a small blue paper from his pocket, and, closing his palm over it, carelessly but artfully slip the contents of it into the glass from which he-Colonel King-was to drink. 
               The colonel started slightly, but beyond this he took no notice. 
               The major coolly filled the glasses and pushed one to Colonel King. 
               "Here's better fortune to you for the next time," said the major, nodding. 
               "Thank you." 
               But the colonel did not drink. 
               He took the glass in his hand and trifled with the brim of it, chattering carelessly. 
               "Come, Colonel King," said Major Strangeways. "Your health." 
               "Thank you." 
               The colonel replied listlessly, but did not offer to drink. 
               "You don't drink," said the major. 
               "What?" exclaimed the colonel turning upon Major Strangeways sharply. 
               "I say you don't drink." 
               "Oh!" 
               He stared sharply at the major, but he stood his glance quite composedly. 
               "Nay, true," said the colonel. 
               He then produced a small phial of a white liquid which he poured into the wine. 
               "Hullo!" exclaimed Major Strangeways, jumping up. "What's that?" 
               "Wait." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "You'll see." 
               Col. King raised the glass and held it up to the light. 
               
                  The wine in it had turned a bright emerald green.
                
               "Do you see that, Major Strangeways?" asked the colonel. 
               The major's voice quivered as he replied: 
               "I don't understand you yet." 
               "Why, that is surely known to you." 
               "What?" 
               "The nature of the liquid." 
               "I don't see-" 
               "Pshaw! Major Strangeways," said Colonel King. "You don't mean to tell me that you use poisons-" 
               "Poisons?" 
               "Without knowing if they are vegetable or animal poisons." 
               "Nonsense," said the major. 
               And he endeavored to laugh, but it resulted in a failure. 
               The colonel grew serious. 
               "Come, come, Major Strangeways," said the colonel, "no nonsense. You have tried to murder-" 
               "Murder?" faltered the major. 
               "Ay, to murder me. Here's the proof of it. I shall take this to the nearest chemist." 
               "Pooh, pooh!" 
               "And I shall deliver you over to the care of a constable without further delay." 
               The major jumped up. 
               "Come, Col. King," said he, growing serious at once. "What do you mean by that assertion?" 
               "Why, you audacious scoundrel," said Col. King, "dare you yet brazen it out in face of these proofs?" 
               "Which?" 
               "This." 
               He held up the glass containing the green liquid. 
               "That's none." 
               "No proof?" 
               "No." 
               "It strikes me, major, you'll find it enough proof for a jury." 
               "Pshaw!" said the major, with scornful coldness, "where are your witnesses?" 
               His coolness almost dumbfounded the colonel for awhile. 
               "Oh! as for witnesses," he said, "I'll soon settle that." 
               He jumped up, and, before Major Strangeways could divine his intention, rang the bell violently. 
               A rush of servants was heard almost immediately. 
               The major grew pale. 
               Determination to do something desperate was plainly marked in his face 
                
               A hand was laid upon the door without. 
               Now then was the time to act, or be lost, and forever. 
               Up dashed the major. 
               With one bound he was upon Colonel King. 
               He tore the glass from his hand and threw it to the ground. 
               This was barely accomplished when 
                     the the
                     the
                   door was opened, and in came two of the servants. 
               The colonel could not contain his rage land disgust. 
               "Miscreant!" he ejaculated. "Cheat and traitor, your-" 
               Passion choked him and he could not iterate. 
               So he seized hold of the major by the collar, squeezing him so that he was more than half choked. 
               Then dashed him to the ground. 
               The major fell all of a heap, considerably shaken, bruised, and half-stunned. 
               His first care upon gaining his feet was to appeal to the servants who had seen the affront put upon him. 
               "You see that this man has outraged all the laws of society," said he, "and that he owes me reparation. Col. King," he continued, turning to the colonel, and with a bitter emphasis, "you shall suffer for this," 
               "Good," said the colonel. "I accept what you would propose-although to do justice upon you I should send you to the station-house without a moment's delay." 
               "In the morning," said Major Strangeways, "a friend of mine will wait upon you." 
               "Oh! no," said Col. King, ironically, "not in the morning. I don't lose sight of you, I can assure you." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "This," said Col. King. "I am willing to give you the chance of shooting an American gentleman, although I shall be disgraced by opposing myself to your fire. But I shan't give you the chance to get off. I shall disable you, and hand you over to the police." 
               "Enough, sir." 
               The Major smiled a bitter smile of hate and malice. 
               "We must have some 
                     witnessess
                     witnesses
                   to the deed. I don't want to run any risks." 
               "You shall have witnesses." 
               Some gentleman having heard the disturbance in the card-room, came in just at this point in the conversation. 
               They offered their services, which were at once accepted. 
               "What is the nature of the quarrel?" was the first question put. 
               "It is no quarrel," said Col. King. "This demon has basely attempted my life." 
               "Never!" 
               "Impossible!" 
               "Just so, gentlemen," quoth the major, with the coolest assurance imaginable. "So would any one say." But the fact is, if you must know, that Col. Harold King and I have been playing ecarte for rather foolishly high stakes. I was unusually lucky, and you guess the rest." 
               "What?" said one of the gentlemen. "Col. King lost his temper and his money." 
               "Exactly." 
               In vain did Colonel King protest 
                     againt
                     against
                   this barefaced assertion. 
               It certainly looked as if he spoke the truth. 
               The exhibition of choler appeared so much greater upon the colonel's side than that of his adversary. 
               "Enough, gentlemen," said Col. King, after vainly endeavoring to make himself heard. "This is a plausible scoundrel." 
               "Come, colonel!" 
               "Well, hang it! I'll have patience; but I promise you that you will see how he has thrown dust in your eyes by his devilish cunning. Ask for an explanation of that broken glass." 
               "Oh! that's simple enough," said the major. "I broke it." 
               "You?" 
               "Ay." 
               "He admits it," exclaimed Col. King, all eagerness. 
               "Yes, I admit it. I broke it because you were about to hurl it at my head, that's all." 
               Col. King was utterly overwhelmed by the coolness of the ruffian major. 
               He hurried down to the door, followed by the two gentlemen and Major Strangeways. 
               Here they called a carriage. 
               "We all go together." 
               "Why?" 
               "I cannot spare that man out of my sight until he is in the hands of the police." 
               "This is nonsense." 
               "Nonsense or not, I insist on this point," said Col. King. 
                
               This settled the discussion, and they had to yield. 
               "Twenty-third Street," said Col. King. 
               "What for?" demanded one of the gentlemen. 
               "Home to fetch the tools." 
               Arrived at the residence of Col. King, the whole of the party were shown into a long room shut in by two thickly-padded doors. 
               This Colonel King called his shooting gallery. 
               "Shooting gallery?" remarked one of the gentlemen. "Do you practice much, colonel." 
               "Yes, every morning." 
               "Humph!" 
               The two seconds coughed and looked significantly at the major. 
               Colonel King produced two cases of pistols. 
               He opened both, and offered them to the major. 
               "They are loaded," he said. 
               "Good," returned the major. 
               He took up the heaviest carelessly, and fired at a target at the end of the gallery. 
               "A bull's eye, by the Lord Harry!" ejaculated one of the gentlemen. 
               Col. King took up a pistol with his left hand and turned his back to the target, turned sharply round, and fired without even pausing to level. 
               "Another bull's eye!" 
               "Splendid firing!" 
               "This is nothing, gentlemen," said Colonel King. "One can't very well miss, you see." 
               "I might," said one. 
               "And I, too," said another. "Believe me, gentlemen, this had better not proceed any further." 
               "Sir," said the colonel sternly, "it must and shall proceed." 
               "Of course," said the major. 
               But his tone, in spite of himself, was much less decided than that of his adversary. 
               The major had counted upon his accurate aim to bring him safely through this business, which looked so ugly at present. 
               Now, seeing the other was a better shot, it looked awkward. 
               The weapons were loaded. 
               Both the cases were taken, to avoid the trouble of reloading, as Colonel King said. 
               This rather startled the opponent and the two seconds. 
               He meant it, then, to be a duel a l'outrance. 
               They re-entered the carriage and drove off rapidly. 
               Colonel King led them to a secluded spot. 
               It was the very place of all others for an affair of honor. 
               Quiet and away from all habitations. 
               "This is rather snug," said one. 
               "It is," said Col. King. "I pinked off Gus Hervey there." 
               "Indeed?" 
               "Yes. It is a fortunate bit of ground to me." 
               The major was very silent and reserved now. 
               If one could read his inmost heart then, it would have been seen that he wished himself most heartily through the duel. 
               He buttoned over his coat-a closefitting surtout-to the neck. 
               Not a speck of white was to be seen upon his person. 
               Nothing which could serve his adversary in the least. 
               Col. King, on the contrary, took no pains with his toilette. 
               He simply changed his hat for a shooting cap to shade the eyes. 
               During the journey the major had been observed to whisper to his second, and when the proceedings for the encounter were in progress the latter objected to the distance chosen. 
               "I understand," said Col. King. "But he over-reaches himself there. I shall not be less steady at another range, and he runs more risk." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Ay, I never miss at sixteen paces." 
               "Then it seems to me that he stands more chance at other distances." 
               "No." 
               "How not?" 
               "I shall not miss at any pace, but at sixteen paces I shoot so true that I could hit when I pleased. As it is, I must risk it." 
               The confidence in Col. King's tone rather took the party by surprise. 
               Major Strangeways looked very far from being comfortable now. 
               The combatants were placed back to back. 
               It was arranged that they were to fire at twenty paces distance. 
               They were to walk forward ten paces each way, turn, and fire simultaneously. 
                
               The major measured off his ten paces with good military strides. 
               Then turned sharply, levelled, and fired 
               The colonel had not time to fire. He stood still, quite calm. 
               "Curse it!" 
                     mnttered
                     muttered
                   the major. 
               "You fire hastily," said the colonel, coolly. "You try all your assassinations too hastily. Your poison was given with a trembling hand, or I should not now live to cry quite with you." 
               The major turned pale. 
               A deathly hue overspread his face, so marked that the seconds could not fail to observe it. 
               His knees appeared to be giving way, and he turned half round. 
               "He wants to run away," said the colonel, laughing. "No, no. He's had two tries at my life, to-day, so here goes for the return match." 
               "Don't turn your back, major," said one of the gentlemen, in disgust." 
               The words appeared to frighten Major Strangeways heartily. 
               He presented his full front immediately. 
               "Ah! that's stupidly venturesome," said one of the seconds. "It's against all the laws of the duello, and you run double the risk." 
               The colonel enjoyed his adversary's terror, and he raised his pistol to aim with the cruellest deliberation. 
               "Good night, major!" 
               There was a report. 
               The smoke cleared away, and Major Strangeways was still seen standing, and more upright than before. 
               "Missed!" 
               "Missed!" said the other second. 
               "Missed, by jingo!" exclaimed Col. King, as if in astonishment. 
               Major Strangeways did not utter a word. 
               He raised his hand, as if about to address some of them, shook slightly, and fell full length upon the ground. 
               The seconds hastened to his side. 
               "Ay Heavens! he was struck. He's dead!" 
               It was true. 
               Major Strange ways was no more. Yet no blood was to be seen. 
               One of the two tore off his coat and waistcoat. 
               Something hard encountered the touch beneath the front of his shirt. 
               What could it mean? 
               They dragged it open, to search for the wound, and then discovered that the major's breast was protected by a fine steel mail shirt. 
               This, then, was the secret of the duellist's many successes. 
               A paper fell from his breast, which the colonel picked up and eagerly deciphered. 
               In the meantime the gentlemen pulled off the steel shirt and searched for the wound. 
               But all in vain. 
               There was not the faintest sign of blood. 
               The mark of the pistol shot was shown by a faint dent in the steel, but it had not penetrated it. 
               A light blue spot upon the flesh showed that the shot had simply bruised it a little, nothing more. 
               What, then, caused death? 
               Dead he was, it was apparent to an unpractised eye. 
               "The fellow's an arrant coward," said his second contemptuously. "He's dead through funk." 
               "What a paltry bully!" 
               "I told you so," said Col. King. "And you would not believe me when I told you of that affair at the club." 
               "The poison business?" 
               "Ay." 
               "Because you gave no reason for such an extraordinary proceeding." 
               "But I can now." 
               "Well?" 
               "The paper which has fallen from the rascal shows me that this scamp, who has so imposed upon us all is an old offender in 
                     diguise
                     disguise
                  ." 
               "Never!" 
               "It's true." 
               "You know him?" 
               "Yes. I trounced the ruffian once before, long, long ago, for palming the king, or something rascally, and this is his revenge." 
               "But who is he?" 
               "Major Strangeways of to-day," said Col. King, "was Captain Roper, the blackleg." 
               And thus ends the career of the notorious scoundrel and cheat. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               WE have yet another visit to pay be fore returning to the fortunes of Rose. 
               Mermet, the Arab magician, continues to receive illustrious guests. 
               The high and mighty, low and humble, alike visit the Eastern necromancer. 
                
               Many and curious are the secrets which Mermet now holds. 
               Many a rich family lies at his mercy. 
               Many an expectant heir would give the whole wealth to which he aspires, to be free from the power of the Arab, did he know how deeply he was in his clutches. 
               Amongst the many visitors whom Mermet now received was one whose introductory interview we will attempt to describe. 
               It was a lady, who observed the strictest secresy in all her movements. 
               She arrived incognito, and wore a thick veil throughout the interview. 
               All this, of course, excited the curiosity of Mermet to the utmost. 
               When, however, the Arab learned the nature of the business upon which the mysterious lady had come to consult him he grew so interested in her movements that he determined to discover her name and family, if possible. 
               As the lady entered the necromancer's chamber she bowed and stared at the attendant, Ahmet. 
               Then she turned towards the Arab. 
               "You are Mermet?" 
               Mermet bowed. 
               "Can I speak with you?" 
               "At your service." 
               "Alone?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Then dismiss your man," said the lady. 
               A few words in their tongue were exchanged between master and servant, and the latter left the room. 
               "Now, lady." 
               The visitor started. 
               Her action was mentally noted by the necromancer. 
               "Lady," repeated the Arab, "will you please to tell me the service you wish the humblest of slaves to perform?" 
               The lady paused a minute to consider, and then spoke abruptly. 
               "You deal in poisons?" 
               The necromancer was startled by the round manner of putting so dangerous and delicate a proposition. 
               However, he was a master of deception, and he replied to his visitor as coolly as the question had been put; 
               "Some poisons." 
               "And subtle deadly ones, which leave no tell-tale traces?" 
               "Even those." 
               "We must be sure of that." 
               "You can be." 
               "I will be. I want no drug of which the victim must take a quart to destroy life, and then turn saffron-colored." 
               "My skill does not know such impotent compounds, lady." 
               "Doubtless." 
               "Tell me the kind of poison you desire, and you shall be satisfied at once as to its efficacy." 
               "Have you a drug which would kill by inhaling it?" 
               "By smell?" 
               "Yes." 
               "On a boquet?" 
               "Ay, or elsewhere." 
               "I have." 
               "You have?" exclaimed the lady eagerly. "Then that is mine." 
               "I will show you." 
               And Mermet hobbled off his perch to a small carved cabinet, from which he took a long narrow-necked phial. 
               "The liquid within this will kill by the smell alone, and instantly." 
               "And upon a boquet?" 
               "The same." 
               "Will it destroy color?" 
               "No. It is the more efficacious, 
                     of of
                     of
                   course, the more recently it is applied." 
               "Good. Oh, it could be applied at the last moment-" 
               The visitor suddenly stopped short and looked anxiously at the Arab, as it she almost feared that her hasty words had put him in possession of her secret. 
               "You are discreet?" she asked. 
               "The nature of our business together should speak for that." 
               "True." 
               "Rest assured that you see me now for the first and last time, if you wish it. No one on earth but ourselves need know of your visit here." 
               "Good." 
               "And as for the drug. I defy any one on earth to detect its presence, no matter how keen or learned the chemist." 
               "And of its power you can vouch." 
               "More, I will prove it." 
               "How?" 
               "You shall see." 
               Mermet called the attendant, who, in obedience to some instructions in their native tongue, brought in a fanciful-looking cage containing a canary. 
               Mermet opened the door and whistled to the bird, which chirped with delight at the freedom it anticipated it was to enjoy. 
                
               Then it hopped out and perched upon the Arab's shoulder. 
               Mermet fondled the canary for a while, and then gave it some sugar, which it pecked from his lips. 
               "You will pardon an old man's weakness, lady," said the necromancer. "I love my bird, and am sorry to sacrifice it." 
               The lady looked horrified. 
               "How sacrifice it?" 
               "To science," replied the Arab. "But you shall see, as I promised." 
               He removed the stopper of the bottle, and held it in his left hand, while the right was projected for the bird to perch upon. 
               The canary seemed perfectly accustomed to this exercise, and he hopped upon his master's finger most cheerfully. 
               "Smell, smell, Dick," said the Arab. 
               The bird stretched forth his golden neck to wards the phial. 
               Then as its beak encountered the bottle, it fell from the finger of its master. 
               "Dead!" ejaculated the lady, in horror-stricked accents. "Dead!" 
               "Ay." 
               "Oh, but you might have proved it without killing the bird." 
               "It would have been difficult." 
               "Any proof would have sufficed for me, said the lady. 
               "Indeed?" 
               "Anything." 
               "Pardon me, I thought you were rather a skeptic at first." 
               "No, I come hither only after hearing your great reputation-" 
               "As a compounder of poisons?" 
               "No." 
               "I'm glad of that," said the Arab drily. "Such a reputation is not the most enviable one to have earned, believe me." 
               "Can I have that bottle?" asked the lady, preparing to depart. 
               "Yes." 
               "And the price!" 
               The Arab smiled. 
               "Oh, I can fix no price on such a treasure as that, lady." 
               "How so?" 
               "It is priceless as a work of art." 
               "Then fear not to name an adequate sum," said the lady. 
               "Nay, you cannot buy my genius as you buy a dealer's ware. I give you the produce of my skill and years of labor. If you would show me some mark of your kindness, pray exert your liberality upon my servant. He is a worthy fellow, and does me good service." 
               "This is very strange," said the lady. 
               "Not at all," said Mermet. "Let me see you again if your object is not achieved by this philtre. I can assist you, doubtless." 
               The lady was amazed. She offered the greatest and most profuse acknowledgments of the Arab's goodness, but he would not hear of thanks. 
               Ahmet was called. 
               "Show the lady out," he said in English. 
               Then he added a few words in Arabic, which caused the lady to eye them both sharply. 
               However, as the Arab was pointing to the dead canary, she imagined that the ill-starred little warbler was the subject of their conversation. 
               She was shown to the door, and hurried off, looking rather anxiously about, as it fearful of having been observed. 
               Had she suspected that a watch had been set upon her movements she would not have felt quite so easy in her mind. 
               The secret of the poison is in danger. 
               Beware, then, of Mermet, the Arab! 
               As soon as the veiled lady had taken her departure Mermet began to chuckle with vicious glee. 
               "So, so," he muttered, "poisoning thrives mightily. I dreamed that the days of the Borgias and of Brinvilliers had departed, but I find that they only want the opportunity to push them forward into our own age. And a thriving trade I shall drive with it. This woman, whoever she is-and I rely upon Ahmet, the knave! to discover her real name and position-will be a fortune alone, well managed. I am convinced that she is worth the trouble. Well, well, we shall see. How easy it is to gain a name in the world! Ah! who's this? Another visitor, doubtless. It is, and a woman, too," 
               A second veiled lady was here ushered into Mermet's presence. 
               The necromancer surveyed her from head to foot with a piercing glance. 
               Beneath her veil might be traced some faint outlines of her face. 
               It was beautifully formed, pale to ghastliness, and expressionless. 
               "There's been some grief there, mentally muttered the Arab. 
               The girl was evidently very much embarrassed to open the interview. Mermet, seeing this, hastened to her assistance at once. 
               "Be seated, lady," said he. "Take time to compose yourself, I pray you." 
               The words of the necromancer appeared to restore her at once. 
               It would seem that she only then became aware of her abstraction being so visible to everybody. 
               "What do you wish for?" asked the necromancer after a while. 
               "I want poison," returned the young girl, almost inaudibly. 
               "Poison?" iterated the Arab. 
               "Yes. Something which will send one on a quick journey to the next world with as little pain as possible." 
               "You must first tell me to what use you would put so fatal a compound." 
               "I cannot." 
               "Then I cannot supply you." 
               "I must seek elsewhere." 
               "Stay. At least tell me in what quantity you want this poison." 
               "It is to kill." 
               "Whom?" 
               "That cannot be known to you." 
               "It can and shall," thought Mermet. 
               But he spoke differently aloud. 
               "No, I merely wish to know the age of the person to whom it is to be administered." 
               "Nineteen," faltered the girl. 
               "Male or female?" 
               "The latter." 
               "Good." 
               "You will give it to me?" demanded the girl eagerly. 
               "I will." 
               "Oh! a thousand thousand thanks." 
               Mermet surveyed the pallid face beneath the veil, and mused thus- 
               "This is no murderess. She is a young mother, and means self-destruction. I must put her off that, or else may not count upon her in future. No, no. She shall destroy the child, if it is the babe's existence which troubles her, and then she is my own." 
               "One moment," said the necromancer. "Before I give you the poison you ask I would confer with you." 
               "To what end?" 
               "Upon a matter of serious importance to you, I believe." 
               "I don't understand." 
               "Then I will explain. Be seated." 
               She sat down. 
               "I am an astrologer," said Mermet, "and can read the stars." 
               The girl smiled sadly. 
               "You laugh," said the Arab. "Wait a little ere you deride me." 
               "Not deride." 
               "No matter what you may designate it, you don't credit it." 
               "I must confess that." 
               "Then I will give you proofs." 
               "I don't need them," said the girl. "Let me have the drug and depart." 
               The girl again demurred, but Mermet overruled her objection. 
               "I will show you your whole life." 
               "No, no, no." 
               "Ah!" said the Arab. "Although you doubt, you appear anxious." 
               "Not I," said the girl, when the first thought which had brought these hasty words was over. "Go on, say what you will, but be as brief as possible. for I am not well enough to listen to your believe me." 
               "Give me your hand." 
               "With a piece of silver to cress it?" asked the girl, with a sorry smile. 
               "No, no," said Mermet. "You are in no mood for idle jesting, I know." 
               "True," said the girl. 
               "And I'm in no mood to hear it." 
               "I beg your pardon." 
               "It is not necessary." 
               He took the fair and delicate palm of the girl, between his own bony and dark brown hands, and examined it attentively. 
               An exclamation of disgust and indignation escaped him. 
               "What's this?" he said. "Deceit and falsehood here-but not yours, not yours." 
               This was to re-assure the girl, who was about to utter an indignant repudiation of the aspersion. 
               "No, no, I see that is a man's falsehood and deceit." 
               A deep blush overspread the young girl's face at this. 
               This confirmed the Arab's suspicions, and he continued: 
               "I see a broken vow-a pledge of faith and love broken." 
               The girl trembled. 
               A sob which seemed to choke her utterance burst from her. 
               "Enough, enough!" she said. "I need hear no more at present." 
               "Nay, but-" 
               "No, no. Give me the drug." 
               "One moment," said Mermet. "It is for your welfare you should hear it." 
               "How know you?" 
               "My art tells me." 
                
               The art was consulted again, and Mermet threw out a feeler. 
               "A child is concerned here." 
               "A child?" 
               There was a faltering in her voice which confirmed his suspicions. 
               "Ay, a child, and one whose existence will imperil your own." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "You or the child must die." 
               "Or the child!" repeated the girl. 
               "Ay, or the child. Nay, I find it will be the child." 
               "Ah! oh, mercy, mercy! Never can it be." 
               The Arab had struck home, and felt wild with triumph. 
               However, he did not allow it to appear. 
               "Listen to me," said the Arab. "I read a history here of treachery and confiding innocence-the old story. A man too base to love, a fond girl too loving to suspect." 
               As the Arab proceeded, he could see by her changing color how truly he aimed his cruel shafts. 
               He continued- 
               "The girl becomes a victim, a mother. To save herself from disgrace, when her friends shall be apprised of her ruin, she seeks to destroy herself." 
               The girl looked frightened. 
               "And she leaves her child behind her, the scoff and derision of the whole world." 
               "Oh, no." 
               "Nay, but it is true. Who has any consideration for a love child, pray?" 
               "True, true." 
               And the poor girl beat her hands wildly upon her forehead. 
               "Then I see that there is but one way to avoid this trouble." 
               "Name it." 
               "The child." 
               "What of him?" 
               "Must die!" 
               The girl gave a piercing shriek, which re-echoed through the house. 
               At the same time it seemed to have caused the necromancer some trouble. 
               He looked anxiously towards the window, as if expecting that the alarm would have reached the street. 
               "Restrain yourself," he said, "or I must cease my revelation." 
               "But, oh! say not my child!" implored the girl in tears. 
               "And why not?" 
               "You are no mother to ask that." 
               "Pardon me," said the Arab, "but I cannot see why you should fear to take the babe's life any more than your own." 
               "I should be a murderess." 
               "Humph!" said the necromancer. "It has an ugly sound." 
               "Awful." 
               "Ay. But you would slay yourself-self-murder-suicide-" 
               "Spare me!" 
               "And that is as great a crime. The child you would send to rest would be saved a world of sorrows, cares, and troubles-and to what an endless list of these is not the child of shame destined?" 
               The girl was frantic. 
               She threw herself upon her knees before the necromancer. 
               "Oh, mercy, mercy!" she exclaimed. "I conjure you to advise me for the best." 
               "I will," returned the Arab, "believe me. Rise and hear me." 
               "I do. Speak on." 
               "The child must die." 
               The girl was about to interrupt him, but he silenced her with a wave of his hand. 
               "He must die." 
               "Is there no other way." 
               "None." 
               "Then I will die too." 
               "Then, to shut out the recollection of your crime, you would add another to the list." 
               "Have mercy!" 
               "I can have none if you speak thus," said the necromancer. 
               "Then I will be patient." 
               "The child will be removed and buried secretly. Who knows of its existence?" 
               "No one." 
               "Then your way lies straightforward and simple enough." 
               "How?" 
               "I will explain that later. Tell me the age of the child." 
               "Two weeks." 
               "So young?" 
               "Yes." 
               A long consultation then ensued, in which Mermet advised her how to act, and promised further aid. 
               At the end of this Ahmet the attendant returned, after a long protracted absence. 
               "You have seen?" demanded the Arab. 
               "I have." 
               "And the name of the lady is-" 
               "Miss Bellisle!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               MERMET made a mental note of the name of the veiled lady number one, who had purchased the poison of him. 
               Miss Bellisle. 
               And a poison too which should kill by the smell alone. 
               There was surely enough in this to lay her completely in his grasp. 
               "So much for Miss Bellisle," muttered the necromancer. "You can be looked after at my leisure. My more immediate attention must be directed to this trembling girl, the young mother, who is about to place herself and her fortune-and I doubt not that she has fortune, since she has a family from whom she is so desirous of withholding her shame-to place herself and her fortune, I say, so completely at my command. Poor girl!"-and here the little Arab's face gleamed with a satanic grin-"she little dreams what this day has done for her. However, I must use my power as mercifully as I can. Ho, there, Ahmet." 
               The attendant entered. 
               "Did the sahib call?" 
               "Yes." 
               The man salaamed. 
               "You followed that young lady, too?" 
               "Yes, sahib?" 
               "Good. Her name is-' 
               "Miss Grace Walgrave." 
               "Where?" 
               "Governor Square." 
               The magician started to his feet with an exclamation of astonishment. 
               "Is it possible?" 
               "Sahib, I have spoken." 
               "Good," said the Arab, as if suddenly determined upon some bold step. "Get me my hat and coat, Ahmet." 
               "Yes, sahib." 
               They were brought, and the attendant arrayed his master in them. 
               "Now my stick." 
               "Yes." 
               "Good. Now call a carriage." 
               Mermet got into the carriage, directing the driver to conduct him to Furnival's. 
               Here he sought out a shabby-looking house, and mounted three stories high. 
               It was a break-neck staircase, and the Arab ran great risks in hobbling up, from his many physical afflictions. 
               However, he was a man of determination, and not to be daunted. 
               He faced the difficulty boldly, and boldly conquered it. 
               Arrived at the top, the magician tapped with the handle of his stick upon a door on which was painted a name in white letters- 
               
                  MR. IGNATIUS SCRIBB.
                
               "Come in." 
               Mermet entered. 
               Mr. Scribb was a mild, respectable-looking gentleman. 
               He wore a white neckcloth, shaved his cheeks, let his hair grow long, and looked sanctimonious-something in appearance between a Methodist parson and the decayed schoolmaster who has seen better days. 
               "Ah! my dear sir," said Mr. Scribb, popping a quill pen into his mouth, as if to facilitate his speech. 
               "How d'ye do," said Mermet. 
               The difference in the necromancer's speech was now remarkable. 
               "Are you alone?" 
               "Yes," answered Mr. Scribb, "My clerk is just gone out." 
               "Very good." 
               "What can I do for you?" 
               "A service. This is it. You know Governor Square?" 
               "Yes." 
               "You know the number of Walgrave's house?" 
               "No, but that is easily found. I know that it is in the square, that's all." 
               "Well, you must find it and get me a little information about Miss Grace Walgrave." 
               "Information?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Of what kind?" 
               "Any kind." 
               "Yes, but-" 
               The Arab caught the lawyer's eye and pulled him up short. 
               "Now, Scribb," said he, "You are not going to worm this or anything else out of me. You're a devilish clever fellow, and as cunning as the whole of the rest of the bar put together, but you can't manage to pump me." 
               "Sir, I-" 
               "Enough." 
               "But I protest." 
               "I'm satisfied. Let it suffice you, Scribb, that I employ and pay you well. Let us work into each other's hands as well as we can." 
               "Good." 
               "Share each other's welfare." 
               "I ask no more." 
                
               "But not our business nor our secrets, if we have any." 
               "Undoubtedly." 
               "Now this little matter I came especially upon must be seen to without delay." 
               "It shall be seen to now." 
               "And when can I count upon having the result of your researches?" 
               "I can't say," replied Scribb. "You may count upon them at the earliest. Have you any instructions to attach to them?" 
               "Only one word. Miss Grace Walgrave must not know of your inquiries." 
               "Humph!" 
               "She must be out if possible when you call, if calling be necessary." 
               "Very good." 
               "It may make your task more difficult, but you must count the difficulties extra. I shan't grumble, you know." 
               "You pay handsomely, Mr.-" 
               "Mermet." 
               "Yes, of course, Mr. Mermet." 
               "Lose no time." 
               "I go at once." 
               "Spare no expense." 
               "None, believe me." 
               "The fastest carriage. Your fee shall cover that well, I can promise you." 
               There was a significance in the Arab's tone which caused the eyes of Mr. Ignatius Scribb to glisten with greedy anticipation. 
               Mermet left. 
               He had perhaps arrived at home an hour-certainly not more than an hour-when Mr. Ignatius Scribb was announced. 
               The lawyer had lost something of his sanctimonious appearance in the brief period which had elapsed. 
               The white neckcloth was still there, but it sat suspiciously awry. 
               The coat, that seedy frock, was slightly spattered with mud. 
               The Arab hobbled to meet him as he entered the room. 
               "What success?" he demanded, eagerly. 
               "Victory!" answered the lawyer, slightly elated. 
               "You have gained the information?" 
               "Eureka!" exclaimed the lawyer, actually cutting a terpsichorean caper. 
               "You have gained the information I required of you?" 
               "I have." 
               "I thought so, and have been drinking your health upon the strength of your success." 
               "Pre-cisely.' 
               "Ah! Iggy, my boy, you would be a wonder of a man and a lovely lawyer if you could only cut the bottle." 
               "Bosh!" 
               "But what news?" 
               "Stuff!" said the lawyer, who had not caught the question. "I live to enjoy my life, sir, and I do enjoy life after my own fashion. What would be the use of making myself a fine lawyer if I made myself uncomfortable. Those are my sentiments-" 
               "After a glass." 
               "And I glory in 'em." 
               "Very well. Enough of this. What have you learned?" 
               "Much." 
               "Ah! On what head?" 
               "That," answered the lawyer, pointing towards his interrogator, with a drunken laugh. 
               "Fool!" 
               "Oh, hullo!" 
               "You're an ass, Scribb." 
               "And you're-a wizard." 
               "Now enough of this nonsense. What have you learned?" 
               "Of Miss Walgrave?" 
               "Of course." 
               "She has left town." 
               "When?" 
               "Just now." 
               "Ah! Say you so? Where has she gone to?" 
               "Richmond." 
               "The address-" 
               "Is here." 
               "Give it me." 
               The necromancer snatched the scrap of paper from his hand. 
               "I say, I say," said Scribb, growing every instant worse, "you aint over polite." 
               "Silence!" said the Arab. "You are drunk." 
               "I repudiate the scandalous aspersion of my character," hiccoughed Scribb. 
               "Here take this." 
               He held him a glass of water, with something effervescent in it. 
               But Mr. Ignatius Scribb did not care much to take liquids then. 
               "No, thankee, Mr. Mermet. It mightn't do me good perhaps." 
               "It will sober you." 
               "To-day perhaps-but I mightn't wake early to-morrow." 
               He leered significantly at the Arab necromancer at these words. 
               "What do you mean by that, Iggy?" said Mermet. "Do you think I would injure you?" 
               "Don't know." 
               "That I would play traitor with a friend who serves me so well." 
               "Can't say, I'm sure." 
               "Be assured, Iggy, said Mermet, "you are far too useful to me at present. I can't say what the future may do." 
               The drunken man looked up startled 
               He was more than sobered by the necromancer's words. 
               They contained a promise of an unpleasant character to look forward to. 
               "Go, now, Iggy," said Mermet. "I am busy, and as for my words, think no more of them. I love you too well." 
               "Oh!" 
               "I do, in all sincerity." 
               "In-deed." 
               "Or, if you will not believe that-" 
               "'Pon my soul I can't." 
               "Then think how useful you are to me. How should I prosecute my searches without your aid?" 
               "Yes, how would you?" 
               "I should be lost." 
               "Quite." 
               "There, there, good night." 
               And, with a drunken nod, Mr. Ignatius Scribb took his leave. 
               "My threat to that besotted idiot," mused the necromancer as soon as the lawyer was gone, "is, after all, half joke, whole earnest. If he grows troublesome when in his cups, I must stop him in my own behalf. I'll doctor his grog in my own style, but not at present. So far I was candid with him. He's safe because he's handy just now." 
               He re-arrayed himself for a journey. 
               When he had completed his toilet he took a small crystal phial from his little cabinet and secreted it in the breast of his coat. 
               "There, stop there," said he, addressing the bottle. "Your services may possibly be brought into requisition before the night is over." 
               The Arab called a carriage and drove to the depot. 
               Here he booked for Richmond. 
               It was an unfortunate chance that he arrived just in time to hear the departing whistle of the engine of the Richmond train. 
               An hour's delay was occasioned by this little mischance. 
               Mermet silently gnashed his teeth, and said some very wicked things in an undertone. 
               However, the longest delays must have an end, and off he started at length. 
               It was night when he got to Richmond. 
               The moon was up, shining brilliantly and making the fair country and the noble river almost as light as at noontide. 
               Mermet started off to walk to his destination. 
               His locomotion was tediously slow and awkward. 
               Painful, too, to a degree to the necromancer, and he must have had some powerful motives to induce him to undertake such a journey on foot. 
               At length he came to a detached villa, some distance from any other habitation. 
               He looked about him cautiously, to see that there was no one upon the road. 
               All was silent. 
               He entered the garden. 
               The gate creaked alarmingly as he passed through, so he did not stop to shut it after him. 
               We mention this little incident, as it led to an occurrence in this moonlight trip of the necromancer's upon which we shall touch shortly. 
               Avoiding the house, for fear that he might be observed, although there was no sign of any living soul being within it, Mermet kept to the extreme right of the gravel walk. 
               His low stature allowed him to creep along beneath the trees and dwarf shrubs without throwing any tell-tale shadow. 
               He skulked down past the back of the house. 
               Here he found himself in a long garden overlooking the river. 
               He turned to look round at the house. 
               The back, like the front, was in darkness. 
               "I wonder if she is in the house at present," muttered Mermet. "I must and will see her. That must be ascertained, or else my journey will have been without effect." 
               He turned from the house and walked towards the water. 
               "The river runs here," said Mermet, half-surprised. "Why, then, could the silly girl have paid me a visit with such a resource as this close at hand? Ah? What's that?" 
               This exclamation was caused by hearing a loud sigh close at hand. 
                
               Mermet started and looked around him affrightedly. 
               He did not dare to stir. 
               "Ah! She's there!" 
               Close by the river's bank stood a girl leaning upon a spade stuck into the earth. 
               "What can she be doing here, I wonder," thought Mermet. "I must see." 
               He drew closer. 
               With wary, stealthy strides, he approached the unsuspecting girl. 
               And now he could watch her movements closely and unobserved. 
               His deformed figure was still concealed from view by some overhanging branches of shrubs and trees. 
               Presently the girl moved. 
               She raised her hand from the handle of the spade to press her forehead wearily, and to rub her eyes as if they were fevered with weeping. 
               Another sigh burst from her. 
               Then she fell to her task again in silence. 
               The earth was damp at this part of the ground, and it was no slight labor to the unhappy girl to dig it. 
               Yet she persevered. 
               Mermet stood in his hiding-place, silently and eagerly watching. 
               Still the work went on. 
               The girl had occasionally to pause to wipe the perspiration from her forehead. 
               Then returned to it with renewed zest. 
               At length a hole some three feet deep and a mound of earth beside it, was the result of her patient toil. 
               Then she turned towards the long dank grass growing upon the water's edge where it was marshy. 
               Mermet stretched forward, but could see nothing whatever there. 
               The girl, however, took a bundle from the grass, where it had lain concealed. 
               Took it tenderly in her arms. 
               Looked upon it in such sadness-such distress and woe-that the flintiest-hearted beholder could not fail to be touched by the action. 
               Then she removed a cloth, which fell over her arm, disclosing the form of a young babe. 
               Still and peaceful. 
               Motionless forever. 
               Cold and stiff. 
               "Ah! she speaks now," said Mermet to himself. "I wish I could catch her words." 
               He leaned eagerly forward. 
               "Farewell, farewell, my pretty one," said the girl, in a low musical tone, full of plaintive sorrow. "I've saved you from a life of misery and woe-but oh! great Heavens! at what a fearful price!" 
               She pressed her lips to the clay-cold face of the corpse. 
               Hugged it passionately in her arms and hung her face over it. 
               "She falls," said Mermet, half aloud. 
               But no. 
               She sank upon her knees, with the lifeless babe in her arms, still pressed passionately to her bosom. 
               Then her bosom heaved heavily and a mighty sob was heard. 
               But no tears. 
               Her eyes were ready to burst with fire, but she could not weep now. 
               She was speaking again. 
               A low but passionately-earnest tone of supplication. 
               "Surely there can be no future punishment for my crime," she said, gazing upwards into the starlit heavens. "I have suffered so much here for my fault-so much-so very much." 
               Suddenly she broke off short. 
               Covered up the face of the baby corpse and looked around her. 
               Terror unspeakable was in her beauteous but pale face. 
               What could it be? 
               Mermet had not moved, nor scarcely breathed so that one next him could have caught the sound. 
               But now that the necromancer looked about him he saw the reason of the youthful mother's alarm. 
               He was not the only person who kept a watch upon her. 
               Upon the other side of the garden-just peeping from behind a tree-he could see the glistening of a rain-proof hat. 
               It was a policeman. 
               Seeing that his presence had been discovered, the constable pushed aside the shrubs and advanced. 
               "Oh!" cried the girl, with a hasty effort to conceal the ghastly burden. "Who is it? What want you here?" 
               "What have you there?" said the policeman, slipping up to her. 
               "Nothing. I-" 
               "I have watched you," said the man. "I have seen everything, and it is useless denying it." 
               "Mercy! mercy!" cried the girl. 
               She prostrated herself before the man, and Mermet could see that he paused irresolutely. 
               "Will he allow her to escape?" said the necromancer. "No, he cannot-dare not. It is time that I should interpose. This fellow risks everything for me, and all my labors have been in vain." 
               Mermet the Arab hobbled out from his hiding-place and joined the group. 
               This was a new alarm. 
               The unhappy girl now deemed herself lost beyond redemption. 
               "Hullo!" said the policeman, not a little frightened. "Why, where have you sprung from!" 
               "I might rather ask that question of you," 
               "Why so?" 
               "Why so?" iterated the necromancer, affecting an indignant astonishment. "Because I wonder much to see you here at this hour." 
               "My duty-" 
               "Doesn't call you into our private grounds." 
               "No, sir, but-" 
               "Then why do you presume to spy upon my daughter's movements?" 
               "Spy, sir? Why, my duty." 
               "Pshaw!" said the necromancer, again interrupting him, with a contemptuous wave of the hand. "Don't talk so big, please, about such nonsense. If my poor deranged girl chooses to indulge her whims and fancies, that's no business of yours." 
               "No, sir, but it is the duty of every policeman, to look after anything that looks like-" 
               He paused. 
               "Like what?" 
               "Murder!" 
               The young mother gave a faint shriek at this word. 
               It is a terrible word, and must ever raise a twinge of conscience in the guilty one's mind. 
               "Murder!" said Mermet. "Stuff and nonsense, man. If my daughter chooses to take a fanciful freak into her head and bury her pet dog at night, does it follow that she must be spied upon and overlooked by every paltry impertinent fellow who chooses to pry into what doesn't concern him at all?" 
               This staggered the man. 
               However, it could not convince him, for he had witnessed too much. 
               "It won't do," he said, shaking his head. "I've seen the body!" 
               This settled the matter in the mind of the necromancer. 
               "You are a cute fellow," said he "and must be dealt with." 
               This implied a bribe. 
               But the policeman still proved himself obnoxious. 
               "It's no use," he said. "I know my duty too well to be put off it." 
               "Of course." 
               "So the young lady must come with me." 
               With a cry of alarm, the girl sprang to her feet, and with a sudden rush was by the waterside. 
               Mermet divined her fatal intent upon the instant. 
               As she darted past him he stretched forth his hand and caught her by her dress. 
               This checked her wild flight to death until the policeman came up. 
               "Don't you see that the poor girl is mad?" said the necromancer. 
               "It certainly does look like madness," returned the policeman. 
               "It is." 
               "No matter, I must take her with me." 
               "Never." 
               "Ay, and you too." 
               "That will be dangerous to attempt," said the necromancer sternly. 
               "Pooh! pooh!" 
               And the policeman placed his hand upon the Arab's collar. 
               In an instant the little eyes of Mermet flashed a thousand furies and he shook off the grasp. 
               Then he placed his hand upon the crystal phial with which he had provided himself before starting. 
               "What have you got there?" demanded the constable at once. 
               "Nothing." 
               "Give it to me." 
               The Arab pretended to be disinclined to part with the bottle. 
               However, he held it in such a way that the policeman was able to secure it. 
               "Well," said Mermet, in a grumbling tone. "It's only a little smelling salts." 
               "I dare say." 
               "Oh, give it to me." 
               "At the station." 
               "But don't you see, man, that my poor daughter is ready to faint?" 
               "Then I'll let her smell it." 
               The Arab sprang forward in a fright at this. 
               "No, no, no." 
               "Hullo! why not?" 
               "Because in her disordered state of mind the head is too weak to bear too strong a dose." 
               "How can you moderate it?" 
               "I'll show you," said the necromancer. "You just smell it yourself, and then you'll be satisfied." 
               The policeman took the stopper out of the bottle with his teeth, his other hand being engaged holding the girl. 
               Immediately the odor of the contents of the bottle appeared to strike the constable's nostrils, even at the length of his arm, a change came over his countenance. 
               He did not attempt to raise it to his face. 
               A suspicion crossed him that something was not altogether right, and he cast the bottle from him. 
               "Too late," muttered the Arab necromancer, watching him eagerly. 
               "Murd-" began the constable. 
               But the words died on his lips. 
               His face grew rigid. 
               A fixed stare was upon his countenance, and his eyes looked glassy. 
               The last faint glimmering of sense which remained in the unfortunate man was exerted in an endeavor to articulate. 
               But of no avail. 
               His lips moved-one faint quiver, but that was all. 
               His body jerked, as if the stiffening expression in his face had communicated itself to his body. 
               He swayed to and fro once. 
               Then fell. 
               The girl looked up with a wonder-stricken glance. 
               The necromancer grinned diabolically and hobbled up to the fallen policeman. 
               He stooped down. 
               Knelt and placed his hand upon the left breast. 
               "It's all over," said Mermet. "That's done." 
               Saying this, he picked up the man by the heels. 
               Then dragged him towards the water. 
               It was a tough pull, but the little cripple dragged with a will. 
               A splash caused the girl to look up. 
               The policeman had disappeared. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               WE must return to Clara St. John. 
               So long have we been engaged in the various adventures of our heroine, Rose Seymour, and Mermet, the Arab necromancer, that we have quite neglected this important personage in our history. 
               After the fearful calamities which happened to her and young Jesse Dumar, the partner of her flight, her senseless body was washed ashore upon the coast of Nova Scotia. 
               Here, two fishermen who were plying their trade picked up the body. 
               A packet fastened to her neck by a small chain was cut open by the fishermen and found, to their infinite surprise, to contain jewels and precious stones of rare value. 
               The cupidity of the two men, who possibly would have remained honest away from temptation, was excited by the richness of the prize, and a diabolical thought crossed them. 
               They would keep the treasures! 
               They had barely shaped their resolve into words ere the woman opened her eyes, and the fishermen turned to fly. 
               This is the point at which we parted company with Clara St. John. 
               Now to resume. 
               With a wearied painful expression the half drowned woman gazed upwards into the clear blue sky. 
               Then she turned her head aside with difficulty. 
               It was a look of wonder more than of anything else which she cast around her now. 
               She was evidently at a loss to account for her presence there. 
               She had not yet sufficiently recovered to realize the position in which she now found herself placed. 
               The rugged beauty of the Irish coast fell upon her gaze like the recollections of some fabled fairyland of which she had read. 
               She thought that she still slept, and that it was all a dream. 
               But it was reality-sad and dangerous reality. 
               Arrived at a few yards from the body of the woman, the two fishermen drew up short to consider what should be their next step. 
               The jewels lay there in a glittering heap beside their owner. 
               A tempting pile. 
               The whole labors of a life could not produce such treasures to the two fishermen. 
               Every day they risked their lives to gain a bare subsistence for their wives and families. 
               And here were treasures-riches untold-lying within their grasp. 
                
               One scruple of conscience got over, and they were rich for life. 
               There was the rub. 
               How to get over that one scruple? 
               How to sacrifice all for a treasure which, priceless as it indeed was, would prove embarrassing to men in their humble walk of life to dispose of? 
               And the men paused again, more irresolute than ever. 
               A serpent was there, whispering evil counsels into their ears, and they listened. 
               Listened but too greedily, and vicious thoughts arose within them. 
               "I tell you what, Jack," said one of the men, "it's my opinion she's dead.' 
               "But she moved." 
               "I don't think so." 
               The other fisherman regarded his comrade fixedly. 
               He could scarcely catch his meaning. 
               He had ever known him honest and true-hearted from a boy. 
               Was it, then, possible that he contemplated the same black deeds as filled his own evil mind at that moment? 
               He was very glad, however, to meet him half-way in an excuse for crime. 
               "Well," said he, looking in another direction, "if you was to ask my opinion, I should say as I'm sure she's dead." 
               "Yes." 
               "Of course." 
               
                  And they paused again.
                
               Looked into each other's faces for courage to do a bloody deed. 
               "Let's go back again," suggested one. 
               "Come on." 
               Each would have preferred to see the other take precedence. 
               But no. 
               Neither was yet versed sufficiently in crime to be forward in its execution. 
               Then after a while they started off together, and arrived beside the body. 
               "I-I think she's dead," began one. 
               The woman opened her eyes. 
               "What is this place?" she asked. 
               "O, lor!" 
               And the two disappointed fishermen looked puzzled at each other. 
               They could not even pretend to believe that the woman was dead after having addressed a question to them. 
               "Where am I?" continued Clara St. John. "Who are you, and what? Why don't you speak to me? I remember something terrible-a ship on fire-a wreck, and-oh! how horrible!" 
               Again the woman closed her eyes, as if to shut out the terrible recollections. Then the two fishermen exchanged a meaning glance. 
               A glance so full of fatal meaning that the scarcely sensible Clara St. John would have known that now she stood in mortal danger had she but seen it. 
               But now she lay so still that the fishermen really imagined she had relapsed into a state of insensibility once more. 
               If so the task was easy. 
               They had merely to secure the prize and make off with it at once. 
               One pointed to the jewels. 
               But neither liked the job. 
               At length one of the fisherman grew bolder and stooped to secure the prize. 
               "It's no use humming or ah'ing," he muttered. "Here you are-off we go." 
               The half swooning woman opened her eyes once more affrightedly. 
               She was now awake. 
               "Ah!" she cried. "It's no dream after all. What have you there?" 
               "Let go," said the fisherman." 
               But she stretched forth her hand with an effort and clutched the packet. 
               The jewels for which she had risked so much. 
               The prize which had cost her and the companion of her guilty flight so much labor to obtain. 
               "Put that down," she cried feebly. 
               "Leave go." 
               "Would you rob me?" 
               "It ain't yours," said the fisherman. 
               "Let it alone," cried Clara. "It is mine, and mine only." 
               "Where did you get it?" demanded the fisherman, who was not sufficiently hardened in crime to rob the helpless woman without some explanation, however poor. 
               It was a chance shot, and told with strongly marked effect. 
               The guilty means employed to obtain possession of the packet flashed at once through her mind, and a wild idea crossed her that her flight and the abstraction of the jewels had been discovered. 
               The idea vanished in on instant. 
               She plainly perceived that they were about to rob her. 
               Ay, and the treasure would inevitably be lost unless some assistance arrived. 
               And it was yet such early morning that it was not at all probable. 
               The part of the coast, too, was so wild in appearance-so far removed from the haunts of civilization-that Clara despaired. 
                
               However, after the toil she had undergone, and the crimes which she had been guilty of to obtain the prize, it should not be snatched from her without a struggle. 
               Alas! she was powerless. 
               Incapable of the smallest exertion to oppose the fishermen. 
               She was resolved to defend her rights, as she mentally expressed it, but how? 
               "If you dare to touch my property," she exclaimed with energy, "you will rue it." 
               "How do we know as it is yours?" 
               "Because you have taken it from me." 
               "We ain't." 
               "Besides, if you contemplate robbery," she said, "it is useless." 
               "Of course it is, but we don't." 
               "You could never get rid of such things." 
               "Oh! couldn't we?" 
               "No. Who would take such things in sale from you for a tenth-a hundredth of their value? You would be denounced as robbers at once." 
               "Don't see it," returned the bolder of the two. "Who could say that they was yours?" 
               "I could. I would denounce you." 
               "You would?" 
               "I swear it." 
               As she said this it occurred to the fishermen that she might say something unpleasant about them whether they committed the robbery or not. 
               And with this idea came another. 
               
                  Dead men tell no tales.
                
               Little did Clara St. John dream what was passing in their minds. 
               Beneath the rock upon which the woman reclined, unable to raise herself, the sea roared in all its grandeur. 
               A little push-one slight effort-and all would be over. 
               The jewels-the mighty prize of such value-would remain in their possession undisputed and unquestioned as to right. 
               Neither spoke. 
               They could not put the deed of death into words even then. 
               A glance told all that they thought. 
               The ideas of both were so much alike upon this subject that they needed no more to understand each other. 
               The fisherman who had spoken stooped over the prostrate woman and raised her in his arms. 
               "Ah!" she cried in terror. "What would you do?" 
               "You will see." 
               She gave a shriek. 
               A wild and piercing cry that could be heard for miles. 
               Both the fishermen looked around them alarmed. 
               But alarm was needless here. Apparently there was nobody stirring yet for a great distance. 
               "Mercy! mercy!" cried Clara, "Spare my life at least. Take all." 
               "Too late." 
               "You would denounce us," 
               "Yes." 
               "No, no, no. I would not. I will swear it. Oh! spare me!" 
               "You have just sworn the other way, and we don't know what to believe." 
               He held her over the rock. 
               But with the tenacity of despair she clung to the ruffian's collar. 
               He endeavored to shake off the hold, but to no purpose. 
               The whole remaining strength in her body seemed thrown into the clutch she held so perseveringly to his collar. 
               "Loosen her fingers," said the man. 
               The other came and dragged at her, but it was of no avail. 
               She tugged at the man, her would-be murderer, as only a dying person can. 
               "This is no use," said the fisherman. "Catch hold of her as well." 
               The other fisherman clutched her bodily. 
               Then swung her over the rock, endeavoring to precipitate her in the dashing waves beneath. 
               A series of wild and terrible shrieks burst from the unhappy Clara. 
               Cries which alarmed the men so that they could scarcely preserve their hold upon her. 
               She made a feeble attempt at struggling to release herself. 
               Her strength was very speedily exhausted. 
               And now she lay once more in the arms of the ruffianly fishermen, a dead weight. 
               Utterly powerless to help herself in the least. 
               "Now for it!" said one. 
               "Now then, together." 
               A fatal swing. 
               Then- 
                
               A hundred yards from the spot where Clara St. John had been washed ashore a man half naked was struggling to his feet. 
                
               A pair of trousers, torn and saturated with the sea water, alone covered his shivering limbs. 
               His hands and feet were torn with the jagged rocks upon which he had lately clung with desperation. 
               Clung for his very life. 
               He had been wrecked upon the previous night, and of all on board deemed himself the only survivor. 
               He had just recovered consciousness, and was looking about him in the hope of obtaining assistance. 
               Weary and faint, exhausted by his struggles to reach the land. 
               And no signs of life for miles. The wild region in which the poor wrecked stranger found himself sent a chill to his very heart. 
               He had, indeed, suffered. After a battle for life with the roaring sea, which appeared to struggle for his life like some mighty monster, he had succeeded in reaching land. 
               His enfeebled hold could not, however, procure his immediate salvation. 
               The sharp jagged rocks cut his hands severely, and he was washed back into the waters. 
               Thrice did he reach the rocks, and thrice was he thus driven back. 
               It was a fearful trial for the unfortunate mariner. 
               At length, when life seemed ebbing from him, with one wild and expiring effort he made fast his hold. 
               For hours did he rest there half sleeping upon the rocks. 
               And now it was nearly morning and the sun was rising gloriously, imparting its genial rays with a glow to his shivering limbs. 
               "If I make my way inland," thought the man, "I must surely find some assistance. There must be a town or village at some short distance from here. I wonder what part of the coast I am upon." 
               He meant the American coast. 
               Making what progress he could, he pushed on inland. 
               His feet, already cut and bleeding from the disasters of the fatal wreck, were most cruelly punished now. 
               On, on, he pushed, but no signs of a human habitation. 
               Suddenly he started and looked about him in hope. 
               A faint flush suffused his pale cheek. He fancied that a signal had caught his ear. 
               A cry-and, yes, it was repeated. 
               This time much louder than before, and he could now tell that it was the cry of a woman, a cry of distress. 
               It proceeded, too, from the shore. He listened again, and the cries were repeated. 
               A hundred shrieks in quick succession. 
               "Some poor creature in trouble," he cried. "I must see what I can do." 
               But he was too feeble to render much assistance. 
               He crept as fast as possible along the road until he arrived upon the top of a rise, where he could survey the coast for some distance upon either side. 
               Another shriek as he reached this point gave him the direction of the disaster, whatever it might be. 
               He could see in the distance the dusky outlines of two forms struggling upon a huge projecting rock. 
               They held something in their hands. 
               "Why, great heavens!" cried the wrecked stranger, "it is a woman-a poor helpless woman-they hold, and they are going to throw her into the water. She clings to them. Ah! how awful!" 
               A woman was in danger, and the helpless stranger seemed to gain courage and strength in her behalf which he had been unable to obtain or to exert for himself. 
               "Hullo! hi!" he shouted. 
               He struggled along, shouting to the men. 
               His cries would appear to have had some good effect. 
               The men placed the struggling woman upon the rock and turned off. 
               Before leaving one of them picked up a parcel-of what the shipwrecked stranger could not perceive in the distance-and made off with it. 
               "They fly! they fly!" he cried in great glee. "But what's that? Is it not a robbery? I must endeavor to intercept them." 
               This did not appear to be a difficult matter, for, strangely enough, the two men were advancing right in that direction. 
               They had not seen him, then. 
               No. It was true. The two men had only heard the alarm, and had not looked to ascertain in what direction it proceeded. 
               The shipwrecked stranger could now perceive that they were two big brawny fishermen. 
               This was an awkward job. What good could he do against two such fellows? 
               He jumped behind a low stubbly tree, and awaited their arrival. 
               "Great Heavens?" cried the stranger of a sudden as the men drew nearer, and he saw what the one had picked up from the ground. "Why, it is a packet of jewels he has robbed the woman of. I must see to this." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               AS the two fishermen arrived at the spot where the shipwrecked stranger was concealed they made a pause. 
               Strangely enough, just by the dwarf shrubs behind which he lay hidden. 
               "Why, where could that cry have come from, Jack?" said one of them. 
               "Up this way." 
               "Then some one has seen us." 
               "That's sure." 
               "What's the best game, then?" 
               "To bolt." 
               "Stop a bit, though. The gal said, and with some truth, too, that we should not be able to get rid of these precious jewels without being suspected." 
               "Ay." 
               "And we should most certainly get into trouble." 
               "That we should." 
               "Then, what do you propose?" 
               "I can't say, Jack. What would you like to do, think?" 
               "Why," replied the man addressed as Jack, "if you ask me what I should like to do, I should say to drop the gal over the rock." 
               "And the person or persons who overheard her cries." 
               "I'd like to drop 'em over, too." 
               Pleasant this for the shipwrecked stranger to listen to! 
               However, he was no coward, and in spite of the little chance he ran of rendering much assistance, he determined to risk a little. 
               He jumped forward from his hiding-place. 
               Suddenly confronted the men. 
               Then made a grab at the parcel of jewels and screamed. 
               "Hell fiends!" cried the men. 
               But before they could do anything more the men off with the prize. 
               The fishermen as soon as they had somewhat recovered made chase. 
               But the other had a good start before they thought of pursuit. 
               Whilst they were enveloped in their weighty water-proof clothing, he was scarcely covered. 
               Their feet were encased in thick heavy boots with stout tops coming high up the thighs. 
               His were scarcely covered. 
               Every minute, too, brought him renewed strength and courage, whilst the two fishermen grew more fearful. 
               He never paused to consider which way he ran, but darted off at a good speed. 
               As he neared the sea he looked round, and there perceived that the unfortunate woman, whose death he felt confident he had averted by his timely arrival, had risen to her feet, and was advancing in that direction. 
               He looked around him in wonder. 
               Apparently he recognized the half-drowned woman as a friend. 
               As he drew nearer the woman rushed up to meet him. 
               "Save me, oh! save me from these fearful men!" she cried in terror. 
               "Clara!" 
               "Jesse!" 
               Such were their mutual exclamations of astonishment at beholding each other. 
               The shipwrecked stranger was no other than Jesse Dumar. 
               They had now no time for explanations-not a moment for anything but the defence of the treasure which they had undergone so much to obtain. 
               The two fishermen were drawing near. 
               They had ventured thus much, and now they felt that there was no retreating. 
               They were much emboldened, too, by perceiving how utterly helpless the man and woman both were. 
               Jesse and Clara St. John retreated until they could go no further-until they were once more upon the verge of the rock from which the fisherman would have hurled the woman, but for the timely cry of Jesse Dumar. 
               "Give me back that parcel!" said the man from whom Jesse had snatched it. 
               But, instead of complying with this demand, he merely placed it upon the ground behind them. 
               And there they stood, this guilty pair, boldly determined to defend the treasure which they had so sinfully gained. 
               The unarmed, defenceless, and weak, almost at the mercy of the savage fishermen. 
                
               Yet so did they cling to their wealth that they would have sacrificed even life itself to protect it. 
               The fisherman repeated his command. 
               "Never!" retorted Jesse Dumar. "Never while I have strength to defend it." 
               "But have you?" 
               "What?" 
               "Strength to defend it." 
               "That shall be seen." 
               The fisherman who acted as spokesman advanced, and placed his hand upon Jesse's arm. 
               The young man indignantly shook him off. Then dashed his fist into his face. 
               This had the effect of bringing matters to a crisis. 
               The man swore the most fearful oaths to have his life. Then, drawing a knife from his girdle, an ugly looking weapon used in the fisherman's calling, he made a rush at Jesse. 
               The young man, seeing himself in danger, endeavored to step aside, but, from the slippery state of the rocks, he missed his footing and fell, half his body hanging over the sea. 
               With a wild shriek, Clara caught at the falling man and by a sudden and powerful effort succeeded in dragging him back. 
               All was done so momentarily that the two fishermen had no time to avail themselves of the accident. 
               To the fellow who had threatened him it proved the source of a disaster. 
               Wildly rushing on to take vengeance on him he stumbled also. 
               In an instant the other man had pounced upon the disputed treasure which had been left unguarded by Jesse Dumar's fall. 
               But ere he had time to make away with it, Clara St. John dashed at him, and with a well-timed push sent him headlong over the rock. 
               Then she darted upon the prostrate fisherman and pinned him to the ground. 
               She could not hope to hold him long, but before he could recover himself Jesse was up again and added his strength to hers to secure the fisherman. 
               "The knife! the knife!" said Clara St. John, pointing to the weapon of the fisherman which had fallen from his grasp. "Pick it up." 
               Jesse obeyed, just securing the knife in time to oppose its original possessor as he succeeded in shaking off Clara's feeble hold. 
               "Stab him!" she cried. "Cut him down! Down with him!" 
               The fisherman was in an unpleasant position at this period. 
               "Spare me!" he implored. 
               "Slay him!" cried the remorseless woman. "Down with him!" 
               Jesse offered to strike, but the guilty wretch before him begged for his life in such abject terms that the young man was touched. 
               "Get up," he said, "and remember that I spare your life upon condition only that you mention to no one the nature of the accident by which your companion in crime has met his death." 
               "Hold!" exclaimed Clara, before the fisherman could move from the ground. "Give me the knife." 
               Jesse appeared reluctant to part with it, however. 
               Seeing this, the woman snatched it from him ere he could offer to oppose her. 
               Then, bringing it down with great violence, she buried it up to the hilt in the poor wretch's shoulder. 
               "Ugh!" groaned the man. 
               And all was over the next instant. 
               Before life was extinct Clara dragged at his now helpless body, and pulled it unaided to the edge of the overhanging rock. 
               The wounded man, with upturned eyes, could now only implore her mercy with a glance. 
               But it might as well have fallen upon a marble statue. 
               "An eye for an eye," she said, triumphantly, "a tooth for a tooth." 
               A trifling exertion-for the doomed fisherman was now upon the extreme verge of the rock-and a dull splash. 
               "Oh, Clara, Clara!" ejaculated Jesse Dumar, with a shudder. 
               "What now?" 
               "How awful!" 
               "You're grown childish," said she. "I would do the like again, if I had the same provocation." 
               "But the jewels needed no further defence," urged the young man. 
               "The jewels?" 
               "Ay." 
               "Where are they?" 
               "I-I-can't say. Haven't you got them?" 
               They searched right and left, but without avail. 
               They had disappeared. 
                
               The truth was that they had been pushed over the rock with the fisherman whom Clara St. John had so remorselessly slain. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               "LOST!" 
               "Ruined!" 
               Such were the mutual ejaculations of despair of the two shipwrecked travelers. 
               Clara St. John and Jesse Dumar had undergone so much to obtain the packet of jewels. 
               A load of guilt had been placed upon them, to bear them down with shame, if not contrition, at some future day, and they had taken life to preserve them. 
               Two wretched men, whose cupidity had been aroused by the sight of the glittering gewgaws, had perished, not unjustly, for their villany in attempting to rob them. 
               Alone, and without a friend on whom to call, theirs was a truly pitiable condition. 
               To the young man it was the more dreadful. 
               He had been always nurtured in the lap of luxury and affluence. 
               Clara St. John, as she was now known, felt it not a little. For wealth and position she had ventured much. 
               And now, by a cruel stroke of fortune, she was deprived of her ill-gotten wealth at the very last moment. 
               What was to be done? 
               Of course they made the most minute search, but the fate of the packet of jewels was not to be doubted for an instant. 
               They had been cast into the water with the body of the fisherman. 
               Jesse Dumar stood upon the edge of the projecting rock and gazed long and wistfully into the foaming waters beneath. 
               To think that they hid such a treasure from his sight, and that he dare not venture to brave its dangers and seek it out. 
               But no, such a venture would inevitably be certain death. 
               The thought was maddening. As he stood there, looking into the sea, his cheek grew pale and he bit his nether lip with a fixed determination which there was no misunderstanding. 
               He had resolved to recover the jewels or perish in the attempt. 
               Clara St. John saw it and was horror-stricken. 
               For once her woman's heart, her fears, or whatever sensation she might experience towards the misguided young victim to her wiles, triumphed over her avarice, and she sprang forward ere he could accomplish his fatal purpose. 
               "Jesse!" she cried, "hold, I entreat." 
               "What for, Clara?" said he. "There is no danger in the dive." 
               "Danger!" echoed the woman. "It is certain death, believe me." 
               "Nay." 
               "Jesse, you shall not attempt it!" 
               Jesse urged no more. 
               The tone of command which she employed seemed to have great weight with him, and showed plainly enough how thoroughly he was in her power. 
               Many weary hours they spent there in fruitless search. 
               Hopeless and sad search. Not the faintest vestige could they discover of their jewels nor of the unfortunate fishermen. 
               Faint and exhausted from long suffering, they turned at length from the scene of their disaster. 
               They had passed several hours upon the rocks, after the fatal end of the two men, in the hunt after the packet, and were now growing faint from hunger. 
               Clara in particular grew so exhausted that Jesse Dumar, whose condition was scarcely less pitiable, had to support her. 
               And they walked inland. 
               After a short time they came to a cornfield, where they plucked a few ears and devoured them. 
               A little further, on there was a barn, and beyond it a farmhouse. 
               As they neared the latter a most savory odor was emitted, containing the flavors of new milk, eggs and ham. 
               They looked wistfully towards the door and at each other, then walked past. 
               "I can walk no further," said Clara. 
               "And I'm sick and weary enough, heaven knows," said Jesse Dumar. 
               "Go to the farmhouse and beg some assistance," said the woman. 
               "Beg?" 
               "Some assistance until we can get our property from the wreck." 
               The flush which had suffused the young man's cheek at the thought of asking charity sobered down, and he volunteered to go to the house. 
               His appearance amongst the serving men and maids created quite a small sensation. 
               He explained in as few words as possible that he and a lady who was with him were the sole survivors of the fatal wreck which had taken place off their coast that night. 
               They were greatly astonished, for no one had dreamed that there had been any. 
               However, being kindly disposed and hospitable people, they made them welcome and bade them eat-a command which was gratefully received by our two shipwrecked 
                     adventnrers
                     adventurers
                  , as may well be conceived. 
               They were closely questioned touching the particulars of the fire and the wreck, and contrived to give such an account of the whole proceedings as did not touch upon the untimely end of the two fishermen. 
               They were clothed and provided with a lodging, which was placed at their service until their property should be recovered from the wreck. 
               Then the agent with whom the ill-fated vessel was insured, took their business in hand, and in the most kindly way returned them their packages as they were recovered from the wreck. 
               It was an act contrary to all practice. 
               Something in Clara St. John, however, appeared to fascinate the underwriter's agent, as it did everybody who came in contact with this strange and terrible woman. 
               They were, however, in the very greatest perplexity still. 
               If the jewels were not recovered the fugitives were ruined. 
               Without resources of any kind. 
               Penniless. 
               But, on the other hand, if by a fortunate chance they should be recovered, it would undoubtedly excite attention, and probably cause inquiries. 
               At all events, it would be highly unpleasant to account for their possession. 
               Some explanation would become an absolute necessity. 
               "No," she said in a chat with Jesse over their hopes and fears in their guilty career. "There is but one resource for us." 
               "Name it," said Dumar. "For, in truth, Clara, I am weary and heartsick." 
               "We must fly." 
               "But how?" 
               "We must endeavor to secure a passage to the States by the first vessel." 
               Jesse was startled. 
               "Return?" he exclaimed. 
               "Ay. It is our only resource." 
               "But what course do you intend to pursue when we get there?" 
               "I have thought over that." 
               "With what result?" 
               "I have a cousin residing so far removed from New York that we should be perfectly screened from all observation." 
               "But I thought that you had no relations there." 
               "None of my father's." 
               "I see. Then these are maternal cousins?" 
               "Yes." 
               "But one word, Clara, ere we decide upon adopting this hastily-formed resolve. How can we hope to escape observation for long with your cousin?" 
               "Leave that to me." 
               "But consider the risk." 
               "Jesse, you grow pusillanimous," said the bold masculine woman testily. "What risk can there possibly be?" 
               "Every risk." 
               "What proof?" 
               "Of our guilt?" 
               "Ay." 
               "Our flight is sufficient." 
               "Pshaw! Since we live in comparative poverty, it is none." 
               "What other object could prompt us to fly together?" 
               The sternness in Clara's manner vanished upon the instant, and she looked with such tenderness upon the young man that he melted at once. 
               "Jesse," she murmured, "they might hint of a strange infatuation." 
               As the words were spoken Jesse caught her in his arms and stopped her further utterance with burning kisses. 
               "Enough, Clara!" he exclaimed. "Do as you will. I ask no more." 
               "Dear, dear Jesse!" 
               "Poor or rich, I am yours. In joy or sorrow, dear Clara, I'm yours." 
                
               Time passed on. 
               They landed once more upon their native soil, much poorer than they had quitted it, but yet in possession of some slight property. 
               This was, of course, the result of some swindling deception, but neither Clara St. John nor Mr. Jesse Dumar was much troubled with scruples of morality. 
               They passed along the coast some distance, and spent a little time merrily enough at one of the watering places until their funds began to run low. 
               Then Clara St. John had to start out in earnest, in quest of the cousin alluded to. 
               I was a long journey, very long; but she had had the prudence to husband their resources, and so they took their time upon the road. 
               In these easy stages a fortnight was passed. 
               At length they arrived at the residence of Clara's cousin, Miss Bellisle. 
               It was a most unfortunate moment, as it appeared, for Clara to have chosen for a visit with her husband, as Jesse was said to be. 
               A death had recently occurred in the family. 
               Their uncle had been foully assassinated. 
               Slain in his bed by the hand of an undiscovered midnight robber. 
               A robber it was ascertained beyond a doubt, for large sums of money had been abstracted from various parts of the house. 
               A plate robbery had occurred upon the same night, of such magnitude as to convince any one who could entertain a doubt upon the subject. 
               Mr. Spencer Bellisle had succeeded to the great bulk of the property. 
               Miss Bellisle had some time previous to his demise disappointed her uncle's hopes by having formed an attachment to her cousin, the heir to the property. 
               It was a wild infatuation, which they deemed could come to no good, for Mr. Spencer Bellisle had returned home, after a protracted sojourn in foreign countries, and a strange reputation had preceded him. 
               Rumors were given out of certain discreditable transactions with which his name had been connected. 
               At Spa and Baden-Baden, and other of the great German gambling towns, he had been more than once degraded by reported discoveries of false play. 
               At least, so it was said. 
               However, Mr. Spencer Bellisle no sooner became a man of property, than these rumors were heard no more. 
               As soon as the inquest upon the body of the murdered man was over, and the funeral obsequies, which were carried out in the solemn pomp and grandeur befitting one of his great wealth, had been got through, it became publicly known that Mr. Spencer Bellisle, the heir, was betrothed to Miss Bellisle, his cousin. 
               Such was the state of affairs when Clara St. John and Mr. Jesse Dumar arrived upon the scene of the recent tragedy. 
               Clara had not been there long when she found good reason to congratulate herself upon the choice of a refuge which she had made. 
               The murder made her prick up her cars, and at once she was upon the alert. 
               To this shrewd keen-sighted woman of the world there was a strange significance in the speedy betrothal of the cousins. 
               Clara, too, soon found means to collect scraps of the infamous reports which had preceded the return of Mr. Spencer Bellisle to his native land. 
               He was the only person who had, up to the present, benefited by the sudden and awful death of his uncle. 
               Clara and her avowed husband had not been long at her cousins when Miss Bellisle announced her intention of taking a short tour in company with her betrothed. 
               It was thought to be rather a singular freak, but people of such wealth were of course above all vulgar suspicion, and so the precious pair of cousins left. 
               Clara did all that lay in her power to learn the object of their departure, but only succeeded in obtaining reasons which she knew to be false. 
               A fragment of a conversation which she happened to overhear assured her of this much. 
               As the words will touch upon a future chapter in some slight degree, we propose to give them. 
               Spencer Bellisle and his affianced wife were sitting in the library talking over their projected tour, when Clara came on them in this wise. 
               Since her residence with them she had taken a great fancy to exploring the many secret passages, sliding panels, and other medival contrivances with which the mansion abounded. 
               One day Clara had been examining her own sleeping apartment, very narrowly, when, upon raising some faded tapestry which had evidently been upon the walls from very remote ages, she discovered a slight dent in the wall. 
               At once upon the qui vive for adventure and discoveries, she pressed the part eagerly in every direction. 
               A door, ingeniously concealed in the panel, revolved and opened. 
               She entered the dark passage upon which it opened, and, not thinking of any risk she might be incurring, proceeded eagerly along. 
               It was a winding narrow way-so narrow that one person only at a time could proceed along it, and so low that she had to stoop nearly double. 
               She arrived at the end of this when suddenly it grew more lofty. 
               She was able to stand upright and could feel no ceiling. 
               Another step brought her to a standstill. 
               "So, so," thought Clara. "There must be a door hereabouts." 
               She stretched out her hand, but only to encounter the hard wall upon every side. 
               Many minutes she passed there searching, but vainly, for the door. 
               Yet she was not to be baffled. 
               "It must be here," she muttered. 
               Her conviction inspired her with courage, and she kept to her task. 
               Minutes grew into an hour, and yet no signs of success. 
               The closeness of the place, too, was most unpleasant. 
               The passage was of great length, and there was no ventilation. 
               Still she persevered in her search, struggling boldly against a close and stifling sensation which appeared to be overpowering her. 
               By slow degrees-fatally slow-she felt a faintness stealing over her. 
               So alarming did this presently grow that the bold determined adventuress was forced to pause in her labors to rest her head, throbbing with the difficulty of respiration in the passage, the veins in her forehead swelling to twice their size, and standing out purple, like thick cords, against the cold wall. 
               Oh! how welcome was the cold to her fevered throbbing brow! 
               Somewhat revived by this, she was about to rise, when she fancied that her car caught the faint sound of voices. 
               "Ah! at last!" 
               She listened eagerly. 
               She did not move nor breathe. 
               But her utmost efforts failed to catch anything more. 
               She could now distinctly hear the whisperings, but they were too low to allow her to catch even one word distinctly. 
               It was tantalizing. 
               Teasing to the highest degree. 
               She renewed her search for the door, which she now felt more convinced than ever was there. 
               Suddenly her hands were arrested in their progress over the walls. 
               She heard some voices in angry discussion close at hand. 
               So loudly was the conversation now carried on that she could almost catch its nature. 
               Then there was a blow struck, followed by the falling of a body. 
               Then she could hear a door opened, so near to her that instinctively she glanced up. 
               But no, not yet. 
               Another second, and the same sound was repeated. 
               This time there was no misunderstanding. A door was opened close beside her. 
               At once anticipating some foul play and danger in the event of discovery, the adventurous woman threw herself forward upon her face as far as possible from the opening in the panel. 
               A ray of light was admitted which showed some strange doings. 
               A bloody corpse was thrust forward. 
               The form of an old man, a domestic apparently from his apparel, and grasped by two remarkably white hands. 
               Those hands Clara St. John never forgot. 
               The left hand, too, was remarkable for one circumstance. 
               A rich diamond ring of priceless value was upon the little finger. 
               Not the faintest glimpse could Clara catch of the person owning the white hand and the rich diamond. 
               The body of the bleeding servant fell upon the prostrate form of Clara. 
               "Ugh!" she exclaimed, burying her face in her hands. "Horror, horror!" 
               The warm blood of the body trickled upon her face, causing her a painful sensation. 
               A feeling of horror never, never to be effaced from her mind until her dying day. 
               "Great heavens!" she murmured. "This is too fearful. Oh! horror!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               WITH an averted gaze Clara St. John endeavored to thrust the bleeding corpse of the domestic from her. 
               The pushing of the body near the hurt that caused the man's death had a most terrifying effect. 
               The blood spurted out like a water jet, sprinkling the face and clothes of the shrinking, trembling woman. 
               Clara St. John, as we have shown, was no novice in crime, and yet this caused her the most agonizing feelings. 
               With her eyes closed she rose to her feet, and made for the spot whence the object of terror, which she had now to endure so close beside her, had been thrust. 
               She at once, in spite of the terror conjured up, perceived how she had been so thoroughly mistaken with regard to the secret door. 
               She had directed all her searches straight before her, and the secret door lay to the left. 
               The spring was yet very difficult to discover. 
               And now her search was continued in the most feverish haste. 
               She would not retrace her steps, after all she had ventured, without gaining her purpose. 
               No; let the horror upon horrors here accumulate until they deprived her of her reason, she would yet keep to it until she had obtained some result. 
               She struggled to repress a sickening sensation which was creeping over her. 
               Suddenly a faint sound caught her ear. 
               What was it? 
               A sigh of agony-a faint but long-drawn wail of suffering. 
               Clara shivered from head to foot like one palsied. 
               The bloody object yet breathed. 
               Could it be this? 
               But she never paused to see if she could render any assistance. 
               No thought of sympathy or anything like female weakness troubled her. 
               Another instant, and her fingers touched a projecting knob. 
               A wild hope possessed her. 
               It yielded to the touch, and the door which she had seen open so shortly before, and for such a fatal office, again revolved, like the passage from her own sleeping apartment. 
               It opened into a small closet. 
               Upon the right was a second door, and this she was just about to pull open, when the sound of voices caught her ear again. 
               She paused in the act. 
               Listened eagerly, with her ear touching the door panels. 
               It is Spencer Bellisle! 
               An expression of triumph, almost of joy, passed over her countenance. 
               She felt that she was about to learn the secret she had striven for. 
               Her reward for the horrors which she had endured in that secret passage. 
               "Alice," she could hear him say in low but perfectly distinct tones. "Alice, one obstacle is now removed from our path. Two only remain to be disposed of, and then we are free." 
               "True, Spencer," replied a 
                     familar
                     familiar
                   voice, which Clara recognized as her cousin's. 
               "All that remains to secure to us an undisturbed enjoyment of all this for which we have ventured so much." 
               Clara started. 
               "Ventured so much," she repeated deliberately, as if to infix it upon her memory the more effectually. 
               "It is dreadful, Spencer," continued Miss Bellisle, so lowly that the listener with difficulty could distinguish what was said. 
               "What is?" 
               "All this." 
               "Tut, tut, Alice," said he, with a sneer. "You are growing scrupulous." 
               "No, Spencer. Yet I feel a horror of all these crimes, believe me." 
               "Pah!" 
               "Spare me your sneers." 
               "Pshaw, woman!" said Spencer. "If you continue to bore me thus eternally with your humbugging pricking of conscience, I shall wish myself heartily rid of the business." 
               The woman, his destined bride, uttered a cry of sorrow. 
               "Ah, Spencer, how gladly would I resign all if it were only possible to undo what we have already done!" 
               "Fool!" 
               "Hush!" 
               "Your pardon," said he, coarsely. "But you put too much upon my patience. We are in for it now and it were worse than useless to retract. It is impossible to undo the past." 
               "Alas! yes. But I do not feel so sure of our security as you appear to do." 
               "Pshaw! Wherefore?" 
               "Do not two eye-witnesses of the-two eye-witnesses yet live?" 
               "Possibly." 
               "Nay, it is proved beyond a doubt." 
               "What then?" 
               "Why, we are not safe one moment, and then-" 
               "Nonsense! If they knew all, as you appear to think, why have they not yet spoken?" 
                
               "I know not." 
               "Nor I." 
               "Unless they wait for a more fitting moment." 
               "How can they have any choice?" 
               "That remains to be seen." 
               "Pshaw! Alice! Your fears blind your reason and your better judgment." 
               "Perhaps," said Miss Bellisle. "But I feel assured that they will come forward yet when we least expect it." 
               "By hell! they never shall," ejaculated Spencer, with such a voice that the whole place re-echoed with his vehemence. "No, no. If only to silence your silly fears, this night I will start upon my journey. But one thing remains to be told. After then you must not raise up any more spectres to frighten us both into imagining all these horrors. This actress shall perish, and the man too, since it must be so." 
               "Oh, Spencer, Spencer, beware how you act in this, I beseech you." 
               "Oh, have no fears for me." 
               "But Martin." 
               "Oh! he's gone from this wicked world of suffering," said Spencer. 
               And he gave a cold, horrible, grating laugh, which jarred upon the ears of the gentle Clara St. John. 
               She felt that he was alluding to the old servitor whose bleeding corpse was so terribly near to her even then. 
               "No, no, Alice," resumed Spencer. "You must indulge in no more of these gloomy fancies. Your wild notions have already led us into one fearful error from which it required the utmost address to extricate ourselves." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "The carrying off of the buxom innkeeper's wife in the night." 
               "But there is no danger to be apprehended from there now." 
               "None." 
               "You will take with you the bottle I got from the old Arab?" 
               "What you went all the way to New York to procure, you mean?" 
               "Yes." 
               "I'll take it with me. Yes." 
               "And remember how to use it." 
               "Oh! I do. A few drops on a boquet will settle the business." 
               "Yes." 
               "But are you sure of its efficacy?" 
               "Beyond all doubt." 
               "I should prefer to see the effect myself before using it." 
               "But I tell you that I saw it so wonderfully tested by the old Arab astrologer that not a particle of doubt remains on my mind." 
               "Poor proof for me." 
               "It must suffice you." 
               "Enough." 
               And thus the conference ended. 
               Clara could hear no more from her hiding-place at present. 
               She had heard no opening nor shutting of doors, and therefore could not venture to push open the closet door and see where it entered into. 
               So she turned from the closet, closed the door, and regained the dark passage. 
               As she was turning off she felt that the edge of her skirt had caught something. 
               She pulled it, but although it yielded a little, it would not give way. 
               She stooped down and applied her hand to remove the obstacle. 
               Judge then her horror and dismay when her hand encountered the clutch of a human being. 
               
                  A wet hand!
                
               "Oh, how dreadful!" she ejaculated. "How very awful is this!" 
               The grasp upon her skirt, too, was such that she could not disengage it. 
               She took the damp, clammy hand in hers, and endeavored to force it open. 
               But no. Her hand slipped from the ensanguined grasp. 
               Wet and bedabbled in the life-blood of the poor old servitor. 
               "Mercy!" gasped a faint voice. 
               "Ah! he lives then!" 
               "Save me, in mercy," said the old man feebly. 
               "What is it?" demanded Clara, stooping down to the wounded man. 
               "Oh! I am hurt, wounded, grievously stabbed, lady." 
               "Who has done it?" 
               "Mr. Bellisle!" 
               The old man's voice was so faint as to be scarcely audible. 
               "Spencer stabbed you?" 
               "Yes, as he stabbed my dear old master, his uncle." 
               "His uncle?" 
               "Ye-es." 
               "You know this?" 
               "I saw it." 
               This interested Clara mightily. 
               At once she had resolved to render such aid as was possible to the old servant, whom Spencer Bellisle and his guilty cousin deemed murdered outright. 
                
               "Can you rise?" 
               "Alas! no." 
               "Where is your wound?" 
               "Here, in my side." 
               Clara took her handkerchief and placed it in the old man's hand. 
               "Take this," she said. "Hold it firmly to the place. Stop the bleeding if possible." 
               "Thanks, dear lady." 
               "I will go for assistance." 
               "Hush! beware of Spencer!" 
               "There's no fear." 
               "Silence-I beseech you, silence. He would risk anything to save himself now." 
               "Fear nothing. I will first get a light, and see if your wound be dangerous." 
               "Thanks, thanks, dear lady." 
               "You know me?" 
               "Is it not Miss Clara?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Then Heaven's blessing be upon your dear innocent head." 
               Clara could not refrain from shuddering at the old man's warm gratitude. 
               She thought in horror how little she deserved the praises. 
               "Be comforted, Martin," she said. "I will return in an instant." 
               "Bless you." 
               What a singular joy did this guilty woman now feel at the prospect of rendering the poor old man some service! 
               For the first time for many years she had done an act which was strangely at variance with her ordinary course of life, and the enjoyment, the wholesome healthy enjoyment she experienced in it was wonderful. 
               Oh, how different from the feverish triumph experienced in the accomplishment of one of the many crimes with which she stood accounted! 
               Murmuring words of comfort and consolation to the old man, she gained the end of the narrow passage. 
               It was pitch dark. 
               Not the faintest glimmer of light penetrated that gloomy labyrinth of passages in which such bloody work was done. 
               "The door must have gone to by itself," murmured Clara. 
               It had. 
               The door, she was unaware in her eager curiosity, fastened with a spring. 
               "Dear, dear!" she exclaimed. "This is truly unfortunate at such a moment." 
               But little did she dream the annoyance it was to cause her yet. 
               She felt the wall in every direction. Right, left, up, and down. 
               But no spring could she discover. 
               At length it began to grow alarming. 
               After some twenty minutes had been spent thus, she could hear the voice of the old servant calling upon her for aid in fainting tones. 
               "Lady, lady," he cried, "for God's sake do not desert me in this awful place." 
               "Alas! poor Martin," said Clara, "I cannot find the door. We are both prisoners." 
               "Then I die. Oh, Heaven have mercy upon-" 
               "Martin, Martin." 
               "Too late, Miss Clara!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               TO return to Rose. 
               Whilst we have been so occupied with the doings of the other characters in our little drama a variety of changes had occurred in Rose Seymour's career. 
               With these we now propose to deal without delay. 
               The intelligent reader will remember that upon quitting our heroine she had, with Mr. Chowler, the stage manager, made the discovery that the occupants of the stage-box, who had appeared so eagerly to scan their forms and faces, were no other than the head of the local gentry-Miss Bellisle and her cousin, Mr. Spencer Bellisle. 
               Upon the occasion of the opening performance of Mr. Chowler's company, with Rose Seymour, as the Dumb Boy, in a prominent position, it will further be remembered that Miss Bellisle and Mr. Spencer Bellisle had received a strange and startling piece of information whilst in the theatre. 
               A rumor soon spread about the theatre that their uncle had been found murdered in his bed. 
               This was for long a most profound mystery to the manager and Rose. 
               They could not at all comprehend how the fearful deed which they had been witnesses to upon the previous night had only transpired after so long a lapse of time. 
               It was in everybody's mouth. 
               But yet Rose Seymour and the manager, by a mutual understanding, held their peace. 
               They dreaded some danger, the precise nature of which they would have found it difficult to explain, from the vengeance of the assassins. 
               The abduction of the landlady of the house at which Rose Seymour was staying had sufficiently shown them that the guilty parties would hesitate at no crime, however bold and desperate, to hide their guilt from the eyes of the world. 
               "No, no, my dear Miss Seymour," said Mr. Chowler, in the course of one of their many conversations upon this head. "We must hold our peace until the fitting moment arrives. Then we will speak and ease our minds." 
               "As you please," said Rose. 
               "The strange disappearance of Mrs. Davis has rather alarmed me." 
               "And me too." 
               "Yes, it is rather humiliating to own oneself a thorough coward; but these are insidious enemies, who strike in the dark." 
               "I dread the worst from their enmity," said Rose, with a shudder. 
               And thus the conference ended. 
               Two days passed, and yet Mrs. Davis, the landlady, was absent. 
               Her husband, who had been from home engaged at a neighboring market town, returned at the expiration of this time. 
               And now poor Rose was in a greater dilemma than ever. 
               It was pitiable to hear the young man lamenting for his young wife, so mysteriously disappeared, when Rose Seymour could by a word have given him such a clue as would perhaps have led to her recovery. 
               However, one day passed after the young man's return, and not the slightest signs of Mrs. Davis. 
               Her husband grew frantic. 
               He tore all over the country, advertising such rewards for the recovery of his wife as would have made him bankrupt to meet. 
               Rose was now in such great fear from what she had seen of the lengths the audacity of the murderers would lead them that she could not sleep at night. 
               The consequence was that one night she lay awake listening for voices which always are to be heard by the sleepless in the night, and staring at the window until her eyes ached. 
               Every instant she expected to see the window pushed open, followed by the appearance of a masked head-a mask to be remembered until her dying day. 
               "Ah! me," sighed Rose wearily as she lay. "What a life of torment and trouble is mine! By the merest string of fortunate and unfortunate accidents I escape one danger only to encounter others more alarming. For I fear that there is more immediate and real injury to be apprehended from these assassins than from the cruelty of the Whartons." 
               Her musings stopped abruptly. 
               She looked about her curiously, as if uncertain of the cause of her fear. 
               But yet there was cause, and the next instant showed it still more. 
               She could hear footsteps patrolling the road. 
               Danger! 
               But what was the nature of the danger she had yet to learn. 
               She lay as still in her bed as the shivering caused by her fears would permit. 
               Presently there was a sound as if the door below was being pushed-a kind of noise that made our heroine imagine that it was about to be forced. 
               This was an agreeable situation. 
               Rose sprang from her bed and darted into the passage. 
               "Mr. Davis! Mr. Davis!" she cried in a frightened whisper. 
               "Who's there?" cried the watchful husband of poor Mrs. Davis. 
               "It is I." 
               "Miss Seymour?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Lor, miss, what is it?" 
               "Something wrong, I fear, down stairs." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "A noise at the front door." 
               "Never. Wait, I'll come." 
               Rose suddenly remembered that she was in rather a loose state of apparel to have an interview with her landlord. 
               She beat a hasty retreat into the bedchamber and speedily put on a few garments to enable her to proceed unrestrainedly in her movements. 
               And now Rose fancied that she could hear fresh footsteps without, as if the parties had been reinforced. 
               She repaired to the passage, and called out her fears to Mr. Davis. 
               "All right, my dear Miss Seymour," said the young landlord. "I long for a slap at somebody. I'm after them." 
               "Be careful," said Rose. 
               "Oh! I'll be careful." 
               "I fear that you may come to some harm else." 
               "Have no fears for me." 
                
               "Oh! but you do not know these people." 
               "Eh?" 
               Rose bit her lip and was silent. 
               Another instant, and her indiscreet fears would have given up the secrets which, in common with Chowler, the little theatrical manager, she had contrived to keep so religiously. 
               She could now hear that the landlord was indeed bestirring himself, and she much feared, by the noise he made in his movements that the party without-who were there, she felt convinced, with some nefarious intent-would be pushed to open violence. 
               Now she could hear a small table being moved there. 
               This she knew by the sound to be a toilet table, the property of the lost landlady, which stood by the window. 
               Then he was going to open the window. 
               Yes, there was no mistake about this, for in the space of two seconds she could hear the lattice unfastened and opened. 
               Rose Seymour regained her own apartment and ran up to the window. 
               Then opened it with as little noise as possible and peeped out. 
               There was a man there-a figure which she remembered. 
               The same mask hid his features from view. In his hand he carried some small instrument, which our heroine was unable plainly to distinguish at first. 
               A keener glance, however, showed that it was a revolver. 
               As this occurred to her, she heard Mr. Davis challenge the masked man from the adjoining window. 
               "Hullo, there!" he cried. "Who's there?" 
               But there was no answer. 
               The mask, even then hoping to escape observation, drew near to the house, and then stepped into the doorway. 
               Too late. 
               "Come out of that!" cried the enraged landlord. "Come out, or I'll blow your brains out." 
               This caused a change in the man's demeanor immediately. 
               He leaned forward, with an upraised hand, pointed at Davis. 
               "Ah!" shrieked Rose. 
               This probably preserved the landlord's life. 
               There was a report of firearms. 
               The barrel of the masked man's revolver had been discharged, and shivered the window to atoms. 
               Then out darted the mask. 
               Davis had awaited his time, and now no sooner did he get a fair view of the man than he aimed and fired. 
               His weapon was a fowling-piece, not of a very superior make, and only loaded with duck shot, but it was well aimed and took effect. 
               Down dropped the mask! 
               "Brought him to grass!" cried Davis, triumphantly. 
               He sprang from the window, and hastily reloaded his fowling-piece. 
               Then darted down stairs. 
               Rose was greatly alarmed at all this, as may be naturally supposed, but she could not leave the window until she had seen the termination of the strange drama. 
               But she repented of the curiosity which prompted her to this. 
               The wounded man (for wounded he was beyond a doubt) raised himself upon his elbow, and with his disengaged hand pointed directly at Rose Seymour. 
               A cry burst from the lips of the startled girl, and she sprang from the window. 
               A glance had shown her that the hand grasped the pistol still, and that her life was endangered. 
               Barely had she quitted the window when there was a second report, and a bullet whizzed so unpleasantly close to Rose Seymour's head that she could actually feel the wind of it as it passed. 
               It lodged in the wall over the doorway. 
               But the man-this would-be assassin-what had become of him? 
               As she stood at the further end of her bedroom she could hear that the door below was opened by Mr. Davis, and he ran out. 
               This set poor Rose in a greater fright than ever, for she had just learned that the wounded man was not too badly hurt to make himself a very dangerous enemy. 
               And it was all due to herself, she feared, and to the fatal curiosity which had led her and Chowler to play the spy upon the actions of the wealthy assassins of Mr. Sloeford. 
               At all risks she must render Mr. Davis what assistance she could. 
               She ran down stairs to the door. 
               Mr. Davis and the wounded man had both disappeared. 
               This was most singular, as the masked ruffian had been hurt in a way which must have seriously impeded his locomotion. 
               However, this did not cause her much trouble, nor for long. 
               In the space of a few seconds, back came the young landlord, gun in hand, and in hot haste, looking up and down the road. 
               "Where is he, Mr. Davis?" cried Rose. 
               "Then you've seen all!" 
               "Yes. Where did the man go to?" 
               "Gad! I should like to be told that." 
               "But had he gone when you got down stairs?" 
               "I can't possibly say. All I know is that when I ran to the door and pulled at it it was fast from the outside." 
               "Held?" 
               "So I thought, but as it did not yield in the least. I concluded-rightly, as it turned out-that some sort of fastening had been put to it." 
               "How?" 
               "A stick had been passed through the handle of the latch. As the door opens on the inside, this was easy enough." 
               "How strange!" 
               "It was. And it resisted a power of strength like you've no idea of. However, I managed to push it through, and when I got out he had flown." 
               "Strange," said Rose. "I thought he was so badly wounded, too." 
               "The rascal wasn't alone." 
               "Are you sure?" 
               "Certain. I know I lamed him: there's his blood all over the road." 
               "But he was not quite disabled." 
               "No, I suppose not, for he fired at me after I had left my room." 
               "Or rather at me." 
               "At you? The miscreant!" ejaculated the young landlord. "I wish that I had him once more within my range." 
               At this moment it appeared as if his wish was about to be gratified. 
               At the bend in the road they now perceived a figure emerge from the hedge and make for the house. 
               In an instant Mr. Davis had popped the gun to his shoulder. 
               "Now," he exclaimed, with great satisfaction. "When he's in range." 
               "Stop?" cried Rose. "It's a woman." 
               Another minute confirmed this. 
               Rose was not surprised at this, for she well knew what a prominent part a woman had played in the late outrage, and she naturally imagined that this was the same female fiend who had already committed such diabolical crimes. 
               "She means no good at this hour," said Davis. "I shall fire." 
               "No, no!" cried Rose. 
               "Halt!" cried Davis to the woman, as she drew nearer. "Advance another step and I fire!" 
               "Michael!" said the woman. 
               Rose and the young landlord started and turned rather sick. 
               
                  It was Mrs. Davis's voice.
                
               "Who are you?" cried Davis. 
               "It is me, Michael." 
               "What, Moggy?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Hold hard now." 
               This appeared a singular greeting for a loving husband of a newly married wife. 
               The fact of it was that, although not addicted to beliefs that had a supernatural tendency, Mr. Davis could not help being startled by her sudden re-appearance. 
               The situation, too, was more than usually startling, from the recent adventure with the masked ruffian, whom the young landlord had so dexterously contrived to pepper. 
               "Michael, Michael!" cried poor Mrs. Davis. "Don't you know me?" 
               Rose, fearing by the sound of her voice that she was in distress, ran out to meet her. 
               "Miss Seymour!" cried the landlady. "Is it really you, dear?" 
               And as Rose gained her side she fell into her arms in a flood of tears. 
               "What is it?" demanded Rose. 
               "Oh! dear, dear!" cried Mrs. Davis. "Oh! I'm so glad to see you again. I thought that I'd lost you forever." 
               "Where have you been?" 
               "I don't know. No, I don't. But I've suffered so much." 
               "Moggy," called Mr. Davis from the door. 
               "Michael." 
               "Come, Mr. Davis," said Rose. "Come and assist your wife to the house." 
               As he now saw that it was really his prodigal wife returned in the flesh (though not so much of it as when she had been carried off), he ran to lend assistance. 
               An affectionate embrace and another flood of tears-tears of joy-and the husband joyfully led his wife back to the house. 
               When they were fairly inside, and the door was securely fastened, poor Davis overwhelmed her with questions, so that she was unable to reply to them in detail. 
               By degrees, however, she recovered herself, and then she gave them the history of what had befallen her. 
               "All that has occurred to me," she said, "appears like a mystery-a kind of dream. I know not what, but I know that my life has been in danger." 
               "Oh! Moggy!" 
               "Ah! Michael," she said, with a sad smile, "I never thought to see you again." 
               "But where is it you have been to?" he again asked, impatiently. 
               "I know not, I say." 
               "But-" 
               "Wait," said Mrs. Davis, "and I will give you the whole tale, and you shall judge for yourself." 
               Davis and Rose restrained their excitement and listened, with breathless interest, to Mrs. Davis's narrative. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               "ALL that I know of this frightful affair," said Mrs. Davis, "is this. One night-I cannot say how long ago, for I have even lost reckoning since I have been away-I was awakened by hearing a noise in the bedroom. I opened my eyes, and there I saw a man in a mask standing by the bedside-" 
               "Curse him!" muttered Davis. 
               "I couldn't speak, for I was so dreadfully frightened, until he seized me in his arms, bedclothes and all-" 
               "Curse him!" muttered Davis. 
               "Then I shrieked out." 
               "I heard you," said Rose. "But I had just awakened myself, and did not know what to think of it." 
               "Then he stifled my cries with something which he threw over my head, and carried me off. There was a ladder at the window. 
               "I suppose that I must have fainted, for I can remember nothing more until the next morning, when I found myself in a little room, and the same mask peering over me as I lay upon a couch." 
               Another spasmodic oath from Davis here interrupted the narrative. 
               "I was very much frightened, of course, and I begged for mercy, and asked an explanation, promised to reform in future, and all in a breath, I could make nothing of it at all. 
               "For a long time the masked man remained silent-so quiet that I was frightened even at this. Then after some length of time he put some questions to me, which puzzled me greatly." 
               "Ah!" said Rose. 
               "Yes, dear," resumed Mrs. Davis, turning to Rose, "and what's more singular-my trouble appeared to puzzle him as much as his questions did me. 
               "Well, that day passed over. They were good enough to bring me food, but I didn't like to touch it." 
               "Why not?" 
               "You shall hear. After the first day they allowed me the range of the two rooms-fine spacious places-which convinced me that I had been borne off to some grand house, though where to will ever remain a mystery to me." 
               Rose felt that she could have enlightened her had she dared to speak. 
               "Well," continued Mrs. Davis, "upon the second day the tall man in the mask brought me a sumptuous meal upon a tray. Again, of course, I begged for some explanation of the cruel outrage, but he was silent. Upon my pressing him hardly on the subject he replied, in a voice which will always ring in my ears, 'Let your curiosity be satisfied that it has brought you thus far already. Pushed further, it may lead to such lights as you will find unpleasant!'" 
               "Ah!" Rose mentally ejaculated "Then it is as I suspected." 
               Of this there could be no doubt. 
               The words clearly implied that they believed she was in the fatal secret which imperilled their safety. 
               It was galling in the extreme to our heroine that she durst not speak. 
               "Well," resumed Mrs. Davis. "After this speech, which seemed to contain a deal of hidden meaning and threats, the purport of which I could not understand, he left me, pointing sternly to the meal upon the tray. 
               "Now this tray, I most tell you, was placed upon a small table near the wall, and just over it bung a picture of some faded beauty of a long, long time ago. As I advanced to the table to taste the tempting delicacies with which it was filled-for I was now sinking with hunger-I fancied this picture moved. I was very much frightened at this, for everything seemed to impress me with such horrible sensations; but I drew nearer, and lo! a paper slid from beneath it and fell upon the table. 
               "I picked it up with a mixture of curiosity and fear, and read these words- 
                
               "'Beware of all food!'" 
               "Poison!" exclaimed the landlady's listeners spontaneously. 
               "So I supposed," said Mrs. Davis, "and I refrained from eating the tempting delicacies. But many and many were the longing glances which I cast towards them. I walked up and down my room, lamenting my fate aloud, in the hope of exciting my unseen adviser to render me assistance as well as advice. 'Whoever sends me this warning,' I said, 'pray accept my earnest gratitude, but at the same time I must starve, for I am already sick and faint with hunger.' However, my appeal still remained unheard, until, weary with fatigue, I sank upon a chair in a state of half insensibility. 
               "When I recovered from this it was to hear a slight noise at my refreshment table. I looked and perceived that an addition had been made to the viands already there, in the form of a small loaf and a piece of a chicken. It had been carefully disjointed and the bones removed." 
               "I see the object of that," said Rose. 
               "I did not, but I do now. It was, of course, that no scraps might betray the hand of my strange benefactor. 
               "With the food was a second note, which is here." 
               Mrs. Davis took a small blotted paper from her pocket and read: 
               "'All may be well if you are careful and keep this from their knowledge. If you betray me, we are both lost, for I am now your only hope. Touch no food whatever. But to gain time and prevent the employment of force, and to destroy all idea that you entertain suspicion of foul play, endeavor to get rid of some of the food and wine. The latter you can empty about in hidden corners. The food you must cut up and sprinkle about. I am here to aid you. Fear nothing and be bold.' 
               "I can scarcely say which were 
                     my my
                     my
                   most prominent sensations at reading this-fear or security. It was a mixture of the two, I imagine. However, I determined to obey his instructions, and very soon had to commence my counterplot with the masked man. My first care was to assure the picture, for this represented my hidden benefactor or benefactress, that I was all gratitude and obedience, and to be implicitly relied upon. Then I took my bottle of wine and carefully poured about an eighth of it about in small doses. The meat which had been brought up by the masked man I cut up, and threw very small bits in out-of-the-way corners. The next day I found out the real service which my unseen correspondent had rendered me, as I will show you. I had just concluded my job when the door handle turned. My last food was yet upon the table. With a bound I was there, and had removed it to a chair upon which I sat down, covering it effectually, as the door opened, and my masked jailor came in." 
               "Go on," said Mr. Davis, breathless with interest. 
               "I was in great alarm, of course, and how I contrived to keep it from his piercing gaze I cannot understand. The only thing is, I suppose, that he saw no extra emotion, and imagined it all to spring from the self-same cause. Goodness knows that there was enough to scare away one's wits in being there alone." 
               "True." 
               "Poor creature," said Rose. 
               Mrs. Davis pressed our heroine's hand warmly, and continued: 
               "As my jailor came in I saw his coal-black eyes, glistening like diamonds with malice and murder, glance eagerly upon the tray through the two holes in the mask. 
               "My heart beat quickly, but I said nothing. 
               "'You have eaten?' he said. 
               "'I have finished,' I replied. 
               "'If you have eaten,' he said, with a satirical smile, 'that says all!' 
               "I shivered with this terrible proof of the truth of my unseen benefactor, but held my peace. 
               "It was evidently a piece of satire at my expense, which I was not supposed to comprehend. However, I merely bowed my head before him, as he gathered up the things upon the tray. When he had finished he paused by the door and turned round to me, evidently awaiting me to question him again, as I had done upon each previous entrance, as to the cause of my being there. 
               "However, I would not give him this 
                     gratiflcation
                     gratification
                  , if indeed it was any to him, and I fancy that he must have taken a wonderful pleasure in seeing my agony and sufferings, and I had the pleasure in turn of witnessing his disappointment. 
               "'So, so, madam,' he said, in his harsh grating voice, 'you have grown resigned to your new quarters, I am glad to find.' 
               "'I have.' said I, meekly. 'Why should I not be resigned to them?' 
               "'Why, indeed?' said he. 
               "'Am I not treated here in a way that I cannot possibly be at home?' 
               "He smiled significantly before replying to this observation. 
               "And we both felt an inward satisfaction, and both with the same cause. But with this difference-I was supposed to be the deceived, while he was actually." 
               "Capital." said the husband of the speaker, rubbing his palms, which were moist with eager excitement. "Go on." 
               "'To be sure you are,' said my jailor, 'and moreover, in a way that you never will be treated there again.' 
               "I could not refrain from shuddering at these words, so deliberately uttered and my pain evidently gave him pleasure to witness. 
               "'Before you go,' said I, 'there is but one request I have to make.' 
               "'Name it.' 
               "'I should like to breathe the fresh air.' 
               "'Impossible.' 
               "'But I promise that I will make no effort to escape-not the very least. only let me walk in the garden, or-' 
               "Here I broke off short, for the man started and his eyes flashed a thousand fires through the holes in the mask. 
               "'Garden!' he repeated. 'You have seen that once too often.' 
               "I was bewildered. 
               "There was no doubt something significant attached to his words, but I failed to comprehend. 
               "He stared at me, and I believe was not a little puzzled by the expression. His words had been apparently uttered with the conviction that I would comprehend the meaning of them, but it was not at all difficult to perceive that I was quite lost. 
               "'Do you mean to say that you do not catch my meaning?' he asked. 
               "'I do,' said I. 
               "'You do not know the garden?' 
               "'Not I-that I'm aware of. I have scarcely seen a garden but my own for two weeks.' 
               "There was no mistaking the surprise upon his countenance at these words. 
               "'I think you saw one on Tuesday last,' he said. 
               "'No, I never stirred from my house upon Tuesday.' 
               "'Could you swear this?' 
               "'I could.' 
               "'That you did not leave your house upon Tuesday at night?' 
               "'I swear it,' said I solemnly. 
               "He regarded me sternly in the face, but I was speaking the truth, and I met his glance steadily. 
               "'Had we known that before,' he muttered. 'But no-impossible.' 
               "I imagined that he still disbelieved my oath, and again assured him, offering him proof of what I uttered, and thus I made a discovery concerning you, dear." 
               "Me?" said Rose. 
               "Yes." 
               "In what way." 
               She faltered as she spoke, and it was plain enough that she well knew how nearly it had touched her. 
               "Go on, my dear," said Davis. 
               "'I know well,' said I, 'that I was in the whole of Tuesday, for this reason. I had a new lodger come, and a singular thing happened in connection with her which kept me in.' This was of course in allusion to your illness, my dear, and your engagement afterwards in Mr. Chowler's company. He seemed to jump at what I said upon this subject and questioned me closely. 
               "'Why did you not say all this before," asked my jailor. 
               "'Because I was not asked,' I replied. 
               "'Fool! but you alone will have to suffer for it.' 
               "'What do you mean?' I asked. 
               "'You will know to-morrow.' 
               "He nodded sternly and left the room. 
               "As soon as he was gone I took my food (which I was sitting upon) and eagerly devoured it. Revived a little by this, I sat down to think, but I could arrive at nothing like a decision upon the matter. 
               "That night before retiring to rest, which I did upon a couch in the room where I had eaten, and in which was the picture which had caused me such satisfaction, I took great care to place enough of the furniture before the door to make a good barricade. 
               "I addressed my picture again and again that night, but failed to get any reply, and at length I fell asleep. 
               "In the morning I had rather a severe shock. As I rose from the couch and glanced around I perceived some dark object in the corner of the room. 
                
               "I drew near to ascertain its nature, and found it to be a monstrous rat, dead. 
               "Beside it lay a small piece of the meat which I had thrown down to deceive my captor." 
               "What wretches!" cried Davis. 
               "Remorseless villains!" said Rose. 
               "I removed the furniture with which I had barricaded my door during the night, and presently my jailor came in, holding his mask in his hand. As he caught sight of me he seemed as if he would have fallen through the floor. I forgot to mention that he had advanced into the room, and had stooped to the floor to open a trap. I shudder now as I remember that trap. But, glancing up, and perceiving me advancing, he started up, slammed down the trap, and resumed his mask. 
               "It is clear now to me, that he, like you, Michael, almost doubted if I was alive or not. He appeared so thoroughly frightened. But with all this his presence of mind was much to be admired. His very first care was to put on his mask." 
               "Did you see his face?" 
               "Yes." 
               "And would you remember it?' eagerly demanded our heroine. 
               "I'm sure I should." 
               "Go on, my dear," said the eager Davis again, impatiently. 
               "I've not much more to add," said his wife. "What I have is, perhaps, the most important in the story-certainly the most important to me. A day or two passed I know not how. My captor was thoroughly at a loss to account for my obstinacy in not dying. My portrait still continued to supply me with food, and I did not lose all hope. 
               "One day-I don't know how many after my imprisonment in that dreadful place-I received a note from my invisible friend which caused my heart to leap with joy. This is it." 
               Here she took another paper from her pocket and read as follows:- 
               "'Don't sleep to-night. Move the couch in this room over the middle of the room, facing the door. Count three yards from the door and the same from the chimney.' 
               "I did not understand this at first, but I obeyed it to the letter. 
               "I soon discovered the benefit of it. I slept, as I told you, upon the couch, and in the dead of the night I received a terrible explanation of the previous mystery. 
               "The couch moved!
                
               "'Who's there?' I cried aloud, and I stamped upon the floor. 
               "This happily had the effect of silencing any one who thought of violence that night. 
               "But this was growing too horrible. I was dying by slow torments. The next day, when I arose unrefreshed from the couch, I prayed to the picture, and besought it in tears to aid me. My blessings, my eternal blessings, upon the hand which directed the answering solace to my fears. Another note came, which I have not now-I fear I have left it behind me-bidding me to be prepared to leave that night. 
               "Assistance was at hand, and I was to hope for the best. 
               "Oh! how my heart leaped with joy and hope! What sensations I experienced are beyond my power to describe. That night, when midnight had sounded, I heard a low grating noise in the room, and I became aware that I was not alone. 
               "This rather startled me, as I had securely barricaded the door as usual, and I had not heard it attempted. 
               "'Come,' said a voice. 
               "'Is it the picture?' I demanded, scarcely knowing what to say. 
               "'It is. Come.' 
               "'I am ready,' said I, 'and may heaven reward your goodness.' 
               "'Hush.' 
               "And a hand was held out in the darkness, and grasped mine. 
               "'Come with me fearlessly,' said the voice, in a whisper. 'I have proved how friendly I am towards you, have I not?' 
               "'You have.' 
               "'Then as we go along do not breathe a word-no matter what you may see or hear.' 
               "Then he took me in the direction of the picture, and I had to squeeze through a narrow aperture in the wall. 
               "However, I felt confident that my conductor was true to me, and I proceeded fearlessly. 
               "We passed through some singular passages in that strange place." 
               "One word," said Rose. "Where is the house you have been to?" 
               "I don't know." 
               "Not know?" said her husband. 
               "No. You shall hear why I don't. Presently, after threading our way softly through no end of passages, we came to a little door, which my conductor opened with a key. Then, oh! what pleasure, what delight! I found myself outside the house, breathing the fresh air of heaven, after such a cruel time." 
               "Poor Moggy!" 
               "You must have suffered much," said Rose. 
               "I have," said Mrs. Davis, shaking her head and smiling through her tears. "But then it's all over now." 
               She gave a hand to her husband and to Rose-who were seated one upon each side of her-kissed them upon the cheek, then resumed her story. 
               "When we got outside, we crossed a garden, got into a main road, and-" 
               "You do not know where that is?" demanded Rose, incredulously. 
               "No." 
               "Strange." 
               "Well, here a horse awaited us, tied to a hedge by the bridle. My conductor got on the horse and lifted me on behind him. He asked me where I wanted to be taken to. 
               "I told him, and he said that he would leave me somewhere near, but that he dared not go to the place. I thanked him again and again, and begged him to say how I could repay him for his goodness, and what do you think he replied?" 
               "Perhaps he wanted a kiss, Moggy," said her husband, slyly. 
               "No-I'd have given him a hundred." 
               "Gad, would you, though?" 
               "Ay, Michael, dear. He was a good old man, so like father." 
               "But what did he answer?" 
               "That the only return he asked was silence upon anything I knew which could compromise his superiors." 
               "Then he was a servant in the house?" 
               "I suppose so. He took me down to the meadow yonder and left me. That's all." 
               And she began to cry a little more. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE return home of the hostess of the roadside inn soon became known, and was talked about all over the district. 
               Rose Seymour, of course, experienced the greatest happiness at this termination of such a fearful business-a business of which she was the innocent cause. 
               Not only upon her own account-and she was not a little relieved at it naturally-but upon the behalf of the disconsolate husband of the good-natured Mrs. Davis herself. 
               Inquiries and searches were instituted by Mr. Davis, notwithstanding the promise his wife had given to the old man who had rescued her at such an important epoch. 
               However, they failed to gain the slightest trace of the perpetrators of the outrage. 
               Our heroine communicated the whole of Mrs. Davis's narrative to Mr. Chowler, and they held a long consultation upon the point. 
               "My dear Miss Seymour," said the little manager, "my opinion is that you are not safe here. You had better make a move." 
               "What, leave you?" 
               As Rose said this in a tone of regret-meaning simply the theatrical company, and not Chowler personally-the manager's left waistcoat thumped away in a very lively manner. 
               "You wouldn't like to leave us?" he demanded very artfully. 
               "No, no," said Rose. "Indeed I should not." 
               "That's very kind of you, my dear Miss Seymour," said Chowler, with a killing glance. 
               "Not at all." 
               "Nay, but it is," persisted Chowler, "for after all-" 
               "All the company have been very kind to me," said our heroine. 
               "And you will take with you the regrets of all, I'm sure," said Chowler. 
               "I hope so, if I must leave." 
               "I believe that to be the only safe course." 
               "But I've no prospect." 
               "That delights me, my dear Miss Seymour," said the manager quickly. 
               "Sir?" 
               "Allow me to repeat the obnoxious phrase, Miss Seymour. It delights me, since it affords me the gratifying opportunity of serving you." 
               "Oh! indeed," said Rose, smiling. 
               "Yes, by introduction-" 
               "To another manager?" 
               "Yes, to an intimate friend of mine-Wippum, the proprietor of Wippum's circus. You've heard of Wippum's circus?" 
               "No." 
               "Strange thing! Oh! it's a great affair, I can tell you. Wippum's a great man." 
                
               "I've no doubt," said Rose. "But do you think that he can find employment for me in a circus?" 
               "Not at all, not at all," said Chowler, hastily. "I would not have you disgrace your talents so for worlds. But Wippum knows everybody. He's a share with Duncombe, who has the Arch street Theatre, and you'll be put on at once." 
               That night Rose was returning, after the performance was over, to the inn, when an incident occurred which greatly tended to hasten her movements in the step she meditated. 
               The reader will remember that from the theatre (which was situated just in the town) she had to walk about a mile to the inn at which she was staying. 
               On the way she had to pass the fatal Sloeford garden. 
               A shudder went through her frame as she glanced down the garden, and she passed on rather hurriedly. 
               As soon as she had passed she glanced back over her shoulder from time to time. 
               There was a fascination in the fatal spot, which upon the present occasion did our heroine good service, as we shall see. 
               As she glanced around for the third time her eye encountered a lurking form creeping along under the shadow of the hedge. 
               Creeping after her! 
               Rose was at once upon the qui vive for danger, and she darted off at a run. 
               Presently she looked around, not hearing anything, and to her intense dismay perceived that the lurking individual was running in pursuit. 
               This she could not understand as she did not hear the faintest sounds of his flight. 
               However, she could not hesitate for a second to solve this difficult problem. 
               Gathering up her skirts well in her hands, she started off again, and flew along the road at a pace which must have made her pursuer despair. 
               Not so. He kept to it boldly. 
               He increased his speed wonderfully, and by rapid degrees, lessened the distance which separated them. 
               Rose looked around presently, hearing the faint plodding of padded feet behind her, and found, to her infinite alarm, that he was close at hand. 
               With a scream, she started off faster than before. 
               The pursuer spoke not, but only increased his speed, and appeared to be quite fresh. 
               The house was approached, she was then in front of it, and, great heavens! the door was closed. 
               Up came the man. 
               "Help! help! oh! help!" shrieked Rose in terrified accents. 
               The man came up with a dart, and was beside her. 
               He held a knife in his hand, and there was a deadly earnestness in his gestures as he advanced. 
               Rose shrieked with such a will that the house was alarmed upon the instant, and Rose was not a little relieved to hear the window above thrown open. 
               "Hullo!" shouted Mr. Davis. "Stand off, you blackguard, or, confound you, I'll blow you to atoms!" 
               He held his famous fowling-piece at his shoulder, and this effectually brought the silent pursuer of Rose Seymour to a stand at a most critical moment. 
               The fellow looked as if he could have devoured poor Rose. 
               But there was the worthy little publican, with the fowling-piece at his shoulder, and looking so formidable that her pursuer was forced to content himself with a look of hatred. 
               They preserved the striking tableau in all its integrity for a minute perhaps. 
               Then the door was opened behind Rose, by Mrs. Davis, who had, at the instigation of her husband, at once flown to open it. 
               Seeing his evidently destined prey likely to escape him, the ruffian was about to make a movement in that direction. 
               However, he thought better of it. 
               Glancing upward, his eye encountered that of the determined landlord, and he could see at a glance that the latter's fore finger trembled nervously upon the trigger. 
               With a howl of disappointment, he turned tail, took to flight and disappeared. 
               A shot was fired at his retreating figure by Mr. Davis, but more with the intention of hastening his movements than anything else. 
               Rose had recourse to the woman's first consolation, tears, after escaping from this danger, which had looked so serious for a while. 
               "How did this arise?" demanded Mr. Davis. 
               But Rose had not the slightest idea. 
                
               She had only perceived that she was followed-that her steps were dogged after she had passed the Sloeford place. 
               Where the individual who bad caused her such a fright sprang from, she had not the remotest conception. 
               She now touched upon her meditated departure, which was learned by the good-natured couple with many expressions of serious and earnest regret. 
               Without entering into too many details (in pursuance of her understanding with Mr. Chowler), she told them that she had enemies who were secretly working her destruction. 
               The only means of avoiding this was to fly from that part of the country. 
               She even told them that she believed in all sincerity that the blow which had for a time deprived the inn of its mistress had been a mistake, and was originally intended for herself. 
               They eagerly pressed her for explanations, but could elicit nothing further from her. 
               Rose had grown cautious and wary by the varied and numerous dangers which she had passed through thus early in the course of her strangely checquered career, and she would not entrust any one with the fatal secrets of the Bellisle family of which she and the theatrical manager were the sole possessors. 
               At least so she believed. 
               Whether they really were the course of our narrative will show. 
               Regrets and sad partings were exchanged between Rose and her friends. 
               The good-natured Mrs. Davis and her husband were exceedingly loth to part with their amiable lodger and companion. 
               At the theatre, too, even her enemies (and she had been long enough amongst them to gain some) were sorry to part with her. 
               Her good nature, lively habits, and cheerful manners had gained all their hearts, even when they had been resolutely set against her. 
               And with many little mementoes of the acquaintances she had gathered in her short stay at Mr. Chowler's theatre, and the kind wishes of a speedy reunion upon the part of all the company, she left. 
               Chowler, as he promised, provided her with several letters of introduction. 
               The most important of these, in Chowler's opinion, was that addressed to Mr. Wippum, the proprietor of the world-famed circus. 
               To him, accordingly, Rose Seymour departed. 
               They made one great mistake in their manuvres, however. 
               This was the publicity given to our heroine's next step. 
               Of course it went the round of the company, was talked over in the town, and just produced the effect which they were so very desirous of avoiding. 
               With a heavy heart and a light purse Rose started off. 
               A day's journey brought our heroine to the town in which Mr. Wippum was staying. 
               Here her letter of introduction was presented, and Wippum was exceedingly gracious. 
               He volunteered at once to do all that lay in his power for his friend Chowler's introduction. 
               That night Rose was introduced to the manager of the local theatre, and forthwith engaged upon terms which could scarcely be considered liberal, even for a country theatre. 
               However, it was a subsistence, and Rose asked for no more. 
               The house at which she lodged was also the residence of some of the talents of the circus. 
               There was a family, comprising Signor Bowerini (an artist of unmistakable cockney origin), his wife (a raw-boned Irish woman), and two girls, supposed to be Mademoiselles Bowerini. 
               According to a custom in the equestrian profession these two girls assumed the name and were supposed to be daughters of the signor, but were simply his apprentices. 
               The treatment which these two poor girls received at his hands was something so repulsive, that Rose, under whose observation it frequently occurred, was utterly disgusted. 
               Threats accompanied every command, and something worse even at times. 
               Rose had not been many days here when she had the misfortune to create a bitter enemy in this cockney Italian acrobat. 
               The ruffian was not particular about correcting his girls in private, and one day Rose positively discovered him standing over one of the shrinking girls with a whip. 
               Her blood boiled, of course, to see a girl treated thus by her inhuman master, and she straightway interfered. 
                
               The abuse that Signor Bowerini lavished upon Rose Seymour showed plainly enough that he was not at all refined, and savored more of Billingsgate than Florence, his avowed native place. 
               However, Rose had passed through too many trying ordeals, in which personal violence had played a conspicuous part, to quail before the bully. 
               She bearded the tiger in his lair, and brought off his victim. 
               It was kindly meant, but proved to be a lamentable mistake. 
               The poor girl told our heroine in secret that she had even suffered more severely since than before her interference. 
               One day shortly after this occurrence Rose obtained an interview with the girl. It was the eldest, against whom Signor Bowerini appeared to cherish the greatest spite, and Rose took her to her own apartment. 
               "My poor Blanche," said our heroine, "why do you bear this brutality?" 
               "Alas! What can I do?" 
               "Do!" exclaimed Rose. "Why do you stay with a man who treats you thus vilely?" 
               "I am bound." 
               "Apprenticed?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Then cancel your indentures." 
               "I would willingly; but he will not." 
               "But have you tried him?" 
               "No." 
               "Then do so. Believe me, he cannot object. He dislikes you so much." 
               "Ah! You don't know him." 
               "Possibly." 
               "Nay, I'm sure you don't," said Blanche Bowerini, earnestly. "If you did, you would quite understand why I should not even dare to broach the subject." 
               "Dare?" iterated Rose, impatiently. "Have some courage, child." 
               "Hush!" said the girl, with a shudder. "You don't know all that I suffer-all that I have suffered-by attempting to fly from this cruel man." 
               "Then appeal to a magistrate." 
               "He would slay me." 
               "Never fear for that," said Rose. "He's a coward at heart, and would not dare to venture far for fear of the authorities." 
               "If I could only think so!" 
               "You must. Now listen. Before a month is over my engagement here will have terminated, and I shall move onwards. Then, if you like to mix your fortunes with mine, you shall. We shall be some sort of protection for each other." 
               The girl pressed her hand in silent gratitude. 
               The tears started to her eyes, and she seized our heroine in her arms and embraced her tenderly. 
               "Thanks, thanks, my dear Miss Seymour," she exclaimed. "You are indeed good." 
               "You must not think of that," said Rose. "Be true to yourself, and your difficulties are at an end." 
               "I will, I will." 
               "That's right." 
               "I must go now," she said, drying away her tears. "It will be an excuse for more cruelty if I am late in the ring." 
               "I'll come with you," said Rose. "I'm not in the first piece to-night, and am not wanted at the theatre until half-past eight." 
               They had been so much engaged in this conversation of their future prospects that they had not observed the rapid flight of time. 
               The consequence was that it was a regular rush to the circus for Blanche Bowerini, and a scramble to get dressed for a grand trick act which she had to perform. 
               Rose Seymour, like all the professionals in the town, had the free entree into the circus, and she placed herself in the nearest spot to the stable door, through which both artistes and horses had to pass. 
               This was that she might give a word of encouragement to Blanche Bowerini as she passed. 
               Such speed had the latter observed in her equestrian toilet that Rose had not been seated more than five minutes when the director of the circle announced in the ring the girl's appearance in these words: 
               "Mademoiselle Blanche Bowerini will have the honor of appearing in her celebrated trick act entitled 'The Flight of the Arab's Bride.'" 
               Why it was thus entitled was not particularly clear. 
               The name of the ill-used circus girl was greeted by all with thunders of applause. 
               The whole tent shook again with the enthusiastic greetings of the hungry anticipators of a dangerous tour of the brilliant equestrienne. 
               The time was past for her entree.
                
               And now the audience began to murmur. 
               "Dear, dear," murmured one person, mentally. "She is late after all." 
               Not so. 
               Miss Blanche Bowerini was at the entrance then. Some one amongst the audience had descried the fluttering of her muslin skirts. 
               The fact was that the poor girl had encountered her brutal master, who was quarrelling with her. 
               Words were exchanged, for Blanche, emboldened by the prospect of a release from his tyranny, had dared to retort. 
               Suddenly a scream was heard. 
               It was Blanche's voice. 
               "Ah!" she cried. "Unhand me! You will kill me!" 
               Then there was a struggle, and the girl tore herself from the signor, and dashed into the ring. 
               Signor Bowerini had now lost all presence of mind. He flew after her, and, heedless of the spectators, cut at the shrieking girl savagely with a horse-whip which he grasped. 
               "Help! help!" 
               "Bowerini!" cried the ring master. 
               "Stop that!" called several of the troupe. 
               But the signor's vicious blood was up, and he heard nothing. 
               He slashed most mercilessly at the shrieking Blanche. 
               And now the blood streamed down her face. 
               "Shame! shame!" cried the spectators. 
               The cries began with this, but soon grew worse. 
               Men jumped into the ring and flew to the rescue. 
               The audience flew from all parts, and Signor Bowerini got roughly handled. 
               He struggled and struck out viciously, snarled, and even bit like a rabid dog. 
               But this was a misfortune for him. 
               The men caught him, dragging him in every direction, until every bone in his ruffianly body was dislocated. 
               Rose ran off to poor Blanche's assistance immediately. 
               This led to some curious and startling incidents in our heroine's career, of which we shall have to speak shortly. 
               For the present the further movements of Clara St. John claim our attention. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               THE intelligent reader will remember that we parted company with Clara St. John at a most critical juncture. 
               Having penetrated the secret passage which she had discovered communicating with her sleeping apartment, she had encountered a host of difficulties, against which it was almost impossible to struggle. 
               The poor old man was bleeding unto death in the passage. 
               The door of the paneling had closed, and she had no idea in which direction it was. 
                
               She searched around eagerly. 
               But it was all in vain. 
               In the meantime the groans of the old man grew fainter and fainter and fainter. 
               At length they were scarcely audible, but by their very indistinctness, struck more terribly upon Clara's ear. 
               He must die. 
               It was cruelly hard. 
               For the first time, perhaps, in the course of her life, she felt inclined to do a charitable action, and now adverse fortune so fatally opposed its performance. 
               "I die, I die!" she could now hear the poor old man murmur in feeble accents. "This is hard indeed. Oh! inhuman monster!" 
               "I'll come to you," said Clara. 
               And she began to retrace her steps as rapidly as possible. 
               "Inhuman dog!" continued the old man. "He has slain me, as he slew my noble master." 
               Clara pricked up her ears at this. 
               It was something important to learn, and now another motive was added to her desire to preserve the old man's life. 
               With cautious strides she regained his side. 
               "I'm here, poor old man," she said, bending over his bleeding form. 
               "Bless you!" 
               "How are you now?" 
               "I don't think there's many minutes' life in me now." 
               "Say not so." 
               "Alas! it is too true. Have you the materials to tend my hurt?" 
               "I cannot find the outlet." 
               "I can show you-or I could," he added painfully, "if I were not beyond it now. At the end of the passage straight before you, a little above your head to the right, you will feel a round button projecting from the flat wood. Press it." 
               Ere he concluded Clara was again upon her feet. 
               Yes, he was correct. The knob was there-pressed, and the secret door revolved. 
               As she regained her own apartment there was a knock at the door. 
               Another second and she would have been too late. 
               "Who's there?" 
               "It is I," answered the voice of Miss Bellisle. 
               "Oh! come in, pray, my dear cousin," cried Clara, warmly. 
               She entered so calmly, with such a serene smile upon her pale face, that Clara was quite startled. 
               Was it possible that this woman, so young and beautiful, could be connected with the murder of her own uncle? 
               Was it possible, moreover, that she had been so immediately connected with the assassination of the old man who lay weltering in his gore not many yards from that very chamber? 
               It would indeed seem scarcely possible. 
               Yet there was no mistaking the voice which Clara had overheard in such earnest conversation with the present heir. 
               "My dear Clara," said Miss Bellisle, with the sweetest of smiles, "I thought you were sleeping." 
               "Yes," said Clara, with tolerable coolness. "Did you knock more than once?" 
               "Once? A hundred times-nay, perhaps a dozen times." 
               "Indeed?" 
               "Yes. Why, what have you done to your hand, Clara dear?" 
               Clara looked down, and discovered, to her no trifling confusion, that it was stained with the blood of the dying man. 
               The poor old man who lay panting for assistance in the secret passage. 
               The dying victim of the fair girl who stood talking so calmly to his would-be preserver. 
                
               "I don't know exactly," said Clara. 
               "It is bleeding." 
               "Yes. I remember I cut it." 
               "Remember?" iterated Miss Bellisle. "It would scarcely seem to be so serious as I should take it to be, then?" 
               "No, no, it is not serious. But for what special business do you come to me, my dear cousin?" 
               "Only to make a few arrangements for our trip, you know, dear." 
               "Yes; but can I beg you to put them off for the present." 
               "Wherefore?" 
               "I am unwell." 
               "Indeed," said Miss Bellisle. "Is it possible, my dear? Can I be of any service?" 
               "No, I thank you." 
               "Will you have Doctor Sampson?" 
               "No, no; it is nothing. It will pass off immediately." 
               "Can I get you anything?" 
               "Will you send me some plaster for my hand by the girl?" 
               "Yes, certainly." 
               And with this the amiable lady ran off, to her cousin's no small relief. 
               "What a singular chance!" said Clara. "And so immediately after, too. She must have an iron nerve. She is a wonderful woman, and deserves to succeed, unless I can spoil her fortune, and in truth there seems some appearance of it." 
               The servant came in with the plaster at this moment. 
               Clara desired her to bring her a bowl of hot water, some lint, and one or two little etceteras. 
               She carefully closed and fastened her bedroom door, and provided herself with a light. 
               Then once more she penetrated the passage, which had proved such an eventful spot for her. 
               As she entered she was rather dismayed at not hearing the murmurs of the wounded man. 
               However, she lost not a minute in gaining his side. 
               He was perfectly still. 
               He lay motionless, pale, and ghastly, and in a perfect pool of his own gore. 
               It was a spectacle which must have unnerved any woman less determined than Clara St. John. 
               But now there was a purpose to serve. 
               And it was not a trifle which could deter her from carrying out an object upon which she had fixed her mind. 
               Without a moment's delay she proceeded to strip off the old man's coat and waistcoat. 
               The shirt beneath was saturated with the blood, so much had the sufferer lost. 
               The only difficulty which this created was to render the precise position of the wound more uncertain. 
               However, a sponge dipped in the bowl of water which she had provided soon got over this. 
               Then, with such little surgery as she was capable of, the old man's wound was dressed. 
               Yet it remained exceedingly doubtful whether he would ever recover. 
               Clara could not venture to remove him to her own room for his good, lest any of the servants should chance to see him. 
               She therefore kept the secret panel open as much as possible while she could remain in her own chamber. 
               And with wondrous care and attention the poor old man was nursed slowly but surely toward recovery. 
               For ten days was she doubtful of achieving her object; but yet, in spite of the patient's age and the severity of his wound, he struggled through it. As he approached convalescence he made a long statement of the cause of the outrage which had been inflicted upon him by Spencer Bellisle and his cousin, Miss Bellisle. 
               This involved some strange and startling proofs of the murder of the late Mr. Sloeford. 
                
               It was with an immense satisfaction that Clara St. John took down the wounded man's deposition in writing. 
               When this was accomplished, however, the old man could not be persuaded to sign it. 
               "No, no," he said. "I have lived in the family for fifty years, before the poor murdered man's father came from England-before he was brought to the country-and I would not have the last of an honored family brought to public shame and disgrace." 
               "But it is not his disgrace we seek," urged Clara. 
               "Doubtless." 
               "Then why should you hesitate?" 
               "Because I would-pardon my brusqueness-learn your motives." 
               "They are easily learned," said Clara. 
               "Tell me them," said the old man, "and I will do as you wish." 
               "You know that Mr. Sloeford was married young?" 
               "I do." 
               "And that he had an only child, who was stolen in a most extraordinary manner." 
               "By Indians." 
               "Of course. The crime was laid to their account, but it is certain that Indians had very little to do with it." 
               "Indeed?" 
               "No. Who it was I am not at liberty to say. But this much I can tell you. The only child of the deceased yet lives, and it is in my power to restore it to its rightful possessions." 
               "It would be a noble act." 
               "The day will come when the act will be performed." 
               "Then I can hesitate no longer." 
               And with this a document was drawn up and duly signed by the old man. 
               A smile of triumph lit up the face of Clara St. John. 
               "Now beware, my good cousin!" she exclaimed, shaking the parchment. 
               She now felt more confident than ever of success. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               WE shift the scene again. 
               And now we find ourselves in the drawing-room of one of the largest houses of a fashionable street in the western part of the city of New York. 
               The centre of wealth and fashion. 
               This mansion belongs to one of the oldest families in the United States-an honorable family of spotless reputation. 
               But a proverb for the poor is a proverb for the rich. 
               Every house has its skeleton, and a mansion after all is but a large house. 
               Mr. Walgrave's mansion has its skeleton, too, but being proportionately large, grave, and awful. 
               A young and lovely girl walks in silent misery up and down the drawing-room. 
               Her cheek is pale. 
               Her eyes red and dim with weeping. 
               Her head is bowed down with grief, the most trying and severe. 
               Her soul is bent to the very earth with shame. 
               A load of guilt is upon this creature of nineteen summers. 
               It is the old story with some startling addenda. 
               She has loved not wisely, but too well. 
               The unhappy but confiding girl has put her trust in one who has proved false to the troth he had plighted. 
               This is her history, in as few brief words as possible. 
               While on a visit to a relation of somewhat humbler station than her own, in a rural district, she formed an attachment to a worthless fellow of prepossessing appearance and seductive manners. 
               The rest is left to the imagination of the reader. 
               The libertine who gained this fair and gentle creature's affections knew not of her wealth and great expectations, and, haplessly for both himself and his victim, he fled from the spot as soon as his villanous designs were accomplished. 
               But retribution has already been taken upon behalf of the too confiding Grace Walgrave. 
               The libertine has met a coward and a bully's grave. 
               This we have already narrated. 
               By a singular coincidence, the seducer of the noble girl was none other than the detected cheat, the frustrated poisoner, Major Strangeways, alias Captain Roper, of our early narrative. 
               Had the major but known of the position of his victim, all would have been otherwise. 
               But 'tis thus ever that the villanous who have but cunning, without wit to back it, overreach themselves. 
               Major Strangeways did not, of course, imagine for an instant that there was anything very great in the family of the fair Grace, for, wishing to be loved for herself alone, she had carefully suppressed her history from her lover's ears. 
               Had Major Strangeways but known that the girl was the daughter of the wealthy Mr. Walgrave, all would have been different. 
               Poor artless loving Grace Walgrave! She was not versed in 
                     wordly
                     worldly
                   ways. 
               She was not fit to cope with the villany that walks abroad, holding aloft it brazen front in the pure face of day. 
               One false step, one trifling error-yet scarcely an error, for it grew out of too much love, love misplaced it is true-and Grace Walgrave had fallen. 
               Fallen beyond redemption. 
               A child was born to her. 
               A child of sin. 
               The living witness of its mother's shame, its viler father's infamy. 
               How the unhappy mother disposed of her innocent babe we have already had occasion to relate. 
               The digging of the grave in the garden at night will be remembered. 
               The violent end of the officer of the law who watched is likewise known. 
               Thus Grace Walgrave became the partner of one of our leading personages in a course of crime which drove her to frenzy, while it but formed a solitary chapter in the life of her devilish adviser. 
               He knew, too, that in his hellish cunning he secured her. 
               She was his, body and soul. 
                
               Grace Walgrave paced her drawing-room with short rapid strides. 
               Her heart is full to bursting. 
               Her soul is bowed even to the ground with the weight of guilt upon it. 
               Suddenly a servant knocks. 
               But Grace Walgrave is too pre-occupied to hear this. 
               The knock is repeated thrice. 
               But still Grace Walgrave is so buried in the contemplation of her own hideous torturing reveries that she heeds nothing. 
               The servant enters. 
               "I beg your pardon," said the man. "You are wanted." 
               Grace Walgrave paused suddenly. 
               Stared at the servant inquiringly, evidently not having heard what he had said the first time. 
               "A gentleman wants to see you." 
               "Oh!" 
               "Yes. Can I show him in?" 
               "Yes, yes, yes." 
               The servant feels uncomfortable and ill at ease in the presence of his mistress, and is perfectly satisfied with the dreamy answer she has given him. 
               Then the visitor is ushered in. 
               He proves to be a man of dwarfish stature, enveloped in a long cloak and high-crowned felt hat, which shades his unprepossessing appearance. 
               In a word, Mermet. 
               The Arab necromancer enters, with a profound bow. 
               Then he silently turns to the door, carefully closes it, turns the key, but leaves it in the lock, that any eavesdroppers may find their task more difficult. 
               Then he removes his cloak, places it upon the table, and steps up to the preoccupied Grace Walgrave. 
               "Miss Walgrave." 
               Grace Walgrave started as if stung by a serpent. 
               Glanced up for the first time, and perceived that she was no longer alone. 
               "What is it?" she began when she perceived who her visitor was. 
               Then a shriek burst from her. 
               "What do you want here?" she demanded, in the greatest alarm. 
               "My dear miss," said Mermet, in the purest English, "don't alarm yourself unnecessarily, I beseech you." 
               "What do you want here? Answer me, I command you." 
               "Command?" 
               "Ay, that was my word." 
               "Well, since you command, I may tell you that I want money." 
               "By heavens! I thought it," exclaimed the girl with a start. 
               "Which shows a singular precision of judgment," sneered Mermet. 
               "Silence, dog!" 
               The Arab winced. 
               "Madam," said he in a low menacing tone, "I'd have you be ware." 
               "Of what?" 
               "Of me." 
               "And for what, forsooth?" 
               "Simply that I am of a revengeful nature!" 
               "And what care I for your revenge, man?" she demanded. 
               "Much." 
               "'Tis false." 
               "I hold your life in my hands." 
               "Take it, fool!" she added, with bitter emphasis. "You cannot see that the greatest boon you could confer upon an unhappy heartbroken wretch would be to slay her." 
               "But how?" 
               "No matter how." 
               "There is one death you would find objectionable I think." 
               "Not one." 
               "Pardon me." 
               "Not one, by heaven! Death must at least bring oblivion." 
               "Is that your faith?" 
               "Ay. Since the whole fear I have is of my fellow-man. I know well that in the eyes of heaven I am more sinned against than sinning. I tell you that since that night, which I can allude to no clearer, my eyes are opened." 
               "Indeed?" 
               "Ay, indeed." 
               "To what, pray?" 
               "To everything. To you, amongst the rest of my unhappy errors." 
               "Humph! Then since you admit that I am an error, as you call it, you must be at least prepared to pay the fiddler-excuse the vulgarity, for your mistakes." 
               "You come to force money from me by threats and extortion." 
               "These are harsh words." 
               "Begone sir! I tell you you will get no recompense from me." 
               "Stay, stay. You forget yourself, miss. Remember, amongst other things, that it is in my power to produce the only effect you dread in this life." 
               "What is that?" 
               "Disgrace." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "That unless my demands are acceded to before to-morrow morning, your shame shall find itself into print, and shall be circulated most industriously amongst your wealthy connections before to-morrow night has set in." 
               This was fearful. 
               The effects of the wizard's words were so terrifying that the unhappy girl trembled with fear and apprehension. 
               "No, no!" she muttered. "Impossible. I cannot bear that." 
               "I thought not," said Mermet, maliciously grinning. 
               "What do you want?" 
               "Money." 
               "How much?" 
               "Ten thousand dollars!" 
               Miss Grace Walgrave was amazed at the magnitude of the necromancer's demand. 
               "What?" 
               "Ten thousand dollars," repeated the Arab, "to begin with." 
               The poor girl appeared for an instant stunned by the blow which had fallen upon her. 
               She clasped her hands around her 
                     throbing
                     throbbing
                   brow. 
               She stood then in silence, meditating upon the money demanded. 
               Presently she looked up and spoke. 
               Her face now looked determined-an expression which caused the necromancer some trifling uneasiness. 
               "Well?" he demanded, anxiously. 
               "You shall have it." 
               Mermet 
                     breated
                     breathed
                   a sigh of the deepest relief. 
               "Ah! I thought so." 
               "I will send you a draft to-night." 
               "It won't do. I must have it now." 
               "You cannot." 
               "I will." 
               In an instant all the innate dignity of Miss Walgrave flew to her rescue. 
               She drew herself up to her full height, and in a haughty voice bade the Arab begone. 
               There was a certain something in her tone which caused Mermet to move instinctively towards the door. 
               "If you will not wait until you hear from me," said Miss Walgrave, "then do your worst. I will meet you no further." 
               The necromancer bit his nether lip until it started with blood. 
               But he dared not to press his point further. 
               He felt that he had now to deal with a desperate woman, and that by pushing her too far it was just possible 
                     thas
                     that
                   he would overreach himself. 
               "Well, well, my lady," he said. "At you please." 
               "Of course it is." 
               "I shall await the money at home." 
               "I will send it to you within an hour." 
               "A draft for ten thousand dollars, and at sight if you please." 
               "I will say no more." 
               "But-" 
               "Begone." 
               There was a tone of command here which there was no resisting. 
               The change in the demeanor of the trembling girl was so remarkable that the necromancer was quite startled. 
               So Mermet the Arab necromancer took his departure. 
               As soon as he was gone Grace Walgrave's momentary courage gave way. 
               She had no dignity to support her now. 
               She seated herself at a writing table and wrote off two long messages. 
               This done, she addressed them and sent them off by a servant. 
               Then she repaired to her dressing-room, and made some hasty change in her dress and sallied forth. 
               It was night. 
               Presently when she had arrived in a dark and deserted street she took something from the bosom of her dress and pressed it passionately to her lips. 
               It was an infant's shoe. 
               The sight of this tiny object appeared momentarily to unnerve the poor girl. 
               She burst into a passionate flood of tears. 
               "My own sweet babe!" she murmured, as she gazed upwards through her tear-dimmed eyes, "we shall meet again, where I may claim you in life, sweet angel!" 
               An individual entered the street from the opposite side, and was approaching in her direction. 
               With a frightened gesture she concealed the infant's shoe and hurried on, panting with the haste she was observing in her progress. 
                
               Grace Walgrave had surely some dread purpose in this lonely ramble. 
                
               Some dire intent of mischief must now fill her thoughts. 
               Unhappy girl! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               MERMET the Arab was seated in his chamber of magic and mystery. 
               A small book lay open before him, in which he was writing hieroglyphic memoranda. 
               By his eager gestures it would appear that he was greatly interested in his task. 
               The Arab domestic of the necromancer made his appearance. 
               "A letter, sahib," he said. 
               The Arab, his master, took the missive and dismissed the man. 
               He opened the letter and read it through in silence. 
               As he went on a sudden change came over his countenance. 
               He grew serious and bit his lip till the blood came. 
               "Confound it!" he muttered. "If this should fail me, I am indeed lost beyond all redemption. I must see to it. It begins to look black, and it seems to me that I was congratulating myself too early upon my success. Let me read." 
               He went through the letter again. 
               It ran thus:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Ere you receive this the writer will be beyond your reach. You have too soon declared your real character, and the unhappy and unguarded girl breathes defiance in your teeth. Your deception has met with its just reward. Beware, too, in future, for such damning evidence is left behind of your culpability that it will go hard with you should justice ever lay its avenging hand upon you. And this must come, believe me. Sooner or later the just retribution of Providence will overtake you. You will fall then, and no earthly power, no cunning can save you! 
                           
                              "G. W."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               It is not to be wondered at that the necromancer was a little bit flustered by this alarming epistle. 
               He gradually got to think more calmly over it. 
               Then he rang the bell, and the ever-ready Ahmet appeared. 
               "My cloak." 
               "Yes, Sahib." 
               "My hat. Now call me a carriage." 
               "Yes, Sahib." 
               Mermet hobbled down the stairs and got into the carriage. 
               Arrived at the residence of the unhappy Grace Walgrave, Mermet sprang out of the carriage with surprising agility. 
               A peal at the bell and a noisy rat-tat brought a lazy-looking flunkey to the door. 
               "Miss Grace Walgrave." 
               "Gone out," said the menial, as if doing Mermet the greatest personal service. 
               "Where?" 
               The servant looked most supremely astonished at the question. 
               "Don't know," he said, staring rudely. 
               "How long since?" demanded Mermet, far too occupied to heed the insolent demeanor of the fellow. 
               "I can't say, my friend," said the flunkey, superciliously. 
               Just upon this juncture a splendid carriage, high upon the smoothest springs, came rattling along the square. 
               "Here is our carriage," said the servant. "Miss Walgrave's back." 
               "That's fortunate." 
               The carriage was passing the house when the servant at the door stopped it. 
               "Where did you leave Miss Walgrave?" 
               "Near Bowling Green." 
               "And was Miss Walgrave going in the direction of the Ferry?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               He was in the carriage again in an instant. 
               "South Ferry," he shouted to the driver through the little trap door in the roof. 
                
               The driver whipped up his horses and they flew over the ground in a way which would have brought the driver into trouble with the police, had he been noticed by those diligent officials. 
               A few minutes at this sparkling rate sufficed to bring them to the Ferry. 
               As they passed through the gate Mermet tossed a quarter to the gate-keeper, and they drove on without waiting for change-when suddenly Mermet stretched over the doors, and drew himself up by the window. 
               "What was that?" 
               He saw the white skirts of a woman flutter for an instant upon the water. 
               Then disappear. 
               "Stop! stop!" shouted Mermet. 
               The driver pulled up with such suddenness that the horse was thrown almost upon his haunches and Mermet was dashed back upon his seat. 
               Springing up, however, he jumped from the carriage and dashed up to the spot. 
               The water was but very little agitated, and the only evidences to confirm the necromancer's suspicions were the expanding circles upon the surface. 
               "Boat! boat!" he shouted. "Boat ahoy!" 
               But some little delay was here occasioned for there were no boatmen about at that hour. 
               Mermet must have despaired now of attaining his object had there not chanced to be two men upon the pier whose attention had been attracted by the falling of the unfortunate suicide. 
               "Hi!" shouted the Arab. "Hi-a boat ahoy!" 
               "Hallo!" answered one of the men. 
               "A boat-come quickly!" shouted Mermet, all excitement. "A woman has thrown herself into the water." 
               "Blessed if I didn't think so," said one of the men. 
               As he spoke, he ran up, and, springing over a rail, ran to the pier. 
               Here were two or three boats, and one of them he proceeded to loose with all possible speed. 
               Mermet jumped in, and the fellow, shoving off, sprang in after him. 
               "It's more than three minutes ago," said the fellow, throwing in a word or two between each stroke. 
               "What of that?" 
               "She's a dead 'un now, for a thousand dollars, your honor." 
               "Pshaw! Pull away, and there may yet be a chance of saving her." 
               "It's a warm job, and I count on your honor's generosity." 
               "Of course, of course," answered the Arab. One dollar if we fail-fifty dollars if you succeed in saving her life." 
               Without another word the boatman bent double, burying his oars deep in the water, and pulled with such a will that the boat appeared to be lifted clean out of the water. 
               "Stay," said Mermet. "This should be about the spot." 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "What's that?" 
               "Oh! that's nothing but a buoy." 
               "I don't mean that. There's something white-just there." 
               "I see." 
               He turned round and pulled sharply to the spot. 
               They found it to be simply a piece of light silk clinging to the chain of the buoy to which the boatman had at first presumed his fare to be alluding. 
               "If she fell athwart that chain, sir, she's as good as smashed." 
               Mermet did not appear at all troubled about the suicide's sufferings. 
               
                  It was only her death which would spoil her entirely!
                
               "What's that?" 
               Both had perceived some dark object rise slowly to the surface of the water upon the outer side of the buoy. 
               It was a human head. 
               It was but an instant that the head-that alarming token of the suicide's grave-appeared. 
                
               Then it was gone again. 
               For a second the boatman paused irresolutely. 
               Mermet saw with an eagle glance, the fellow's indecision, and hastened to remove it. 
               "One hundred dollars if she is saved!" he ejaculated. 
               "I'm after her," cried the boatman, in the same undertone. 
               Hastily shipping his oars, he sprang over the boat's side, and disappeared with a plunge beneath the muddy waters. 
               The boat, so suddenly released of its burthen, rocked ominously. 
               Mermet, rather startled, hastily endeavored to turn it by jumping to the other side, and his weight, added to the side of the boat when the reaction of the rocking upon that side was already so great, caused it to capsize altogether. 
               The next instant the necromancer was scrambling in the water, and looked in great danger. 
               "Help! help!" he cried. "I drown! Help! help!" 
               And now matters look serious. 
               Three human souls are struggling in the water, and it appears more than doubtful if either shall be saved! 
               We shall see. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               QUITTING Mermet, the Arab necromancer for a while at this critical juncture, we must take a further glance at the movements of Clara St. John at the Sloeford House. 
               By slow degrees the old servant recovered. 
               The hurt he had received was serious, yet by continued care and unremitting attention upon the part of his self-elected nurse, Clara St. John, he proceeded by slow yet none the less sure degrees toward convalescence. 
               The heir of Sloeford and his cousin, Miss Bellisle, had departed. 
               Clara St. John and her new spouse, Jesse Dumar reigned supreme in the house. 
               Clara St. John had now fully made up her mind upon a course of action. 
               She resolved to take elaborate notes-memoranda as authentic as lay in her power to obtain-of the particulars of the tragedy which had so startled all the fashionable world. 
               Clara St. John had not established her new note-book upon the great Sloeford mystery a week when an incident occurred which caused her to think that it was now a pretty clear case. 
               It happened thus. 
               Since her memorable exploration of the secret passage from her own chamber she had not ceased to ramble about the old house. 
               The nooks and crevices she found it is impossible to enumerate. 
               Suffice it to say, therefore, that, amongst other valuable memoranda, she had to jot down the discovery of a subterranean communication with the hall from the garden. 
               She pressed her way through the subterranean passage. 
               Found two exits from it. 
               One of them led to the hall of the house. 
               The other opened into a bedchamber. 
               In an instant Clara St. John felt that she had achieved by accident what all her policy had failed previously to accomplish. 
               Since the murder, the room, which had been occupied by the head of the family ever since the house was built-had not been opened. 
               The disposition of the furniture remained the same in every respect, and indeed it was said that the very linen upon the bed remained unchanged. 
               Clara St. John had noticed this particular in her book, and she eagerly went up to the death couch of the slaughtered man as a preliminary step. 
                
               Yes, there was 
                     a a
                     a
                   terrible confirmation of the rumor. 
               The life-blood of the murdered man still stained the bedclothes. 
               A glance at the drawers and a little carved cabinet, and their disordered condition showed clearly enough that something besides the atrocious murder even had occurred there. 
               Perhaps a document of importance had been abstracted-a will even! 
               As this idea occurred to her she looked up triumphantly. 
               "I have it!" she ejaculated. "The will! the will! Fool that I was before! It is clear as possible now that there has been some foul play at work, for the old man was too much incensed against that scheming woman to leave her a cent. Of that I now feel assured. Be mine the hand to bring such evidence to bear upon this as shall bring both Miss Bellisle and Mr. Spencer Bellisle under my thumb. The mistress of Sloeford estate will yet be Clara St. John!" 
               The search was continued. 
               Presently she came upon a whole nest of family documents fastened together by the professional-looking red tape. 
               These were eagerly opened and scanned by Clara. 
               The first was a letter of the late Edgar Bellisle Sloeford to a young wife Rosalia. 
               It ran thus:- 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "My dear wife:-The shock has at length arrived, and I am stricken down with grief. My father has discovered our union, and I have just had an interview with him, in which he has threatened not alone to discard me from my family, his house, and his fortune, but to curse me. Rosalia, if I do not desert you. Rosalia, my own, my only love, we must fly from the country to the sunny south, and the storm of my harsh father's anger may spend its fury in the lapse of years. I hasten to impart this to you, my love, that you may lose no time in your preparations for our immediate departure. Forgive me if I distress you, but you must share every secret of my inmost soul, every joy, every sorrow. I fain would spare them to you, but I cannot. The only grief I feel about our departure is caused by your own bad health, and the fear that our child may not be a native of its parents' land. To-morrow, dearest Rosalia, I shall be with you. 
                           
                              "EDGAR BELLISLE SLOEFORD."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Clara started as she read through this letter dated many years previously. 
               "The late Mr. Sloeford was married, then," she said musingly. "Not only married, but I suppose had issue by this marriage. I must see into this. My haughty cousin Spencer must look to himself now, for I much fear if his title to the estate may not be questionable. In any case I shall secure this letter. Information shall be taken upon the matter, and I will consult old Martin when he shall be in a fit condition. He was the friend and confidant of his master, and I doubt not that he shared some portion at least of this secret with him." 
               In her rambles over the death-chamber the next thing which caught her eye was a deep blood stain upon the right side of the bed. 
               She stooped down to examine it closer, and found that the stains proceeded further along. 
               The murdered man had doubtless struggled from his bed after the assassins had left the chamber, and their victim for dead-struggled along, leaving a track of his life-blood as he went 
               But for what purpose? 
               This she determined to discover. 
               She observed the blood ceased, and collected in larger quantities by the foot of the little carved cabinet. 
               This therefore became the object of her searches at once. 
               The closest scrutiny at length discovered to her that a bead moulding at the bottom of this cabinet was nothing less than the front of a flat shallow drawer. 
               Clara eagerly opened the drawer. 
               The first object which caught her eye was a packet tied with a ribbon, which was blood-stained. 
               It had been put there by the dying man at his last moments. 
               As she turned from the drawer, stooping still to the ground, she saw that the trail of blood did not oven cease here. 
               It led to the side of the wall, a narrow recess, the top of which was filled by the portrait of a young and beautiful girl. 
               This was some eight or ten, paces from the bedside. 
               The poor man must then have been much stronger than his assassins had imagined when they left him. 
               Was it not possible that he had had the time to leave some further evidence of the guilt of his murderers? 
               Clara paused by the recess and examined it with great eagerness. 
               A Chinese folding screen-made on the English fashion-leaned against the wall. 
               Clara had looked all around, and failed to discover anything, when she moved the screen to examine the ingenious work upon it more closely. 
               Suddenly her eye lighted upon the wall thus laid bare. 
               An exclamation of horror burst from her in spite of herself. 
               In large red letters, traced in human gore, and doubtless by the hand of the dying man, were written these words: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "SPENCER BELLISLE MY MURDERER!" 
                           
                              "EDGAR BELLISLE SLOEFORD."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
               CHAPTER LIV. 
               WHERE is Mermet the Arab necromancer all this time? 
               We left him struggling in the water and nearly drowned. 
               Flying to the rescue of the would-be suicide, he had chanced to upset the boat, and all appeared lost now. 
               The boatman had seen the body of the drowning girl rise to the surface of the water for the third time, and had boldly jumped in to her rescue. 
               It was a tough struggle, but at length the hardy boatman had succeeded in dragging the body to the top of the water, and he struck out with something less of fervor than at first. 
               But arrived near the boat, he was not a little terrified to find it capsized. 
               The necromancer struggled violently with the keel of the boat, but all he could do was to keep himself above water. 
               At length he got a better purchase as a wave came rolling along and aided his purpose. 
               Over went the boat and under went Mermet. 
               Down, down, till it appeared as if he had reached the bottom. 
               But he rose again, struggling frantically with the water. 
               He clutched at the edge of the boat which had now righted itself, and dragged himself up. 
               At first he was half blinded by the water, but as he rose above the side of the boat his vision grew clearer, and he saw that a human form hung with equal desperation to the other side. 
               With cat-like agility, the half-drowned necromancer scrambled into the boat. 
               He thought not now of his danger, but, leaning eagerly forward, he caught hold of the hand of the drowning man. 
               The hand was caught immediately in a deadly tight clutch, and a weight hung upon the necromancer, which threatened to drag him over into the water. 
               "You've-got-the girl?" he gasped, as he struggled violently. 
               "Ye-es." 
               A faint and futile effort to nod accompanied these words. 
                
               He was well nigh exhausted, and a few seconds more would have rendered his chance of salvation highly doubtful. 
               But the necromancer had a fortune at stake. 
               With the most frantic struggles, he at length succeeded in dragging up the half-drowned man. 
               The form of a woman, suspiciously still, hung upon his left arm. 
               The face, though pale, and saturated with the filthy water of our metropolitan rivers, was yet plainly beautiful. 
               It needed no conjuror's eye to recognize upon the first glance the beauteous countenance of Miss Grace Walgrave. 
               As soon as her body appeared by the boat's side, the necromancer relinquished his hold of the boatman and clutched at the body of Grace Walgrave. 
               Fortunately for the former, he had yet sufficient power to drag himself up as soon as he was relieved from the distressing burthen which had so nearly dragged him to the grave. 
               "Saved! saved!" said Mermet, triumphantly, as he dragged in the body. 
               And he fell back powerless. 
               "Saved!" echoed the boatman, faintly scrambling into the boat. 
               And he could do no more. 
               Like Mermet, he sank back exhausted, fainting, and senseless. 
               There they lay, the three individuals whom we left struggling in the water. 
               Pale and motionless. 
               All equally death-like in appearance. 
               All as helpless as newly-born babes. 
               It is a question if any of the three will survive. 
               It is impossible to see which of the three has the most life. 
               And this endures for a terribly long time. 
               So long that an observer, if any had been there, would have thought them dead, to all intents and purposes. 
               But it is not so. 
               This the reader will judge by his dwelling so long upon this portion of our narrative. 
               By slow degrees the Arab recovered consciousness. 
               His immersion in the water had not been so lengthy as that of the two other occupants of the boat. 
               When he had recovered sufficiently to be aware of what was passing around him he began to turn his attention to the boatman and the rescued Grace Walgrave. 
               The latter lay still as death. 
               Was it death? 
               The former began to show signs of returning animation. 
               But little interest did the necromancer appear to take in his recovery. 
               His whole attention was devoted to the girl. 
               With wonderful perseverance he kept beside her, endeavoring by such scanty means as were at his disposal then to restore her to life. 
               While thus engaged, the boatman recovered himself perfectly and sat up. 
               But he was quite unnoticed by the Arab. 
               "That was a narrow squeak!" said the boatman presently. 
               But Mermet heard him not. 
               He still kept on in his endeavors to restore animation in the motionless body of the suicide. 
               The earnestness with which he applied himself to the task so struck the boatman that without more ado he joined in it. 
               At length their efforts were rewarded with something like success. 
               The girl heaved a deep-drawn sigh. 
               "Saved, saved!" muttered the Arab. 
               "Thank heaven!" 
               Both exclamations were equally fervent. 
               The boatman was straggling to save the life of a fellow-creature. 
               The necromancer straggled to save himself ten thousand dollars. 
               Presently the girl opened her eyes. 
                
               A second sigh now told the two men that the immediate danger was passed. 
               "Now to shore," said Mermet. 
               "All right." 
               And the boatman turned to pick up the sculls. 
               They were gone. 
               In the confusion which prevailed, they had not thought of the beat having capsized. 
               The sculls were then lost, and they were upon the river at that late hour, helpless and with no hope of rescue. 
               This alarming discovery startled both Mermet and the boatman so that neither could utter a word for some considerable time. 
               In the meanwhile Miss Grace Walgrave was sufficiently recovered to become conscious that she had been rescued from a watery grave. 
               "Why, why did you not let me rest in peace?" she said bitterly. 
               "Well that's a pretty question!" said the boatman, utterly disgusted. 
               "Yes," said Mermet. "The unhappy girl owes us her thanks." 
               Miss Walgrave no sooner recognized the voice of the Arab than she uttered a piercing shriek. 
               Then she sank back once more. 
               The Arab muttered something which sounded much like the word "damnation!" and leaned eagerly over her. 
               "She has fainted again," he said. 
               "That's bad." 
               "And we have no means of reaching shore?" 
               "None." 
               Mermet still hung over the inanimate body of Grace Walgrave. 
               She was suspiciously still now. 
               "I'm afraid," said Mermet, "that she is very bad still." 
               The boatman leaned over the motion-less body before speaking again. 
               "Bad?" he echoed. "As bad as can be, sir." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "Mean? Why she's dead!" 
               "Dead?" 
               "Dead as a herring!" 
                
               It was true. 
               The sudden shock in her present frail condition had proved too much for her. 
               Nature had accomplished what suicidal intent had failed to achieve. 
               The necromancer was in despair. 
               But, after all, he was a bit of a philosopher in a small way, and he soon perceived the uselessness of grieving over what was impossible to mend. 
               "There goes ten thousand dollars!" he muttered between his teeth. 
               "Eh?" said the boatman. 
               Mermet was brought to his presence of mind by this remark. 
               "I was talking to myself," said he. 
               "We haven't managed to save the poor gal's life," said the boatman, "but we've recovered the body. And I dare say that I shall get a trifle from her friends, if they can identify her. There's sure to be some papers in her pocket." 
               Mermet at once applied himself to a dilligent search in the pocket of the dead girl's dress. 
               "Hallo!" cried the boatman. "Drop that game." 
               "Hold your tongue." 
               But the man did not like the probability of losing the reward which her friends would probably give, supposing the pockets of the deceased had not been tampered with. 
               "I tell you what, sir," said he to Mermet. "Just keep your hands off the corpse until we get ashore." 
               The Arab was not at all pleased at being interfered with, and he made a very angry retort to the boatman, which only served to make matters worse, instead of affecting an improvement. 
               "It's my opinion that you want to rob the body," said the boatman. 
               "Then it is an opinion, my friend, best kept to yourself." 
               "Get out!" said the boatman. "What do I care for your threats? I only want you to pay me for the use of the boat and the reward as you promised." 
               "But you have failed." 
               "I deny that. I saved her life. You killed her." 
               "Rascal!" 
               "So you did. Oh! I ain't a-feard of your frowns. She was coming round all right until she saw your ugly face." 
               Any one who knew the necromancer might have seen by the expression of his countenance that he now meditated mischief. 
               "Since you have chosen to make yourself unpleasant in your absurd remarks," said the Arab, "you shall pay the penalty of your fault. Thus do I deprive you of all chance of the rewards you speak of." 
               Then before the man could divine his intention, much less offer to interfere, the necromancer took up the cold wet body of the ill-fated Grace Walgrave and threw it over the side again into the water. 
               The boatman jumped up with a cry, and leaned over the boat's side to save the sinking body. 
               Too late. 
               "Since you seem so very anxious about it," said the Arab, "you may go after it." 
               And with a sudden jerk he launched the boatman after the body. 
               With a piercing shriek of terror the boatman went down. 
               Down never to rise again. 
               "That's off my hands?" said Mermet, with admirable coolness. "And now I can sleep in peace!" 
                
               An hour passed. 
               A few hundred yards up the river, a little boat, containing a solitary rower, worked its way to the shore by slow and painful degrees. 
               As it neared the river's bank, the reason of its very slow progress was apparent. 
               The occupant of the boat had only a single oar. 
               This even he had picked up by chance as he glided along with the tide. 
               At length the shore was gained, and out sprang Mermet, the Arab necromancer, chuckling with glee at his escape, and hastened homewards. 
               A sigh of relief escaped him as he crossed the threshold and the Arab attendant came to greet him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER LV. 
               BUT with these scenes of excitement we fear that we are sadly neglecting the fortunes of our heroine, Rose. 
               After the scandalous outrage by Signor Bowerini in the circus, the unhappy victim to his ferocity managed to elude his vigilance, and escape from his paternal care. 
               Bowerini found that he had gained such an unenviable notoriety in the town that he could not stir from his house without being hooted and pelted by the street boys. 
               After a few days he was forced to leave the town. 
               One thing resulted from this affair which our heroine could not but contemplate as being woefully unfortunate to her. 
               The whole affair was detailed at full length in the local newspapers, and was copied into the metropolitan journals. 
               Rose Seymour's name figured in it too, and our heroine was in no trifling consternation. 
               Should any of her enemies discover it, she would in all probability be again subject to their persecution. 
               This caused her such uneasiness that she determined at once to quit the town and seek an engagement elsewhere under an assumed name. 
               No sooner had our heroine given notice of her intention than another engagement was offered her in the north, which she unhesitatingly accepted. 
                
               Blanche Bowerini was greatly grieved at this, and avowed her intention at once of following Rose Seymour. 
               "Wherever, you go, dear Rose," said the affectionate girl, "I will accompany you. We will throw our fortunes together if you will still accept me as your sister." 
               Rose embraced the girl with fervor, sealing the compact without a word. 
               "But you don't know, my dear Blanche," said our heroine, "that in linking your destiny to my own you may be rushing into dangers more alarming than that from which you have just escaped." 
               She then gave her a hurried sketch of her singular career. 
               She touched upon her abduction from the theatre by Briggs, her captivity by the Whartons, the adventure at the Danger Mine, and finally the murder she had witnessed, and the persecution she had suffered since, and giving her reasons for making a further move now. 
               "And now, dear Blanche," she said, "you may judge how desperate are the dangers to be apprehended from these fearful people." 
               "I do indeed. Poor Rose! I should have died I am sure." 
               "Will you still accompany me?" 
               "If you will have me." 
               "Bless you, dear girl," said our heroine warmly. "We shall be a protection to each other. You will serve to lighten my troubles." 
               Rose pointed out to her, while now upon the subject, the necessity of preserving silence upon her history, as much of it-and that, too, connected with the incidents which involved the most personal dangers-it was impossible to substantiate. 
               With the best wishes of their brother and sister professionals, the two girls quitted the town, and started upon their new career together. 
               They were travelling across the country by coach, and the town to which they were proceeding was distant two day's journey; so they had to cut it half way at an inn. 
               As Rose and Blanche Bowerini entered the hotel a travelling carriage drove up to the door of the inn, from which a lady alighted, accompanied by a colored woman, evidently her attendant. 
               Ever since our heroine had confided her strange history to her new sister, it had been a constant topic of conversation for them. 
               The horrors which Rose had so briefly touched upon were so startling that Blanche could think of nothing else, and chose it always as a subject for discussion as soon as they were alone. 
               As they were awaiting the refreshment ordered for their supper she started upon the subject again. 
               "But dear Rose," she said in an undertone, "you should never be unarmed, with such bold enemies as yours." 
               "I never am," said Rose. 
               "Eh! good gracious, dear, you startle me. What a fearful thing!" 
               "Mr. Chowler, the manager of the theatre. I came from, provided me with a small pocket pistol. It also has a spring dagger concealed in it, which flies out, and makes it a very formidable little weapon I can tell you. Here it is." 
               She was about to produce it, when the lady with her colored attendant entered the room. 
               "Tell them to take the luggage to my room," said the lady 
               Rose looked up in wonder. 
               She recognized the voice. 
               She looked hard at the speaker, and found that her features were familiar to her as well. 
               But where she had met with them before she was at a loss to divine. 
               The lady glanced curiously at our heroine, as if she, upon her part, had the same kind of recollection of Rose. 
               Then, with some excuse, she rose and left the room. 
                
               She went straightway to the parlor door and called the landlord, who came out with a run to the service of his fashionable guest. 
               "Pardon my curiosity," said the lady, with a most amiable smile, "but can you possibly inform me who those two young ladies are?" 
               "No. They have not said anything beyond giving orders, madam." 
               "Oh!" 
               "They are traveling alone." 
               "Enough. That is all I wished to know about them." 
               And the lady returned to the 
                     palor
                     parlor
                  . 
               Rose glanced up as she entered, and for the third time their eyes met. 
               This time a mutual gesture of recognition escaped them. 
               Both would evidently have fain suppressed it, had they then had sufficient command over themselves, but their astonishment was so thoroughly unassumed and natural that it was one involuntary movement. 
               The instant that Rose Seymour recognized her, and perceived she was also recognized, she trembled painfully from head to foot. 
               So noticeable was this, too, that Blanche Bowerini remarked it. 
               "What is it, dear?" she asked. 
               "Nothing," returned Rose, shudderingly, "but pray don't leave." 
               The tone was so very low that Blanche failed to catch the words. 
               "What, Rose?" 
               "Hush! No names!" said Rose, glancing once more at the lady. 
               Her eyes were still fixed motionless upon our heroine, and the poor girl felt drooping beneath her fascinating basilisk eyes. 
               "Don't leave me," she murmured once more in a whisper to Blanche. 
               "Very well, dear," 
               But she had again misunderstood our heroine. 
               The tone was so low that she had only caught the last two words. 
               Imagining that her companion desired. for some purpose or other, to be left with the lady and her black attendant, she rose to her feet and left the room. 
               Rose, having just spoken upon this matter, did not divine her intention until too late. 
               She was gone, and Rose was alone with the lady and the black woman. 
               She jumped up and made for the door. 
               However, before she could get to it the lady sprang forward and placed herself in her path. 
               "What would you?" demanded Rose, faintly. 
               "I know you," said the lady. 
               "I-I'm sure." 
               "Silence." 
               She took a small crystal phial from 
                     her her
                     her
                   pocket. 
               Then, with the cruellest deliberation, a small stiletto was produced. 
               Rose saw her preparation in terror. 
               Fear choked her utterance. 
               She could not breathe a cry for her own salvation. 
               "Now," said the lady, "which do you prefer?" 
               "What mean-" began Rose. 
               "Not a word. You haven't a minute's life." 
               "Mercy!" 
               "Ah! The dagger or the phial? Quick." 
               Rose turned and darted past her. 
               But it was a vain hope. 
               The black woman sprang after her, dragged her back, and forced her upon the sofa. 
               Rose was powerless and at their mercy. 
               Rose thought that her time had now really come. 
               Held down in a vice-like grasp by the negro woman and her cruel enemy, in whose path unhappy chance had once more thrown her, matters looked critical for our heroine. 
               She appeared at this moment nearer the end of her career than she has ever been since we have charged ourselves with the relation of her fortune. 
               But she was not to die. 
               The door was suddenly burst open with a crash. 
               A loud commotion of voices and a dispute were heard without. 
               Then in rushed the landlord, followed by two or three men. 
               "Hallo!" cried the former. "See there, just as I thought." 
               "Seize her!" 
               They rushed up to the lady and caught hold of her roughly. 
               In spite of the extraordinary scene just enacted, the lady did not appear to lose her composure in the least. 
               But upon the instant, the phial and the dagger both disappeared as if by magic. 
               And she was there, cold, haughty, and severe as before. 
               "What mean you by this violence?" she demanded sternly. 
               "What do you mean?" quoth the landlord. 
               "Sir!" 
               "Ay, 'taint no use showing off your fine airs upon me, mum," said the landlord. "What's that door for?" 
               She eyed her questioner with a glance of supreme disdain. 
               "She won't answer." 
               "No." 
               "She can't." 
               "Then she's guilty." 
               "Ay. Off with her to the lock-up." 
               This appeared to have the effect of once more loosening the lady's tongue. 
               "Unhand me, you ruffians!" she exclaimed. 
               She spoke with an air of command which appeared so thoroughly natural to her that the men instantly drew away. 
               The landlord now turned towards our heroine, who stood by the sofa upon which she had been thrust by the black woman, trembling and quaking with fear, and unable to say a word as yet in her own behalf. 
               "What have ye got to say, miss?' said the landlord to Rose. 
               Rose looked up timidly. 
               So suddenly had the violent and totally unprovoked assault occurred that the poor girl's senses were utterly scared from her for the present. 
               "I am at a loss to understand what all this means," said the lady. 
               "So am I," said the landlord. 
               "Why do you presume to break in upon my privacy thus?" 
               "Privacy, privacy be hanged, madam. You have no right to privacy in a public room." 
               "Provided it was not agreeable to the rest of the occupants." 
               "Which it warn't." 
               "This young lady made no objection," said the other. 
               "Well, of all the cool affairs! Why, dash it, 'pon my soul it licks cock-fighting." 
               "Art sure thee wert right, Mickey?" demanded one of the men. 
               "Sure. I saw it." 
               "Saw what?" 
               "Why, I was looking in at the parlor window when I see-" 
               "Nothing, nothing," said Rose. 
               This was a startler. 
               Every one looked astonished. 
               The lady herself looked so thoroughly surprised that it was remarked by all present. 
               She could not comprehend the motive which prompted our heroine to deny the truth when against her own safety. 
               However, it very shortly made itself apparent. 
               "Why!" exclaimed the landlord, "I was a looking through the window there when I saw the old nigger and this woman seize the young lady and pitch her upon the sofa. Then one holds her down whilst another tries to force something into her mouth." 
               "Absurd," said the lady. 
                
               "I say it's true." 
               "Nonsense." 
               Rose said nothing, and the people who had entered in the rush with the landlord began to glance from one to the other, quite perplexed. 
               "You must have dreamed it, Mickey," said one of the foremost. 
               "Bah!" 
               "See, the lady denies it." 
               "Of course." 
               "And the young lady herself doesn't say anything about it. You're wrong." 
               "She doesn't speak, it's true," said the landlord, "and I confess that that looks queer; but depend upon it they've done something to her to silence her. See how frightened she is." 
               This was apparent enough to the most ordinary observer. 
               "Well, why don't the young woman speak for herself?" suggested one. 
               "Ah, why don't she?" 
               Just at this point Blanche Bowerini returned. 
               She burst through the mob collected at the door, and pushed her way up to Rose. 
               "What is it Rose. What has happened?" 
               Rose shook her head. 
               "Nothing, dear. Send those people away, if you can," she whispered. 
               Blanche looked scarcely less astonished than the rest of the people. 
               However, in the midst of all the confusion which reigned, the prime mover in it preserved a most admirable composure. 
               "Do you not hear what the lady says?" she demanded. "Now, good people, it the absurdity of which the landlord speaks were really true, is it likely that she would speak thus?" 
               "What does it all mean?" asked Blanche. 
               "I will tell you later," said Rose. "Lead me from this room, dear Blanche." 
               "Come, then." 
               Supported by the affectionate girl, Rose left the room. 
               The crowd made way for her as she passed, and with her departure the fracas, which had assumed such an ugly appearance at first, was virtually at an end. 
               The landlord protested as to the truth of what he averred. 
               The crowd looked incredulous and the lady sneered. 
               The mob withdrew. 
               Thus, by a singular chance, as yet unexplained, had the murderous woman and her negro attendant escaped a just punishment for an audacious assault upon a harmless and inoffensive girl in a house of public entertainment. 
               But our heroine had not seen the last of it. 
               When the lady was once more alone with her negro attendant she paced up and down the room, lost in a deep meditation. 
               From time to time a few words escaped her and were eagerly picked up by the black woman. 
               "A singular chance!" she exclaimed. "I cannot at all understand this. A special providence seems to protect this Rose Seymour from us. And shall she escape thus? Never, by heaven! I feel that until she is removed we are not safe. While Rose Seymour lives, 
                     and and
                     and
                   the lost heir of Sloeford still breathes I feel the cord about my neck and see it coiling about Spencer." 
               Strange thought! 
               No reflection crossed her guilt-distorted imagination concerning the singularity of her own salvation. 
               It never appeared to occur to her how singular was the chance which had silenced Rose Seymour's tongue. 
               No gratitude to Providence touched the heart of this guilty woman for her undeserved escape when everything was so black against her, had Rose Seymour chosen to say a word. 
               The black woman all the time appeared peared not to consider the extraordinary scene in which she had just enacted so prominent a character by any means an out-of-the-way performance. 
               On the contrary, she seemed to look upon the interruption only with the greatest vexation. 
               "My lady," she said, presently. 
               "What now?" demanded her mistress. "What do you want." 
               "I should like to take that old man's life." 
               "Hush!" 
               The sentiment thus agreeably uttered did not apparently shock the lady so much as the possibility of it being overheard. 
               She heard the footstep of the landlord without the coffee-room again. 
               He knocked this time before entering. 
               "Come in." 
               He walked in, holding a letter humbly in his hand. 
               "A letter?" said the lady, surprised. 
               "From the young lady, madam." 
               "Oh!" 
               She took it from his hand haughtily. 
               Then stared him out of countenance rudely, and he retreated in the greatest confusion. 
               "A letter from her!" she murmured. "What can it mean?" 
               As she mused thus she broke the seal and opened it. 
               The first words which caught her eyes caused her to start. 
               She read it aloud. 
               "'To Miss Bellisle.' Oh! she has my name, then. 
               "'Madam.-Think of my forbearance to-day, and let your unjust cruel enmity pursue me no further. Believe me that your greatest security lies in my silence. I can and do forgive much. Many injuries I allow to pass unrepaid. Then be satisfied. My forgiveness will but avail you here. I cannot now, in spite of myself, carry my mercy into my grave. 
               "What can the girl mean by that!" 
               It was puzzling. 
               The explanation would be found in the concluding words. 
               They ran thus:- 
               "A sealed account of all that you so dread being known to the world lies in the hands of trusty persons, ready to be opened after a silence of ten days upon my part. I am not, like yourself, revengeful, or you would not have had a second opportunity of offering me violence after the failure of your plans. Be advised by one who wishes you no harm, by one who would fain unlearn what she knows is so deplored by you. In conclusion, be sure that my proofs are so abundant that you could not hope to clear yourself, should I come to an untimely end. 
               This was startling. 
               "If the girl speaks the truth I've had a narrow escape!" she said. "But to resume this extraordinary letter. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "'Be assured of my veracity, and do not deem it a mere safety precaution for myself. Do not either deem me weak or foolish because I thus spared you when by your rashness you had placed yourself at my mercy-when a word would have delivered you over to the hands of justice. I feel an inward monitor which forbids me to harm you, or I might have been less merciful. Spare me your persecution and be prudent. 
                           
                              'ROSE SEYMOUR.'
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "A strange letter!" said Miss Bellisle, for it was she, as we have seen by the heading of Rose Seymour's epistle. "Strange! Perhaps true. If so, then I have had a singularly happy escape again. Let me see." 
               She walked up and down the room for some considerable time, buried 
                     in in
                     in
                   deep thought. 
               Presently she seated herself at the table and wrote as follows: 
               "Your prudence is commendable. Count upon my protection if you will. Your own precautions ensure you. I appeal to no further sensations than reason and interest. Use caution still, with your defensive weapons, for others might be less prudent than yourself. Think of my offer. Count upon my wealth if pecuniary assistance be desirable. 
                
               She put this into an envelope, together with a bank note for five hundred dollars. 
               She then sealed it and called the landlord. 
               "Take this to the young lady," she said. 
               "Any answer?" 
               "No." 
               Rose received the answer and read it carefully through. 
               "This will never do," she said to herself. "This clearly implies a bribe." 
               She wrote a few words hastily upon a scrap of paper and enclosed them with the bank note to Miss Bellisle. 
               As Miss Bellisle opened the envelope, and found it to contain the returned bank note, she could not contain her astonishment. 
               It was her pet notion that every man and woman had their price. 
               Could she refuse money? 
               The words which our heroine had written in the note ran thus: 
               "I return the bank note. I do not desire a bribe to induce me to keep silent. I thus should render myself a partner in an act which my soul abhors. It would render me unhappy by remorse of conscience, and your secret would no longer be safe." 
               Miss Bellisle tossed her head with a gesture of astonishment. 
               "So be it," she said. "If she prefers to keep silent without payment, let her do so. I prefer to keep my money." 
               And she replaced the note in her purse. 
               As she sat thinking thus, an idea suddenly occurred to her which caused her to jump up in something almost approaching alarm. 
               "And Spencer!" she murmured aloud. "What if he should be pursuing the same task? Doubtless, he is. But if he succeeds. Oh, heavens! we are lost. I must return at once to town to see his latest dispatch. I scarcely know whether to feel reassured or alarmed at this day's work." 
               Then turning to her black attendant, she desired her to give directions to put fresh horses to the carriage. 
               "Impossible," said the landlord. "I have none fit to leave." 
               "Ah!" exclaimed Miss Bellisle. "Then the consequences may be fatal." 
             
             
               CHAPTER LVI. 
               The leading member of the dramatic company was an intelligent young actor named Walters. 
               He was married to a member of the company, a dancer, professionally named Ethel Warner. 
               He was a light-hearted and not over-constant husband. 
               She loved fondly, fiercely, and was fiercely jealous. 
               Rose Seymour and Blanche Bowerini had been barely introduced into the company when the husband of the jealous danseuse made a violent assault upon the hearts of both the girls. 
               Rose was invulnerable to such attacks. 
               Blanche was not far but yet slightly gone when she became aware of the fact of her admirer being married. 
               However, we must do her the justice to say that no sooner had she made this discovery than she cut her would-be lover particularly short. 
               Her repulses only served to make the inconstant Walters more pressing in his suit, and he did not take any pains to disguise his ardor from his wife. 
               Upon the second day after their arrival Rose and Blanche Bowerini were seated in the green-room awaiting the reading of a new piece. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Walters were present. 
               The former as attentive as ever to the fair sex and inattentive as usual to his wife. 
               The latter in unmistakeable agony to witness the flirtations. 
                
               "Are you staying long with us, Miss Bowerini?" demanded Walters. 
               "We are not sure." 
               "And Miss Seymour?" 
               "Nor I either," answered Rose. "It depends on whether the management and the public both are favorable to us." 
               "The latter ensures the former." 
               "Not always." 
               "As a rule." 
               "Perhaps." 
               "And the former is sure to be insured." 
               "Indeed!" said Blanche, laughing. 
               "Now, really that is extremely good of you, Mr. Walters," said Rose Seymour, "since you have seen neither of us upon the stage as yet." 
               "Eh? Oh! that's no matter. It signifies nothing; for talent you have I know." 
               "How?" 
               "By reputation." 
               "Reputation?" 
               "Ay." 
               "Of having played for a week in an out-of-the-way provincial theatre?" 
               "And not only reputation," said the actor, "but with ladies you know pretty faces and comely persons go for something." 
               "Yes." 
               "Then your success is assured, believe me, ladies." 
               "Thank you." 
               Rose made this acknowledgment so demurely that its drollery struck all of them, and they laughed heartily. 
               All this time the unhappy wife sat upon thorns. 
               At length it grew unbearable for her, and she left the room. 
               Several members of the company saw the whole manuvre, and a general titter at the unhappy wife's expense was the consequence. 
               The poor creature rather needed their pity. 
               Rose did not understand this, or she would have taken immediate steps to avoid a misunderstanding. 
               As it was, the two girls got a reputation established in the green-room, upon such very slight grounds, for being accomplished flirts. 
               After the reading of the piece, a rehearsal was called. 
               Then the different members of the company went through their parts, but it was found that Miss Ethel Warner (Mrs. Walters) was not present. 
               Her husband had to go in quest of her, and in the space of a few seconds returned to announce that he had found his wife in their dressing-room very unwell. 
               He requested the assistance of some of the ladies present, and appeared to be very much disconcerted. 
               Several persons went to render what assistance lay in their power, and it was found that the poor creature had sobbed herself into a fit of hysterics. 
               This passed over after a time, and the husband was all attention to his wife. 
               He was not actually cruel, but not knowing, or not thinking, of the acute suffering which his wife's jealously occasioned, he flirted in this way. 
               Truth to tell it rather gratified him to see her in fierce passion, suppressed with inward struggle, with such difficulty; a strong proof of the attachment which she bore him. 
               A day or two passed, and he had resumed his old conduct. 
               The unhappy victim to the green eyed monster suffered more than ever. 
               But an event was about to happen which put an effectual stop to this kind of thing. 
               Affairs in the domestic drama of the Walters were brought to a crisis in this way. 
               The actor resumed his violent assault upon Rose Seymour's heart. 
               However, our heroine did not give him the slightest encouragement. 
               She repulsed all his advances with as much firmness as she could under the circumstances, and without making herself objectionally prudish. 
                
               One night they were performing Hamlet. 
               The philosophic Prince of Denmark was represented by Mr. Walters, and our heroine was playing some minor character. 
               Rose was standing at the O.P. wing when Walters came off the stage and made up to her side at once, and commenced his wonted badinage. 
               "Your scene next, Miss Seymour?" he began. 
               "Yes." 
               "You mean to take them by storm, as usual, I presume?" 
               "Who?" 
               "The audience." 
               "Oh?" 
               "And everybody of course." 
               "Thank you, if you really mean it. if you are only satirical at my expense, I think you might spare me." 
               "You are cruel, Miss Seymour," he said, with a languishing glance. 
               "I cruel?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Indeed I don't see it." 
               "None so blind-' you know." 
               "Net all. There is not much opening for taking a house by storm in such a part as the actress." 
               "True." 
               "Then you were satirical." 
               "I?" 
               "Decidedly." 
               "Nay." 
               "Nay, but you must have meant it for satire?" 
               "Not at all. Pray don't misconstrue what I meant, my dear Miss Seymour." 
               "Pardon me," interrupted our heroine, rather sharply. "Miss Seymour is sufficient without any qualification." 
               "No offence." 
               "Oh! there's none." 
               "Ahem!" 
               He was cut rather sharply by Rose's sharpness, but not yet beaten off. 
               He returned to the attack. 
               "I cannot understand," he began, "that stupid old pump's casting of the piece." 
               "Indeed?" 
               "No. Old Quirk is a very bad manager." 
               "I must beg to differ." 
               "Nay, but you cannot differ with me until you know my objection." 
               "I can." 
               "Indeed?" 
               "Because I anticipate already the objection you would offer." 
               "What may it be?" 
               "Some absurd compliment you are about to pay me I suppose." 
               "Now who is satirical?" 
               "Not I." 
               "Pardon me, you are. But I was about to observe you are quite out of place as the actress." 
               "Indeed?" 
               "Of course." 
               "I'm sorry that you think so poorly of my abilities, as that, Mr. Walters. 
               The actor gave a mock heroic groan at this wilful misinterpretation of his would-be compliments. 
               "My dear Miss Seymour," he began. 
               "Mr. Walters-" 
               "I beg your pardon. I mean Miss Seymour, without the 'my dear.'" 
               "I wish then you would keep to what you mean, and we should save much time in this aimless discussion." 
               "Aimless?" 
               "Ay." 
               "That is a little bit hard again," said Mr. Walters, making a very wry face. "However, I was only about to remark that I think that if that stupid old pump Quirk had cast Bernard for the actress and you for Ophelia he would have shown much better discrimination and good taste." 
               "And that is your candid opinion Mr. Walters?" said Rose. 
               "Candid." 
               "Then I must say that I prefer Mr. Quirk's knowledge and discrimination to your own upon such a matter as this.' 
                
               "Oh!" 
               "Nay, you know it." 
               "Miss Seymour, that is little better than to accuse me of falsehood. 
               "I'm sorry that you should put such a construction upon my words." 
               "You're sorry?" 
               "Ay, but I cannot retract." 
               "But seriously, I think that had you been cast for Gertrude-" 
               "I should look your mother better than Miss Farnham." 
               "Eh? oh! no!" 
               He was driven into a corner again. 
               To say that Rose would have personated the queen well was clearly to pay a bad compliment to her youth. 
               "No matter, Miss Seymour," he said, in a fit of desperation. "I must say one thing." 
               "As many as you like." 
               "Thank you. I know that if you wouldn't play Ophelia well, as you say (a scandal upon your talents, mark me, which I don't admit), I should work up better in the play scene." 
               "Wherefore?" 
               "I know that I could 'lay in your lap, lady,' with real earnestness." 
               "Indeed," said Rose, coldly. 
               "Yes, truly, for you know that, after all, our Ophelia is but-" 
               "A charming girl." 
               "I admit it." 
               "Handsome." 
               "Granted." 
               "And agreeable." 
               "True again, but I must say that 'here's metal more attractive.'" 
               Rose Seymour grew tired of harping upon this continual strain. 
               She turned impatiently away. 
               Just then from the other side of the wing against which she leaned, a figure peered forward. 
               It was Ethel Warner, with her face flushed almost purple, and her rich full black eyes almost starting from their sockets. 
               She had, in the violence of her passion, bitten her nether lip so deeply that the blood appeared. 
               As our heroine encountered the eye of the jealous-mad dancer her own cheek flushed perceptibly. 
               She had no cause for blushes, but she felt deeply for the unhappy wife of the flimsey Walters. 
               It was very embarrassing, too, for Rose to feel herself unintentionally the cause of any matrimonial dissensions. 
               She was as much persecuted by the odious attentions of the fickle actor as his unhappy wife was rendered miserable by them. 
               "Oh! Mrs. Walter," she faltered. 
               "Madam!" said the dancer, fiercely. 
               "I don't know if you have heard half the absurdities which your husband has been pouring into my ear I will not say troubling me with." 
               "No don't," interrupted the jealous wife, with cutting emphasis. 
               "Ahem! But believe me-" 
               "Oh! there's no need for apologies," said the dancer haughtily. 
               "Not apology of course." 
               "No, no, these little flirtations are admitted behind the scenes, you know." 
               Rose did not like this. 
               "Flirtations?" she said. 
               "Ay." 
               "If you can so designate it-but believe me that it was entirely a one-sided flirtation." 
               "Oh!" 
               And since your husband is present, and sees that his conduct, which is always embarrassing to me, however he may hide it, and is likely to lose me the friendship of his wife, whom I would esteem as a friend, I trust he will spare me in future. 
               "How spare you?" demanded Mr. Hamlet Walters elevating his eyebrows. 
               "A butt for his raillery or ridicule, whichever it is." 
               Mrs. Walters turned to our heroine with a profound gratitude. 
                
               "My dear girl," she said, "I know that you will forgive me, but I have the misfortune to love a man who cares but very little for me." 
               "Ethel!" said Walters. 
               "I repeat it," said his wife. "Else he would not seek every opportunity of wringing my poor heart with his cruelty." 
               "Bosh." said Mr. Walters. 
               "He takes a delight in it," said Rose. "You have one fault, Mrs. Walters." 
               "A fault-not towards him." 
               "Pardon me." 
               "Then it is in loving him too much." 
               "Precisely." 
               "Then it is one which I cannot mend," she said, with a sigh. 
               "My dear Ethel," said Walters, severely, "you know that if there's one thing more than another which annoys me it is doing the sentimental in the presence of a third person." 
               His wife looked upon him in such a manner at this heartless and unfeeling speech that he turned away in confusion. 
               "Oh! man, man!" she exclaimed in an agonized whisper. "Do not push me too far-do not press me to extremities, I beseech you." 
               "Stuff!" 
               The dancer's eyes flashed a thousand furies, and she made some short angry reply. 
               Rose was uncomfortable at being thus thrown into one of the endless domestic squabbles of Walters and his wife, and she quitted the spot. 
               From the opposite side of the stage, she could see by their gestures that an angry altercation was taking place. 
               Rose went through her part as well as she was able after what had occurred. 
               All the time she was on the stage she could see the dancer's eyes fixed upon her from the wing. 
               From the bottom of her heart Rose Seymour pitied her. 
               Walters, who was really an intelligent actor, played upon the present occasion in a way which gained him fresh honors, and brought down the curtain with a round of applause. 
               "Hamlet" was over. 
               Down rushed the members of the company to their several dressing rooms. 
               Rose amongst the rest, was down below, eagerly preparing for the after-piece, when a cry was heard above. 
               This was followed by the falling of a body upon the stage. 
               The dressing-rooms were underneath the stage, and this could be heard as distinctly as if in the room itself. 
               Thinking that something unusual had occurred-some accident to the machinery perhaps-Rose threw a cloak over her half-completed toilet, and hurried out. 
               "What is it?" asked Rose. 
               But every one was putting the same question, and no one could reply. 
               Rose made her way up with the rest on to the stage. 
               As she gained the top of the stairs a loud noise and confusion of voices struck upon her ears. 
               She ran eagerly forward, and saw several persons making for the back of the stage. 
               Stretched upon his back across the stage lay Mr. Hamlet Walters. 
               Standing over him was his wife. 
               Her hand grasped an uplifted dagger. 
               With this she was about to strike her prostrate husband. 
               The mystery surrounding Rose, and the explanation of Mermet Ben's wonderful illusions are fully recounted in another story, entitled, "CLARA ST JOHN; OR THE MYSTERY SOLVED." 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
