
    ----CITATION----
        Collis, Lauriston. The Mystery of Holly Tavern .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6134 wright2-0603
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE MYSTERY OF HOLLY TAVERN
               A STORY OF NINE TRAVELLERS.
            
            BY LAURISTON COLLIS.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
            
            1873.
         
         
         
            
            TO TWO HOME CIRCLES,
            Bound together by many tender ties, and to whom I am indebted for the happiest moments of a varied life, I dedicate this feeble effort.
            The beloved and venerated head of one of these circles, who months ago began these pages with us, has laid down the burthen of life, and been borne to his rest in the Haven beyond; others, scattered by the happenings of eventful years, now dwell far apart, and do not often meet to mingle memories. When we tenderly think of those gone before, let it be in the eventide, when earthly cares cannot come in between. When we remember the dear ones, now grown old, once so young and strong as to gather us all under their sheltering wings, let our hearts bless them for all their loving care, and our lives prove that they have not lived in vain. When we think of our scattered ones, let it be lovingly. To keep fresh and green some of our fireside stories, and to sketch some of the scenes and characters that are now fast fading from view amid the din and bustle of a more practical age, the "Story of Nine Travellers" has been written. May its readers be found generous to its faults.
            
               THE AUTHOR.
               BALTIMORE, March 19, 1873.
            
         
      
      
         
            The mystery of Holly Tavern
            A STORY OF NINE TRAVELLERS.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               IT was a ghostly night after a gloomy, rainy day. The clouds had from time to time grown ever darker, until with the settling down of the night the driving rain came like the rattle of musketry against the top and sides of an old-fashioned stage-coach that was making slow headway along a muddy country-road.
               The coach was drawn by four fagged and smoking horses; their laggard steps responding but feebly to the persistent crack of the driver's whip, and the wheels grinding hard against an occasional stone in the road, betokened a vehicle overburdened with passengers and luggage. The old "Nine Passenger" was indeed full, even to the huge trunk-rack and boot which were crammed with trunks, bundles and bags, besides a bonnet-box or two which gave unmistakable evidence of the presence of ladies in the party.
               Our travellers had toiled many a weary mile that day, and now, as the country-folk along the wayside heard the rumbling sound of wheels, and the familiar creak so recognisable even in the thick darkness, they peeped through their windows, and watched the receding lamps with a wistful look and a pitying shudder for the luckless travellers who were compelled to brave so inhospitable a night.
               The readiness with which the passengers in a stage-coach became acquainted in the olden time was only in accord with that grand old simplicity of manner that was characteristic of a pure and simple-hearted people, unused to the society manners and insincerity of the present day. Shut in with each other for many hours, our travellers lers had sung "Begone, dull care," and voted unanimously "Away with melancholy;" had enlivened a very stormy day with jest and story, awaking peal after peal of laughter; and thus without inquiry into the great-great ancestry of any one in the party, they all became acquainted and entered into the spirit of the hour.
               With the darkness came a lull in the fun. Old Mr. and Mrs. Sparks, well wrapped in blanket-shawls and furs, were snugly cornered in each end of the back seat, very dozy and nodding familiarly to each other, while an occasional jolt would so suddenly open the old gentleman's mouth as to cause a most startling and terrific snore. Between them their daughter Elise sat half reclining, her face resting on a pretty dimpled hand, while with the other arm she supported her mother, and with her fingers gently smoothed her brow, playing with the gray curls that now and then strayed from beneath a spotless white cap. Thus she nestled like a little fresh rose-bud between two old leafless stocks, and the ripple of her laughter and sweetness of her smile had made the day particularly bright to Ronald Irving, who sat in front of her on the middle seat.
               Ronald needed the neighborhood of so much loveliness to compensate him for being closely packed between a tall old bachelor coiled up into sundry spiral twists, and a jolly maiden lady whose rotund figure caused him to shudder whenever the stage gave a sudden lurch to his side. Many times had she laughingly warned him during the day that he occupied at least the post of danger in the event of an overturn; and Miss Bettie Flinn secretly gave thanks that he would in such an event be the buffer between her and their angular friend, Mr. Bonaparte Scruggs.
               On the front seat we find a substantial old farmer named Brown, and his neighbor Bostick, the merchant, who are both on their way to Richmond, Virginia, called thither by business matters which they had freely discussed in undertones during the day; while the seat next to them in the coach was occupied by a plain-looking little German whom Brown and Bostick knew well, and familiarly called Simon Bins (his real name being Binswanger).
               Bins was a funny little Teuton with small bright black eyes, sharp nose and chin, and an irresistibly quizzical expression in his whole phiz. To look at him was to feel your facial muscles begin to twitch, and to hear his stuttering broken English was too much for the gravity of the most solemn acquaintance he had.
               Elise Sparks had begun laughing the moment her quick eye saw the fun oozing out of his comical face; but when he spoke in reply to some question from Bostick, her self-possession gave way, and at times all through the day the old stage rocked with her merriment; so the darkness that veiled his countenance now was a resting time to her, and she had fallen into one of her quiet moods.
               Ronald Irving sat in the still darkness thinking over the many pleasant events of the day. Only that morning he had left his home in Southside Virginia to attend his last course of lectures at the law school of the University. Getting into the stage a little after daylight, he found himself among strangers; and now as he sat thinking of the kind friends he had met and the pleasant hours they had beguiled, he wondered when and where he should ever meet any of them again, and felt a strange longing to know more of Elise Sparks. Now and then he could hear, as the coach rumbled more easily and the storm lulled, Elise softly singing that old song, "There is not in this wide world a valley so sweet," and then with a touching pathos in every tone she naturally glided into "Home, sweet home," every chord of which thrilled him; and he glanced forward to the business of life that was soon to open before him, and thought of his dear old home and all the loved ones there, and how soon he would have to leave forever the nest from which he was now making but a temporary flight.
               How long the young people would have sung and dreamed while the older ones slept we know not; nor were they permitted to test the matter, for a sudden halt, preceded by the loud Whoa! of the driver, awakened and startled every traveller.
               Johnny Conklin was a man of many words, and when no one was sitting beside him on the box, would talk to his horses by the hour; but the darkness and drenching rain had silenced his tongue since nightfall, and he was truly thankful for the questions now propounded from inside.
               "Where are we now, Johnny?" exclaimed Mr. Sparks, as he thrust his head for an instant from beneath the leathern curtain.
               "At the river, Surr; an' be afther takin' yer head in, or the rain will put yer spark out. Ow! ow! we'll want Captain Noah wid his ark to crass this river."
               Mr. Bonaparte Scruggs here uncoiled a few times and thrust his head through the window into the outer darkness. He had heard of a darkness that could be felt, but this was as though he had received a slap in the face; and only taking time to ask "Any danger ahead?" he quickly sought shelter.
               "That's as ye think, Surr," said Johnny. "The river's out o' banks, and that owld ferryman's deaf as a coot, an' can't see over well, Surr; an' the wather's deep, and very cold it is too, Surr."
               Mr. Scruggs twisted uneasily in his seat; and although during the day he had been more reticent than any of his fellow-travellers, he was of an eminently practical turn of mind, and unusually prompt and decided in any case of emergency. So buttoning his overcoat tightly about him and pulling the collar well up around his neck, he straightened up to his full height and said quickly: "Keep your seats; I will get out and see what is our chance to cross the river in safety."
               Ronald followed Mr. Scruggs, and the two were soon down by the water's edge; for the swollen stream now reached far up into the road leading to the ferry-house, and was dashing through the low grounds with a rush that in the darkness made Scruggs at least fear its power.
               "Do you know this stream, Mr. Irving?" asked Scruggs, after they had stood a few moments in silence.
               "Oh yes," said Irving, "I have crossed it many a time, and do not fear it in the least. The water is swift but it is not very deep, except for a few feet about the middle, and we can easily cross to-night."
               "Where is the ferryman, I wonder? for his house is half under water, I should judge, if that flickering light indicates its locality," said Scruggs.
               They had not long to wait for old Harry, who, seeing the stage lamps, and although "hard o' hearin'," catching the sound of Johnny Conklin's familiar voice, came paddling ashore with a skiff-load of things from the lower floor of the ferry-house, which was even then deep in water. The passengers listened with deep interest to the colloquy that ensued.
               "Well, Harry, how's the wather?" was Johnny's first question.
               "Powerful high, Mass Conklin, an' wuss a-comin'."
               "Is it worse an' it was when the bridges all went ten year ago, Harry?"
               "'Bout as bad, Sir. Bradley's Bridge passed here dis arternoon jus' afore de sun sot; an' from de way logs an' bresh and sich is comin' now, I should say dere was three foot of water above yit."
               "How about crassin', Harry?"
               "Well, Sir, wid force enough it kin be did; an' you know I nuver stands back for high water."
               "Och, you owld rascal! because you are amphibious ye want to tache us to swim, or drown the lot of us. Come now, is there any real danger?"
               "Oh no, Sir; I'se got three of de plantation hands at the cabin up yonder, an' whar we can't tech bottom we'll use de big oars, dat's all."
               "What do you think of it, Mr. Irving?" asked Mr. Sparks.
               "I do not think there is any real danger, Sir; and to be sure of effecting a good landing on the other side I will take Harry, and carrying a torch, cross over in the skiff and build a fire just where we want to reach the other shore."
               "'Tis very kind of you, Mr. Irving; but do you not fear to cross this angry river on so dark a night in that little skiff?" said the old gentleman.
               "No, no, Sir, never fear me," was the ready reply; and soon the little skiff was seen only by the flickering glare of a pine-torch as it plunged through the rushing waters toward the other shore.
               How anxiously each passenger watched for the kindling flame that was to tell them that Ronald had safely landed! and when the ruddy glow did throw its line across the river they gave him three hearty cheers, and built a counter-fire to light him back again. Fortunately for the travellers, there was just then a cessation in the pelting rain that had been pouring for hours, and the ladies were thankful to get out of the stage and gather around the bright fire that had been kindled. The night air was very cold and damp, and Elise trembled for the effect such exposure would have upon her mother, who was unused to a cold climate, and being well advanced in years and delicate, required careful watching. Her only comfort was that the exposure was an unforeseen necessity, all the gentlemen having concurred in the belief that it would be safer for the passengers to get out and stand in the boat, only resuming their seats when they should safely land on the other side. The tenderness with which the fair girl wrapped her mother up and carefully sheltered her by her own slight figure from the biting wind, was a touching evidence of her devotion and thoughtfulness noticeable to all; and it was certainly not lost upon Ronald, who found himself almost unconsciously watching her movements as she carefully led the old lady down to the boat which was now in readiness.
               
               Johnny gave a grunt of intense satisfaction as with the aid of the boatmen and their torches he safely drove the horses and stage into the boat, exclaiming "That's good for a start; and luck be wid us this unholy night. Come, Mister Irving, ladies and gentlemen, we'll try the voyage."
               Walking close by Elise and her mother, Ronald gave Mr. Sparks his arm, for the old gentleman was very stout and had stumbled several times since leaving the bright fire-light. Miss Bettie Flinn was conducted to the boat by Mr. Bonaparte Scruggs, who being a trifle near-sighted, led her through two pools of water, which he pronounced just before reaching them "the dryest part of the road." Her behavior under the circumstances was most admirable, for she neither scolded nor screamed, but laughed heartily at Mr. Scruggs's blunder, and accepted his profuse apologies as pleasantly as if her feet were not dripping with water. The other passengers soon joined those who had preceded them, and distributed themselves in the ferry-boat so as to divide their weight, when Ronald called Harry to know where the skiff was.
               "Here 'tis, Sir, long-side de boat."
               "Very well, Harry; give me one of your torches and I will take the skiff and paddle over; going a little above you, so as to keep a sharp look-out for floating logs."
               "Dat's a good idee, Sir, fus-rate: dere's been big trees comin' down all de arternoon. You's crossed rivers afore to-night, Sir."
               Ronald did not wait longer to hear Harry's commendations, but stepped quickly over from the boat into the skiff, and was about to shove off by himself when Simon Bins, in tones that even under the circumstances provoked laughter, stammered, "Mis—mis—ter Irv—vin—vin, let me pad—pad—dle—ladle mit te skiff too." Ronald told him he was welcome if he chose to risk a ducking in case they should capsize, and the two were soon well out into the stream, keeping good time with their paddles as they struck toward the other shore. Simon Bins proved on this occasion that there were some things he could do better than he could talk; and as he caught the stroke and bent to his work, keeping a bright eye up the river for any dangerous drift that might be afloat, Ronald felt that he had a man with him whom he could trust in an emergency, while he wondered at his strange fancy for going with him instead of remaining in the ferryboat.
               Soon the travellers were enveloped in the thick darkness, only relieved by the flash of their torches; while the rush and roar of the troubled waters dashing against the boat made it shake and quiver like an autumn leaf. The middle of the stream was made known by the resort of the boatmen to their oars, it being impossible longer to touch bottom with poles. Their rapid steady pulling would soon have carried them safely over, had they not been called to encounter an unexpected and serious trouble.
               After getting into the boat, Elise placed her father and mother in the most sheltered spot, just behind the coach; and making them as comfortable as she could, took a position very near them on the upper side, that she too might keep a look-out for the floating drift—at least that is the reason she would have given, if asked. But she kept an earnest watch on the feeble torch-light that told her, as it rose and sunk from view on the waves, that the little skiff and its brave young master still lived. In her eagerness she gradually drew nearer to the edge of the boat, and unconsciously stood just before one of the oars-men, who, tugging at his task, paid no heed to her presence. Suddenly Ronald saw the trunk of a large tree, with its decaying and whitened branches reaching up above the surface of the water, whirl past the prow of his little skiff, and with a thrill of horror perceived that it must strike the ferry-boat with its full force, and very near the spot where he had left Elise standing. Raising his voice far above the roar of wind and water, he cried out "A tree! a tree! Don't stand near the upper side of the boat!"—and turning to Simon Bins, said, "Paddle straight for the ferry-boat; we have no time to lose." To turn the skiff and steer toward their friends was the work of a few moments. Meanwhile the drifting tree had been hurled with terrific force, first against the oar near which Elise stood, then striking the boat with a crash, the dead limbs scraped against its sides, startling the tired travellers by the presence of a new danger. Elise was in the most exposed position and all unconscious of her danger. The oar when struck sprung with violence from the boatman, and before he could catch it again in his brawny hand it had struck Elise in its rebound and plunged her into the dark and angry river.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               THE ferry-boat was in an instant a scene of wild confusion. The horses, frightened by the crash, were rearing violently, requiring the utmost skill of their driver and the aid of Farmer Brown and Mr. Bostick to hold them from jumping overboard. Old Harry preserved his presence of mind admirably under the trying circumstances, and quickly ordered the boatmen on the lower side to try their poles, and finding that they had passed the deepest part of the stream, told them to hold hard in position while he shoved the tree away from the upper side and floated it past them; and it was only when he reached the upper side of the boat and saw Elise struggling in the water, that he understood the deep groans of the aged father and the shrieks of the agonised mother.
               "My child! my child! will no one save my precious child?" cried the helpless mother, in tones that each passenger will remember to the latest hour of life. "Oh, where is Mr. Irving? Mr. Scruggs, save my poor child!"
               Mr. Scruggs rushed to where Harry had but a moment before seen the floating figure of Elise; but Harry too had also disappeared, over the side of the boat, and was clinging to a large branch of the old tree, watching with eager gaze for Elise to rise again to the surface.
               "Where is she, Harry?" he cried.
               "Gone, gone under, Sir," sobbed the old man; "but she'll rise presently. Hold de torch, quick, quick, for God's sake!"
               Scruggs waved the torch to make it blaze brighter, and held it so as to flash the light upon the dark troubled waters where Elise had last been seen. Nor did their suspense continue long. A movement in the water, then a small white hand clutching as if to catch and hold some fancied support, was followed to the surface by a sweet pale face upturned toward the dark heavens, and expressing in one look so much of despair and agony that it almost unmanned the anxious watchers who were seeking to rescue her from what seemed almost an inevitable fate.
               During this time, Ronald and Simon Bins had not been idle; for no sooner had the old tree rushed past them, than with the promptness of thought they altered the course of the skiff as before mentioned, and swiftly borne on by the current, aided by their strong arms, they reached the spot just as Elise arose and for a moment floated on the surface. Ronald knew it was only for a moment, and springing from the skiff he caught the almost lifeless Elise with his left arm, while with the other he struck boldly out for the ferry-boat, bearing amid the struggle his precious burden. They now drew very near the boat, and he could distinctly hear the groans of the father, the piteous cries of the mother, and the sobs of Miss Bettie Flinn, as holding the helpless old lady in her arms she tried to soothe and to inspire her with hope. These sounds, and an occasional glance at the pale suffering girl lying in his arms, seemed to nerve him to greater effort; one stroke more, and he feels the strong grasp of a friendly hand lifting Elise gently into the boat, and hears old Harry gasp out "Thank God!" In another moment Mr. Scruggs catches him firmly by the arms and lifts him out of the water, dripping, tired, and overcome by the emotions that crowd thickly upon him.
               Elise soon gave evidence of returning consciousness. Gradually opening her eyes, she at first gazed with a bewildered look into each anxious face around her, and at last whispered in a feeble voice: "Mother! Mother! the water is very cold!"
               "But you are safe now, my child. Oh tell me, are you hurt?"
               "Here, here, the oar struck me," and placing her hand on her side, she groaned and again closed her eyes.
               "She's a little fainty," said Farmer Brown, who, having aided in setting the horses in order, now joined his fellow-passengers to learn as he said "the full damages."
               "Hey, Bostick, whar's your bottle?" he continued: "a drop of brandy 'ill set her up quick; let's have it. Nothin' like brandy for fits of weakness and faints."
               The brandy-flask and cup were speedily brought, and Miss Bettie Flinn, who had already seated herself on the floor of the boat and taken Elise in her arms, gave her the needed draught, and then proceeded to wipe the water from her face and hair, wrapping her in her own warm shawl to shelter her from the cold wind.
               Before the boat reached the bank and was safely made fast near the blazing fire that Ronald had kindled, the color had begun to come into Elise's cheeks. Her eyes again opened, and as she saw the bright blaze of the fire now very near, she smiled sweetly and said: "I am not much hurt, I think, but was a little stunned by the blow that carried me into the river. Are we all safe? Papa! dear Mother!" The old people were bending over her, holding her hands and calling her in the most endearing tones, still she looked into the circle of faces around her, and at last said: "Where is he? Has the skiff come over? I know we are all safe, but—the skiff?"
               Her quick eye had failed to discover Ronald among those gathered around her, and she knew the boat was now stationary against the bank. She did not yet know how she had been rescued; and now as Miss Bettie told her that they were all safe, and it was Mr. Irving that had left Mr. Bins to paddle the skiff over, and jumping into the river had reached her just as she was about to sink the second time, and had borne her to the boat where Harry had lifted her in, her face beamed with a bright smile, her cheeks were aglow, and her eyes filled with tears. Committing Elise to the thoughtful care of Miss Bettie, when they were both safely on board, Ronald, wet and weary, had gone to the stage in which he had left his overcoat, and wringing out the water from his dripping clothes, wrapped himself up, and proceeded to the front of the boat that he might expedite their landing. Nor was it until they were once more getting into the stage that he had an opportunity to express his joy at her safety, and to inquire if she sustained much injury.
               The heartfelt thanks of old Mr. and Mrs. Sparks were made with deep emotion, and Ronald felt his lip quiver as the old man, with trembling voice and shaking nerves, caught his hand with a convulsive grasp; while the old lady, bending over her daughter, said in low tones, "God will reward you, Mr. Irving."
               Old Harry came to the stage door, holding a torch, just as Johnny Conklin was about driving off; and poking his head in, said, "De Lord bless you, little Missis; old Harry'll nuver forgit dis night. Let me see de light in your eye and dat smile one more time. An', Mars Irvin, you has my best wishes; may you always succeed in doin' de right thing, as you has to-night. Good night to all." The old man retreated amid a shower of blessings and bright silver quarters, and the old stage-coach rumbled on its way.
               Johnny Conklin was fond of adventure if it were accompanied by no great personal risk; but the events of the night had thoroughly startled him, and now his thoughts set his tongue going, and he proceeded to recount to the horses a few scenes in his previous life that would compare with what they had just gone through.
               "Ah me, boys, I've been drivin', chick and man, for forty years, but niver see the likes o' this. I dhrove the owld 'Carrier Pigeon' through bog and slough to Dublin many a time, nine passengers inside an' six a-top; had runaways; got lost takin' a near cuts through the bog; baulked, slipped a wheel, turned over once in a while, and the divil knows what all; but this night I thought it was all up wid Johnny. And you dumb craythers hadn't a bit o' sense left, but just wanted to jump out an' dround entirely. Why, Davie, ye are a solemn owld horse; pretty thrue a-pullin' an' the like, but blast yer wisdom when ye get skeerd—the owlder the horse the bigger the fool. Now Jack's like a sheep, 'fraid o' wather an' pulled back like a mule; but Dan an' Barsheba, you owld rascals, capered like you was thoroughbred, which ye aint; and now I'll thry yer metal between this an' Holly Tavern. Whoop! Git along wid ye now! Whoop! whoop!" The horses knew Johnny well, and each one with a jump filled his collar and quickened his pace, making the mud fly from the wheels and the stage roll and creak as if it would soon fly in pieces.
               Ronald, amused at the sudden friskiness of the team, called to know of Johnny if he was going to add a runaway to their other disasters. "Sure, no, Sir; it's a bit o' disciplin' I'm givin' the horses. They turned fools at the boat, an' I'm larnin' 'em wisdom; and besides, ye're all cold and wet and hungry, and it's meself would like to put ye at Holly Tavern in half-an-hour's time."
               "How far is it, Johnny?"
               "Four mile from the river, and we be come a mile, Sir."
               "We will spend the rest of the night at Holly Tavern, won't we?"
               "Och, sure, Sir, and a good place it is too Burwell Crowder keeps; wid big fires, and warm feather-beds, and hot bread and fresh eggs; and butther, good tay, smokin' caffee, and the sweetest whiskey! Whoop! Whoop! Get up, Davie!"
               With thankful hearts the weary travellers thus learned that their journey would soon end, at least for the night; and when a little while after they heard Johnny blow a loud blast from his horn that echoed up and down the valley through which they were passing, it thrilled them with a pleasure no other stage-horn had ever given before; and they looked anxiously for the light that soon greeted them shining out from the warmth within, a hearty welcome to Holly Tavern.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               HOLLY TAVERN was the best stage-stand on the route through South-side Virginia to Richmond, and there was scarcely a traveller from Georgia or the Carolinas that had not at some time in passing northward partaken of good cheer there. It was an old-fashioned house, first a two-story and attic with dormer windows; then it had been added to until it now afforded accommodation for a goodly number of guests. The roof slanted over the eaves into a broad old piazza that extended along the front and on one side of the building, affording in summer a most desirable shady promenade, and in mild winter days a sheltered nook for guests and loungers. A row of elms and poplars stood in front, in the centre of the circular drive leading up to the house; and under their spreading branches was a well of pure cold water that had often refreshed man and beast. Everything about the old place looked comfortable; and as Johnny Conklin drew rein at the door on the dark and adventurous night of which we have been telling, the bright lamp in front, the open door of the public-room with its blazing log-fire, and the round jolly face of Burwell Crowder, all combined to inspire the weary travellers with a home-feeling and a desire to try the hospitalities so genially promised at Holly Tavern.
               Burwell Crowder had been sitting with some of his guests around the fire in the public-room engaged in a game of "Seven-up," when he heard Johnny blow nine loud blasts from his horn, each blast counting a passenger to be lodged and fed that night. Jumping up with as much energy as his fat figure would allow, he passed his cards to a friend to play out the game, and proceeded to pile fresh logs on the fire. This done, he pulled a handle suspended by a wire near the mantle-piece, ringing a bell in the rear of the building, and the summons was obeyed by a wiry-looking wizard of an African, as black as soot, with a grizzly gray head and enveloped in the whitest of aprons.
               "Josh, is supper ready? the stage is coming," was the first question and information our landlord gave to his factotum.
               "All ready, Sir, and smokin' hot. Aint had such a supper for a week, Sir."
               "Very well. And how many vacant rooms have you, Josh?"
               "Three, Sir, not countin' the Devil's room, whar nobody never stays."
               Now Burwell Crowder used only one expletive when excited or perplexed; of this he availed himself on all occasions, preceding it with a swelling of the cheek, pouting of the lip, and an explosive sound like Whish! We must therefore not be surprised to hear him say, "Whish! by shot! Jake, what are we going to do? Nine passengers, three un 'em ladies, and three rooms for the lot!"
               "How come so, Sir? Did dey toot de horn fine three times?"
               Josh here alluded to the old custom in practice among stage-drivers, of signalling by the sound of the horn the number and sex of their passengers. Johnny's signal was a loud blast for each person, the females being designated by a sharp shrill note, and Burwell Crowder knew the contents of the stage before it reached the door.
               "Yes, they did, Josh, and thar's the stage right at the door," saying which, he seized a lantern, Josh another, and both made all possible speed to the piazza.
               Burwell was not long in opening conversation with Johnny Conklin, who had thrown his reins carelessly around the handle of the brake, and was stamping his feet to restore the circulation in them before he ventured to jump down from the box.
               "How do you stand the weather, Johnny? And how did you ever get across the river such a night as this?" was the first salutation.
               "Ah, Misther Crowder, an' it's glad I am to see yer rosy face! I been tellin' the passengers that Holly Tavern was the best place this side of heaven; an' if ye just knew how near the swate lady inside had come to stoppin' at the place I've just mintioned by way of the river, ye'd just say nothin' about it, but hurry us in to warm, presently."
               "By shot! Johnny, I'll do it. Here, Josh! Where's the poor lady, Johnny?"
               Meanwhile there had been a movement among the passengers; those on the front and middle seats had begun to get out. Miss Bettie was just ready to descend, and Ronald was standing by the step to assist her, when Burwell, full of zeal and sympathy, exclaimed, "Poor little gal! I'll take her in the house," and before she could explain, had seized her in his arms, and was carrying, not without some difficulty, the struggling and embarrassed Miss Bettie over the slippery walk toward the piazza.
               Had Miss Bettie been less fleshy and Burwell longer-winded and more active, the little undertaking might have ended well; but we cannot reduce an ounce of Miss Bettie's one hundred and sixty pounds, nor give activity to our jolly landlord; so we are not surprised, nor must our readers be, at the result. A few steps taken and Burwell began to breathe hard, and under his breath could be heard to say, "Whish! by shot!" Johnny had not observed Burwell's fit of gallantry at its beginning, having been occupied about his horses, and only discovered it as, almost out of breath, tottering and slipping, Burwell was striving to reach the house. The sight was too much for Johnny, and he screamed with laughter, exclaiming between his bursts of merriment: "Just look now! Misther Crowder's caught Miss Flinn an' carries her like he had a sack o' wool! He, he, he! By the powers o' mud, he's slipped an' down they go, plump in the mud too!"
               There was a rush to the place of the fall, and there lay Burwell on his back, having made a deep dent in the soft mud the size of his ponderous frame. As cold as the night was, he was in a profuse perspiration, his cheeks were distended, his lips protruded, and the first sound the bystanders heard was, "Whish! by shot!" The scene was so ludicrous that all joined in a hearty laugh, and Miss Bettie, who had fallen, if not gracefully, at least safely, having regained her feet, was one of the merriest of the party. Burwell was assisted to rise, and having made his apologies to Miss Bettie, did not forget his position as host, 'but would not leave his guests to repair the damage sustained by his favorite suit of homespun until old Josh had carefully taken Elise in his arms and borne her, followed by her parents and their fellow-travellers, into the bright warm sitting-room, where Mrs. Crowder waited to receive them.
               Elise was placed on an old-time lounge covered with a snowy white home-made quilt, and Ronald and Simon Bins had rolled it up on one side of the fire in the warmest corner. The gentlemen then withdrew to the public-room, while the ladies busied themselves to find out the extent of injury Elise had sustained, and to make her as comfortable as they could. Mrs. Sparks was very nervous and much overcome by her child's condition, for Elise was her only daughter, and had been carefully shielded and fondly petted from her earliest infancy. This was her first serious accident since she had emerged from babyhood, and the old lady was unprepared to think that any harm could come to her only "little lamb," as she loved to call her; so now she was only in the way, weeping around, and occasionally thrusting her volatile salts under Elise's nose, "to revive her poor lamb."
               Miss Bettie Flinn, as we have seen, was an energetic body, full of good common-sense, cool and collected on all occasions, and ready to do promptly when she had arrived at what was best to be done. She saw that Mrs. Sparks was in a highly nervous condition, much agitated, and in no state of health to be with her daughter now; and she at once decided that it would be best to get her off to bed as quick as possible; so turning to Mrs. Crowder, she said in an undertone: "She must go to bed immediately. Is her room ready?"
               Mother Crowder, as she was familiarly called by all her neighbors, was another one of the practical sort, and she had just been thinking what Miss Bettie had expressed so pointedly. So she was ready with her reply: "Yes, bless your heart, honey. And I'll show her there and come back to ye directly. Stop! I'll call the old gentleman first, and go up with them, you see, and fix their supper, and then come to ye." So the old lady bustled out, brought the old gentleman back, and was soon leading them to a warm and cozy room, and could be heard all along the passage in a tender cooing voice: "Dear old souls, you'll be near by the darling child to-night, and God willing she'll be all right in the morning."
               Miss Bettie drew a long breath as the old folks retired, and said, "Now, Elise, child, I can see how you are and what's to be done. Any pain here?" touching her side. "Do you breathe without pain?"
               "Just a little soreness on that spot, Miss Bettie. I don't think it affects my breathing much, but I'm so cold and numb I feel as if I should never be warm again."
               "Oh yes you will, child; a hot bath, a good rubbing, a little ginger-tea and a warm feather-bed will soon set you right. Ah, Mrs. Crowder, I'm glad to see you back. Where are we to stay to-night?"
               "Just where ye are, honies." (Rap, rap at the door.) "There's Josh now, a comin' to set up a bedstead, and we'll soon have ye all snug."
               Elise and Miss Bettie hid themselves beneath the quilt of the old-time lounge, as they were not in presentable plight, much to the amusement of Mother Crowder, who called out, "Come in, Josh. Make haste now, Josh, and set up that bed; give the feathers a good shakin'. Come now, honies, don't mind Josh; he's just like one of us, you know. How is the poor dear child?"
               With ceaseless activity Mother Crowder talked and worked until the bedstead was set up, the bed made, and Josh was just gone when she called him again, saying, "All right now, Josh? Did you put on plenty of kiver?" And it was not until he had nodded his gray head and said, "Yas, Mistis," over and over again that she would permit him to depart finally.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               IT was now about eleven o'clock at night, and Johnny with the help of the stable-boy had put up and fed his horses, and was sitting with the passengers in the public-room when Josh hurried in, bowing and mincing as he came, saying, "Gentlemen, supper ar ready, and Mass Burrell say hurry up afore it git cold." In an instant all were on their feet following the now retreating Josh toward the dining room, for a more hungry set it would have been difficult to find, and the nearer they came to the savory dishes that were smoking on the table the more eager edge had each appetite.
               Burwell Crowder had changed his muddy coat and trousers and was now at the foot of the table in an ample suit of butternut jeans, his rosy cheeks shining, his mouth wearing a broad smile, and, armed with carving-knife and fork, he seemed ready and anxious to satisfy the six hungry souls now gathered around him. His carving-knife was his special pet; no one dared interfere with it, the edge was kept faultless, the blade as bright as steel could be polished, and it would do a hungry man's heart good to see him disjoint a fowl or carve a roast, supplying each plate as rapidly as it could be passed up and back again.
               As usual, Johnny was first to break the silence after all were seated, and giving a sniff of satisfaction, he said:
               "Misther Crowder, is there a docthor in the house?"
               "Ho, Johnny, what are ye up to now? Are ye sick?"
               "I didn't say as I was, Sir, but before we're through this feast I'm thinkin' the docthor ought to be about."
               "No fear of ye, Johnny, anyhow; I've tried ye for ten years, and I had as soon try to fill a snake-hole. Why, gentlemen, he's got a cast-iron constitution, a voice like a brass trumpet, an india-rubber stomach, and can digest a boot-jack."
               During this time Burwell had not been idle with his knife, but had divided in twain a number of broiled chickens before him, helping right and left until all but Johnny were provided from the dish and had begun eating.
               Again Johnny sniffed, but Burwell was now busy passing hot cakes and waffles; these were followed by a smoking dish of broiled robins, and a deep earthen pan of baked oysters. With each fresh arrival of good things Burwell would cut his eye at Johnny with a malicious twinkle and carefully pass the dishes out of his reach; while Josh busied himself in making all the strange guests feel more and more comfortable with each reinforcement from the kitchen. Simon Bins had seen the drift of the joke, and touching Ronald, said "he look so hongry mit his ey-eyes, ju-st."
               Sure enough Ronald saw on Johnny's face the workings of an over-anxious stomach; his eyes followed each dish as it passed, and when he saw a dish of hot sausage, most fragrant of sage, rapidly disappearing, his mouth made several convulsive motions in sympathy with those who were eating all around him.
               This was carrying the joke as far as Burwell had intended; he really took delight in the heartiness with which Johnny partook of everything, and only desired to whet him up to the keenest edge of enjoyment, that he might ply him with the good things now spread in such profusion. The hungry look and the sympathetic movement of Johnny's mouth was irresistibly comical, causing all at the table to follow the lead of Burwell, who, laying down his knife and fork, was holding his sides and shaking with laughter.
               "An' it's very funny, too, to a full craw, Misther Crowder; but if ye had been starvin' since marning, an' wadin' through mud an' wather, an' crassin' the river in the cowld, ye wouldn't think starvin' the most funny feelin' at all."
               "Well, Johnny, I always heard it said ye mustn't joke with a hungry man; but don't take on so. Here, Josh! by shot! bring Johnny some hot cakes, and rolls and sassages, oysters, chickens—everything! And, gentlemen, if you want to see the most gratifyin' sight you ever see in your life, just see him through. Go ahead, Johnny; I'll have the doctor ready."
               With the sight of Josh flying in from the kitchen bearing a waiter filled with tempting dishes, Johnny's spirits returned and his good humor regained control.
               "Ah, ha! Misther Crowder, ye are jolly now. I been tellin' these gintlemen about Holly Tavern; but 'seein' is belavin',' an' faix take me if they don't find like the Queen o' Shebe said to Solomon, the half had not been towld 'em. Ow! a man can enjoy himself to death here."
               
               Any other landlord than Burwell Crowder would have gravely calculated on serious consequences as the result of Johnny's sorely tried and delayed appetite, but he had well said that he knew his man, and nothing serious could come of his indulging to the full; so Josh continued to refresh him with hot viands, which he as readily devoured, until he was at last compelled to cry out enough, and amid the, jollity that usually accompanies good cheer and a warm fire after a hard day's travel, the supper closed and our guests sought the public-room.
               Having transformed the warm, bright sitting-room into a most inviting chamber, Mother Crowder had gone off briskly to the kitchen and with her own hands prepared the tea; and filling a waiter with the choicest robin and the nicest bits of everything she could think of to tempt a delicate appetite, now came tripping into the room just as Miss Bettie was snugly tucking Elise into bed. "Why, honies!" she exclaimed, "why didn't ye wait for me to help? I was coming back directly."
               "We like to help ourselves, Mrs. Crowder," said Elise feebly; "but good Miss Bettie won't let me do anything."
               "Poor dear child! you look like doing anything for yourself, don't ye? Miss Bettie, has she had her hot bath yet?"
               "Oh yes, Mrs. Crowder; Josh had everything in readiness a few moments after you left, and Elise is now comfortable for the night, I hope."
               "Lord bless that nigger! he is the quickest crittur on the plantation; done all this and waited in the dinin' room too! Poor darling" (looking at Elise) "how do you feel now?"
               "My side is very sore, and I am very weak and nervous; but I hope to be much better in the morning. How is Mother now, Mrs. Crowder?"
               "Oh! she is sleepin' like a top. And the old gentleman! 'twould do your heart good, honey, to hear him snore; he does it with an Amen, I tell ye! What have you done for that side, Miss Bettie?"
               "Gave it a good rubbing with arnica and—"
               "That all you did? Now you just hold a minute. I'll run and get my Heal all Salve; that'll take all the soreness out in a jiffy."
               In a short time the old woman returned and was soon busy in spreading the salve, at the same time asking "Did you give her anything to warm her up?"
               "No, I was just about to fix her a warm drink of ginger-tea when you came in," replied Miss Bettie.
               "Ah, that's first-rate. Here is the ginger, hot-water kettle, and I'll just put in a warmin' yerb or two while the water biles; and while I do that, you give the child her supper, and take your'n too, Miss Bettie."
               The supper was temptingly arranged on a little table, and Miss Bettie, who had been so occupied since the accident as to forget that she was hungry, now found broiled birds and oysters a most satisfactory reminder, and she was not long in uncovering the dishes and accepting fully Mother Crowder's invitation. Even Elise was tempted to try a few of the tender bits, and declared "If Mrs. Crowder does not very soon take that delicious tea out of the room, I shall drink some and not sleep a wink to-night."
               "Ye shan't have it, honey, till the mornin'; but I'm fixin' a hot drink for ye that will do ye so much good, and to-morrow ye shall have anything Mother Crowder's got in the house. Here now, drink every drop of this to the bottom and eat the sweetnin' with the spoon; then go to sleep like a good child."
               "No one could refuse you, Mother Crowder," said Elise, as she quietly obeyed the old woman's commands, even to licking the spoon; and then with a weary toss of her shiny curls she nestled among the pillows, saying, "Oh how sweet it is to rest when one is weary! I feel like nothing could disturb me now, and balmy sleep may close my eyes, and welcome."
               While Mother Crowder was so earnestly engaged in providing for the comfort of the ladies, her good lord was equally busy in directing Josh as to how he should lodge the gentlemen who, sitting around the fire in the public-room, were whiling away the time until their beds should be ready.
               "How many beds in the blue room, Josh?"
               "Only two, Sir. De house is uncommon full, and de onliest spar bedstead we's got was put up in de sittin' room for de young ladies, Sir."
               "Two beds in the blue room! Well, put Mr. Bostick, Mr. Brown, Mr. Bins—what's the name?"
               "Binswhanger," said Bostick.
               "Yes, and Mr. Binswhanger—by shot! what a name—and Mr. Irving in the blue room."
               "What we gwyin to do wid dese gentlemen what can't cross de river to-night? You ain't got dem three rooms you was talkin' about."
               
               Burwell had counted on his factotum to keep things straight, and was not slow in putting the blame where it belonged.
               "By shot! Josh, you've got me in a pretty fix," was his first exclamation. "When the stage came I asked you how many rooms we had, and you told me 'three, not countin' the Devil's room,' and now you say we are short one room. What are we goin' to do?"
               "Lord, Mass Burwell, dese gents was gwyin home t'well dey hearn tell of the river bein' up, and now dey can't, you see; and we's got to lodge um, dat's all."
               "Well, neighbors," said Burwell, turning to the party who were still deep in the mysteries of Seven Up, "how many of you are goin' to lodge at Holly Tavern to-night?"
               "Well, Burwell," said one, "I've just played a four-spot, and I reckon that's about the best in my hand."
               "I did'nt ax you nothin' about your play," said Burwell, whose mind could only take in his own perplexed situation; "I want to know who's goin' to bed here."
               "I was going on to tell you, and that play of mine had something to do with it too," said the former speaker. "I played a four-spot, didn't I?"
               "You said so," grunted Burwell.
               "Well, you find a sleeping spot for four; we are all going to crowd the Crowder to-night."
               "Well, that's a good un anyhow, neighbor," said Burwell, as he gave one of his hearty chuckles. "Josh, we've got to fix it some-how. How many beds in the other room?"
               "It's a small room, and one double bed in it, Sir," replied the factotum, who now seemed sure of his information, and shook his gray head with an unction.
               "Well, gentlemen," said our host, "there are eight un you to be lodged, and two rooms, three beds in all, unless some un you are willing to try the Devil's room."
               "Devil's room!" said Ronald. "That's a queer name for a room. How does it get its name, Mr. Crowder?"
               "Are you 'fraid of haunts, ghosts, an' sich, Mr. Irving?" said our landlord, with a grave face.
               "No indeed! I fear nothing superhuman, and man is man's worst enemy. I have never yet since early childhood known what it was to fear, and I should like of all things to try your Devil's room; t'would be jolly to be stirred up at midnight by a real ghost."
               "Well, Mr. Irving, that's as it mought be; and if after I tell you about that room you are willing to resk it, it's nothin' to me; my skerts will be clear."
               "Let us have the story, landlord," said several, as they now gathered around Burwell, who to do the subject justice had lit his old ebony-colored Powhatan pipe, and was puffing thick clouds of smoke all around him.
               "It's late, gentlemen," he said.
               "What difference does that make?" said Ronald. "We can't go to bed until you tell us where to sleep, and you won't get me into the Devil's room until you tell me what are the objections to it. So you had as well proceed."
               Burwell puffed a few times very furiously, and then looking cautiously around, slowly arose and chunked the already blazing fire, examined the door to see that it was fastened, complained of the cold with his face already aglow with the warmth of excitement, and presently between the puffs of blue smoke began to tell the story of the Devil's room.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               THE DEVIL'S ROOM AND WHAT WAS DONE THERE.
               OUR old Virginia landlord belonged to a generation now almost extinct, and his provincial mode of speech may sound a little rough to many of our readers; but he lived and moved and spoke during a long and respected life among his own people, and we must now let him tell his story in his own homely way.
               "Gentlemen, Burwell Crowder has been livin' here since he lived anywhere on the yearth, and many are the ups and downs he has seen, but the night I tell ye of now beats all that ever happened at Holly Tavern since the first tree was cut down off'en thé place, or the first stage-horn was ever blowed on yonder hills.
               "Stages have been runnin' this road a long, long time, and all sorts of folks have come and gone in all these years—some un 'em monstrous queer, some sensible, some funny, t'others jolly; but when I think of how the Devil's room got its name, and of the strange fellow that was mixed up in that night's business, it makes me as cold as the crawl of a snake, and all the hair on my head stands up on end.
               "By shot! if it ain't twenty year ago this very night since what I'm going to tell you happened. I remember it just as well as if 'twas yester; for my darter Polly was teethin' hard, and the old woman was up givin' her some paregoric when the stage drove up at two o'clock afore day with only four passengers. Polly was fixin' for a fit, but I told the old woman she would have to jolt and trot and physic the gall without me for a while, and takin' my lantern, I went to the front door to show the travellers in the bar-room, whar Josh (then a spry youngster to what he is now) had a good fire blazin' away, and the chairs all sittin' round waitin' for 'em. In they came and gethered close up to the fire, for 'twas a coldish night; and as the light shined into their faces I took a good look at 'em, for it kinder struck me they were an odd lot.
               "The first one next to me was a tall, good-lookin' young man, with light crispy hair, and blue eyes, I should say, though honestly I couldn't see per-cisely. He were a well-made, handsome, mannerly fellow, and I liked the looks of him mightily, for he talked soft and nice and quiet-like, with no puttin' on of the gentleman that warn't thar.
               "He seemed to be a favorite with his friends too, and all of 'em gethered near him, had somethin' to say to him, or wanted to do somethin' for him. The fellow next to him was a queer-lookin' chap, seemed to be his best friend, and called him sometimes Hampden, then again Ham.
               "But that queer fellow, wa'n't he a curiosity? Why you couldn't tell which was the blackest, his short-crapped beard and hair or his eyes. When he looked at you his eyes would shine and snap until you felt like you'd been struck by lightning; and when he spoke, his voice was short, sharp, earnest, and you felt like dodgin' every time he said a word. I watched his motions, and unless it was a fox tied up with plenty of loose chickens runnin' around, I never saw any fellow so restless as he was. He'd sit a while by the fire, then git up, walk back and forrard a while, and every time he would do so he'd wind up by goin' to the window and gazin' out into the dark with a blazin' stare, and seemed to be a listenin' for somethin' or somebody.
               "T'other two fellows were a long, spar young man, slim as a pine sapling, who didn't have anything much to say; and a small wizzen-lookin' lookin' Dutchman that stuttered and spluttered out the little English he could speak; but fact is I didn't pay much attention to them, for I couldn't keep my eyes off'en the dark chap who kept up such a trompin' around and sharp chat with his friend Ham.
               "I had sent Josh off to see about supper, for late as 'twas, they wanted hot coffee and a reg'lar meal, for they had come a long journey; and judgin' from the way that dark chap cussed the dinner-house, they had got but lean pickins thar, and felt very sharp-set for anything I could give 'em. I was lookin' for Josh back every minute, when all of a sudden that dark chap turned from the window and barked out 'Landlord!' so quick that I jumped up, walked to him and said almost as quick, 'Sir?'
               "Looking at me he said: 'Did you ever kill a man?'
               "'No,' said I, sorter shiverin', for the fellow looked devilish. 'Did you ever?'
               "He set his teeth, curled his lip, and such a grin as he said 'Yes, and I always feel savage when hungry.'
               "'Well,' says I, 'for God's sake don't be cuttin' up any of your di-does here, stranger, for there's nobody in this house that wants to die just because you are hungry. Thar—Josh is comin' now to carry you straight in to supper.'
               "He grinned again, and looking at me, says: 'Don't mind my moods, landlord; the devil gets into me sometimes, and I must let him loose; but he's mild to-night, very mild.' I didn't think he looked so powerful mild, gentlemen, so I hurried the whole lot of 'em in to supper, and I tell you I fed that devil most enormous until I had the satisfaction of seeing him become amazingly quiet. He subdued the best part of a ham, provin' his special likin' to swine-flesh, and damaged the chicken-coop, besides makin' a most onreasonable request on the coffee-pot; but when he was through, and every way satisfied as far as appetite were concerned, he actually cracked a joke with his friend Ham, and laughed the queerest you ever did see. By shot! it 'twasn't any human laugh, but the devilishest kind of a chuckle, and I thought he looked worse when he laughed than when he grinned. The slab-sided man and the little Dutchman were both tired and hungry, so they 'tended strictly to supper, losin' no time; and soon thereafter they were put in the same room to sleep, and I saw no more of them until we were all roused up by what happened. Comin' out into the bar-room from supper, the dark chap pulled out some cigars, handed one to his friend Ham and another to me.
               
               "I told 'em both it was late, and they'd better sleep now and smoke in the mornin'; but no, nothin' would do but they must have it out then, so I had to sit up too and smoke with 'em. He didn't smoke like anybody I ever seen; he would draw and puff so fast that his whole head would be kivered up in smoke, and then he would let it float away, while he held his cigar and jerked out his talk like drappin' hot shot. Well, we three sat there for some time, it mought be half an hour, when he jumped up in the midst of one of his most powerful puffs and walked out on the piazza, and we could hear him out there in the dark mutterin' to himself as he tromped up and down, up and down, like a caged bear.
               "I thought I would pump his friend Ham a little, so pointin' toward the piazza with my right thumb over my shoulder, I said: 'Queer chap that. Know'd him long?'
               "'Not more than three months,' says he. 'We met in Savannah, and have travelled together from there.'
               "'Think he's crazy?' says I, kinder hesitatin'.
               "'No, not crazy, but very eccentric, very indeed; he is an Englishman, has travelled a good deal, is smart, a good enough fellow in his way, but so odd.'
               "'Well,' says I, 'Mister Ham, or whatever your name mought be, if that chap was turned loose in our county and carried on much like he has been doin' to-night, drat me if old Squire Bumpass wouldn't have him sent to the lunatic asylum: he is dangerous, Sir, dangerous.'
               "'More odd than dangerous, landlord,' says he.
               "'Do you mind sleepin' in the room with him then?' says I.
               "He laughed, and said: 'Oh no; I am a sound sleeper, and he might walk the room until dawn without my losin' a wink.'
               "Just then the dark chap hurried in, said it was after three o'clock; and I waked Josh who was snoozin' in the corner, made him light a candle, and take them into a room in the front of the house with two big dormer-windows in it, opening on the roof that slants down over the front piazza. It was a large comfortable room with two beds, and the old woman had just put up new white cotton curtains with fringe to 'em that day; so, what with a big log-fire and everything else cheerful-like, I thought I'd hear no more from 'em until sunrise; so I told Josh to try and get a nap of sleep, and I went to bed too, seein' as how Polly had had the fit and was now all right again.
               "Gentlemen, you know how still it gets in a house sometimes after you have been in a stir. Well, I hadn't known the house so still for a long time; even the mice in our corner closet didn't make any fuss runnin' around among the old woman's fine crockery she kept in thar, and I slept most profusely for a while.
               "On a sudden I was roused up by hearin' a terrible trompin' around somewhere up stairs, just like two men wrastlin'; then thar was a heavy fall on the floor, and a scream that would have waked any sleeper that was not deaf or dead.
               "That scream rings in my ears now; and I shall never forget the horror I was flung into all in a minute. But I lost no time in strikin' a light; and rousin' up Josh, we both rushed up stairs just as somebody darted past us in comin' down. Both of us grabbed at him, but we had as well have tried to catch a whirlwind; and I knowed from the movements of the fellow as he went by and almost flew out of the house into the thick darkness, that it was that dark chap, and he had 'let loose' his devil sure enough.
               "As we couldn't catch him then, the next-best thing was to see what harm he had done, for I was pintedly sure he had hurt somebody; so we went to his room first. By the time we got there the two other passengers, startled by the noise and scream, had rushed out of their room and joined us, so that we went in together; and I havin' the light, walked in first. Both beds were empty; there was a pool of blood on the floor and the finger-prints of blood on the white window curtains, but there warn't a soul in the room but ourselves, and we stood and gazed at each other quiverin' and horror-struck for several minutes before anybody spoke.
               "At last the tall man looked at me, and said, 'This is awful, landlord; there is foul play, and death in it too, I am afraid.'
               "'Oh, Sir, it's dreadful,' said I. 'But what has the wretch done with the poor young man? He certainly didn't carry him down stairs, because he rushed past me on the stairs by himself not five minutes ago.'
               "'By himself?'
               "' Yes, Sir, by himself! and out into the dark quicker than lightnin'.'
               "'Then he had some one outside to help, landlord; he must have had.'
               "While we were talkin' and lookin' about the room, the little Dutchman got on his knees, crawled under one of the beds, them t'other, and, comin' out, said: 'Dere ish—dere ish no, no bed-cort mit ter beds.' We opened both windows; there was blood on one window-sill, and then we felt sure that the poor young man had, through that window, been thrown or dragged out on the slanting roof; and whether he was hurled to the ground alive, or killed by the wound that made the blood on the floor, God only knows to this day.
               "We went straight out of the house with lights, looked all about under the windows, and could see tracks of only two men on the ground; but just as we were comin' out of the house, I thought I heard the patter of horses' hoofs dashing off up the dark muddy road at a fearful speed.
               "It's strange, mighty strange, gentlemen," and Burwell shuddered while he wiped the great drops of perspiration from his brow. "This all created a great stir in the county; the sheriff, magistrates, neighbors, and citizens gathered in for miles around; all the roads were scoured, woods hunted, creeks and rivers dragged, messengers sent to sheriffs of other counties round, but all to no purpose. Twenty years are gone and it's all a mystery still. That room is called by everybody that knows anything about this dark deed, 'the Devil's room.' No one will stay in it that can help it, and if Mr. Irving stays thar to-night, he will be the first man that has slept thar for more than five year."
               Burwell had finished his story, and the momentary silence that now ensued was oppressive. You could almost hear your nearest neighbor's heart beat; and when from intense excitement he gave his red cheeks a puff, put down his pipe, and expressed his over-burdened feelings by exclaiming "Whist! by shot!" although he looked ludicrous enough, no one felt inclined to laugh. The silence was broken by Mr. Scruggs, who, having listened with earnest attention to the story, exclaimed: "Gentlemen, that is every word true! Bins was the little Dutchman, and I the slab-sided man! We witnessed the sad, strange mystery; and in all my long years' wanderings in this and other lands, that dark picture has never been effaced; and the strangest thing to me is that we should happen here as fellow-travellers on the same night, just twenty years after."
               Bins jumped up from his seat, and approaching Scruggs, stammered:
               "I watch you all—all day; when you speak I jump, ant dinks where—dinks where—I hears you pefore; now I—now I knows. How you vas?"
               Burwell Crowder seemed now to comprehend the situation, and joined most heartily in the greetings; after which the whole party began to discuss each point in the strange affair, no one seeming to realise that the night was fast waning, and that morning would dawn too soon for the late watchers.
               "By the way, Mr. Crowder," said Scruggs, just as there was a lull in the conversation, "what did you ever do with the empty trunk belonging to the unfortunate young man, and the letter we found on the chamber floor that night?"
               "Why, Sir, I kept a copy of that letter in case it might get lost in goin' to Savannah; and sent the original, with the trunk, down to Norfolk to be shipped to Rosky Sparks, or some sich name, first chance."
               Here Burwell drew from an inside breast-pocket a large leathern pocket-book, and from within its ample folds carefully took a folded letter-sheet, saying, "Here's a true copy, gentlemen, and the only clue that was left behind to tell us who the young man's friends were, and whar to write to 'em. Will some of you that has younger eyes than mine, read it out?"
               Ronald, who was sitting nearest to the light, took the letter, and, spreading it out on the little table, read to his eager listeners its contents:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "SAVANNAH, GA., Oct. 3, 1824.
                           
                           "My Dear Old Friend:—I am called to part with my only son, Hampden, who leaves me to-day en route for New York, where he will embark on the first packet sailing from thence for Liverpool. You can well understand how a father's heart yearns over a first-born son when he leaves home for the first time, to undertake a somewhat perilous voyage, and to transact as a man important business. While Hampden will make this tour contribute to the completion of his education, and will thoroughly enjoy the delights of travel, he is also commissioned by me to attend to business of great importance, the nature of which he can best explain when he arrives. I commend him to you, my dear friend, with confidence, and remain,
                           
                              "Sincerely yours,
                              "ROSCOE SPARKS.
                              
                                 "To MR. HARVIE GWYNN,
                                 "Tottingham Court Road, London, Eng."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               THINGS REMEMBERED. A STRANGE SCENE.
               RONALD finished reading the letter, and handing it back to Burwell, said, "Why, this is very strange indeed! Our fellow-travellers of today are named Sparks, and they come from Savannah. Can it be that they are near relatives of the young man whose sad fate is still a mystery?"
               "Like enough," said Mr. Scruggs. "I have but few acquaintances in Savannah, and therefore cannot speak with certainty, but I do not think there is but one lawyer there of that name; and if I am correct, our friend of to-day is the father of this young man whose sad story Mr. Crowder has just related."
               Here Mr. Bostick, who had hitherto remained a silent listener, said: "Well, well, how things come back to one after being long forgotten! I had a suit in Savannah nearly twenty years ago, involving a large shipment of tobacco I had consigned to a firm doing business there. They failed, and but for the prompt and energetic course of my lawyer, a gentleman named Sparks, I should have lost every dollar of my money. I remember, too, when I was in his office talking to him about my case he had a sad and worn-out look for a man in the prime of life, and some one told me that it was all owing to domestic affliction. He is doubtless the same man we have been travelling with to-day, but he has grown so much older and stouter I should never have known him for the same."
               "You recollect, Bostick," said his neighbor Brown, "I were a witness in that same case: I went down to Georgy with the wagons, delivered the tobacco to Spires & Son, and when you fotch the suit, just went down with you to see the thing through. I tell you what, that man's a lawyer too! and he just talked that money right out of those fellows; so if he is the same with our old fat friend, you ought to give his family an old Virginia welcome before they leave the State."
               "You may be sure I won't fail to do that, Brown: my door always stands open; though as a trading man your neighbors seem to think I am awfully close. My motto is, 'When you trade, make; when you give, give; when you entertain, spend; in all, be honest.' I drive close trades, but never count up what it is going to cost me when I invite a friend to my house; and if our friend Sparks is the same Sparks I used to know in Savannah, I will bring the whole family home with me, if they will only consent to come."
               Burwell Crowder had listened attentively to all that had been said since the reading of the letter, and his open eyes and excited looks gave evidence that he understood the drift of it all, as slapping his ponderous palm upon his broad knee, he exclaimed: "By shot, gentlemen! you don't mean to say that that poor young man's daddy, mammy, and sister, are here to-night, at Holly Tavern! and just twenty year, too, since it all happened?"
               "We don't know, Burwell," said Bostick, "we only think so, and can't know until morning; so I think we had all better try and go to sleep. You will know soon enough for all the good it will do towards finding the poor fellow."
               "It ain't that, Bostick, for he's gone past all comin' back, I'm afeard; but I believe in luck—yes, Sir, in good luck and bad luck, and I'm all over in a shiver at havin' another Sparks in my house after what happened to the first one."
               Here Burwell's excitement grew stronger, and getting up he walked the room until the floor shook with the tramp of his heavy feet.
               "Yes, gentlemen, the devil was here twenty year ago, and he's here again to-night, certain; if he ain't, he'll be here afore day dawns. How was it now that some of the rest un you warn't knocked outen that boat and most drownded? No, it had to be a Sparks; it is their luck to have curous and oncommon things happen to 'em: and it's fetched bad luck too they have had in my house."
               "Come, come now, Burwell, Bostick is right," said Brown. "Don't carry on so; calm down your fears and let us all go to bed. Luck or no luck, I'm dratted sleepy, and this ain't any time of the night to be makin' such a fuss about what happened twenty years ago."
               "All right, gentlemen," said Burwell. "Lights here, Josh, and show the gentlemen to their rooms; let everybody sleep that wants to. Mr. Irving, whose goin' to sleep in the Devil's room with you?"
               "Two beds there, landlord?"
               "Oh yes, two big beds."
               "Well, what do you say, Bins: shall we try it together?"
               "You, me, ant ter—ant ter Devil? Well, dat ish—ish all right; we try—try hims together."
               So it was speedily arranged; and soon our landlord, who seemed in no hurry to retire, was left in the bar-room with only Ronald and Bins, who, seeming more disposed to talk than sleep, had lingered to smoke and chat a little longer with their worthy host.
               At this hour two travellers, mud-bespattered and wet, were urging their horses forward over the dark road leading from the river to Holly Tavern. Although it was evident that they had been on the road for several hours, they were now spurring along at a pace that in daylight and over good roads would have been considered fast, and under all their surroundings could only be thought reckless.
               Had any of the neighbors chanced to be awake and peeping out, they would doubtless have thought such riders could only be some of their country youngsters on a lark and a little drinky; a feeling of thankfulness also arising as they remembered how soft the mud was in the event of a fall. But the steadiness with which the strangers rode, their freedom from the boisterous ways of the reveller, and their earnest conversation, betokened this as no ride of pleasure, but one to which they were impelled by some urgency that brooked no delay.
               One of them we may have heard of before, the other we now introduce to our readers for the first time. His name is Hardy Flint. London had the dishonor of giving him a birth-place; and never had a city a more unworthy son. The police along Drury Lane and many other dark byways had cause to know him well, for he controlled more bad men, was the chief-engineer in more villainy, than any other offender; and strange to say, although his presence was undoubted in all the great undertakings of his craft, the law had never yet been able to lay hands on him. Born in one of the dark courts opening off a narrow street leading down to the Thames, in that part of the city known as Chelsea, his earliest associates were the sons of seafaring men, rivermen, and that drifting class of laborers ever to be found in a great city. His father being a sailor, spent the greater part of his life afloat, leaving his son to grow up under the hand of a thriftless, slatternly mother, who spent more time in gossip with neighboring bar-maids, and more money in beer and tawdry dress, than in bringing up the motley set of children that clamored around her for their daily rations like so many hungry pigs. Without a home, with no tender associations binding him to any one spot, without the softening influences of a true and loving mother, Hardy Flint grew to manhood, and even before he attained full age had become hardened in crime.
               Possessed of much shrewdness, he had employed some of his ill-gotten shillings (for he rarely earned an honest one) in learning to read and write, for he well knew that a certain amount of information was as necessary to his success as to that of the most learned man in England. Going on step by step, he had read much and knew more than his rough exterior would indicate; but it was such knowledge as should only make him more efficient in his calling and more dangerous to society than if he had grown up in total ignorance.
               After acquiring much experience and getting ahead in his financial affairs (for Hardy Flint loved money, and unlike most desperate characters, carefully invested his earnings), he was mindful to embark in nohing that did not promise a large return, and scorned small peculations where the result could only be counted by a few pounds when the risk threatened involuntary colonisation. As for friends, he had none; there were some people he liked better than others because they served his purpose better. He was friendly with all who came under his influence, but there was no man who could call him a friend, and there was no cord of sympathy that bound him to his kind: truly he was an Ishmaelite.
               He had known the companion with whom he was now riding toward Holly Tavern since their early manhood; for in those days of poverty, Flint, when making London a little too warm for him by some daring breach of honesty, would take refuge in the rural districts, even condescending as a pad to fill his purse; and in one of these attempts he had fallen in with this Carlos Armero, then young and adventurous, who rather liked being robbed by so daring and clever a fellow, and finding out his haunts in London, had kept up an acquaintance in which Flint had been made to serve in more than one dark transaction, doing the dirty work, shielding the craftier villain, and filling his pockets with Armero's pounds. There was at this time a strong bond between the two. Plans laid more than twenty years before had been only partially executed, and Armero demanded an early consummation of all that they had together planned as a condition to his fulfilment of a pledge given Flint; and as they ride along now, we can hear the sharp, energetic voice of the one and the cold, measured, decided replies of the other.
               "Flint, this business drags too slowly for me," said Armero sharply.
               "I have been delayed in claiming all that should be mine too long, nor will I wait much longer."
               
               With a scowl Flint turned on his companion, saying, "Look ye, Carlos, no more of this. I was a fool ever to have undertaken your devilish work, and it's hard luck when I've as good as murdered that young man, even going to India to make sure work of his never coming back on you—have sworn hard for you, and now come three thousand miles to finish the job—I say it's hard luck to get curses for thanks, and I won't stand it."
               "You've a soft spot in your flinty heart then, have you? Ha, ha, ha! a Flint with a heart!" and Armero laughed with one of his provoking chuckles.
               Instantly Flint's horse was brought from a brisk canter down on his haunches with a violent jerk that scarcely shook the experienced rider, although a less active horse would by it have been thrown to the ground. It was the work of a moment for him to draw from a scabbard at his belt a sharp, keen blade, and as Armero reined in his horse and returned to where he sat almost as rigid as a statue, he saw that his levity had stirred up a tempest of passion which no time must be lost in allaying.
               "Carlos, halt! don't come near me; remember a keen blade is a silent worker."
               "My God! man, what do you mean? Would you carve me like a butcher?"
               "Would you mock me as if I were a brute? God knows I am bad enough—I never had a chance to be anything else—but the man don't breathe that shall mock any resemblance to humanity in me."
               "Then you don't intend to aid me to-night in finishing what we have together begun?"
               "Not unless we understand one another better. Carlos, I know you, but you don't seem after twenty-four years' acquaintance to know me. I am a drifting adventurer, undertaking unlawful deeds for money, but it's a rule with me never to take human life unless I am driven to it. You are driving me now—mind what you say."
               "I say then, spare your blood-letting, Flint, for an hour at least; follow your trade, slay where it will pay."
               "Carlos, you are the coolest devil I ever saw, and I've a good notion to send you a long journey."
               "We both might in that case only swap worlds, Flint, and still travel the same road together; so stop your nonsense and let us talk business. Remember, you have already received ¥1000, and are sure of another thousand when the work is done."
               "And when do you consider it done?"
               "Why, Flint, you know there is no safety to me while he lives; and the work is only done when he is forever out of my way. No backing out now; it's foolish in you to quarrel with your best friend."
               "Best friend indeed! I have no friends, Carlos, and least of all are you one. With ¥5000 salted down, I was green to undertake this, when I might have lived at least like an honest man in old England."
               "You forget yourself, Flint; pray where did you get at least two thousand of your ill-gotten pounds?"
               "As a reward for my part in your rascality, Sir, and it was well enough earned for us to play quits now."
               "Flint, it's far in the night; do you remember what we came here for?"
               "I know what you came for; and if you are in a hurry and unthankful for past favors, you may finish this twenty years' job by yourself, that's all."
               Naturally fiery, Armero was sorely tempted to give loose rein to his passion and have it out with his ally then and there; but his will was stronger than his temper, and Flint was too valuable to him either to be alienated, or perchance slain just then. Could any one have seen how the veins in his temples gathered like knotted cords, and how every nerve and muscle in his face and limbs seemed to be in strong convulsions, they might have understood, to a feeble extent at least, what a terrible conflict he was waging with himself.
               With clenched hand on his pistol he brought his horse within three feet of Flint, who still held his drawn knife ready for ugly work. The silence was fearful as they glared at each other, neither venturing to speak for several minutes, lest an unfortunate word might bring about a still more unfortunate blow. At last Armero set his teeth hard together, and with a serpent-like hiss, said:
               "It would cost me too much to slay you now, Flint, as richly as you deserve death."
               "And pray what does Carlos Armero deserve? If there is a lower pit than the lowest, where ungratified passions rage and hotter flames than any earthly fires burn, and deeper than the cut of any earthly weapon are the wounds made by one's own crimes, I'd send him there. Carlos, listen! More than twenty years ago, in following my trade, I stopped you on a by-road in Warwickshire, and lifted your purse: that was our first transaction, and then I did not know we should ever have another. You afterwards met me on the street in London, sought to know my haunts, followed me up, and confided to me your plans about old Sparks and the 'Mallow Marsh' property. You wanted my help to enable you to rid the path to possession of a few human obstacles, and levered me with that little Warwickshire transaction. I undertook to help you with the job, with what success thus far you know well enough; now, if anything more is done, it's to be done my way—do you hear! There's a ship to sail for London from Norfolk next week (you see I know what I'm talking about), and if you don't stop cutting up your shines with me, I will put three thousand miles between us very quick, and leave you to get 'Mallow Marsh' as you can."
               "Why, Flint, what possesses you to fail me now just as I need you most? Where is your honor in this matter?"
               "Honor, the devil! Armero; we are bound to each other by mutual crime. You said truly just now it would cost you too much to slay me now; but let this scheme fail, and Mr. Carlos Armero return to his old haunts among the fast young gentry in St. James Street, and have no further need for the services of Hardy Flint, and he'd shoot him like a dog or send him to Botany Bay."
               "Flint, that is not true. Our scheme may fail, for we are scheming against God and man; but I swear you now if it does, even though I were reduced to beggary or the dungeon, I am your friend, and you shall never find me a witness against you. You may possess your earnings in peace and die in your bed, if you can. I have a fearful temper and say things sometimes I should leave unsaid. I threatened you just now because you provoked me, but between us I have long determined there must be no collision. Come now, let us talk about to-night's business. You remember the road we took before, do you?"
               "Well, Carlos, it won't pay for us to quarrel, I suppose, but somebody else has temper besides you; and as I said a while ago, if anything more is done about this business, it's to be done my way."
               "What do you propose then? For what we do must be done quickly; we can't be very far from the tavern now."
               "You ask me about the road, Carlos. I know every foot of it, for I examined well as I came up from Norfolk before I fell in with you; and although a good deal of the timber has been cut, and there are many clearings with cultivated fields where there used to be thick woods, still we can get away just as we did before, and with a deal less trouble, for we haven't got young Sparks as a dead weight to carry, and I know all the hiding-places. You must do this deed, Carlos. Go to the tavern, take lodgings, find out where the old man is, dispose of him as you think best; I will wait where I did before with the horses, and when you are ready to fly we will make good our escape, though half the county were after us."
               "Be it so, Flint; I feel equal to taking his Satanic majesty's place to-night. Nothing's too dark for me; so give me that murderous knife of yours—pistols make too much noise for this work." And laughing with his peculiar chuckle, he spurred his horse forward.
               The quarrel had ended; like many others of their sort they were reconciled to a peace that they might the more effectually war on others; and now as they rode rapidly along they talked of their exploit in the taking-off of young Sparks, and forgot all their bitter strife in their eagerness to remove one more "human obstacle" from their path.
               As Armero dismounted and passed his bridle-rein to Flint, the latter handed him a little phial, saying: "Take this along; you may need it. They are sound sleepers that smell this."
               "What new deviltry is this, Flint? But never mind, I'll take it, and maybe try it."
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               ANOTHER LODGER. AN UNEASY LANDLORD.
               "HALLOO!" was the sharp call that made Burwell Crowder, who was smoking a last pipe for the night, start up from his seat and go toward the door.
               The voice repeated "Halloo!" and just then a tramp of feet was heard on the step. Seizing the candle, our landlord opened the door, saying, "Who comes thar?"
               "A weary traveller, landlord," and the stranger now advanced across the piazza and stood within two paces of our host, who was so much taken by surprise at the sudden visitation, that he bad forgotten to be hospitable and seemed rather inclined to shut the door.
               "Do you keep this tavern, Sir?" said the stranger.
               
               "I do," was Burwell's laconic rejoinder.
               "Well, where are your manners then? Can't you ask a fellow in out of the cold?"
               Stepping just within the doorway, and shutting the door nearly to, Burwell turned toward Ronald and Bins with an anxious and astonished look, saying, "By shot! he's come; I thought he would."
               "Who has come?" said Ronald, while Bins commenced stammering, and jumped out of his seat in the most startled manner.
               "Why, the Devil!"
               "Oh nonsense, Crowder, you are excited! Ask the stranger in, and don't freeze all the humanity out of him by shutting him out of doors," said Ronald.
               Burwell slowly and unwillingly opened the door, stepping back into the room, and the stranger without further invitation walked in.
               "This is an inhospitable house, Sir," he said, as he walked to the fire and thrust his fingers into the blaze.
               "I ax your pardon," replied Burwell gruffly; "I didn't mean to be oncivil, but it's a lonesome hour to be comin' to a man's house."
               "Well, do you think I chose to come at this hour?"
               "The Good Book says some folks 'love darkness rather than light'; but as I don't know you, I can't say you do."
               "I came here to get lodging and a breakfast, Sir; and all I ask is that you be civil, and give me a bed quickly."
               "Did you come a-foot?"
               "No, I came on a broomstick," and he looked around at Burwell with a quizzical glance. "You can see, Sir, the sky here is full of mud."
               "Stranger, you must be a blamed fool!—or think I am, I don't know adzactly which. But that's neither here nor thar, as fur as your lodgin' is concerned. You want a bed?"
               "Yes, and on the first floor."
               "Can't do it; the house is oncommon full, and late comers must take what they can get. Old man Sparks and his wife occupy my best room back of the sittin'-room, across the hall thar; the sittin'-room's full too; and the only way you can get a bed is for these gentlemen to take you in with them."
               Armero's eyes flashed with a peculiar light as Burwell unwittingly gave him the very information he desired most to have; and taking his bony fingers out of the blaze he had been rapidly passing them through while he talked, he rubbed them briskly together, saying quickly as he turned to Ronald, "Is that the best you can do, landlord? I am sorry to intrude, gentlemen, but the weather drives me to take shelter where I can."
               Burwell assured him there was not another bed in the house, nor anything like a room, except an old empty "chainey closet;" while Ronald and Bins were constrained by circumstances to insist on the pleasure their new room-mate would afford them, and how happy they were to accommodate a fellow-traveller, etc., inly wishing all the time that the mud-bespattered and odd-looking stranger had found some other asylum than with them.
               "You see I am in a sorry plight, gentlemen, and must crave the privilege of a little hot water, and of retiring first," said the new room-mate as he seized his candle, and without further ado followed Josh up stairs.
               "Well, he's an onceremonious one anyhow," said Burwell as he followed with his eye the retreating figure of the unexpected guest. "I tell you now, gentlemen, I don't like his looks; and but for you, he would have found no lodgin' in my house. Do you sleep sound, Mr. Irving?"
               "Not ordinarily, landlord; but I am so tired from my exertions at the river, and it is so very late, I shall be sorely tempted by a warm room and a good bed."
               "You must sleep with one eye open then, or you mought not wake when you are wanted. I shan't sleep much, I can tell ye."
               "You had better, old gentleman, for we have given you no rest since the stage came."
               "Tut, tut! I'm used to it, and never sleep much with queer folks in the house."
               "But tell us, landlord, what induces you to suspect anything wrong about our new guest?"
               "Why, Mr. Irving, if you had been keepin' of a tavern as long as I have, you wouldn't ax the question. I never knowed one of these tramps that come to a public-house at late hours, and did things off-handish-like, that it didn't turn out the worse for the landlord. About five year ago a fellow stopped here late in the night, and ordered an early breakfast for the next morning. He had all the a'rs of a fine gentleman, and one would a thought he owned a Jeems river plantation; and by shot! if he didn't steal all the ole woman's spoons off'en the table while Josh was bringin' his breakfast in! We chased him to the river, and crowded him so close that he flung the spoons into the water; and old Harry was fishin' and draggin' for 'em a whole week, and then we didn't get 'em all. I never trust an extra fine appearance, onless it is backed by very genteel behavior. But that fellow to-night, he was as rough as a grizzly bar, for all his mud-spattered finery; and he couldn't help showin' his claws."
               "Bins, what do you think of our new room-mate?" said Ronald to his little German friend, who, half-dosing, had been waiting patiently but anxiously for the confab we have related to end.
               "Vel, I dinks" (rubbing a fist in each eye) "not—not—much—about—about—him. He vas vet—vet—muddish, schnappish; ant ish—ish—sleep al—ready, I—sphect."
               "You can't depend on Bins to help you watch him, Mr. Irving, for he is asleep now," said Burwell, following them out of the room toward the staircase. "Don't lose sight of him, and keep wood enough on the fire to give you a pretty good light," was the old man's parting injunction.
               On the landing of the stairs Ronald laid his hand on the shoulder of drowsy Bins, and giving him a vigorous shake, in a whisper said, "Listen, Bins, to what I have to say; don't talk now or try to talk, but listen! I think Crowder is right about that fellow in our room, although I wouldn't tell him so. He is certainly here on no good errand and will bear watching. Do you understand, Bins?"
               "Oh yesh, yesh."
               "Well, when we get into the room, we must cease talking and go quietly to bed. You may go directly to sleep, and I will do as Crowder said, keep an eye open. Should he remain quiet during that time you may sleep an hour, and I will then wake you and take a little nap. If he gets up while you are asleep, I will touch and waken you; and you must do likewise should he stir while I am asleep. See that you understand, for on no account must both of us sleep during the remnant of the night."
               Bins nodded assent, and the two lost no time in reaching the chamber of mystery, which was now rendered so bright by reason of a huge wood-fire that they soon extinguished their candle as no longer necessary, and quietly slipped into the empty bed, the one nearest the door having already been occupied by the newly arrived.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE STRUGGLE. ANOTHER ESCAPE.
               DREAMY looking shadows crept along the walls and danced on their heads upon the ceiling of the Devil's Room in the uncertain, flickering fire-light, while now and then a wet stick would crackle in the flames and send upward showers of sparks accompanied by a singing hiss. The chimney-back, with its shaggy tufts of soot, would now and then glow as a stray spark, kindling, carried its zigzag line of light across the black surface, forming strange figures and leading the imagination to conjure up odd scenes.
               Ronald amused himself with these fire-light fancies, while he kept an eye on the other bed where Armero lay, apparently in deep slumber, only occasionally muttering as he turned uneasily. The warm room with its shadowy light, and the soft bed with its snowy sheets and generous supply of blankets overspread by one of Mother Crowder's matchless quilts, all conspired to rob the watcher of his watchfulness, and strongly tempted him to follow the example of Bins, who was now sleeping with a snore as gentle as the purr of a happy kitten. Then he thought of what had happened in that room twenty years before, and his imagination pictured the struggle that must have taken place between the two young men before one of them should have been so overmastered and spirited away as never to have been seen or heard from again.
               The wind whistled in the chimney and around the corners of the dormer windows, rattling the casements as if shaken by a strong hand; then blowing softly, it would coo as gently as an infant at play, or moan in plaintive strain; and again breaking forth, its howl was as hideous as of some demon intent on evil work, making the screech of an owl in a neighboring tree or the bark of the watch-dog sound in Ronald's ears like a death-wail.
               He was no coward, for he came of a race that did not fear the face of man: an Irving had never been known to shirk danger or to turn his back on a foe; but his quick and sensitively nervous nature had been sorely tried, and his sympathies thoroughly enlisted on behalf of the Sparks family, by the landlord's story; and now as he listened to the varying winds and thought over each event of the day and evening, his teeth chattered with nervous excitement, and he felt a cold chilly perspiration stealing from every pore.
               Reader, were you never so situated as to feel that duty and all the surroundings of the moment demanded a ceaseless vigil; with nerves strung up to the highest tension, and in a quiver of excitement your eyes were ready for the watch, and you deemed sleep an impossible visitor; with beating heart and ready hand you were only waiting, when—how, you could not tell—there seemed to be a sudden suspension in the action of nerves and brain, your eyes would close, and a profound stupor paralysing the whole system, you slept even in the presence of duty and danger? It was so with Ronald to-night; for more than half an hour he kept painfully awake, heard the owl hooting his doleful night-song, the cock crowing now and then as the night wore on, his last conscious moment being just after the old tall clock that stood on the landing of the stairs, with wheezing, whirring sound, struck two.
               The quick ear of Armero soon detected by the muffled breathing of his room-mates that they both slept soundly, and he now only waited until the fitful blaze from the last stick on the fire should die out that he might have darkness to aid him in getting out of the room undiscovered. At last, slowly rising, he leaned on his elbow and listened intently, then with stealthy step crept from his bed and softly lifted the wooden latch that fastened the door, and holding it firmly, very gradually opened it until it rested against a chair he had placed behind it. Long disuse had caused the hinges to grow rusty, and as the door swung open its hard shrill creak sounded through the darkness like a wail, and caused Armero to tremble in every limb.
               Just then, too, with a sudden start, Ronald sat up in bed, and rubbing his eyes seemed endeavoring to arouse his slumbering faculties, while at intervals he gave Bins a most vigorous shake that made the little Teuton jump and drowsily whisper "Oh yesh, yesh."
               Hearing sounds from the other bed, Armero went to the fire, put the chunks together, and blew them until they sent a ruddy glow through the room, then walking up to Ronald, said, "Are you awake, young man?"
               The sound of that voice seemed thoroughly to arouse him, and Ronald quickly replied "Yes."
               "I hoped you would sleep, Sir; it is best for people to sleep when they have no business to be awake."
               "I have a right to be awake if I choose, and I choose to be awake now," was Ronald's reply, and he made a spring as if to get out on the floor. In a moment he felt himself hurled back on his pillow with great force, and the clutch of Armero's fingers fast around his throat. To remain long in this condition was inevitable strangulation, to move involved a struggle more serious than his worst fears had anticipated. But Ronald was ready for the worst, and reaching up both hands, clasped his enemy's throat with a grasp that made him quiver and gasp; and there by the dim fire-light they throttled each other, the struggle being all the more fearful from its very silence, and because upon its issue hung life, death, happiness, or sorrow to others now sweetly sleeping under the same roof.
               With every additional pressure on his own throat Ronald only gave a stronger grip on Armero, until the latter, finding his strength fast failing, let go his hold of Ronald with his right hand, and quickly drew from his belt the knife he had borrowed from Hardy Flint.
               Ronald saw the keen blade flash in the fire-light as Armero brought it up toward his throat. There lay Bins sound asleep at his side; he could not rouse him or call for help, and although he felt that the hour of his doom had come, he on the instant determined, if die he must, to die hard, and carry with him if possible the unknown wretch with whom he was struggling.
               As the edge of the blade touched his throat and began its ugly work he concentrated all the physical power he had left in one more nervous grasp, so strong that he felt assured his enemy could not long endure its pressure. At the same time he gave Bins a kick that sent him rolling to the other side of the bed and against the wall with such a thump that he was soon wide enough awake, and seeing the two men struggling by his side, lost not a moment in grasping Armero firmly around his arms, and dragging him to the side of the bed, they tumbled out on the floor together. Ronald caught his breath eagerly and gasped several times before he could utter a word, then hearing the struggle between Bins and their enemy as they scuffled and panted, he exclaimed, "Hold on to him, Bins! for God's sake hold on to him! I am coming."
               "I ish—ish—holt on to hims, but—but he too, he too sthrong! Quick! quick! Mishter Irving."
               Armero had arisen from the floor with Bins clinging to his back and clasping his arms like a vise, and now stood trying to reach the hands that held him with the blade of the knife. Failing in this, and fearing that jointly they might overpower him, he did not await their combined attack, but rushed from the room with his burthen, and after a few bounds along the top-flight of stairs, fell heavily on the first landing with Bins underneath him.
               The fall produced the result he had anticipated; poor Bins was stunned, relaxed his grasp, and lay helpless and senseless on the landing, leaving Armero free once more, and he sped on down the stairs, along the lower passage and into the room that Crowder had inadvertently mentioned as occupied by old Mr. and Mrs. Sparks. He had now reached a fearful pitch of rage and desperation. He might be foiled, captured, even killed in the attempt, but no danger seemed potent enough now to deter him from entering that room, and he would not go back to Hardy Flint and have to tell that the game was there, only too strongly guarded. After all his boasting he could not bear the taunts that Hardy would delight in heaping on him.
               As Ronald gathered his scattered senses he quickly followed the retreating footsteps, and reached the landing where Bins was lying only a moment after Armero had left it; and while he was anxious to do all he could for poor Bins, he felt persuaded that a more urgent need demanded him down stairs then, and therefore he rushed on, calling at the top of his voice, "Crowder! Crowder! bring a light! Thieves! thieves!"
               Burwell Crowder had gone to his room, but no persuasion of Mother Crowder could induce him to prepare for bed; to each entreaty he would say, "No, old woman, I'll be needed afore day; I'll keep the fire mended up, and just lie down in my clothes for a little spell." At the same time he placed a candle convenient, and set his stout hickory walking-stick against one of the head-posts of his bedstead. "Well, Burwell, honey, do just like you please, but it 'pears to me you are doing mighty funny for a man o' sense," said the old woman as she dozed off, leaving our landlord to his own confused and excited cogitations. He had just put another stick on the fire and was raking the coals underneath, when he was startled by the noise of the two combatants as they fell on the floor of the Devil's Room, this fall being quickly succeeded by the still heavier one on the landing of the stairs. Immediately thereafter he heard Ronald's voice calling for him, and seizing his candle, it was quickly lighted, and walking-stick in hand he rushed out into the passage just as Ronald reached the foot of the stairs, and as Armero, gliding swiftly past, entered Mr. Sparks's room.
               "By shot! Mr. Irving, I said so; he's loose, sure enough!"
               "Where did he go, Crowder? We have no time to lose, for he is bent on mischief," was Ronald's quick reply.
               "I heard old man Sparks' door open a minute ago."
               "Then we will find him there, for I think he bears a murderous grudge against the Sparks family, and his visit there bodes no good to them; so let us hurry, and prevent the evil he intends." So saying Ronald followed Crowder into the Sparks room, the dim light of the candle discovering to them the dear old people quietly sleeping, their tired limbs and over-wrought nerves seeking from the "sweet restorer" that rest they so sadly needed. As they looked about the room for the intruder they at last discovered him crouching by the foot of the bed, knife in hand, and like the tiger ready to spring upon his intended victim at any moment.
               "Yonder he is, Mr. Irving! Well, I'll be drat if that ain't cool! he's kneelin' down as devout as our parson!"
               "Put down that knife and surrender!" exclaimed Ronald, advancing toward him.
               Armero slowly arose, and keeping his face toward Ronald and Crowder, gradually slid along the side of the bed until he stood with his back resting against the pillow on which old Mr. Sparks was sleeping. As quick as thought he took from his bosom a handker-chief, and with one hand behind him, placed it on the old gentleman's face, at the same time emptying over it the contents of the phial Hardy Flint had given him. To Ronald's further demand for a surrender he replied: "I may be taken dead: I never have been, and never will be taken alive. Do your worst, gentlemen."
               "Stand aside, Mr. Irving," exclaimed Crowder; "I know what to do with such chaps as he be. This old hickory 'll fetch him first lick."
               Just then there was a click, a flash, a report, and Crowder felt the ball as it cut its way through his coat. A moment more and Armero had dashed past both of them, although Ronald made a vigorous effort to seize him; and with the swiftness of desperation the strange visitor, eluding such of the travellers as had gathered in the passage, attracted to the scene of action by the unusual noise, fled from the house. Like an evil spirit he had come; in like manner he had gone.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               AN UPROAR.
               THE report of the pistol so startled and alarmed Mrs. Sparks that she gave a loud shriek and gasped out, "Oh! oh! we will all be killed! help! help!" and seeing her husband's face covered with a handkerchief, she was at once persuaded that he had already been killed, and continued her cries and lamentations. Crowder had followed Armero as far as the front piazza only to see him disappear in the thick darkness that hung like a curtain over sky and earth, and convinced that pursuit was as impossible as it was likely to prove fruitless, he returned to Mr. and Mrs. Sparks just as the old lady was giving utterance to her loudest cries and groans. By this time the doorway of the room began to be crowded with the travellers, all eager to know the cause of so sudden an awakening in the house, all asking questions of each other—conjecturing, explaining, guessing, exclaiming, in different tones, but all at the same moment. Bostick had in the hurry of awakening rushed into Brown's ample trowsers; Brown had laid violent hands on Scruggs's long-legged pantaloons, and now stepped about in tights that hung well over his feet and almost painfully restrained his stout limbs from freedom of action. Deliberate Mr. Scruggs, finding his own pantaloons gone, had ventured to appear on the scene regardless of the same, and only habited in an under-suit of intensely red flannel, with his head enveloped in a red bandanna to match—a better costume for a Mephistopheles could not well have been chosen, and the tall angular figure of Scruggs looked alarming, appearing at such an hour and in the midst of such a scene as was then being enacted at Holly Tavern.
               Miss Bettie Flinn was suddenly aroused from deep slumber by Elise, who, hearing her mother cry, called out "Oh, Miss Bettie, do wake up! something dreadful has happened. Oh! my dear mamma! what can be the matter?" Thus summoned, Miss Bettie was thoroughly herself in an instant, and catching poor Elise, who was shivering and trembling, in her arms, she kissed her, saying soothingly, "There, be quiet now, child; I will go and see what is the matter. Lie right still now; you can do no good. I will return presently."
               Without taking time to make a light, Miss Bettie hurriedly put on her dressing-gown and slippers, and seizing what she supposed to be her heavy blanket-shawl, appeared at the door of the Sparks room well wrapped in one of Mother Crowder's brightest and most beautiful home-made counterpanes, its ample folds draped about her most gracefully, the many-colored fringe trailing on the floor as she walked. The scene before her eyes was worthy of illustration by the pencil of John Leech in his best days, and had there not been a serious phase of uncertainty about the whole affair, her jolly good-nature would have overcome her on the spot. When the full extent of danger had been ascertained, she could only see the ludicrous side, and ever after could not recall that night without giving way to a merriment unrestrained. Mrs. Sparks was sitting up in bed weeping most piteously, calling her husband and Elise. Fortunately she had snatched the handkerchief from his face and thrown it on the floor, and he was now breathing heavily, which had convinced her that he was at least not dead. Ronald was standing by Mr. Sparks shaking him vigorously, while the blood from a cut on his own neck had dripped down on his clothes until his shirt-bosom was already saturated, every effort made to awaken Mr. Sparks only increasing the flow. Bostick and Brown were endeavoring to soothe Mrs. Sparks as best they could, the former proceeding to prepare for her a spiced dram, while the latter talked encouragingly, much in the following strain:
               "Come now, old lady, don't now; you'll have a fit if you keep on so. Your husband's all right; he'll wake up presently as frisky as a colt." Here Mrs. Sparks shrieked still louder, causing Brown to thrust a finger in each ear and exclaim, "Ding it all! don't now, I can't stand a woman's hollow! I had rather hear a painter screech any time. Please, old woman, don't carry on so."
               Scruggs stood almost petrified at the strange scene, until he caught sight of Ronald's bleeding wound. This aroused him to action, and going up to his side, he said, "You are wounded; go and lie down. Hold that cut together until it can be sewed up; I will attend to Mr. Sparks."
               This was what Miss Betty saw and heard as she entered the room, and her practical mind promptly apprehended the situation and determined what was best to be done under all the circumstances. Going up to Mrs. Sparks, she said firmly, "Lie down, madam; we must raise a window near Mr. Sparks," and turning to Mr. Scruggs, she asked for a mug of water. This brought and the window raised, she proceeded to bathe his face, and soon had the satisfaction of seeing him open his eyes and look wonderingly around, each moment giving evidence of a speedy return to perfect consciousness. Turning again to Mr. Scruggs, she bade him continue bathing Mr. Sparks' face, while she went in search of Mr. Irving, who now needed prompt aid, as he had already grown weak from loss of blood.
               Brown and Bostick had followed Irving out of the room and were assisting him up-stairs, when they came upon the prostrate form of poor Bins, just as Armero had left him lying on the landing. The loss of blood and a sight of Bins were too much for Ronald; fainting, he was borne to his room, and tenderly laid on the bed where only a little while ago in the pride of his strength he had successfully contended with the author of all this mischief. And then the two that had so kindly assisted him hurried to the landing for Bins, brought him up and laid him on the other bed. The Devil's Room was now transformed into a hospital; Miss Bettie, who had a varied experience in such matters, constituting herself head-nurse, while she brought into requisition all the available energies and talent of Brown and Bostick, who solemnly declared that "they never saw such a smart woman as she was in all their born days," and obeyed her every wish with ready hands.
               Seeing the urgent need that would keep her from returning to remain with Elise, Miss Bettie snatched a moment to go down to their room and explain her absence, at the same time assuring the poor child that her parents were well, that no one was seriously hurt, and she might nestle down among the pillows and sleep without fear. On her return Miss Bettie tapped at Mother Crowder's door, and hearing no answering sound, peeped in, only to find that the old lady had rushed into the Sparks room, and was now busy in making the old people comfortable. Touching her gently she whispered, "Mother Crowder, I want some warm water, old linen, lint and bandages, in Mr. Irving's room." The old lady threw up her hands, and in an instant more would have uttered some exclamation of surprise had not Miss Bettie quietly put her finger on her lip, saying, "Hush! don't say anything now; send the things up by Josh, and then look after our little bird in the other room."
               With an effort Mother Crowder repressed her curiosity and held her peace, only whispering, "I'll do it, honey, right away." Miss Bettie knew she would and hastily returned to her post; nor did she wait long before Josh made his appearance, his hands filled with everything thing that she needed for her work, supplemented by a sugar-dish, decanters of wine and brandy, spices, and all the etceteras known only to an old Virginia housewife when emergency calls forth her sympathies and unlocks her store.
               Miss Bettie soon discovered that Ronald's wound was neither deep nor dangerous, only requiring that the cut be carefully stitched and the flow of blood stanched. Her nimble fingers soon accomplished this work; and while she was thus engaged, Bostick lending his assistance, Brown was earnestly endeavoring to restore poor Bins to consciousness, for he had been lying insensible, and thus far gave but feeble signs of returning animation. At last becoming alarmed at the difficulty with which Bins labored in breathing, he exclaimed, "Miss Bettie, this poor fellow's bad off; do hurry up there or he'll die before his turn comes. He can't stand this much longer."
               "Go down stairs, Mr. Brown, and tell Mr. Crowder we must have a surgeon without delay. This poor little German will need more skill than I can command." As she said this Miss Bettie left Ronald, and standing by Bins, was counting his slow and feebly beating pulse.
               "Give him a little dram, Miss Bettie; that will stim-late him up, and I will just run down and see Crowder about the doctor." Brown hurried into the public room, and there found Crowder surrounded by such of the inmates of the house as were not to be found with the Sparks or in the Devil's Room. He had taken off his coat and was now engaged in looking for any trace that Armero's pistol-ball might have left in the region of his ribs; meanwhile he enlarged with energy of voice and excited gesture upon the strange attack and the successful flight of his savage guest.
               "Don't tell me about these queer chaps; not another one will ever stay a night in my house. I knowed the devil was in him, and told Mr. Irving so; but nothin' would do but he must stay here. I took him in just to accommodate Mr. Irving, and he has paid dear enough for his good intentions. When I got to old man Sparks' door I met him thar, all bloody and pantin'; he had fit that man all over his own bed and tracked him down stairs. We went in together, found that rascal piously kneeling down at the foot of the bed just ready to put old man Sparks' chunk out, and the lick I struck at him with my old hickory stick made him turn and shoot at me. As for runnin'—why he darted by both of us like he had been a spirit, and the last I saw of him he was streaking it across the circle in front of the house. There is no use in our trying to catch him, and if he will never come to Holly Tavern again I should be willing to give him a free pass out of the country."
               "Well, Crowder, are you hurt too?" was Brown's first exclamation.
               "No, thank God!—'a miss is as good as a mile.' The ball took quite a plug out'en my coat, vest and shirt, just scraping the skin a little on the outside; no thanks to that chap though, for he shot to kill."
               "Have you a doctor near by, Crowder? Miss Bettie Flinn says she must have one as quick as possible. Poor Bins is in a bad way, all battered up, can't get his breath, and if something is not done for him he will die; and Mr. Irving has a little faintin' spell every now and then."
               "By shot! we are all in a fix; is there anybody in this house perfectly well? Josh, run across the yard to Dr. Sawkins' office and see if he has come back from Squire Bumpass's. If he has, wake him up and tell him for God's sake to hurry over here; we have no less than five patients all waiting for him. Hurry now, Josh."
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               ABOUT DR. SAWKINS. HOW HE WON THE LANDLORD. HIS HANDS FULL.
               WE not unfrequently find in retired country neighborhoods men who surprise us by an exhibition of rare intellect and cultivation, evincing thoroughness in the theory and practice of such profession as they may have chosen, and bestowing upon the scattered and often unappreciative few skill that would in cities or larger towns win fame and fortune. Such a man was our Doctor.
               Not long after the mysterious disappearance of young Hampden Sparks, Burwell Crowder sat on a bright spring morning in his front piazza, watching the flight of a large flock of crows toward one of his newly-planted corn-fields; and just as he had determined to knock the ashes from his pipe and go in pursuit of the marauders, his attention was arrested by the sound of wheels, and looking toward the main road, he saw a gentleman approaching the house, driving a sulky drawn by one of the most beautiful horses he had ever seen.
               The pure white, faultless form of the animal had so attracted his gaze that he quite forgot to address a word to the stranger, and was startled when a gentle, quiet voice said: "Good morning, Sir! Is this Holly Tavern?"
               "I ax your pardon, stranger, but that's a beauty of a horse you are drivin', and I was lookin' at her; but you are right, this is Holly Tavern. Won't you alight?"
               "And you are Mr. Burwell Crowder, I presume?" said the stranger, as he threw his reins on the dashboard and with one long stride reached the ground.
               "That's my name, Sir; what mought your'n be?"
               "Sawkins—Dr. Beverly Sawkins, of Louisa county."
               "By shot, what a name! It ought to have been Sawshins, and then name and trade would a fitted exactly; howsomever, it will do. I never knowed any Sawkinses, but thar was old Dick Beverly up in Lou-i-sa was as good a fellow as ever chawed a quid; any kin of your'n?"
               "Only an uncle, Sir. I have lived in his family since I was a child."
               "Well, Doctor, I'm glad to see ye. Come in, come in! the sun is gettin' a little warm, and it's just the weather to get the bilious if you don't take good care; these doctors are mighty resky though, and folks tell me they don't take much of their own physic. But that's all right; if they get sick they can experiment on themselves, and physic don't cost 'em much, as they buy it wholesale."
               By this time the Doctor had seated himself in one of the large split-bottom arm-chairs that for many months in the year are conveniently left about in the piazza, and while he fanned himself with a turkey-wing that Josh had brought him, and drank a cool goblet of water from the old mossy well-bucket, he continued to draw our landlord out, talking only so much as was necessary to reach the information he desired to obtain.
               "You don't seem to think much of doctors, I see," he said, after Burwell had for some time spoken freely of them and their successes and failures in his part of the country.
               "We-ll no, Doctor. You see I don't pret-tend to know much about the craft; but most of these young fellows that go to the mill yonder in the nor'ard and come out ready-made doctors, shouldn't come to see my lame nag down in the meadow. Don't misjudge me, Doctor; a good doctor is a God's blessin' to any neighborhood. I'm only blastin' these quacks that are no more fitten to physic folks than Josh is to be a justice of the peace."
               "How many doctors have you living in the county?"
               "Well, let me see. Thar's that young sprig Hanks; he was made a doctor in two year after he quit drivin' shoe-pegs. Then thar's another one over in the fur end of the county who used to have a blacksmith's shop, and first begun physic by pullin' teeth. There are two more of that sort, and then you come to old Doctor Wilkes, who is the only one of the whole lot in the county that is worth a durn, and he lives fifteen miles away from here."
               "How would you like to have a doctor settle here, Mr. Crowder?"
               "Why, you are as young as any of them other fellows, Doctor."
               "That may be, Sir; but a man must be judged by the quality of his brain, not by his age."
               "That's the right talk; and if you can resk it, Doctor, I can. I've got a blacksmith's and a wheelwright's shop; here's as good a tavern as the country affords, and if I only had a doctor's shop and a store, by shot if Holly Tavern wouldn't be somewhere!"
               "I have been looking around for several months, Mr. Crowder, and this is the only place that I have seen giving so much promise at the start. We will talk a little more about it after dinner, and it is very probable that you may have my company at Holly Tavern for a good long time." Then abruptly changing the subject, he said: "You are very fond of horses, are you not? I judged so from your admiration of my mare a while ago."
               "Horses! horses! Now, Doctor, can you talk any account about horses? Did you pick out that mare, or did your money just buy the best that could be found?"
               "I selected that mare from a full stable in Richmond with due regard to all her qualities, and I must say, Mr. Crowder, that you may find purer blood, but a better animal never!"
               Burwell here slapped the Doctor on the shoulder, exclaiming: "You'll do; by shot if you haven't got common sense as well as book-larnin'! Come, we've got half an hour before dinner, and I want you to see the prettiest nag, except your'n, you ever saw, only she's gone lame, and I'm afeard she'll get no better."
               A walk of a few hundred yards across an orchard in full blossom brought them to the edge of the pasture. Crossing a stile, they were soon standing on the margin of a beautiful brook, its clear sparkling water rippling over a bed of white and yellow gravel, the soothing sound seeming to lull to repose a group of cattle that had first sought a hearty breakfast on this spot where the grass was richest and most temptingly green, and now with a satisfied air were lying on the sward, as if nothing could induce them to move. At a little distance down the meadow several mares and young colts were grazing, and not far from them the Doctor's eye discovered Burwell Crowder's pride, a chestnut-brown mare of medium size and delicate form, every action as she limped along betokening blood, and a spirit that was only curbed by her infirmity.
               With a keen whistle Burwell brought the halting favorite to his side; and as she familiarly thrust her nose into one of his capacious pockets in search of the fragments of bread or lumps of sugar with which she was usually rewarded, he exclaimed: "Poor Beauty! Doctor, it's a world's pity to have such an animal as this ruined; and I'll tell you what I'll do: if you will cure Beauty I will build you an office in the yard, rent free as long as you choose to stay; and if you get married, or if you are already married, I'll board your wife for nothin'. Come now!"
               The Doctor carefully examined the case, Beauty was cured, the landlord's heart was won, the office was built. For many years they had dwelt together, and although Burwell exercised much influence over his friend, and had urged him to marry, to-night when Josh seeks his services for the travellers at Holly Tavern we find him still a bachelor, devoted to his profession, his horses and his dogs, even growing gray without once having loved. His tall thin frame had even grown thinner as he advanced into middle life; and the exposure and hard riding incident to a country physician's practice, while it sobered even more his quiet manner, did not destroy a fountain of dry humor that seemed to his friends inexhaustible, and his pranks were the talk of the neighborhood.
               The Doctor's shop, as everybody called it, was to the negroes and children of the surrounding country a terrible place. In its vicinity numbers of ghosts had been seen, searching, it was supposed, to see if ownership could be established to a certain skeleton that stood near a front window and rattled its finger-bones at passers-by whenever ever the wind blew. Mysterious bottles, containing fluids of many colors, were arranged on a tier of shelves in another window; red pill-boxes with white bottoms, jars with nauseous drugs, sheets of cork, and then that beautiful case with all those ugly knives and saws. Sometimes late in the night a loud explosion would be heard, or some unusual sound; and whether it was traceable directly to the Doctor or not, even though it could be proven that he had been making no experiments on that particular occasion, many passers-by were ready to affirm that they always smelt brimstone there, and the shop remained to all the uninitiated a terra incognita, while its owner was believed by them to be much more than any ordinary human.
               "I always hates to come to dis shop, specially of nights," muttered Josh, as he trotted off across the yard as quickly as if it was his greatest delight to go. "Mass Sawkins always got some hid-gous thing or nother to skeer folks. Dar, I hear dem finger-bones rattle now; and de smell of dat shop! Well, it ain't worth while to talk."
               With quick, nervous knock and a loud call he soon aroused the Doctor from his first nap, his delight at having company in so dark a place being evident in the growing cheerfulness of his voice as he delivered his master's message.
               "Who did you say was sick, Josh?"
               "Oh, Doctor, we has seen an awful time over at de Tavern to-night. A stranger come dere a little afore midnight and ax for lodgin'; Mass Burwell let him stay, and put him to sleep in de Devil's Room wid two stage-passengers. He cut one of dem in de throat, flung t'other one downstars, and he haven't spoke a word since—"
               "That is a bad business, Josh."
               "Dat ain't all, Mass Sawkins!"
               "Nothing worse than that, I hope!"
               "Oh, yes, Sir, worse dan dat. After doin' all de damage he could in de Devil's Room, he went into nother room where an old gentleman and his wife were asleep, and tried to pizen dem. Mass Burwell tracked him dere, and when he had him cornered why he just shot a hole in his coat as big as your fist, run out of de house, and de Lord knows whar he is now! Den dere is a poor little lady as purty as a pictur who was knocked outen de ferry-boat dis evenin' and most drownded; she needs lookin' arter, so you'll have your hands full, Mass Sawkins, sure."
               During this recital the Doctor busied himself in dressing and gathering together such articles as he usually needed in an emergency, and now all ready he slung his saddle-bags over his arm, and following Josh through the darkness and by the sound of his voice, for the old African kept up a constant volley of conversation, he was soon ushered into the public room.
               "Never so glad to see you in my life, Doctor; everybody in the house wants you," was Crowder's first salutation.
               "Josh told me there had been ugly work here to-night. Are you hurt, Crowder?"
               "No; it's the nearest miss you ever saw. But come along up stairs, and you can go to work with your tools in five minutes."
               Mother Crowder and Miss Bettie had found much to employ their hands and sympathies since their sudden waking up. Mr. Sparks had been made comfortable; his wife, although enfeebled by the shock in body and nerves, had been soothed by an anodyne and the gentle attentions of such good nurses, and was now sleeping sweetly. Elise received more than one visit from them which comforted and cheered her in the midst of a loneliness peculiarly trying; but she insisted, with an unselfish earnestness that made her true character shine as pure gold, that they should leave her to the tender care of the old colored nurse Aunt Phillis, while they returned to those who needed them "more than she did."
               "Indeed, Miss Bettie, you must go now," she said, as her friend ran into their room for a moment to see if she was asleep.
               "Why, child, I have only just come in; won't you let me sit down and rest? I am almost out of breath."
               "But I am getting on very well, and they need you so. I want you ever so much, but cannot, dare not, be selfish now."
               "Poor little girl! how brave you are, and how disinterested too! I think a large share of your they means he."
               "Oh, Miss Bettie, how can you!" and the pale face, beautiful in its pallor and the wanness produced by a few hours of intense excitement and suffering, now became bright with a crimson glow and disappeared between the pillows. A woman, and yet a child in the ways of the world, Elise only knew that something had been written on the first opening leaf of her life-history, now begun in earnest. What it was she had not even read, and she feared Miss Bettie's practical eye would read it before she did, and get at what every young heart would keep undisclosed. With Miss Bettie it was only a random shot, made to arouse Elise, aimed so that as a piece of pleasantry it should make her forget present suffering, and drawing her out of herself, cause a return of something like her natural flow of spirits. She quickly discovered that Elise was suffering then more than even her practical eye had been aware of, and needed soothing more than raillery. She saw too that her words had touched a tender spot, and her little friend, to say the least, was deeply interested in the fate of him to whom she already owed the preservation of her life. So she determined to change her tactics by relieving Elise of the suspicion that she really thought what she had said, and at the same time endeavored to relieve her of all anxiety in behalf of the sufferers.
               Leaning over, she caught Elise's glowing cheeks between her plump palms and kissed her quivering lips, saying: "Don't mind my jokes, little one; you will keep heart-free as I have, and we'll set up an Old Maids' establishment together, won't we? But you must keep your bright eyes and roses; roses all the time, without blushes every time anybody happens to mention the name of a very clever young man. I must take you in hand and train you. Ah, there come the blushes again; did you ever! Elise, you don't know how well everybody is getting on in the house. Let me tell you. Your dear papa and mamma are sleeping as sweetly as if nothing had happened; Mr. Crowder had only a hole shot in his clothes, and is not hurt a bit; Mr. Irving received a cut neither deep nor dangerous on his throat, and is now as bright and happy as he can be—and you know he can be. Poor Mr. Bins is the only one badly hurt, and the doctor is expected every moment. There, he is coming now. Good night! and go to sleep, little one. Take good care of her, Aunt Phillis; I must go and see if I am needed up stairs."
               Doctor Sawkins entered the Devil's Room, accompanied by Crowder, just as Miss Bettie reached the door, finding Mother Crowder there alone, for she had sent all the gentlemen away, and had with Miss Bettie's aid in the moments she had not been occupied down stairs put everything in order, kindled a new fire, and by a touch here and there of dexterous fingers given a brightness to all the room peculiarly gratifying not only to the eye of a sufferer, but cheering to his physician.
               A glance at Ronald, an examination of the cut, a nod of approbation at the manner in which it had been closed, the state of his pulse—it was all done with a quiet precision that inspired confidence; and when he said in a gentle undertone, "He will soon be all right," every one in the room felt that he would.
               No one spoke as he walked over to where poor Bins was lying insensible and scarcely breathing. There was a silence, the fruit of sympathy and earnest solicitude; so they only followed the Doctor and stood around the bed, ready to help, waiting to hear. Turning to the ladies, he said: "You will please retire. You may be needed again, but not immediately, and you had better try and sleep; you are both in need of rest."
               Mother Crowder knew her doctor well, and said to Miss Bettie: "Come on, honey, he's goin' to search through and through that case, and won't need us." They quietly withdrew, not, however, until the old lady had told the Doctor in a stage-whisper: "I'll come back by-and-bye, just to see how he is, poor creatur!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               RESTING AT HOLLY TAVERN. FRIENDSHIPS GROW.
               BEAUTIFULLY the next morning dawned after a dark and stormy night; all the clouds had disappeared, the sun beamed forth in splendor, reflecting its rays in thousands of crystal drops that hung on twig and russet leaf; every spire of grass was set with diamonds, and field and forest were alike radiant with nature's dress and garniture. With the earliest glow in the east the household of our worthy landlord was astir as if no unusual commotion had robbed them of a night's rest. Mother Crowder was bustling around in dining-room and kitchen; Burwell was equally busy in barnyard and stable; and Johnny Conklin, with his usual energy, was looking well to the comfort of his trusty team preparatory to an early departure with such of his passengers as should be inclined to resume their journey. In the dim morning light he stumbled against Crowder in the stable, with "Pardon, your Honor: top o' the mornin' to ye."
               "Ho, Johnny, is that you? I thought in the mêlee last night you had taken to the woods."
               "Now, Misther Crowder, did ye ever know an Irishman to run away from a fight? I've been grieving iver since it all happened that I didn't have a chance, and as I didn't, why like a Christian man I went to sleep. How are all the wounded?"
               "Well, Mr. Irving gets on well enough, and will soon be bran new; but the doctor says Bins is very badly hurt, and it's a touch-and-go business with him. His spine and head are badly con-cussed, and his shoulder all knocked outen place; he was at work on him all of the night that was left. I come straight from thar down to the stable, and he was only just beginning to revive a little bit. It's a bad business, Johnny."
               "Indade it is, sure. That new lodger was the divil's own, if he warn't the divil himself; nothin' but a silver bullit will iver kill him, and for the love of peace I hope he'll niver come by Holly Tavern any more. And how are the owld folks, and swate Miss Sparks, Misther Crowder?"
               "A little the worse for the last night's adventures, gettin' on comfortable-like; but they are not up to the travellin' point, and the doctor says they must rest at least a week before they undertake it."
               "An' did that wretch try to pizen the owld folks, sure enough?"
               "The doctor says that is the strangest part of the whole business. The fellow used some new kind of truck that even the doctors don't know much about yet: it makes a man snore powerful; and if that handkercher had stayed long on the old man's face, Sawkins thinks he would a waked up in a better country than this. In the scuffle it was thrown on the floor, and a little fresh air and pure water soon fotch him round."
               "I'll tell ye, Misther Crowder, the divil is a docthor, deals in brimstone an' the like, and he and his'n know all about sich things afore our docthors find 'em out."
               "That may be, Johnny; I'll ask Sawkins about it—he knows. But there is the bell; s'pose we go to breakfast." The subdued manner of every one at the breakfast-table was in strange contrast with that of the merry party there the night before. Questions were asked and answered in low tones, earnest and sympathetic inquiries were made as to the condition of each sufferer, and there was in every face a troubled look. The meal was one of duty, not enjoyment; they ate because they needed sustenance, and getting through with it was rather a matter of congratulation than otherwise.
               The stage was now before the door, and three of the passengers felt constrained to pursue their journey, as engagements of a pressing nature urged them forward. Mr. Scruggs was expected in Washington city at an early date; his word had been given, and he desired to be true to his character for punctuality. Messrs. Bostick and Brown "regretted to leave their companions in such a plight, 'specially poor Bins, who was their neighbor, and as good a little Dutchman as ever lived," but "business was business, and wouldn't wait for them, so they must hurry on to Richmond, hoping he would be well again by the time they came back."
               Ronald was already late in returning to the University, having been detained at home that he might assist his father in overlooking the operations on a large plantation at the most important season of the year. He well knew that his time and energies would be fearfully taxed to recover the ground he had already lost, to make up on that part of the course already gone over, and thus place him where he had stood the previous term, among the first. He knew and fully realised it all, but determined that he would not leave poor Bins, the almost friendless foreigner, until the question of life or death was decided. He only knew that he was a stranger, a sufferer, and although he lived in another county many miles away, he was his neighbor.
               Miss Bettie Flinn was journeying to Richmond on a visit to a married brother. She was in no haste, and her tender loving heart could not consent to leave even these friends of a day or two in a suffering condition. A scene of mutual peril in the ferry-boat, and all she had witnessed the night before, were as cords that seemed to draw her nearer to them; and when she announced her intention of remaining with them, and came to tell Elise, the pale face flushed again, she clasped her arms around Miss Bettie's neck, and wept her thanks. Noble tender hearts are like bright warm sunny days in winter; although the season is cold, and we may expect chilling blasts for weeks together, still the sunny days will come, to break the icy bands and make the water flow. They will come, to keep our house-plants from dwindling, to cheer us with their promise that spring is not far away, and to tell us that all the world is not a dreary winter, bound up in ice and mantled in snow and nipping frost. Yes, the warm generous natures we meet in a life-time of toil and trial are like streams of pure water in the desert; they make everything around them feel something of their inspiration, and our clouds grow brighter, burthens lighter, because they have touched them, even though it only be with a kind word or a sympathetic look.
               
               Although differing in many respects, there were strong points of resemblance between impetuous, high-minded, noble, generous Ronald Irving, and his more settled but equally spirited and unselfish friend, Miss Bettie. They seemed to understand and to be mutually drawn toward each other, and were equally delighted that they were to share in the labor of watching poor Bins. It is true that Ronald for a day or two was a little weak, and not unfrequently would allow Miss Bettie or Mother Crowder to do the larger share of the watching and waiting, but he was not long in recovering strength and spirits, and then proved a most valuable help; Miss Bettie often telling Elise that "a sight of Mr. Irving's bright face was a luxury in a sick-room."
               Mr. and Mrs. Sparks were soon so far recovered that they could seek the sunshine on warm days, and might be seen walking around the circle arm-in-arm, or seated in the large arm-chairs on the front piazza. They were a little uneasy about Elise, who still kept her room, although the Doctor assured them that she had only caught cold from being thrown into the river, and gave evidence of no symptoms that would not be speedily relieved by time and remedies. Fortunately the blow on her side, at first painful, yielded readily to treatment, the color began to come back to her cheeks, and so astonishing was her appetite one morning that Miss Bettie exclaimed: "Bless the dear child! another cup of tea? Certainly you shall! and after breakfast you may put on your sweetest dress and receive a visitor."
               "No, Miss Bettie, not yet."
               "Yes, Miss Elise, you are strong enough, and a visit from Mr. Ronald will be worth two from the Doctor, I can tell you. We will just fix up our room a little more sitting-room fashion, and let him come right in."
               "Miss Bettie, I look such a fright, with my red nose, pale cheeks and watery-looking eyes, please, please don't bring him this morning!"
               "Don't say another word, little darling; the poor fellow has begged hard to see you for two days. I have had him on his good behavior all that time, with the promise that he should see you to-day if you continued to improve; so when I tell him what a breakfast came into this room, and how little was left to be carried out, he will certainly hold me to my promise."
               "Now, Miss Bettie, don't say anything about that breakfast; I am quite ashamed of it. Promise me you will not, and you may bring him."
               Elise felt herself clasped tenderly by loving arms, and between the kisses freely given on her lips and glowing cheeks she could hear Miss Bettie exclaiming: "Nonsense, you dear little goose!"
               It was a happy moment to Ronald when Miss Bettie's bright face peered into the doorway that morning to inquire as usual after Bins. Seeing that the sufferer was still asleep, she whispered softly, for the Doctor was there: "My lady is at home to-day, and Mr. Ronald may call at eleven." Then turning, she noticed for the first time that there was a decided change for the worse in the patient. The smile faded from her countenance, a tear gathered in each eye, and through the mist she watched the grave and troubled look of the Doctor as he applied cold cloths to the hot and pain-stricken head, and watched keenly each symptom of the case.
               "How is he, Doctor?" she ventured to ask.
               "Worse, Miss."
               "Is it a very decided change for the worse?"
               "Yes; my fears are being realised. It is only a question of how long before he passes away. Don't mention this, please, as it will do no good to have it talked of. Mr. Crowder knows it, and has sent for his wife and child."
               "You may trust me, Sir, and I hope I may be of service."
               "You have been already, Miss Flinn, as Mr. Irving can testify; but you will be needed most in watching over and cheering up the old people and Miss Elise. Mrs. Sparks is very feeble, and her daughter is still weak and nervous; keep them as bright as you can."
               "Poor little stranger!" sobbed Miss Bettie, as she turned to leave the room. "Doctor, a brave spirit will have passed away from earth when he is gone."
               Ronald was a silent listener to this conversation, and for some time after Miss Bettie had gone stood by the bed with folded arms, his chest heaving with emotion, his whole frame quivering. He knew it was a critical case, but had not realised the danger. At last he made an effort to control his voice, and asked, "Doctor, is there no hope?"
               "None, Mr. Irving. Congestion is setting in; he will soon be past feeling pain."
               "Doctor, this man is dying in my defence; I would give all I ever hope to possess to restore him to his family."
               "No human skill can do that, Sir. His injuries were so serious that I had little hope from the first, but this morning decides the case; we can only wait and see him die."
               The strong young man bowed his head and wept. They were manly tears, wrung by the sight of another's suffering, from brave eyes that knew not what it was to fear the face of man.
               "Come, Mr. Irving," said the Doctor, who witnessed with evident sympathy Ronald's emotion; "you need exercise and fresh air. I shall be here, unless called away professionally, all the morning. You must go out and take a walk; go down into the meadow, along that little stream, and see Mr. Crowder's stock. The sight will do you good, and the cool morning breeze will refresh you."
               Ronald looked at his watch; it was just ten o'clock. He had time for a good walk before eleven, and thanking the Doctor for his kind advice, he crept languidly out of the room. As he went down the steps he heard the Doctor call to him "Faster than that! Walk like you had some life in you, man, or your blood won't circulate."
               Miss Bettie returned to Elise after hearing the condition of Bins with a sad heart, although she had wiped away all traces of tears, and her face had regained the sunny smile so sweet to see, her voice the cheerful tone that so brightened up all around her. She found Mr. and Mrs. Sparks seated on the side of the bed, each holding one of Elise's hands, and vieing with each other in words of tenderness and love. Elise looked quite like herself; there was returning health in her color, and her deep blue eyes were sparkling as if illuminated by a new light. A glance at the tableau and Miss Bettie exclaimed, "This is all very fine for a picture, but my little lady must get out of that bed and dress to receive company. You dear old people will pet and spoil her to death."
               Mrs. Sparks here began a protest. "No, no! the darling child is not strong enough to receive company, Miss Bettie. Do let the lamb rest; she looks ill now."
               "Ill indeed! Now isn't that funny, Elise?" A merry laugh was her answer, and Miss Bettie continued: "Now, good Papa and Mamma, listen! Miss Elise has an engagement to receive a visitor at eleven; it is nearly ten, and she expects to make an elaborate toilet. Mamma may remain, but Papa would feel better if he took a walk."
               The old gentleman smiled, and rising began to shuffle towards the door with the aid of his cane, saying with a hearty chuckle as he went out: "You always have your way, Miss Bettie; but pray who is the visitor expected?"
               "Mr. Irving, Sir!"
               His reply was a loud "Ahem!" as he walked out on the piazza.
               A soft, clear shade of blue was very becoming to Elise. Girls always know their becoming color, and with what dainty fingers they put on the little adornments that match dress, complexion and style, so that the tout ensemble shall be dangerously complete. When we say that Elise looked lovely in her blue merino and pretty morning collar clasped with a Florentine mosaic of forget-me-not's, with her shining hair bound only with a band of ribbon and flowing about her shoulders, we utter only faint praise. The little touch of languor in the tone of her voice, the movements of her lithe figure, and expression of her soft eye, would have made even a stranger feel tenderly towards her; and when the last touch was given, the spray of geranium and a pink rosebud twined in her hair, we do not blame Mamma for exclaiming as she patted her on the cheek: "My darling lamb!"
               Miss Bettie caught her tenderly in her arms, and sitting down, caressed her as if she had been a little child, between her kisses saying: "There now, you look touchingly delicate, languishingly lovely, and as bright as a peach-blossom. Let Mr. Ronald take care."
               There was a knock at the door. Miss Bettie said "Come in!" and he of whom she had been speaking made his appearance, inquiring as he walked into the room: "Was it good or bad, Miss Bettie, I heard you speak of me a moment since?"
               "Did you hear all I said, Mr. Irving?"
               "No indeed, I only heard 'Ronald' as I came up to knock at the door." Here he paused to congratulate Elise and her mother that they were looking so well, and to thank them for having permitted him to call. Mrs. Sparks was gracious even to cordiality, and the lighting up of Elise's face showed that the pleasure of the visit was not all on one side.
               "I suppose you have no thanks for me," said Miss Bettie, with mock dignity. "All you see and enjoy, Sir, is due to my clever management and dainty fingers," holding up her plump round digits; "and now I have a mind to tell what I did say just before you came in. Shall I, Elise?"
               Elise blushed, and reaching out her hand, laid a finger on Miss Bettie's lips. Not to have her flow of fun so easily stopped, Miss Bettie successfully dodged out of reach, and continued: "Make most profound thanks instantly, Mr. Irving, or I will tell how hard somebody begged—"
               
               "Now, Miss Bettie!" exclaimed Elise.
               "Yes, begged to—"
               "Miss Bettie, I wish I was strong enough to hold your teasing lips a little while."
               "And what shall I do?" said Ronald. "Thank you, Miss Bettie? No, I can't, for all your kindness; therefore I won't undertake it now. So tell me what Miss Elise begged so hard about."
               "It was all vanity, Mr. Irving; you know what the Preacher said about it. Well, the fact is she begged me not to let you come in this morning, and—"
               "Do stop now, Miss Bettie!" pleaded Elise.
               "And you couldn't tell if you were to try a hundred times how I gained her consent."
               Ronald noticed Elise's growing embarrassment, and came to the rescue by saying: "I am too thankful for the consent to quarrel with the means of gaining it, so will not insist on your telling, Miss Bettie."
               That morning hour, spent in congenial, pleasant talk, passed quickly away, and when Ronald arose to go he felt that it had been the briefest and happiest of his life, and begged that he might renew it each day of their sojourn at Holly Tavern.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               A SAD EVENT. A HOME FOR THE HOMELESS.
               THE top carry-all, containing Mrs. Binswanger and little Elfie, drew near to Holly Tavern. Poor woman! the past three days had been dark and gloomy to her, for the messenger brought her no hope that her husband would recover. She might even now find him buried out of her sight; may have only come to the spot where it all happened, to realise that she was a widow indeed, and her little one fatherless, friendless. She had seen better days in the "Vaterland," if one might judge from her gentle manner and refined look; and to many in the part of Virginia in which they lived it was a matter of wonder that she had chosen Bins as a husband, for in her youth she must have had many suitors, and even now was a handsome woman. Let her tear-stained cheeks and sad face now bear witness that she loved him with a true wifely devotion; and our story may tell before its ending more of her life.
               As the vehicle stopped in front of the piazza, Mother Crowder and Burwell came out; the old lady with tears and tremulous voice bidding her visitor welcome, while her husband assisted her to get out, and taking Elfie in his arms, tenderly carried her into the house.
               "My husband, Mrs. Crowder?" was all a full heart would permit her to say.
               Mother Crowder put her arm around the trembling woman, and said in sympathetic tone, "Come and see him."
               The Doctor, Ronald and Miss Bettie were watching by the fast failing patient as the wife and little Elfie, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. Crowder, came in. He was almost gone; and as the glow of a beautiful autumn sunset lit up the room with a tinge of mellow light, his face began to wear the peaceful expression of painless death. With a hopeless wail his wife knelt by his side, while little Elfie, a big tear in each of her large brown eyes, looked wonderingly around. At last seeing her father, she lisped, "Oh, this is my fadder! Wake up and kiss Elfie, fad-der!" There was not a dry eye around the bed as poor Bins slept the sleep that knows no waking until the dawn of the Great Day. Although a few days before he had been a stranger to all those who had tenderly watched over him in his last moments, their sorrow now was as that of one for the loss of a friend, and their efforts to comfort the wife and child were touching to witness.
               At last Miss Bettie, ever thoughtful of others, whispered to one and another until one by one they disappeared from the room, and the widow and orphan were left alone with their dead, that they might weep and talk tenderly to each other and to him, where none but the Father of the fatherless and Husband of the widow could hear. It was a sight to melt hard hearts and stony eyes to see that poor woman bending over her lost one, and in piteous voice crying, "Oh, Simon, my husband! what shall I do? What will become of darling Elfie?" And as putting her arms around the little one, she clasped her closer to her heart, saying, "Poor Elfie! Poor Elfie! Fadder will never wake for Elfie any more."
               The child looked earnestly at the still form of "Fadder"; then patting her mother's cheeks with both her little hands, she sobbed, "Oh, Mudder, Fadder will wake. He will wake for Elfie; it's night now."
               
               "No, darling, he will not wake here; 'fadder' is in heaven."
               "Wis God, Mudder?"
               "Yes, little one; God has taken him from 'Mudder' and little Elfie."
               "God will have to be my Fadder den, Mudder," and the child, smiling through her tears, leaned over and kissed the lips now sealed in death, saying, "Sleep, Fadder, sleep! God will wake you up, and He will take care of Mudder and little Elfie too."
               The news of the sad event at Holly Tavern was soon known for miles around, and the day of the funeral witnessed such a gathering of the neighbors as had not been seen for a long time. Many came from curiosity, but the greater part from an earnest desire to show their sympathy for the widow and the little orphan, and to condemn the lawlessness by which they had been bereaved. Poor Bins was borne to his last resting-place in the shade of the great cedars in the Holly Tavern graveyard, by the hands of Ronald, the Doctor, Burwell Crowder, and three of the neighbors. The grave was filled and shaped by friends who took a sad and loving interest in it all, and at its head Ronald planted a weeping willow selected with his own hands.
               In strange contrast with this is a city funeral of the present day, where the true mourners may be found in one or more carriages near the hearse, while most of those in the procession chat pleasantly as they journey towards the grave's mouth; even the drivers valuing the life of the deceased by the profit in his death, and driving as gaily from his burial as if returning from a bridal. The simple country funeral; the utterances of the dignified old man of God as he sought to draw comfort from affliction, and to point out to those around him "the more excellent way"; the genuine-heartedness of it all, could not fail to take fast hold of the people, and many of those present came out from the shade of the cedars wiser and better men and women. They lived to tell their children of that day, and to point out to them the green mound wherein slept Simon Bins until God should wake him up. Thus are the graves of those cut off in the midst of useful days made to serve as silent finger-boards along life's highway, helping to point the weary feet that patter after to the only certain way, to be in readiness for the sudden or gradual inevitable that may be waiting for us at any turn in the road.
               The days of resting nearly over, our travellers were making their plans for an early departure from Holly Tavern. Mr. and Mrs. Sparks are now quite as strong as when they had arrived there; and although Elise could not be considered well, she was able to travel, and, the Doctor thought, would soon regain her strength under the influence of new scenes and healthful change. Ronald still wore his bandages, but suffered no great inconvenience from his wound; and he too was ready and anxious now to resume the journey toward Richmond, while Miss Bettie was only waiting for the good company of her friends.
               The afternoon before their departure was bright and mild—just one of those autumn days we so often see in our climate as the Indian summer in all its hazy beauty is dawning upon us. It was a day too beautiful to be spent in-doors; so while Mother Crowder took her rocking-chair and knitting out into the yard, where Miss Bettie, Mrs. Sparks and Elise joined her, Ronald and Burwell left old Mr. Sparks to his after-dinner nap, and walked down into the meadow and across the fields where the gatherers were busy in the corn-harvest. Ronald wanted a quiet talk with Burwell about the widow and little Elfie, and as they walked along he opened the subject, only to find that Burwell's noble heart was as full of it as his own.
               "I wanted to have a little talk with you, Mr. Burwell," he said, "about Mrs. Bins and little Elfie."
               "Did you? By shot! if I warn't thinkin' about 'em that very minute. What about 'em?"
               "Well, you see it is just as I expected. I have talked with her, and find that Bins was poor. Only a year or two ago he bought a little home with a few acres of land from Mr. Bostick, but the title is withheld until all the money is paid; he had only made two payments, amounting to five hundred dollars, and owed at least five hundred dollars more. He had a little store, and was making a comfortable living out of that and the farm, gradually being enabled to pay off his debt. Now, Mr. Crowder, the poor woman is left homeless, you may say."
               "No, Sir, Mr. Irving, not while the roof's on Holly Tavern."
               "You know, Mr. Crowder, I consider myself bound by every consideration of honor and duty to see that Mrs. Bins and her child are taken care of: he died in my defence. I only meant to say that she would be homeless as far as her title to her present home is concerned. In talking with her this morning I wanted to know her plans, and if she preferred remaining at the old place. She did not think the store would support her and pay off the debt under her own management, and seemed still so staggered by her sad blow that she had not been able to decide what it was best for her to do. I told her that it would be my privilege to see that she never wanted a friend, and only desired by my questions to find out what her wishes were, and how I could best be of use to her now. Mr. Crowder, I have seen gratitude in many forms, but I shall never forget that poor woman's look of thanks through her blinding tears while I live."
               "I hain't a doubt," said Crowder, as he blew a fearful blast with his red bandanna; "but, Mr. Irving, it's God's poor that knows what thankfulness is. It's few folks that's got money and live above the common people, that are ever thankful to God or man. But I'm glad you told me all this about Mrs. Bins; I'd been a thinkin' about her and makin' plans in my own head, but you may tell your'n first."
               "I'm ready to help her, Mr. Crowder, but had not determined the best way. If she desired still to live at her old home, it was my intention to pay Mr. Bostick the balance due on the place, make her a clear title to it, and then see that she lived comfortably, and that Elfie was well educated; thank God, my means are such as to enable me to do this. She expresses no desire to return permanently to her old home, and I have been thinking, but am not yet decided as to what is best under all the circumstances."
               "Well, I can tell ye, Mr. Irving. My old woman had a long talk with me about it all last night, and she wants Mrs. Bins and the little chick to stay here. Our darter Polly is now goin' to boardin'-school in Richmond; the old woman is not so spry as she used to be, and needs some one to shorten her steps. There ain't a white child about the place; and drat a place, I say, whar thar's no child'en! Sawkins, he never would get married, and never will, I'm thinkin'. So I believe it will be the jolliest fun to have that little Dutch gal rattlin' around the house, and we will just let Mrs. Bins play house-keeper-like, you know,—and pay her a little somethin' in money, besides her board, so as she may feel independent. What do you think of that?"
               "A most admirable plan; do you think she would like it?"
               "Yes, I think she would. The old woman kinder hinted at it to her just afore dinner."
               "Suppose, then, we walk back to the house and talk it all over with Mrs. Crowder and Mrs. Bins; the sooner it is decided the better, Mr. Crowder."
               Within an hour after their return to the house it was arranged that Holly Tavern should be the future home of the widow and orphan; and when Ronald joined the ladies out in the yard, it was with a lighter heart, for he knew that in executing his self-imposed task he had found valuable helpers in the landlord and Mother Crowder.
               As usual, Miss Bettie was teazing Elise, the poor child's face not being able to recover from one flush before it would be followed by another of even deeper hue. Mother Crowder heard Miss Bettie's merry laugh and noticed Elise's embarrassment, as she came with Ronald to rejoin the group, so was not long in coming to the rescue.
               "Now, Miss Bettie Flinn, haven't you anything else to do but teaze that poor child? Here, take my knittin' and narrer that heel for me. Elise, you go along, honey, and take a walk with Mr. Irving; it'll do you good."
               "I had just come for you, Miss Elise," said Ronald; "get your hat now, and I will take you such a beautiful walk."
               "My child, you are not strong enough to walk," said the anxious mamma.
               "Never fear, Mrs. Sparks, Elise can walk, and must walk," said Mother Crowder. "Who ever heard of walkin' hurtin' anybody, 'specially a young gal? Go along, honey."
               Elise really needed the exercise, and was nothing loth to take it in such agreeable company; so, kissing mamma until she said, "Yes, my child," she tripped gaily into the house and soon returned with hat and shawl.
               Little Elfie had been romping with "Crowdy," as she called Burwell, down by the well, but looking up just as Ronald and Elise were leaving the yard, she rushed off after them and begged to go too; so Ronald took her little hand in his and let her skip along by his side, listening to the music of her prattle even while he continued his conversation with Elise.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               WARRIOR'S REST. A LITTLE GLIMPSE. PARTINGS.
               THERE was a path leading out from the orchard through the meadow and up a rather abrupt ascent, until it reached a wooded knoll that commanded a view of Holly Tavern and a beautiful stretch of the surrounding country, with here and there a farm-house in the distance. It was to this spot, only about half a mile distant from the house, that Ronald led the way, and as the ascent grew a little steeper he gave Elise his arm and gently lifted the little one by her hand over the hardest places. On the summit there was a huge boulder of granite, one side of it deeply embedded in the earth, while the other projected over the side of the knoll in the direction of the meadow, and from below presented the appearance of being suspended in the air. Its top surface was tabular, affording room for a large party to sit comfortably; and the attractiveness of the spot had made it a famous resort for pic-nics and other gatherings of the young folks in the neighborhood for generations past. By dint of exertion almost too much for Elise's strength, the summit was reached, and quite exhausted, she gladly sat down to rest. For an instant Ronald left her with little Elfie and disappeared from view, taking the direction they came.
               "Where is he gone, Miss Elise?" said the child, as she looked and listened for the sound of his feet. Before Elise could reply, Ronald re-appeared, bearing a leathern hunting-cup filled with cool water from a spring near by.
               "You look so tired, Miss Elise, I fear it was too much to ask of you to take this walk, but I wanted you to see this view so much. Take a draught of this cool water, perhaps it will refresh you."
               "It is very kind of you, Mr. Irving, to think of the little things that make one comfortable. This water is better than a cordial. I shall soon get over my fatigue, and can then enjoy this charming scene. You seem quite familiar with this spot, and it ought to have a romantic name."
               "Oh, so it has! It is called 'Warrior's Rest,' and it has borne that name for a great many years."
               "How very pretty, too; and I suppose there is a story connected with it if we only knew all about it."
               "Yes, there is a story, an old Indian legend, and I can tell you of it, for although I live a day's journey from here, I am quite familiar with this part of the country."
               Little Elfie here clapped her hands and sung out "A story! a story! do tell us about the Injins!" while Elise in a more quiet way gave expression to a desire to hear the legend of "Warrior's Rest."
               "The story is not a long one, Miss Elise, but it has been handed down through successive generations until it can now claim antiquity at any rate. The early settlers here found that they had chosen a famous hunting-ground, the bone of contention between two hostile tribes; and with the return of every hunting season they were visited by wandering bands from both these tribes, who, looking the one upon the other as an intruder, often came into collision and committed deeds of cruelty equal to the worst we read of in our early history. This rock was their council-chamber; upon it the chiefs of a tribe would assemble, their warriors grouped around them, and something not unlike a trial would be held, of such prisoners of war as had from any cause been spared from immediate death. Here, too, they would celebrate a return from victory with whoop and yell and dance, or gather to witness the execution of some poor victim condemned. Our story has only to do with one event tradition avers to have occurred on this spot, and it comes through an ancestor of Mr. Crowder, the earliest settler at Holly Tavern. By clever management he is said to have won the confidence of both tribes, and not unfrequently it was his influence that spared a life or softened the anger of one band toward another. At any rate, he dwelt upon the acres now inherited by Mr. Crowder in perfect safety, often joining the Indians in their sports, or hunting with them for days together without once incurring their displeasure. One afternoon in early autumn, as our settler was driving in his stock from yonder meadow and the edge of the wood (for except a little strip along the stream, the pasture you see was all in woods then), he heard the cracking of twigs and soft tramp in the leaves he had learned so well to know, and was not surprised when the next instant the chief of one of the tribes made his appearance, followed by a long line of warriors, all befeathered and painted in their highest style. He greeted them as if he had been anxiously expecting them; and they him, in lordly style, as if he were one of their tenants. They had with them only two prisoners, the one a beautiful Indian girl, the other a warrior, a perfect type of a manly brave, indifferent to his enemies, dignified and proud even in captivity. The chief said they had been on a long war path, toward the setting sun, and had taken many braves, slain many in battle, had many scalps; they were returning now to their old hunting ground, and had only brought one squaw and one big brave as captives. The big brave was the lover of the poor Indian girl, and his life had been spared thus long because of her influence. The chief had determined soon to make her his royal favorite, and was willing to spare her lover further only under the promise that he would join their tribe. The captive was resolute in his refusal, and now they were on their way to the Rock to try, condemn, and execute one whose spirit could not be enslaved, who preferred death to a captivity that should daily crush anew the hopes of a brave and true heart.
               "Finding that all his entreaties were in vain, our settler followed the Indians to this rock and witnessed their ceremonial of trial, hearing the speeches of one and another of their braves as they appeared in behalf of or against the captive. The sun was just setting as the chief pronounced his doom; the stone on which to rest his head was there, the clubs ready, and the brave savage stood face to face with death unmoved. The poor maiden now entered the group with streaming eyes and begged once more for the life of her lover; there is hesitation, then the chief gravely shakes his head and motions her away. With a shriek that startled every one, she sprang forward and clasped her lover in her arms; a moment more and they have reached the edge of the rock; they spring off into the air together, and soon rest in the sleep of death below. Since that day this spot has been known as Warrior's Rest, and doubtless it will be as long as tradition shall last to tell us anything of the early days."
               Ronald never in after-life had more attentive auditors than while he related the legend. Little Elfie almost held her breath when it came to the last, and turning to look at her as he felt her little hand grasp his arm, he saw that she was sobbing, and her beautiful eyes were little pools of tears. Elise too was much interested, and readily recognised the instincts of the noble and true woman in the sacrifice made by this captive child of nature; and so intently was she occupied in thinking of it all, so much to her was the simple story a reality of the present, that she drew unconsciously near the edge of the rock, and was only prevented from leaning far over to look for the lost lovers by Ronald's hand gently laid on her arm, and his voice saying, "Pardon me, Miss Elise, but you are too near the edge; are your nerves steady?"
               With a start Elise drew back and resumed her old seat, saying, "Excuse me for startling you, Mr. Irving, but to me there was no danger. My nerves are very steady, and I can look from the dizziest height without the least inclination to jump off. Your story was so real, and that poor Indian girl acted so much like one of her true-hearted pale-faced sisters would have done, that I can scarcely bring myself to believe that it did not all happen this very afternoon."
               "It is a very strong test of love, Miss Elise, for a woman to die for one she loves."
               "Still, no love is worth much, Mr. Irving, that does not come from a heart brave enough to dare even death for its object."
               "Do you think so?"
               "I do more, Sir: I feel so. Every woman instinctively measures her sex by herself; and although the standard is invariably faulty, we cannot resist our convictions, and, it is confessed, we are as often right in our conclusions as many others reputed wiser. I could not love a woman, and would detest a man who was not brave."
               "Oh, bravery is expected in a man, and we must do, dare and sacrifice; but I would shield the gentler sex. They are not expected to exhibit manly fortitude, although they are brave in the truest and noblest sense, and bear much that would make cowards of us."
               "You would make our bravery then a simple matter of endurance? We are like camels, only burthen-bearers, and are not expected to illustrate any nobler qualities?"
               "No, no, Miss Elise; you little understand my appreciation of woman and her character if you think what you have just said. I only mean to say that she has her sphere in which to display true nobility, and it is seldom that she should be called to suffer or is justified in making such a sacrifice as did this poor Indian girl."
               "She did right; she only preferred to die with the man she loved rather than live the wife of his murderer; and so would any true woman. We are queer creatures, and cannot bear to be thought cowards. I can even imagine a woman's dying for a friend. Many men have made such a sacrifice, or have risked such a sacrifice, even for a stranger, Mr. Irving."
               "I do not doubt all you say. It was true nobility and courage that prompted the maiden to die with her captive lover, Miss Elise. Woman is endowed with a courage of the highest order; I only deprecate the necessity that would demand her sacrifice for friend or lover. We men are queer too; we like things that test personal courage, and some are never brighter than when in the midst of peril. Would you like to know the happiest moment in my life?"
               
               "Yes, I would. Doubtless it was in your childhood, and I like to hear of happy early days."
               "My childhood has been a bright, sunny one, for I have a good father, a loving and tender mother, the sweetest sister in the world, and a noble brother; but my happiest moment was not in childhood."
               "Then you have been blest above others."
               "That remains for the future to disclose, Miss Elise. One's early days are not unfrequently their happiest, at least freest from care. My real active life is but beginning. 
                     
                        "Life's but a tide that on its bosom bears
                        A fleet of human craft, bound toward the bourne:
                        Each hath a cargo mixed with joys and cares;
                        None may go empty, and none e'er return."
                     
                  
               
               "That is as beautiful as it is true, Sir; but I have a buoyant nature that is only willing to 'bear the ills we have.' I do not wish to lift the veil from before the future, so do tell me your happiest moment in the past."
               Ronald looked at little Elfie; she was sitting at a short distance from them intently twining a wreath of leaves and grass with which to deck Elise's hat. Then turning, he looked at Elise, as she sat there with animation lighting up every feature, a childish expectancy and womanly grace in every movement.
               "Then you cannot surmise my happiest moment?" he asked, as his eyes sought hers.
               Elsie said "No," but her eyes drooped, and a deep blush told her he meant to say something that concerned her.
               Ronald continued, "The happiest moment in my life, Miss Elise, was that night when I saw you rescued, and your dear parents so happy."
               Elise could not look up. There was a strange sensation in her throat, a mist before her eyes, and she could count the beatings of her heart. "Was this all he would say? what should she say?" were the uppermost thoughts she could discover in the midst of her confusion, and for a time she was silent. At last, struggling to master her voice, she said falteringly:
               "I am glad you feel so about saving my poor life, Mr. Irving, and I fear you have thought me very unfeeling and unthankful not to have said a word about it before; but—but—I—I—couldn't. Indeed, you did so much, and all for a stranger! You know Mamma said God would reward you."
               "Duty performed is its own reward, Miss Elise, and I deserve no thanks. There is only one boon I crave of the good giver. I may not ask that now, but must bide, bide. I trust we are no longer strangers."
               She gave him a timid glance. Her answer was, "How could we be?"
               Elfie had completed her wreath, and now came up, first to try it on Elise's head, and as it rested on her brow, the tinted autumn-leaves harmonising with the color in the cheeks below, the little one danced about and clapped her hands in childish glee, saying, "Our Queen! our Queen!" Elise took the wreath, and placing it on her hat, arose, saying, "The sun is quite down. Do let us return, Mr. Irving; I fear Mamma will be uneasy—she is so feeble and nervous." Soon they had retraced their steps down the steep path and were walking along at a quiet pace toward the Tavern. No one would have taken the young couple for strangers as they talked of their strange meeting and the chain of circumstances that had brought them nearer together.
               That they had enjoyed their walk was evident to their friends when they saw Ronald's bright face, and Elise all aglow with health and happiness. Mamma thought the poor child had walked too far and fast, and quickly brought a fan to cool the heated brow. Miss Bettie looked slyly at Elise and shrugged her shoulders, which meant, "I think I know better than that."
               The next morning dawned auspiciously, and with the rising sun our guests were assembled in the dining-room, Mother Crowder presiding at the head and our worthy landlord at the foot of a table that in tempting dishes might have rivalled successfully a princely board. All were cheerful, but there was a touch of sadness in the conversation. The inevitable parting was near at hand, and the days at Holly Tavern had not been without incidents pleasant to think of in after-days, although there might have been much all would gladly forget. Breakfast over, the old stage rumbles up to the door, and Johnny Conklin, who is now on another down trip, is in waiting for them.
               Mother Crowder could scarcely trust herself to say good-bye, and Burwell was seen to turn away, after shaking hands all around, and use his red bandanna. The widow wept like a little child, and Elfie clung to Ronald until the mother carried her away sobbing as if her little heart would break. Dr. Sawkins could not be persuaded to accept anything for all his services, and astonished Burwell beyond measure by handing Miss Bettie Flinn into the stage and actually squeezing her hand as he told her good-bye.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               OLD MALLOW MARSH. EARLY LIFE OF HAMPDEN SPARKS.
               THERE are some links in the chain of our story that have rusted by reason of their age, and need to be rubbed together with the newer and fresher ones that our readers may recognise them as being all of a piece. They have made the acquaintance of the Sparks family and their travelling companions, of our host of Holly Tavern, and have twice met there the strange characters so darkly and yet so inevitably linked together with the bright and the good in our story.
               We now leave for a little while our new acquaintances that already seem to us as if we had known them a long time, and ask our readers to go with us to "Mallow Marsh," the home of Hampden Sparks, Esq., and one of the most delightful old places to be found in Warwickshire, that garden-spot of the Midland countries. How long Mallow Marsh had been in the Sparks family we will not say; it had been handed down through many generations, and now, for the first time, it was in possession of one who seemed likely to live and die a bachelor, in which event the property would descend to the nearest of kin bearing the Sparks name. Situated on a steep bank overhanging the Avon, the old mansion stood a monument of the past. Each generation, by an addition of a turret here or new apartment there, now square and Norman-like, and again with the sharp peaked roof and windows of the Elizabethan period, had left its architectural finger-prints; and a quainter specimen, combining past and present, could not have been found in all the realm. The wall on the side next to the Avon had its foundation laid deep down below the bed of the stream, and was built of huge blocks of stone quarried ages ago. No further use was made of the deep cellar thus formed than as a wine-room, where in pipes, or carefully bottled and placed in a succession of racks, was stored a collection of wines of rare quality. Above this cellar were a kitchen and servants' hall, the windows looking out on the stream more than thirty feet below, and thence across the meadow and distant fields; while a little way up the Avon could be seen old "Ivy Mill," with its dark mossy wheel, the foot-bridge, the dam, and all the surroundings that made it one of the most attractive spots in the county. On the first floor of the mansion as you entered from the lawn was the grand hall, with its old portraits, armor, furniture, and the household-gods of the Sparks family for many generations.
               Passing through the hall, and beneath an archway in which there hung in place of a door a beautiful piece of blue and gold tapestry representing the family coat of arms, you entered a succession of drawing-rooms, the last terminating in a capacious bay-window over-looking the scene we have described as visible from the servants' hall. There was nothing lacking in the old house at Mallow Marsh to make any lover of home and family desire to have it other than it was; and Hampden Sparks, on his return after an absence of years, seemed so much delighted with everything about him that he was satisfied, after the first painting and cleaning was done, to leave the spiders to do their work in the old hall, and was disposed to grumble if Mrs. Grimcheek, the housekeeper, disturbed too many of the webs or stirred up much dust when her cleaning days came. But we have some interest in Mr. Sparks' long absence from Mallow Marsh, for there were events connected with his life in all that time that touch some of those we have introduced to our readers years afterward, and it will not therefore be uninteresting to follow him at least through a few of those scenes, for only in so doing can we hope to find out some things we could not otherwise explain.
               Hampden Sparks had in early life shown a predilection for the army; and coming to manhood at a warlike period of European history, when the first Napoleon was in the zenith of his fame, and resisting with all the power of the French people a succession of coalitions in which Great Britain was a leading spirit, he found but little difficulty in gratifying his inclination. He was master of Mallow Marsh with an ample income. His only brother, Harold Sparks, deciding that his slim annuity (much too slim to sustain him in the sphere in which by birth and education he should move at home) would be more available in helping him to rise to fortune in a new country, had first articled himself to an attorney in Chancery Lane, and then removed to America, settling at Savannah, Georgia. Left thus free to do as he should choose, Hampden Sparks was not long in making up his mind, but quickly prepared himself for the examination necessary, and purchased a commission as colonel of dragoons in a new regiment then forming for active service in the Peninsula.
               Colonel Sparks being wealthy, talented, and agreeable, was the toast of his regiment, popular with the men, and a favorite with his superiors. Having been unrestrained and indulged up to the time of the death of his parents, and since that time having followed his own devices, it was a matter of astonishment to many how good a soldier he made. No one doubted his good English pluck, but many who had known him at Harrow, and afterward at Cambridge, where his eccentricities were more noticeable than anything else, predicted for him a short career in the profession of arms when he should get a taste of the hard work before him in the Peninsula; and when they heard of his regiment as distinguished, and saw mention of his promptness and gallantry on occasions peculiarly trying, it created no little astonishment at home. His regiment was ready in time to embark in the famous expedition commanded by Sir John Moore, and it was in the campaign that ended in the siege of Corunna that he received his initiation to military life; and on that retreat experience taught him much of the self-denial and endurance that made him a soldier, and fitted him for a post of honor in the assault on Badajoz, a little more than three years after. The last day at Corunna was one of darkness and trial, for Colonel Sparks was in the midst of the fight and near to his noble and brave but disheartened commander when the fatal cannon-shot brought its unwelcome summons. Being in the rear-guard that covered the embarkation, he saw hundreds of brave fellows (many of them in his immediate command) go down before the enemy, while many more sick or wounded were left to take their chance for recovery among strangers in a strange land. The sight sickened him, and but for sterner duties that crowded upon him in this moment of peril, and the plucky resolution to stand by honor and country even to the death, he would have been sorely tempted to give way to the spirit of darkness and gloom that seemed at the moment to rest on all around him. True, when thus tried he passed through this ordeal, and we find him participating in all the campaigns from Corunna to the time of his severe wounding at Badajoz; and it is to this period of his early history we desire more especially to introduce our readers.
               Warm work was before the army under Wellington on the night of the 6th of April, for the time had arrived for the grand assault; and Badajoz was one of the strongest positions in Spain, and offered in its succession of defences barriers that might well have discouraged even a brave commander and an equally dauntless army. Colonel Sparks' regiment had for several weeks been engaged in outpost duty, and now by his own request had been temporarily dismounted and attached to the Fourth Division under General Colville, that he might have the honor of participating in the assault. Late in the afternoon of the 6th everything was in readiness. Orders had been issued to the division commanders, storming parties had been selected, their supports were in position, and the besiegers only waited for the darkness of night to settle down before they should encircle Badajoz with a cordon of fire and charge upon their enemies. There were earnest faces in the trenches, for many of those brave fellows felt that to them no to-morrow would dawn, and if they would send any message to the dear ones far away in the peaceful homes of Old England, they should tell each other now, that the survivors might treasure up each message and bear it homeward when the war should end.
               Colonel Sparks was sitting on a sand-bag in the trenches just before dark, talking to one of the engineers to whom had been assigned the duty of directing the movements of the advance of the Fourth Division, when he heard the well-known voice of Archie Clevis, his faithful body-servant, whom he had left the day before in the rear in charge of his horses. Archie was the son of the old steward at Mallow Marsh, had been warmly attached to Sparks from their early boyhood, and when his master determined to enter the army, begged hard that he might be permitted to go and take care of him; and to his honor be it said that he never once repented, but bore all the ills of camp life with fortitude; and even as we introduce him to our readers for the first time, he has come in search of the Colonel to beg the privilege of being near him during the night His rough, cracked voice was unmistakeable as he asked a soldier lying on the ground near by, "Do you know Colonel Sparks of our dragoons?"
               "And what would dragoons be doing here, Greeney? I think I see dragoons charging them works!"
               "Not so fast," scraped out Archie; "Colonel Sparks goes with the stormin' party, and is in the trenches somewhere. Have you seen no Colonel o' dragoons about here?"
               "This way, Archie," called the Colonel. "What do you wish with me, and why did you leave the rear?"
               Archie came forward with a grin of satisfaction at having so easily found his master, and proceeded in his rough way to explain his errand.
               "Ye see, Master Hampden, I brought ye letters from 'ome, and maybe it mought be the last we would get, and I hurried to bring 'em before night was on us." Here Archie made an awkward pause, and touching his cap, handed the Colonel two letters. By the dim twi-light he read them, only to find them of an unimportant nature in view of the present occasion, the one being from Archie's father, the other from his banker enclosing a remittance. Thrusting the letters into a pocket of his coat, he turned about quickly, saying.
               "Do you wish anything else, Archie?"
               "Yes, please Sir."
               "Speak out then, for time is precious."
               "Please, Sir, then, I came to stay with you to-night, if you will let me."
               "Archie, you know not what you ask. Do you know we are going to storm the Trinidad yonder in less than three hours?"
               "Yes, Sir, and that's what I come for," said Archie, as his eyes flashed, and he grinned again.
               "What will become of my horses and baggage if you leave them?"
               "They are safe enough, Sir, an' mayhap we won't need the luggage by mornin'."
               "You are one of Job's comforters at any rate. I am afraid you are too much in favor of killing us all, whether or no, to have you with us."
               "Oh, don't say that, Master Hampden. We can't die afore our time; but when a man starts on business like this, he ought to look death square in the face and be ready to muster out whenever his name's called, and I ain't afeard to do that."
               "Do you really wish to remain with me then?"
               "Indeed I do, Sir."
               "I will not deny you, Archie; and now step this way a moment." Archie followed him a little way apart, and Colonel Sparks proceeded to give instructions to his faithful servant in case he should survive him.
               "It gratifies me, Archie," he said, "that you should have sought to follow me to the post of honor, which is also now one of extreme danger. Bloody work is before us, and many will go into the breaches to-night where few will come out. Have you really made up your mind to die?"
               "God willin', and it's needed, I have, Sir."
               "All right then, I shall be in the front line; take your place immediately behind me, and try to keep near me as we go down into the ditch and up the ladders. Should I fall in the assault, do not stop to assist me; only mark well where you leave me, and when all is over, if you survive, take my body home to rest at Mallow Marsh, in the sod of old England."
               Archie's blue eyes glistened, but his voice was firm as he replied, "I'll try to do it all, Sir."
               The suspense was fearful between dark and the hour that had been appointed for the combined attack. Here and there were seen drifts of vapor rising from the river and the inundation that protected Trinidad, and floating over the encampment. The sky was dark; and all along the lines could be heard the hum of voices as the men talked of what was before them, and cheered each other with an expressed hope of victory. Officers encouraged their men and bade them be bold, brave, and swift in striking; and never had officers braver men than those that followed them down into the ditches and into the breaches on that night.
               Archie stood just behind his master as the first rattle of musketry and roar of artillery broke the stillness that had prevailed. To their right could be heard the shouts of Picton's division as they rushed like an avalanche upon the castle; and then came the order that thrilled every man as he caught the sharp shrill words: "Forward! to the breach!" Soon there was such a scene as is seldom witnessed even in war. With reckless bravery the storming party rushed head-long into the ditches, while the besieged hurled from the ramparts upon them a flame of musketry, shells, and other missiles, that carried death into their ranks, and the air was filled with shouts and screams, prayers and curses, that could be heard above the fearful din of the fight. One of the first to climb the ladders, the Colonel was soon hotly engaged in a struggle for life with a French soldier, who used almost superhuman efforts to hurl him upon the sword-blades and old bayonets with which the breach and edges of the parapet were thickly planted; nor did he cease his efforts to thrust him through, even after Archie had temporarily relieved his master by putting a bullet through their adversary. This proved a temporary relief indeed, for the besieged came bravely up to the defence, each man firing or using his bayonet with fearful effect upon the handful of brave men that had succeeded in reaching a place where they could stand. Hundreds were hurled back into the ditches, while the darkness of the night was illuminated by the explosion of shells and the flash of artillery as besiegers and besieged answered each other.
               It was with difficulty that one man could hear another speak, even if he were standing by his side; but none could forget how another looked as eye answered eye in the lurid light that shone about them. Up the ladders they came eager to sustain the advance, only to find as they gained the top but a handful left of those that had gone before, the prostrate forms of their comrades silently telling the sad story. Thrice wounded, once by a ball and twice by the bayonet, Colonel Sparks fell fortunately just within the breach; for had he fallen over the edge and down into the ditch thus early in the action, he would have been crushed beneath the heavy timbers hurled from above, or smothered beneath his slain and wounded fellow-soldiers. Being insensible for some time after falling, he was supposed by his enemies to be dead, and was sometimes trodden upon by his own men as in the heat of the struggle they surged back and forward time after time over the same ground. Long after midnight, consciousness began to return, and the Colonel became aware that he was surrounded by friends. The enemy had been driven even beyond their entrenchments; firing had almost ceased in the direction of the Castle, and far over toward St. Vincent, on the extreme left of their line, he could hear shouts of victory. Although faint and almost speechless, he rose up on his elbow, and called to some one lying near in feeble tones: "Comrade, we have won!"
               Slowly his neighbor turned over toward him, saying, "Praise God! it's Master Hampden! I feared ye was killed, Sir." And in a moment more Archie was by his master's side.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               DAWN AT BADAJOZ. THE PRICE OF VICTORY. THE LA RIVA'S. A LITTLE FLIRTATION BEGUN.
               THE morning after a victory is a sad awakening to victor and vanquished. The sun arose struggling to shine, but dimmed by clouds of mist from the Guadiana, and the heavy columns of smoke that continued to ascend from the fortifications on the left, where the French were making a final struggle to save the remnant of their garrison. The city had been brightly illuminated all night, and many of the lights were still blazing as the inhabitants, almost frenzied by the exciting scenes around them, either rushed through the streets in wild confusion, or sought shelter deep down in the cellars of their houses, leaving their richly furnished apartments open to the intrusion of any passer-by. It had been a fearful night, and morning only came to reveal what havoc had been made in the ranks of besiegers and besieged; the people of Badajoz being sorely tried as witnesses of it all. Some of them, deeply in sympathy with the English, had sons and brothers in the besieging army; while others, won over by the French during their occupation of the place, looked on with sad faces as they saw the English army, with their allies, march in and take possession of the fortifications. Looking down from the ramparts of St. Maria and Trinidad, the victor saw before him the hosts that had mustered out of service in the ditches below, their red coats still deeper red with their life-blood; while along the streets were borne the wounded, until the price of victory, all told, amounted to nearly one-fourth of the British army. To add to the excitement already rampant in the town, stragglers from the army, inflamed by the sight of their dead comrades, began first to plunder for the sake of food and drink, and afterwards, maddened by the free flow of wine, scenes were enacted that shed no lustre upon the actors, and that sent terror to the hearts of many. As firing gradually ceased and the sun rose higher, the tumult in the city increased; soldiers were everywhere, in public buildings, churches, and residences, and loot was gathered from any and every source; while grotesque figures, robed in the vestments of priesthood, carried every imaginable valuable about the streets.
               
               Colonel Sparks was still lying where he had fallen, conscious that he was growing weaker from loss of blood, and still no succor seemed near. At last he made an effort to speak, and said in a feeble voice, "Archie, can you walk, or are you too badly hurt?" for he had noticed that in coming to him, when first discovered, Archie had crawled on his hands and knees.
               "It's not much walking I can do, Sir, as I have a bayonet-hole through both my legs and a knock on the head; but I can crawl. What will ye have, Sir?"
               "Poor fellow! you are as badly off as I am; lie still."
               "No, no, Mr. Hampden, I feel strong now. Can I help ye?"
               "Only by calling some one, Archie, for if I do not get relief very soon I shall sink from exhaustion."
               Archie crawled slowly away, and not without much pain and difficulty reached one of the principal streets of the town where dwelt the wealthier classes, and where he knew it would be probable that some of the officers would take up their quarters. Stopping to rest under an archway leading into a little square court, he heard sounds of strife, and looking, he saw standing in the middle of the court an old Spaniard, with bare head and long gray beard, his eyes flashing like fire-balls, as in broken English he besought and then threatened an English soldier who held a beautiful girl by the hand, and one by one was stripping the jewelled rings from her fingers. Archie recognised the soldier as the most desperate character in Colonel Sparks' regiment, a man who would, when all his baser passions were aroused, go to any excess that he dared, and being reckless he dared much. More than once had they been at variance, and Archie well knew that nothing but nerve and promptness would answer in this case, if he would save the old Spaniard and rescue his daughter.
               Crawling along quietly he reached the group unobserved, and had the muzzle of his pistol within three feet of the ruffian's heart before he spoke. His first demand was, "Surrender, you brute, or you are a dead man!"
               That voice was familiar, and turning, the ruffian saw Archie's grim face in which was written "surrender or death." And just below the face he saw the gaping muzzle of a pistol, which grew as he stared at it into a huge cannon's mouth, ready to swallow him up.
               Ruffians are as a rule cowards; they do sometimes in gangs, seldom alone, desperate things, but it is hard to get one to face immediate mediate sudden death when cowardice will give him life. With a grin of recognition the soldier relaxed his grasp on the girl's hand, and, thrusting the rings he had already plucked into his pocket, said, "Hi! Archie, you won't shoot an old comrade? Put down that pistol."
               "Give me yours then first," replied Archie.
               "Devil a bit will I."
               "I give you only time to hand that Spanish gentleman your pistol: do it, and you live; if not, you die."
               "Do you mean that, Archie?"
               "I do."
               "Here, old Spanish, take my pistol; I don't want to die, and Archie will shoot me certain if he says so. Give me another bottle of your old sherry and I'll go."
               "No more wine, Señor; nor must we let him go. Call some one to help, and lock him up until Colonel Sparks is ready for him."
               For the first time Don Alfonso La Riva now noticed that his deliverer looked pale and haggard; and while the servants carried the ruffianly dragoon to be locked up until he could be reported at the headquarters, the father and daughter with many words of thanks assisted Archie into the house, and were not long in making him as comfortable as his condition would allow.
               Don Alfonso's residence was a model of antiquated comfort, and had fortunately passed through the siege without a stray shot having struck its walls, much less disturbed its inward tranquillity. Portraits of the La Riva's, Pico's, and other branches of the two great family trees here blended, were to be seen in the grand hall, parlors, and galleries, while the luxurious appointments in each room through which Archie was carried before he reached the quiet quarters assigned him, betokened the owner of this establishment to be a man of wealth and social position.
               "Rest, Señor, and welcome," were the first words of Don Alfonso as they laid Archie on the couch that had been prepared for him. "Do take some wine; and my doctor shall be called."
               "Thank you, Señor, but I cannot stay; my master, Colonel Sparks of our dragoons [Archie had called the regiment "our dragoons" until it had come to be known in the command as such] is badly wounded, and I must soon go to him."
               "I shall have the honor to go with you, Señor, and Colonel Sparks will be brought to my house. Aquí! Gaspar," and the old Don, more rapidly than an Englishman could ever teach his tongue to speak, gave his chief of many servants orders in Spanish that were quickly obeyed.
               Soon it was announced that all was in readiness to go for Colonel Sparks, and Archie led the way, being borne on a light stretcher covered with a springy soft webbing that would have been really quite comfortable without the soft cushion that overspread it. It was a queer sight—the old Don, with a retinue of servants in livery, walking after a stretcher on which lay only a common soldier; and as they picked their way through the crowded streets and took the direction of Trinidad, curious eyes followed them, and many wondered what had so bestirred the sympathies of Don Alfonso La Riva.
               There they found Colonel Sparks where Archie had left him with the dead all around him; one poor fellow having crawled close to his side to die, seeking companionship even in his last hour. The loss of blood had been great, and Archie was frightened as he discovered that his master was insensible; but with a quickness that showed perfect familiarity with such scenes, Don Alfonso and Gaspar bathed him with fresh water, forced a little wine between his lips, and picking him up gently, placed him on the extra stretcher they had brought, and were soon on their way back.
               The English surgeons were busy for many days after the surrender, and as only a small detachment of picked men from "our dragoons" had been under fire, it was not thought necessary for the surgeon to leave the regiment, and therefore, deprived of his services, Colonel Sparks had to report himself as in private quarters, and to accept such services as he could obtain. Fortunately, the old Spanish surgeon called in by Don Alfonso proved a master in his art; stabbing was no novelty to him, for he treated wounds from the stiletto every day, and seemed to know by intuition the direction a ball had taken. So the Colonel had occasion to be thankful that he escaped the hurried treatment in the hospitals, and soon felt himself to be rapidly recovering from wounds that under less favorable conditions would have speedily terminated his life.
               With no bones broken, Archie's recovery was even more rapid, and it was not long before he was able to wait on his master, and relieve him to extent from the obsequious attentions of the Spanish servants of the household, that had been treading on each other's heels all through his convalescence in their endeavors to serve him.
               One morning about two weeks after his wounding, Colonel Sparks was reclining on a sofa in the beautiful little parlor that opened into his chamber. Archie had brought in the home mail, and having read his letters, was deeply interested in reaching a copy of The Times, giving the first account he had seen of the storming of Ciudad Roderigo, in which he had participated only three months before, when the soft knock he had heard every morning since he had been there, told him the Don was coming.
               "Come in, señor," he said gaily. "I hope the sun shines with golden beams for you this morning."
               "Good-day to you, señor the Colonel," for thus he always addressed his guest; "it is a bright day, and you must feel better."
               "Thanks to the good doctor and your generous hospitality, I am much better, señor, and will soon be well enough to return to my regiment. I know not whether to be the more glad or sorry, for I shall have much to regret in leaving such kind friends."
               "Speak not of it, señor the Colonel; you have been like a prisoner in my house, so troublesome were the wounds. All we have done has been from love—love to so kind a gentleman, love to the cause of Spain; and you do not go for many weeks to come. I bear to you the compliments of Señora La Riva and Señorita Pico, hoping you shall be pleased to dine with them to-day. I am sorry that I go away for three days. I beg you to be master of my house, and hope to find you happy and well when I return."
               "How soon do you go, Señor?"
               "In one hour my coach will leave."
               "Then I will dress and be introduced to the ladies before you start." And begging Don Alfonso to remain seated, the Colonel withdrew, and summoning Archie to his aid, soon completed no very elaborate preparation, and returning, descended to the grand drawing-room, where, lost among sofas, mirrors, pictures, tapestry, and the thousand adornments that crowded this almost regal Spanish home, the Señora and Señorita Pico were found waiting to receive their guest.
               The Señora had in early days been beautiful, if a portrait of her then hanging in the room had not been fearfully flattered; but flesh had swallowed up every outline of beauty, and only her bright black eyes were left to tell of her past triumphs. A mountain of flesh, she arose and welcomed the Colonel with much suavity, and he soon found that in the presence of so much vivacity one was tempted to forget the olives and oil suggested at first sight.
               Señorita Pico was very beautiful, with large lustrous black eyes all expression, and varying with every thought that flashed through her active sparkling brain. Her features were very regular, and the teeth she displayed when smiling or laughing shone like pearls; and as she glanced at you, or spoke in merry ringing tones, there was a witchery about it all that insensibly drew you nearer to her. Colonel Sparks was almost dazzled by such a combination of loveliness and luxury, and as he reclined an invalid on one of the richly cushioned sofas, and listened to Señorita Pico's gentle voice sympathising with his condition, expressing hope for the cause in which he was struggling, and at last at her mother's request singing to an accompaniment on the guitar a bright little song, all the brighter for her manner of singing it, he felt touched as never before. Surely, thought he, the art of winning is woman's first study, and Dame Nature has done more for this young Spanish girl than any of her sisters I ever met. As the last strain of the little song died away, Sparks turned toward the fair singer with a mingled look of pleasure and admiration, saying, "Once more; that song is like a draught of old wine, it cheers me wonderfully after being so low spirited."
               Señorita Pico touched the strings of her guitar, making them ring out a stream of melody, as she again sung the following song, with such expression to each sentiment as only her eyes, hands, head, and shoulders by graceful gesticulation could give:
               
                  LIFE IS BRIGHT.
                  
                     Life is bright, full of light,
                     Look not at the dark;
                     Every day, sing away
                     Merry as the lark.
                     Tra la la,
                     Merry as the lark.
                  
                  
                     Look not down, do not frown,
                     All skies are not blue;
                     Still we say, sing away,
                     They'll be bright to you.
                     Tra la la,
                     They'll be bright to you.
                  
                  
                     Soldier true, now to you
                     Sing we merrily.
                     In the fight, all comes right,
                     Battle cheerily;
                     Tra la la,
                     Battle cheerily.
                  
                  
                     Live and try, ever try,
                     Braver deeds to dare;
                     War and love together live,
                     Win some lady fair.
                     Tra la la,
                     Win some lady fair.
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               QUITE A SKIRMISH BEHIND A FAN. ARCHIE'S WARNING.
               "YOUR little song is very bright and sweet, Señorita, and the advice is good enough too; but the winning is not so easy. I understand how to lead a charge, can play at broad swords moderately well; but woman is to me a problem hard to solve, and your race has certainly furnished me with no key to unlock the unknown. A Spanish lady must have as many hearts as her eyes flash love-glances at her admirers. Such glances from such eyes for one only would be worth to me more than a decoration from my sovereign."
               The rustle of a dress here indicated that Señora La Riva had determined to look well to affairs in the dining-hall, and leave the Colonel to the tender influences of Señorita Pico. With her blandest smile she said, "Will Señor the Colonel excuse me only a little while? it is time we should have dined, and still Gaspar delays. I go to see why it is."
               "We can ill afford to spare your good company," replied the Colonel, with more of gallantry than truth; "but a soldier learns first of all, if he cannot control, to yield to circumstances. We can only excuse you a very little while."
               There was a little grace of movement left in Señora La Riva, and as her broad figure rolled along the spacious drawing-room toward the door of the dining-hall, there was an air of dignity in every action that asserted her right to the social pre-eminence that was accorded to her not only by her friends but by all who knew her. In strength of character she was greatly the superior of her daughter, her principal weak point being a desire to see Señorita Pico universally admired and the conqueror of every gallant brought within her influence. Colonel Sparks was handsome, reputed wealthy, and while the fond mamma did not once think of him as a suitable husband for her daughter, owing to his foreign birth and the many differences that naturally existed between them, still the Colonel was desirable as a lover and counted one more in the list of Señorita Pico's admirers, and no opportunity should be lost to entangle him. The Colonel had seen but little of female society; having spent his early days at Harrow and Cambridge, and his rather odd habits proving anything else than attractive to the belles residing near Mallow Marsh, he had before joining the army spent much of his time after leaving the University either in his own library or in directing the improvement of the old homestead. Senorita Pico was wise beyond her years, and it did not take her long to discover that while Colonel Sparks might be a very efficient and gallant soldier, his education so far as his association with female society was concerned had been strangely neglected, and therefore he was fair game for any clever woman who chose to initiate him. Had he only known any of the gallants of Badajoz, they could have told him much of their own experience; but so blind are the eyes of a man who once passes within the charmed circle that surrounds an artful and attractive woman, we question whether any warning ever turns back a chosen victim from his fate. The belle of Badajoz had won all the hearts she had ever thought worth winning before, and now the handsome young Englishman was for the first time brought within her influence, and her resolution was quickly taken.
               With a soft glance, free from the glittering flash she bestowed on her Spanish lovers, she turned toward the Colonel as her mother closed the door behind her in going out. An instant more, and with a blush, her face was veiled behind an exquisitely beautiful, almost gossamer fan, with which she had been gracefully playing, as she said, "Ah, Colonel, we know well what all such gallant speeches mean. Men think we have no hearts; at least that our hearts are in our eyes and a few tears will wash away all traces of a wound; therefore they treat us as the plaything of an hour, say sweet things to us, and never once think of them again."
               "Senorita must not judge so harshly. I know not how other men feel or think, for I am a novice in all such things; but speaking for myself, I can assure you that what I say is from an honest heart, nor would I wound the most callous woman did I even know that she was trifling with a love as pure as gold. I have studied many branches of art and science, but woman has remained a sealed book to me; will you unclasp the lids, and give me a glance within?"
               "Ha, ha, ha!" was the silvery ringing sound with which Senorita Pico prefaced her reply. "Colonel Sparks, do not trifle with a child in the ways of art. You have so many volumes of experience, do give me their contents. I shall then be wiser, and my little life will be happier too. A young girl may learn so much from such a friend as I hope you will be to me."
               "A good friend I can safely promise to be. Indeed, I might be something more, with your permission; but I am a poor adviser, Senorita. My volumes are all filled with the rough hard lessons of every-day life; no sentiment there—not one love-passage. I leave it with you to write with your own hand the first page."
               As the Colonel ceased speaking he glanced in the direction of his fair companion, and beheld such a succession of dissolving views as he had never seen before. The fan was kept in ceaseless motion, the ivory frame making a clicking sound, while Senorita Pico's face bloomed with color, her eyes flashed, and a smile of exquisite sweetness played around her mouth. Sparks gazed with increased admiration, and waited to hear what answer she would give to the first words of love he had yet spoken. A moment longer she held him suspended; then bringing the fan up to her face, with her bright eyes peeping at him just over the top of it, she said:
               "The Colonel is premature; we know not each other, and how can there be love? What there may be some time hence I shall not say. I will keep the blank page of your book open; there may be something written there yet. Now let me sing you a little song," and without waiting for his assent she seized her guitar again, and made it ring out a melodious accompaniment while she sang—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           TRUST NOT.
                           
                              Trust not April soft and smiling,
                              With its gleams of sunshine bright,
                              As with light and shade beguiling
                              Earth is clad in bloom and light.
                           
                           
                              April comes and April passes
                              Like its sunshine and its showers:
                              So the vows of men to lasses
                              Only help to pass the hours.
                           
                           
                           
                              Trust not Summer with its flowers;
                              They will fade and droop and die.
                              So will vows from love's avowers:
                              If they will not, tell me why!
                           
                           
                              Autumn blights each bloom of Summer
                              With its winds and nipping frost,
                              And each flow'ret without murmur
                              From its stem is rudely tossed.
                           
                           
                              Then old Winter, drear and chilling,
                              Wraps us in his mantle white,
                              Every warm emotion stilling:
                              Does love bloom in Winter's night?
                           
                           
                              Trust not, trust not! is my chorus;
                              Trust not, trust not! is my song:
                              Lovers plead that they adore us;
                              But we know that they are wrong.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               A further demonstration on the part of the Colonel was now prevented by the entrance of Senora La Riva just at the moment when the daughter had ceased singing. Opportunity had been given for just so much in the role, and the mother knew well when there should be a change of scene. Walking up to where the young people were sitting, she said, "Will Senor the Colonel pardon me? but dinner is now waiting, and dinner should always be taken at the moment it is ready."
               "Senora is quite right," was the Colonel's reply, as he arose and offered to the hostess and her daughter each an arm to escort them to the dining-hall. Soon he was seated at a table almost bending beneath the weight of the expensive glass and silver service that adorned it, while Gaspar and his trained assistants brought on a succession of tempting dishes whose very odors made the edge of his delicate appetite a trifle keener than before, while the rare old wines from the Don's cellar enlivened his spirits and filled him with a glow comfortable and pleasurable, only to be appreciated by those who have felt when depressed or weakened the cheering influences of a sip of old Madeira or Port. With the flow of wine came an outflow of spirits, and the trio were soon indulging in compliment and repartee with all the freedom of old friends. Late in the afternoon found the lamps all ablaze in the dining-hall, servants still in attendance and the wine and nuts still passing from one to another.
               Colonel Sparks knew well his strength, for he had indulged in many a bout at his club, and it was no easy task to bewilder him with wine; but he had never before encountered any of the fair sex who could tip a decanter so frequently with impunity; and as he drank he was led to wonder if at their rising from the table they would be as clear-footed as they were now in thought and expression. Judge then of his surprise when at last Senora La Riva, touching a a little silver bell at her side, instructed Gaspar to remove the wine-cloth, and rising, invited her guest to return to the drawing-room, leading the way with a dignified and steady step, while Senorita Pico accepted his arm and tripped as smoothly by his side as if she had not touched a drop from the sparkling cup that day.
               The sun had gone down behind a bank of bright orange and purple clouds, and the whole sky was now flushed with his departing glory, as walking through the drawing-room, Senora La Riva invited the Colonel to bring Senorita out on a balcony that clung to the outside of the drawing-room like a little nest. From this balcony they could see the busy street below with its throng of comers and goers, and hear their clatter and laughter, with now and then the touch of a guitar and a snatch of song. In conformity to the custom with all dwellers in a warm climate, the towns-people of Badajoz were out in great numbers, priest, peasant, nobility and soldiery mingling in the throng, and all enjoying the cool breeze of the evening as they good-naturedly crowded each other.
               Looking out on the sky, then turning toward her mother with now and then a quick glance at the crowd below, Senorita Pico said, "Do, Mamma, let us take the Colonel to the opera to-night, if he is well enough to venture into the cool evening air."
               "O yes, Pico, the opera, the opera! Pardon, Senor the Colonel, that I did not think of it before. There is a new prima-donna to-night, and the beauty and fashion of Badajoz will be there. Will Senor the Colonel go?"
               "With great pleasure, ladies. I would venture much for the enjoyment you promise; and Senorita must also promise that she will show me all her fair friends, and teach me the art by which she so skilfully flirts that dangerous weapon, the fan. Give a Spanish lady a fan and mantilla, and be she ever so plain in feature, she becomes at once irresistible."
               "Fi, fi, Colonel!" replied the little Pico, with a smile and a shrug; "our hearts only are soft, not our heads, and we do not believe such speeches. Go now, and make yourself irresistible for the opera, while we only follow your example; for a little while, adieu." With light and airy grace the little coquette waltzed out of the room, followed by her ponderous mamma, leaving the Colonel to use the next hour for such preparation as he might choose to make.
               With only a little unsteady step (for the Colonel felt his wine) did he find his way to his dressing-room; and there he found Archie Clevis busy in polishing his scabbard and belt-buckle.
               "Very opportunely, Archie," was his first exclamation. "Make them bright, for I shall wear my sword to-night. You may get out my dress-uniform as well."
               "How so, Master Hampden? You be not going to ventur' out to-night; it is too cool, and you are not well yet by a consider'ble."
               "Can't help that, Archie; I am going to escort the ladies to the opera, and their coach will be waiting in an hour; so hurry up and assist me to be ready."
               "In course I will, Master Hampden, if it's agreeable to you; but it's resky, and I don't like to see you go. Master Hampden," and Archie here looked at his master very earnestly, "for the Lord's sake don't be fallin' in love with that Miss Pico. She will witch you if she gets a chance, and I say, don't give her the chance; these fureigners make dangerous women."
               "Have any of them witched you, Archie, that you have such a wholesome fear of them?"
               "Bless your heart no, Sir; I'm afeard of them just naterally so. Never a bit do I talk to any of the maids here, although I can jabber a little Spanish."
               "But tell me, Archie, don't you think Miss Pico is pretty?"
               "Pretty! indeed she is, Master Hampden, and there's the danger. If she looked like the old Madam, all bunched out and greasy with olive ile stewin' out of her when it is warm, you'd be safe enough; but Miss Pico is soft as thistle-down, talks low and sweet, looks so lovin' with them dark eyes, when she don't mean it a bit more for you than any other man."
               "How do you know she don't, Archie?"
               "Lor', Master Hampden, I was walkin' on the street late one night since we came here, and I passed a lady and gentleman who were talkin' so low and walkin' so slow that I came plump up to them before I found that they were movin' at all. He had her hand in his, and was lookin' at her as tender as he knew how, while she looked as if she was dyin' of love. Well, Sir, the lady was Miss Pico, and the gentleman was an old Spaniard. I don't know his name, but he comes here often."
               "You think then that Miss Pico's heart is engaged, do you, Archie?"
               "I tell you, Master Hampden, she hasn't anything like a heart. She likes, never loves; and, pardon my plainness of speech, Sir, is one of the devil's chosen tools."
               "You speak plainly, and I must call you a saucy fellow, Archie," said the Colonel a little tartly. "Remember the kindness we have received from this family; indeed I may owe my life to them, and whatever you may think, you should not say hard things of them."
               "I beg your pardon, Master Hampden, but I couldn't help just warnin' you a little bit. The old Don is a fine old gentleman, Sir, but I don't like the woman-kind here, and only hope you won't like that young one too well for your own good," and for fear of more scolding Archie busied himself with getting out the Colonel's handsomest suit and putting an extra polish on boots and scabbard.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               A DREAM A REALITY. AT THE OPERA. A NEW CHARACTER.
               WITH soldierly promptness Colonel Sparks made his appearance in the drawing-room in advance of his hostess and Senorita Pico, and reclining on one of the luxurious sofas, quietly awaited their arrival. The soft lamp-light and the somnolent influence of the wine soon caused him to fall into a light slumber; and how long he might have slept we know not, but a dream startled him by its vividness, and caused him suddenly to start up and gaze about him in the most bewildered manner. In his dream he saw a beautiful woman, with dark eyes and a bewitching smile, he had surely seen before, standing just inside the balcony, robed in a rose-colored silk with a diamond cluster flashing in the light as it confined a lace collar of exquisite fineness, her head and shoulders draped in a lace mantilla, clasped just over her brow with a spray of emeralds. By her side stood a middle-aged man, tall and spare, with a dark olive complexion, and the wrinkles in his brow and cheeks indicated that he was either past middle-life or had lived faster than was safe for those who would preserve their youth and grow old gracefully. He was in full evening dress, affecting all the adornments of a youthful beau, and seemed to the sleeping Colonel to be earnestly persuading the fair lady to take some step which evidently aroused a remonstrance; and the scene savored so much of a reality that the sleeper could no longer rest, but rising to his feet, as we have stated, endeavored to assure himself of his own identity. Rubbing his eyes to get them well open, he must have looked ludicrous indeed to a pair of mischievous eyes that were now peeping at him over her fan. There she stood in rose-colored silk, with diamond brooch, mantilla and emerald spray, just as he had seen her in his dream, and for the moment he could not tell whether he was still sleeping or awake. In this transition state he gave a sudden spring forward, and caught in his arms, not a phantom, but a beautiful reality, which he held for a moment in spite of her efforts to escape.
               "Oh, oh, Senor the Colonel, fie, fie! you should not be so saucy," ejaculated the struggling little beauty. "What would Mamma say?"
               "Zounds! Where am I?" asked the bewildered Colonel, as he gently released the blushing Pico.
               "Oh, that is too good! Does not the Colonel know where he is really? Then I might forgive him for being saucy," and her merry laughter rang through the arches of the drawing-room.
               "I humbly crave your pardon, Senorita. Surely I have been dreaming, and was only awakened by my phantom proving a substantial reality; and the proving was the sweetest part, only I became conscious of my mistake too soon."
               "Oh, what an impudent man! What shall I say when you dare say so much? and if you are so bad now, what shall we do when you are well again? Ha, ha, ha! how saucy these Englishmen are."
               "I do beg pardon, Senorita, for giving you such a surprise, but should not be willing to give up the memory of it. I was really half asleep, and had been dreaming of a beautiful woman dressed just as you are now, even to the ornaments you wear. She was standing inside the window yonder, and by her side stood a tall, thin, dark-looking man with heavy moustache. Tell me, Senorita, how long have you been in the room, and did any one come in with you? It seems hard for me to believe that what I saw so plainly was only a dream."
               "Ha, ha! the Colonel had a little too much wine, and was dreaming indeed; for I had but a moment entered when he gave me such a warm reception. Wake up now and button my gloves, for Mamma is coming, and we must go."
               How plump and smooth each little gloved hand felt as she laid it confidingly in the palm of his left hand, while with his right he gently pressed the wrist and carefully fastened each loop. He did not hurry about it, nor did she hurry him, neither of them believing that "if it were well it were done, it were well it were done quickly."
               Mamma now made her appearance, and the Colonel volunteering the same service for her he had just completed for the daughter, found the task of making the loops and buttons meet much more difficult and far less romantic than when he held the hands of the fair Senorita; but the masses of flesh were overlooped at last. Senora expressed her thanks, and the trio descending to the court below, entered the family coach, and were soon at the door of the already crowded opera-house.
               Two figures had followed the coach as it left the court of the La Riva mansion, the one leaving last keeping at a distance from the other, and each seeking to avoid recognition by drawing his cloak well up to his face as if to keep away the damp night-air. With stealthy but rapid strides they kept within sight of the coach, and as Colonel Sparks and the ladies passed across the sidewalk and into the vestibule of the opera-house, he saw standing in the shadow of one of the pillars the same face he had seen so plainly in his dream. With a visible start he paused, exclaiming, "Senorita, there!" but before Pico could follow the direction of his finger, the tall, thin apparition had vanished.
               "I see nothing but a crowd of people, Colonel; do let us go in, or we shall be crushed."
               "Do not think me a lunatic, ladies. My eyes did not deceive me this time, and I certainly saw standing within the shadow of that pillar the man I saw in my dream talking with Senorita in the drawing-room."
               "Mamma, we really must not give the Colonel so much wine at dinner; he has seen two ghosts within an hour. But let us hurry; the overture has begun, and the curtain will soon rise."
               
               Thus urged, the Colonel conducted the ladies to their private box, and they were soon engaged in making signs of recognition to a host of friends in different parts of the house; but he could not for some time enjoy the display of dress and beauty around him for thinking of the strange figure that had twice shadowed his path during the evening. It was a gorgeous sight to look around from one of the boxes on the different types of Spanish beauty to be seen wherever the eye turned; and all were clad in rich bright colors, many sparkled with gems of rare beauty. All were gay and smiling.
               The Colonel soon found that Senorita Pico was the centre of a large circle, and their box was crowded during the pauses between the acts by the beaux of Badajoz, who greeted him with an indifferent politeness, while each took his turn, often several together, in flattering and flirting with the fair Pico. She well understood her art and played upon the feelings of each newcomer with a consummate skill the Colonel had never seen equalled—never attempting to repeat a move she had made before, ever appearing to each a fresh, artless child of a girl although she may have flirted with him a hundred times before. There was a fascination about her none of them could resist, and the strongest testimonial she could have had was given by the troops of Badajoz gentry that crowded around her net.
               Mamma received her share of attention from those who would win her favor for the sake of the daughter, and the Colonel found that their box was not only a favorite resort, but continued to attract a number of opera-glasses; and the rather good-looking young Englishman in colonel's uniform came in for his full share of observation, and criticism too, if he could judge from the spasmodic shrugs of fair shoulders, and the smiles and eyes that were exchanged as each beauty whispered to her nearest neighbor.
               At the close of the third act, and before the La Riva box was filled with visitants, new and old, there was a gentle tap at the door which caused Senorita Pico to start; then recovering herself instantly, she said, "Please excuse me one moment; I think Gaspar wishes to speak with me," and opening the door, she passed outside into the gallery.
               As the Colonel turned to watch her retreating figure as she opened and passed through the door, he saw reflected in the streak of light that shone through the door on the gallery-wall the profile of the same face that he had seen in the drawing-room and in the shadow of the pillar.
               There were low whisperings outside, and then a voice in a higher key said, "Senorita Pico, I will come in."
               "No, no, no! Zurbano must not come in now. It is my wish that you go away."
               "And it is my wish to enter." was the sharp response.
               "It is better not, Zurbano; you do not like our having the Colonel for a guest. You do not like the Colonel; why then should you wish to meet him?"
               "I wish my eye to tell him what my tongue burns to utter—how much I hate his race, how deep is my hatred to him."
               "Zurbano, Zurbano, cease! You are enraged now. Go home; you will feel differently in the morning."
               "Pico, will the morning blot out the memory of his clasping you in his arms? Dreaming indeed; I should like to have given him a sleep that knows no waking, and he could then dream at his leisure."
               "Zurbano, this is worse than nonsense. Colonel Sparks is a gentleman and intended no indignity, but was really not awake when he gave me such a greeting. You are in no condition now to see him, and I command you, on the peril of my lasting displeasure if you disobey, to leave this opera-house."
               Senorita Pico's command was accompanied by a fiery flash of her bright eyes, and the energetic stamp of her little foot could be heard distinctly where the object of all this outburst sat, apparently talking earnestly to "mamma," but really a listener; for he knew that he was under discussion, having already heard much of the altercation we have given.
               "Pico, I go at your command; but I will yet meet him and teach him to respect his superiors in station unless you have him speedily depart from your house. Make him cease to be your guest; then let him flirt with the bar-maids of Badajoz. I care not to meet him," and with scowling brow the angry Spaniard walked rapidly down the gallery, leaving Senorita Pico to re-enter the box.
               The last scene is enacted, and amid the encores of the multitude the prima-donna is led to the footlights and gracefully receives a shower of bouquets; then the galleries are crowded with the brilliant throng as they slowly pass out to the carriages that await them, and soon the old opera-house is dark and still. It was so late when they arrived at the La Riva mansion that the Colonel made no allusion to what he had seen and heard, but bidding the ladies good-night, he retired to his own rooms, and was sitting in an easy-chair smoking vigorously in the vain endeavor to calm his excited nerves and brain, as Archie Clevis entered, and quietly proceeded to set his master's chamber in order for the night.
               "You are late coming in, Archie. Where have you been?"
               "To the same place you went, Master Hampden; and there were five of us went from this house."
               "How so? Did one of the maids favor you with her company?"
               "Indeed no, Sir; I will tell ye all about it. You know when you handed the ladies into the coach I was standin' in the court; and just as you drove off I saw a tall man wrapped in his cloak come down the private stairs, and walk rapid-like through the court and archway into the street. He looked 'spicious; and as I had nothin' else to do, I followed him all along until we reached the theatre, and the last I saw of him then he was leanin' 'gainst a pillar; and he watched you like a hawk when you carried the ladies into the house. When you came out he followed the coach in the same way, and I followed him back here; and I waited out about the arch until I saw him go away only a little while ago. What it all means, Sir, I don't know; but I think you ought to find out. That fellow is devilish-lookin', and he would put a dagger into you in a minute."
               "Say nothing about what you have seen, Archie. It is strange that a stranger should be my enemy; but it is very certain that such is the case, and I will be careful to find out all about it."
               "Please, Mr. Hampden, and it's all the same to you, we are better off in barracks or tenting out. I shall be glad when we get away from these strange people. Fureigners are no favorites o' mine, and half these Spanishers don't know now what we are fighting for, while t'other half had rather the French would whip."
               "There is a good deal of truth in your last remark, Archie, but we must not undervalue our friends. Don Alfonso La Riva is a true patriot, and Senora and Senorita are very kind and sympathetic, although many of their friends and acquaintances in Badajoz favor the French cause. As soon as I feel strong enough to ride I shall take command of my regiment, and meanwhile we must show our gratitude to our friends by being as agreeable guests as possible, and endeavoring to enjoy every pleasure which they offer to entertain us."
               "All but your flirtin' with Miss Pico, Master Hampden; that's a dang'ous diversion. You ain't as wise about women as she is about men, and I don't want her to get the 'vantage of you. She's got lots of followers too, and it mought be worse for you even if you got the 'vantage. Some of them Spanishers would spike you in a minute if they thought you were goin' to win."
               "Archie, you are a chicken-hearted fellow indeed—afraid of your master's defeat, and still more afraid of a victory. Leave all that to me. Keep quiet about all you saw to-night, and be sure you let me know if the Spaniard makes his appearance here in that clandestine manner again. I do not wish to talk any more to-night, so you can go to sleep."
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               "BY THE STREET OF BY-AND-BYE WE WILL ARRIVE AT THE HOUSE OF NEVER."
               THUS runs an old Spanish proverb; and in it lies hidden the beginning, and the end too, of many promises other than Spanish. "Never do until to-morrow or next day what should be done to-day," is the motto of more than half of the human family; and to many promises for fulfilment to-morrow, to-morrow never comes. Certain promises are easier to make than certain others, and we find in every-day life that those who promise most perform least. In fashionable life especially do we find this true; and our fair friends are to some extent pardonable if they sometimes promise when they are in perplexity to know what else they should do, when all around them are fluttering, anxious suitors, seeking the same answer to the same question. Not unfrequently they all get it, only to find that there is but one whose to-morrow is particularly bright, because to him alone comes the whispered "Yes" as a verity. We are led to moralising on promises by another dream that came to Colonel Sparks in the midnight watches on the same night he had gone to the opera. The dream promised well; its realisation never came. Only one promise made by Colonel Sparks to Senorita Pico the next morning, in the years that were to come met with its fulfilment.
               Archie, who was sleeping in the dressing-room adjoining the Colonel's chamber, was wakened out of a sound sleep by hearing his master laughing and talking as if he were entertaining some comrade. Lighting a little wax-taper, he entered the room and found the Colonel sitting up in bed, talking earnestly, although it was evident that he was still sleeping. His mind seemed much excited, and swayed from the possible and rational to the impossible and ridiculous, as a sane mind can only do in sleep; and at first Archie could only gaze at his master in fear and wonder as he assumed the most grotesque attitudes, and muttered one moment words of tenderness, at another the oddest expressions, much in the following fashion—
               "Yes, my beautiful Pico, you love me; your eyes tell me so. Away, Zurbano! That was the name she called him. Zurbano! Ha, ha, he, he! Pico says you are a dried mackerel with a garnish of garlic. Marry you indeed! She will be my bride, and the mistress of Mallow Marsh with three thousand a-year pin-money. The priest shall join us without delay, and favoring winds shall speed us to old England. Zurbano, you look like an attenuated spider. Pico, just look at him; he has claws like a lobster instead of fingers, ha, ha! Pico, will you go to the priest? Don't say 'By-and-bye, Colonel'; no, no!"
               "Gone daft!" was Archie's sad exclamation, as he energetically seized his master by the shoulder for the purpose of waking him up. "Say, Master Hampden, for God's sake don't!"
               "Don't what, you fool?" asked the Colonel, as he slowly rubbed and opened his eyes.
               "I was afeared 'twas you going to be the fool, Master, because you looked as if you was going into a rave; and it was all about that Miss Pico, Lord help us."
               "What did you wake me for, Archie? I was asleep and dreaming a beautiful dream."
               "It was queer sleep, Master Hampden, for you who used to straighten out on your left side and never stir till dawn, to be cavortin' around in bed and talkin' about love, and seein' a man with lobster's claws for fingers. If I hadn't a felt so solemn, Master, I could a laughed."
               "Laugh then, clown, and go to bed again. I shall sleep as I choose, and you may sleep if you can."
               Archie went slowly back to bed, muttering to himself, "He'll go daft if he stays here; and then I'll lose a good master, and the army a better colonel than the haverage." Had Archie only been in a good humor he would have sworn that his master's loss could not be supplied in all England.
               The dressing-room opening into Senora La Riva's chamber stood ajar. The mother had completed the finishing touches to her morning toilet, and was now seated in an easy-chair carrying on an animated conversation with her daughter, who stood en déshabillé before a mirror arranging the rich masses of glossy black hair that rested in light waves on her snowy neck and shoulders, while she now and then stopped long enough to peep at Mamma from the dressing-room.
               "Pico, you must be friendly with Zurbano. Send Gaspar with a little billet, explain to Senor the Colonel, and invite Zurbano to meet him very soon."
               "Mamma, Zurbano Armero is an old donkey. Were he not rich he would starve, for he has not brains enough to gain him a living. Were he not rich, Mamma, he would not have dared to sue for the hand of Pico La Riva."
               "But he is rich, my daughter, and having sued, has been accepted."
               "Has made a bid and purchased, you mean, Mamma. I am not a Circassian slave, but a free-born Castilian, and yet I am sold."
               "Pico, what do you desire? You know why it is you must wed Armero; your father is largely indebted to him. The estates are all encumbered by his liens; we live in this house because he says we may, and if it be a sacrifice on your part to fulfill the contract already made, think of the sacrifice your father would be compelled to make, and nerve yourself to save his gray hairs from more sorrow."
               "What did father go to the Santa Rosa vineyard for, Mamma?"
               "To see what was left of the vineyard, Pico. Santa Rosa has been only a camp for months—first the French, then the allies, and your father fears that the vineyard is entirely destroyed. Should that prove true, and our other estate share the same fate, where is our income? Where is the money to come from wherewith to pay Zurbano Armero his annual interest? Marry Armero, Pico, and a marriage settlement such as I shall dictate will pay old scores, and relieving your father, enable him to live and die a gentleman."
               "Oh, say no more, Mamma, I shall do as I have promised; but pledge me that you will bleed the old donkey well in the settlement." And the little beauty impatiently tossed her head, and laughed strangely, while her eyes glittered with a peculiar light, as if it were kindled by some hidden and most malicious thought that only dared to flash out just a little bit.
               "Trust me, Pico, he shall pay a round price."
               "He should indeed, sweet mother," and with another strange mocking laugh Pico surveyed her own beautiful face and shoulders in the mirror before her, making a queer grimace as she thought of Armero. Suddenly peeping in at her mamma, who now sat in silence, as if calculating how far the old Spaniard would submit to bleeding in the settlement, she questioned, "And what shall I tell Colonel Sparks, Mamma?"
               "Why need you tell him anything, Pico?"
               "Because he has told me something, and will have an answer."
               "No?"
               "Yes, Mamma, he has, and Zurbano suspects I am not so loyal a subject as he would have me. We had a precious quarrel last night, and I made him obey. I think it was his first lesson, for he was very rebellious, and would gladly have killed the Colonel had he only met him in a dark place. He is a donkey, Mamma, all but the good nature. He has temper enough for a fiend."
               "Since you have said you will marry Armero, why speak and think thus, Pico? You may tell Senor the Colonel that you cannot listen to his addresses (if they are intended as serious) because—your hand is disposed of."
               "Ah! that is the very word—'disposed' of. I will tell him to-day, Mamma, and I thank you for helping me to a word so befitting the occasion."
               "Do what you will about telling the Colonel, Pico, but lose no time in conciliating Armero; much depends upon it. Once lose your grasp there and we are beggared and ruined, for he will have no mercy."
               "Oh! never fear, Mamma, I have my finger in his collar; and had I not, one whistle would bring him."
               "Be not too confident, Pico, but lose no time; and if you are ready, we will await Senor the Colonel in the drawing-room."
               "Only a ribbon in my hair, Mamma, and my belt, and then—to meet the Colonel. 
                     
                        "So bright and gay shall be my way,
                        He'll never read my heart to-day"—
                     
                   she sang in a low voice, as following her mother, she descended to the drawing-room, where Colonel Sparks, with his invariable punctuality, was waiting for them.
               Breakfast over, the Colonel followed Senorita Pico to a beautiful little morning-room on the shady side of the house—a favorite spot with the little beauty, for here she indulged her dainty fingers in light fancy-work, or tended a few choice flowers that she might tempt them to bloom at her own bidding. All the surroundings gave evidence of taste and refinement, and bore the unmistakable fingerprints of one whose presence seemed infused into everything around her.
               "The Colonel is now in my domain," she said. "Here I am supreme; and all who pass that door become, for the time, my subjects."
               "I have offered to enlist for a longer term of service," was the Colonel's quick reply, adding, "Senorita, in a few days I shall leave your hospitable home to join my command, and I may not see you again until the war is over; or—it may be—I shall fall. I have told you my feelings, and you must know that I am sincere. Have you no word of cheer for me? I should like to have the hope before me of claiming you should I survive. Now is not a time to speak of such things—not as an inducement would I dare mention it, but as an evidence of my sincerity, I must say I offer you a good name, and a home where you will be surrounded by comfort, even luxury."
               "Colonel Sparks," and the little woman's voice trembled slightly as she spoke, "we can only be very good friends. There are others besides people of royal blood who do not choose for themselves in the important affairs of every-day life. I am the sport and toy of fortune; I like, I dislike, it is all one. If I like, that which I like eludes my grasp like a shadow; if I dislike, the object of my aversion becomes the most familiar in my everyday life. One thing I can and will do, and that is doubt. Do not shake your head, Senor the Colonel. I doubt love, I doubt life; my whole life is one great doubt."
               "Are you sure of no one's love, Senorita?"
               "I would trust some more than others, Colonel; but who knows the heart of another? What is love? A fancy. What is life? Suffering and sacrifice."
               "Queer words from one so young and beautiful, Senorita, one who can command and be obeyed. But give me the key to all this. I would know why you look upon love as a fancy, and life as only suffering and sacrifice."
               
               "Because I look upon them as part of our heritage of evil. I see love, as it is called, twining young and tender vines around old gnarled trunks. I see love sold in the market; and life should have taught so wise a man as you are its lessons of suffering and sacrifice. I am inclined to think all that is real in life, suffering; all that is called happiness, ideal."
               "But, Senorita, you do not yet give me the key. You certainly do not act as if you thought thus. There is much in life you enjoy; no one is brighter or seemingly happier. What has so suddenly transformed you into a cynic?"
               "If I were to tell you, you would laugh," and her voice assumed its wonted gayety. "I am going to try a new phase of life, in which I am told there is all happiness; I shall soon be married."
               "Married!"
               "Yes, married; and that is one event about which I have but little doubt. I shall surely wed wretchedness, although the groom is clad 'in purple and fine linen' every day."
               "It is strange that you are willing to wed wretchedness knowingly, Senorita. Pray what makes you consent to do so?"
               "Fate!" was the laconic reply, and the little creature shrugged her shoulders and laughed.
               "Fate! a sad fate indeed, if what you say is true. Can nothing I can say or do avert it, Senorita?"
               "Nothing, Colonel. You are very kind, and I believe of you what I cannot believe of many men: you are honest. But fate and my evil genius have matched, not mated me, and I only submit. Were I free to act and choose, I might wed, but it would never be Zurbano Armero."
               "The very name and the very creature that has haunted me in two dreams, Senorita. He is the man I saw in the drawing-room, the man standing by the pillar at the opera-house?"
               "Yes."
               "The old mummy—all body and claws—ugh! You cannot wed him, Pico."
               "Must is the word, Colonel. I cannot explain to you why; but fate is inexorable, and when it is accomplished I may be even more free than I am to-day. Zurbano Armero has many homes; I shall choose one as mine, and let him soon know that there is not room enough in it for both of us. Ah, Colonel, I have a good and an evil nature in me, and cruel fate is choking the good; the evil grows like ill weeds. Sometimes there is a little pulsation of good, and again I feel capable of deeds that would curdle your blood. Men do as they please; women do as they must. The one commits a breach of law and is only a criminal; the other does only the same, and people call her a fiend. Once fasten my affections upon a noble object, and I could be good. What I may become I know not; I can only hope, and doubting, wait. 'By the street of By-and-bye,' you know the rest, Colonel."
               "I would gladly give you my heart, hand and home, Senorita, but you will not accept; and all I can now say is, gratitude and love combine in making me your friend forever. The time may come when you will need a friend. We cannot live Esau-like with a hand against every man in the world, and the time comes when we must depend upon the sympathy or friendship of another. Should fate or fortune deal harshly with you, I claim the privilege of acting as your friend."
               "It is granted, Colonel. Take care you do not repent." And the little beauty placed her hand confidingly in his as a ratification of their contract; and as he held and gently pressed it an instant, he could not help his admiration of so much that was bright, beautiful and piquant in this impulsive child of nature. Nor is it to be wondered at that both of them should at that 'moment have felt a desire to lift the veil that hung over "the street of By-and-bye."
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               TWO UNEXPECTED ENCOUNTERS.
               THE door of the little morning-room had scarcely closed upon the retreating form of Colonel Sparks before it was opened again softly, and in walked Zurbano Armero without a knock or word of announcement. So stealthy and cat-like was his step that he stood very near Pico, as she sat with her soft bright cheek resting on the palm of her little hand, without being discovered. There was a shadow on her brow and a tear stood in each eye; there was a scowl on his brow, and his eyes glowed with the mingled fires of hate and jealousy. Suddenly turning, she discovered him, and instantly every trace of softness faded from her features, and she gave him a look that would have blighted and withered almost any other man but Zurbano Armero.
               "My sweet Pico, how beautiful you look!—a little fiery, but very animated. Would you give me one kiss?" and he advanced a little nearer.
               "Sir, your impudence is only equalled by your cunning. How dare you enter my private sitting-room uninvited?"
               "My sweet Pico should cultivate gentleness—it becomes her best. I thought it not daring for one gentleman to enter when another had just departed; and the kiss you know is not the first, although such favors are not so frequent as they soon will be." Here the parchment features of the would-be lover contracted into numerous puckers, evidently intended for a smile, while he approached still nearer to the indignant Pico.
               "Zurbano Armero, cease your mocking drivel; I am no child, and am in no humor to hear such stuff. Why did you come here this morning?"
               "Why should I come but to see you; I should think you desired to see me after your very polite conduct at the opera last night. But I find you quite as charming as you were then, as beautiful and as devilish. Am I not even welcome to a seat?" and he surveyed the exquisite little room from carpet to ceiling.
               "You should learn, sir, to come at opportune times, and not to intrude. I intended sending for you when I was ready to speak with you further; as you are here, behave yourself with a seeming of dignity, and be seated."
               "Well, Senorita, will this do?" and Armero with gravity seated himself in a large morocco-covered chair, with quaintly carved arms, each representing a huge serpent, the lower curves, near which in sitting one's hands would rest, being an imitation of their heads. His attempt at dignity was ludicrous, and Pico could not repress a smile as she glanced at his angular figure and crumpled face.
               "Oh! that is admirable, Senor Armero. See, you are in the embraces of two serpents; your company is well chosen, and you feel the inspiration, doubtless."
               "Are there not three serpents, Pico?"
               "Yes, I see three."
               "Then there must be four, for I see another if God ever made one. 'Tis well the serpent first beguiled Eve, for it has furnished her daughters with an example and a precedent for beguiling ever since. And many now beguile only to destroy."
               "You are disposed to change your style of compliment and to moralise all at the same time, Armero. I am at first sweet and beautiful—again serpentine. What next? Of one thing I am assured, Sir, my beguiling could never destroy you; to accomplish that is past all human art."
               "What we have been saying is nonsense, Pico. We had enough of that last night; I came not to have it renewed. You are sweet, beautiful, when you choose so to be: why not smile instead of frown, and let the good and beautiful in your life come out?"
               "Because there is in my life so much of bitterness, Armero; that is why. I would like to crush out all that is bitter, and carefully cultivate all that is sweet and bright, but my fate will not let me. I did not wish to speak so harshly last night, but you would insist on coming in when I knew it was not best. My anger saved us from a most exciting scene, for Colonel Sparks is as excitable as you are."
               "It was he went out of this room just now?"
               "Yes."
               "And he is again urging his suit?"
               "Yes"
               Pico, you love Colonel Sparks. What did you say to him in answer?"
               Pico's face flushed, but she answered calmly, "I told him I should soon be married to you."
               "But had rather marry him—do not dissemble. Now, did you not almost say as much?"
               "And if I had?"
               "Why, marry the Colonel, and away with our contract; fair ladies yet bloom in Spain, and my liens are good, very good."
               "There you go again, Armero," and imitating his most persuasive tone, she said, "Why not smile instead of frown, and let the good and beautiful in your life come out? Listen to common-sense. The Colonel knows I am not free to marry him; knows I am going to marry you. Love, if there be such a thing, is a plant of odd growth, and springs up sometimes in an odd way; but love for any one will never kill me, and it is nonsense for you to be angry because I like the handsome Colonel, and indulge in a little flirtation with him. You sought my hand, and the engagement has been made. I am willing to submit to no restrictions before marriage; after marriage is another question. If you are willing to carry out the contract, I am; if you desire a release, you have it, and may proceed against papa's estates. Speak now, and say what you will do."
               The artful Armero knew well that Pico was in earnest, and that his fitful gusts of temper had been indulged just as far as he felt it to be safe. True, he could accept her release and crush poor old Don Alfonso, but his vanity was tickled by his success in wooing the most beautiful woman to be found in all the country around; and it would be the first time that one of his race had ever been allied to noble blood. By this marriage he would be ushered into a circle hitherto far above him, and move, and even shine, as he flatteringly supposed, with a lustre that money alone could never impart. The advantages were all seen and appreciated, and he could not afford to part with so glittering a prize; therefore he again became humble and lover-like, as his face gathered into another smile.
               "Sweet Pico, pardon me," he exclaimed as he reached out his bony fingers to grasp her hand. "I would not accept your release for a kingdom, but shall leave you to your own ways until I claim you as my bride."
               She permitted him to take her hand, then rising said, "I grant you pardon, Armero; but do not threaten me again: let there at least be between us the peace which silence procures on all subjects whereon we disagree. Excuse me now. Adieu!" And she swiftly glided out of the room, leaving him to take his departure at his leisure.
               On leaving the little morning-room, Colonel Sparks had wandered forth into the streets of the city, feeling a little blue that his first love-affair should have prospered so badly. He was handsome, clever, rich, and the severest blow to his vanity consisted in his being defeated by so wretched-looking a creature as Armero. Had his rival been some handsome and gallant young Spanish officer, some worthy young Don of noble character and birth, he could have borne it; but to be supplanted by "that mummy," the thought was most humiliating, and the high-spirited young man walked abroad with lowered crest. Wandering from street to street, he took but little notice of the crowd that jostled his elbow at every turn, and had passed a number of acquaintances without even seeing them, when suddenly he stood face to face with a comrade, who held out his hand, saying, "Hallo, Sparks, what is the matter? You are about to walk over an old friend, and you look as if you had heard bad news. Nothing serious, old fellow?"
               "Gwynn, I am devilish glad to see you. Where have you been since we came here? I had seen nothing of you, and feared you were hurt in the assault."
               "Only a scratch with a bayonet. We made quick work of it on our part of the line. But you didn't tell me what was the matter; something seems to have gone wrong with you."
               We must here introduce Captain Harvie Gwynn to our readers, although his name has been mentioned once before in our narrative. He is a captain in the "Scot's Greys," one of the youngest and most gallant officers in the army, a fine-looking fellow, with sandy hair and side-whiskers, a laugh that seemed contagious, a grip of the hand like sincerity itself. He was an old friend, a member of the same club at home, and Sparks well knew that his query could only proceed from genuine friendship; so passing his arm through Gwynn's, he said, "Suppose we take a little walk. I am very glad I met with you, Gwynn."
               "With all my heart, Sparks; whither shall we go?"
               "Well, it is now one o'clock; suppose we take a brisk walk over toward St. Vincent, and returning, lunch at the Café Voisin."
               "Good. Have you lunched there recently, Sparks?"
               "No; I have been too well cared for in private quarters."
               "Well, the French brought one boon with them to Badajoz, and fortunately for us, left him. That froggy-looking old cook at the Café Voisin feeds most royally, and gives you the best wine in the city. I have expended many shillings there. But I again ask, and for the third time, what makes you look so glum?"
               With a feeble smile Sparks looked at his friend, and said, "A woman."
               The ringing laugh of Harvie Gwynn startled the leader of a long row of donkeys now slowly approaching the young men from the direction of one of the country roads, and the long-eared procession taking it up one by one, gave a succession of brays, while the market-people attending them gazed at the strangers with a curious stare, and by common consent the whole procession gradually came to a halt.
               
               "Gwynn, you set a bad example. Your laughter should not be so near akin to that of the genus Asinus as to meet such an ovation as this; our friends evidently recognise a relative."
               "They might recognise two then, for any man who gave such a reason for a fit of blues as you did just now might well be honored as you are being. I claim none of the credit of this reception, Sparks," and Gwynn laughed again most heartily while Sparks moved forward, saying, "Hush your nonsense, Gwynn, and let us proceed; we are stopping the road with our wayside reception."
               As the two young men walked on, the donkey-drivers gazed after them and chattered together for some time, while Gwynn resumed the thread of their conversation by saying, "Pardon me, Sparks; I did not intend to make light of your trouble. Come tell me all about it, and how any woman was ever so artful an angler as to catch you in her net."
               It was a short story and quickly told. Gwynn had heard of the fascinating Pico, but protested that Sparks was the last man in the army he would ever have suspected of taking such a fancy. "Cheer up, man; these Spanish women are as fickle as their spring climate—sunshine, rain, storm, and sunshine again in quick succession. Your chance is as good as that of any one else."
               "No, Harvie, I have not the ghost of a chance, and was a fool to suffer myself to become interested in that girl. It is the old story; sickness, wounds and suffering meet with kindness, hospitality and sympathy; result, love. There is the make of a good woman in that girl, Harvie; but if she marries Armero, as I think she will, he'll catch the very deil, or my name is not Sparks. There is some mystery about it all; the old wretch has some secret power over the La Riva family, and it will serve him right should Pico avenge herself by giving him here a little taste of future punishment."
               "Why don't you propose to the girl to elope with you, Sparks? We will soon be under marching orders, and if she has half the spirit you give her credit for, and has any fancy for you, it would be fun for her to elude that old rascal, and follow the army until you could send her to England."
               "She is an only child, and I think would never consent to leaving her parents under such circumstances, even if love prompted her, and I have no assurance that she cares for me more than as a friend. Women are queer creatures, Harvie; I know but little about them, and shall know less after this. That girl receives admiration and the proposals of lovers every day, and you could no more read in her countenance what was passing in her heart, than you can translate into sound English the zig-zag lines of a streak of lightning. With all her fire, ambition, hauteur, impenetrability of character if you will, she has a spicy spirit, peculiarly attractive to me, and is the only woman I ever felt a desire to marry. But here we are at the Cafe; we can now test the art of a hot ragout in consoling perturbed spirits, and pledge a brighter 'by-and-bye' in a sip of old sherry; and as I am a little delicate in appetite, you must do double duty, Harvie."
               Entering the café, the two young men found the succession of narrow rooms (extending back from the street, and looking as if they had been, telescope-like, drawn out of each other) filled almost to over-flowing. The stout froggy-looking master of ceremonies, with his round popped eyes, was all in a pother, skipping hither and thither, scolding servants, greeting his older acquaintances among the guests, and every few moments flying to the little counter over which he could peep into the kitchen, that he might in his shrill voice urge the cooks to hurry dishes already ordered. In the crowd could be seen officers of the English army of all grades; the Spanish officer in gorgeous array; wealthy citizens of the city, and many strangers; all intent upon the business that had drawn them thither, the business by which the chief cook of Badajoz, Domat Garnier, was realising a fortune.
               "Ah! Capatan Gwynn," he exclaimed as he caught a glimpse of Harvie, and came running through the crowd to meet him. "So happy to see you."
               "Let me introduce Colonel Sparks, Domat. This, Colonel, is Monsieur Domat Garnier, the major-domo of this establishment."
               "Ah, this is Coronel Sparks? Happy to see you too, Coronel. Take a seat, gentlemen, if you can find one: I will have you attention."
               "I have heard of the fame so justly earned by the Café Voisin, Monsieur Garnier, and have accompanied my friend Captain Gwynn here that we may test your talent. He will lunch with me; spare no effort; your reputation is at stake."
               "Ah! my reputation, my célébrité is steak, Coronel. I gif you it good; order what you will and it cooms." With this assurance Domat seated his guests at a little table, and receiving their order in person, hurried off to the kitchen that he might expedite its execution.
               Amid the rattle of plates, knives and forks, spoons and glasses, the work went bravely on, and the young men amused themselves in observing and mutually criticising the promiscuous crowd around them. Suddenly Colonel Sparks exclaimed. "There!"
               "There! is what, Sparks? Are you crazy?" questioned Harvie.
               "No; just look at the table facing us. Do you see that tall fellow with the mummy-like face?"
               "Yes."
               "That is the old devil Senorita is going to marry."
               "Are you in earnest, Sparks?"
               "Never more so."
               "Well! there is no accounting for taste; I had as soon wed a dry hide, horns and all. See! he is looking this way, Sparks, and is talking very excitedly. Suppose we hear his rodomontade."
               There was no fear but what they would hear all that Armero had to say, for he was much excited, and made no effort to control either his temper or his voice. His friend was evidently like himself, a French sympathiser, and gave an attentive ear to his blustering utterances; both seeming to presume upon the forbearance of those around them who might think differently. The amusement that his utterances seemed to afford Colonel Sparks and his companion acted as a stimulus to the virus now boiling out of the old Spaniard, and he grew not only more boisterous, but offensively personal, and with the evident intention to insult the Colonel, toward whom he directed angry glances.
               "Harvie, this is getting rather too personal," said Sparks. "The old wretch must cease his menaces and personalities, or I shall stop him in a summary manner."
               "Hold a bit, Sparks, and I will step over and tell him that his remarks are offensive, and he had better desist; it may be he will have decency enough to heed the remonstrance."
               "If not," added Sparks, "I will still his foul tongue."
               Rising from his seat, Gwynn approached Armero with a polite salutation, saying: "Will the gentleman pardon me for suggesting that his remarks are offensive to all Englishmen, but especially so to my friend who is occupying a seat with me? Public places, sir, are not the most suitable for displays such as you are making; and we would be greatly obliged if you would cease, at least toward us, your menacing attitude."
               "The gentleman asks that which I will not do," was the haughty response. "He is a stranger to me; I only know his companion as an unworthy guest of Don Alfonso La Riva."
               Scarcely were these words uttered before Gwynn heard his friend push back his chair from their table, and in an instant more heard him say, "Stand clear, Harvie!" There was a blow, a crash, wine and blood mingled with the fragments of a decanter on the table, and Zurbano Armero fell senseless to the floor.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               MEDIATION. A WEIGHTY ARGUMENT. MARCHING ORDERS.
               THE crash, the jingle of broken glass, and the heavy fall of Zurbano Armero upon the floor, could be heard above the babel of tongues, and there was for an instant, and very suddenly, a lull. Then every tongue seemed loosened afresh, and there was a query on every lip, and a rush in the direction of the prostrate man. The large number of Spaniards in the restaurant, and their excitement and indignation when they saw the wealthy Armero lying insensible and bleeding, gave promise of a bloody conflict with the author of the deed, and any present who might feel disposed to defend him; therefore Colonel Sparks and Captain Gwynn placed themselves in a defensive position behind their table, next to the wall, and each with a hand on his pistol watched the growing excitement and stood ready for the worst.
               "Stand back, give him air," was uttered in an authoritative tone, and greatly to the Colonel's relief, he saw the old Spanish surgeon who had brought him so safely through the crisis when wounded, kneeling by Armero, first feeling his pulse, and then preparing to clip away the hair and examine the extent of the wound on his head. During the examination many were the inquiries as to who did the deed; and every Englishman present, seeing that a countryman and comrade was in trouble, leaving his seat, came over to the side of the room where the young men stood, with the evident determination to join in the defence if need be.
               "Twas he," said the companion of Armero, pointing toward Sparks. "Yes, he struck down our honored citizen; let him die for this deed. Young gentlemen of Badajoz, avenge now so daring a crime; the law is too tardy."
               
               "We will!" was the cry from many lips, and as many weapons were drawn by the excited crowd as they advanced toward where the group of Englishmen had gathered. At this juncture Domat Garnier rushed in from the kitchen, and his consternation at finding his peaceful establishment on a war-footing (as a diplomatist would express it) was visible in his every feature as he exclaimed: "Mon Dieu! what is ze matter here? Gentlemen, do not shoot! zis is no place to fight. Capatan Gwynn! Coronel Sparks! what is all zis?"
               "Be quiet, Domat," answered Gwynn; "we will not fire unless it is necessary for self-protection. The man now in the hands of the surgeon grossly insulted Colonel Sparks; was very abusive and threatening. The Colonel bore it longer than I would, and then tapped him over with a decanter. Should these gentlemen come to their senses and leave us, we will finish our luncheon and then go before the authorities. If the mob undertake to punish without law, we will teach them a lesson they will not soon forget."
               Turning to the Spaniards, Domat implored them to retire, saying, as interpreted into good English, "Gentlemen, this is too bad. Senor Armero is hurt, and I am very sorry, but he shall have all attention; and the gentlemen (pointing toward Gwynn and Sparks) will not run away. Go now, and do not fight in my house." Thus did Domat fly from one party to the other of the belligerents begging and persuading, nor was he unsuccessful in holding them back from any act of violence until the house could be cleared by the officials of all those who were not immediately concerned in the difficulty. Fortunately for the wounded man, the decanter struck a large lamp in its swift passage before striking him, and thus what might have proved a fatal blow only stunned Armero; he soon gave evidence of returning consciousness, and in less than an hour, with his wound dressed and bound up, he was taken in his coach to his luxurious home, there to brood over his summary punishment while nature mended his bruised head.
               Colonel Sparks and Harvie Gwynn kept an officer waiting until they had finished their lunch before they accompanied him to the court-room where all such cases were heard. The place being in the occupancy of the allied army, and the assault having been committed by an English officer, Colonel Sparks determined to take no advantage of the military occupancy, but to submit his case to the local authorities, only asking that Domat Garnier, as at least a temporary resident, should accompany him to see that he had a fair hearing.
               "Yes, Colonel, I will go with pleasure. You did punish Armero; but (with a wink and a whisper) ze devil gets his dues sometimes. It will not go hard with you; he is no favorite in zis place."
               The hall of justice was a commodious room in one of the public buildings of the city; and thither the party from the Café Voisin proceeded, followed by the motley crowd that had been attracted to the door of the restaurant by the noise within, and with the hope of witnessing the melée should it become general. Market-men, women, ragged boys and girls, bare-headed and bare-footed, screeching and jabbering, crowded into the hall, only becoming silent as they caught sight of the judge sitting with awful severity of countenance behind a huge desk, his face puckering with increased intensity as he beheld the prisoner in an English colonel's uniform standing before him. All the formalities having been attended to with the punctilio necessary in so grave a case, the hearing was proceeded with, and dark indeed grew the brow of the judge when he learned that so important and wealthy a personage as Zurbano Armero had been struck down by an alien in sight of a Spanish hall of justice. The provocation seemed to have but little weight, and the Colonel and his friend began to think it would have been far better had they retreated to their camp in good order rather than have risked their cause before so severe a guardian of the public peace. That the fine would be heavy they did not doubt; but when his judgeship hinted at imprisonment until Senor Armero should be recovered, Domat Garnier came forward and begged to say a few words publicly, and then privately to the judge. His little speech was short but more sensible than that of many an advocate, the principal points being that the gentlemen now before his honor were strangers, had broken the law in defence of their personal honor, and had placed themselves at the mercy of this court. This was for the audience; then turning to the judge, he whispered a few talismanic words that acted like a charm. The case was speedily disposed of, and Colonel Sparks walked out of the hall of justice a free man, but poorer in pocket by at least fifty pounds.
               As they walked along the street the Colonel expressed his thanks to Garnier for his kind and generous effort, adding, "And now it is over, tell me what potent argument did you use with his judgeship?"
               With a wink and a shrug of the shoulders Domat replied, "Do not speak of thanks, Coronel. You are ze friend of Capatan Gwynn; zat is enough. Ah, what did I say to ze judge? Eh, I tell you. I say, 'Judge, zat leetle score you owe me is nothing. Come to Café Voisin when you like; always happy to see you. My friend ze Coronel, judge, is rich; he is good pay. You understand?' He could understand zat, gentlemen," and Domat laughed until a tear stood in each of his popped eyes. At this moment Gwynn, seeing one of the couriers from General Picton's headquarters passing them in great haste, turned toward his companion, saying, "Sparks, something is in the wind. Suppose we go to headquarters and see if a movement has been ordered; I have been expecting marching orders for a week past."
               Together the young men walked in the direction of headquarters, and were not long in finding out that a general movement would begin at daylight the next morning, orders having been issued for the return to their respective commands of all officers and soldiers so far recovered from wounds or sickness as to be fit for duty. Taking leave of Domat Garnier, the friends also parted with each other, Captain Gwynn returning to his quarters in barracks, the Colonel to the La Riva mansion that he might make preparation for and acquaint his kind friends of his departure.
               We must, however reluctantly, pass over the leave-taking at the La Riva mansion and all the stirring scenes through which Colonel Hampden Sparks passed in the campaign that followed. We have given so much of his early history because it is intimately connected with some of those who invest the earlier chapters of our story with interest. We will for the present leave him. A retired army-officer at Mallow Marsh, he lived many years, and the story of his closing years and death will yet form a part of what we have to tell; but we now ask our readers to return with us to, it may be, less eventful but none the less necessary incidents connected with some of the Nine Travellers.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               A DARK RIDE. BICKERINGS.
               BAFFLED and almost frenzied with the disappointment that had attended his bloody plot, Armero left the long piazza of Holly Tavern at a swift run, and was soon lost to the view of his pursuers in the thick darkness that enveloped everything beyond the little line of light that streamed dimly forth from the open door and windows. It would have been a fearful sight could any stranger have seen that face, with rage, desperation, and not fear, but apprehension, in every feature: his eyes gleaming, brow knotted, mouth almost foaming, teeth set hard, and breathing with fitful gasps, as he rushed on toward the place of his rendezvous with Flint. It was a dark picture of a man possessed of a devil, thwarted in all his evil intents, and driven in on himself for new expedients to console, for new schemes whereby he should succeed.
               "Cursed of God, chased by man and my evil luck!" gasped the fugitive. "What next to rid me of this never-dying Sparks family? More plotting yet, Flint. Where can the fellow be?" he asked himself as he glanced quickly into every little thicket he passed, without slacking his speed or raising his voice above a hissing whisper. Suddenly he heard a voice calling "Carlos!" and turning quickly to the right side of the road, he discovered in his haste he was about passing the plum nursery, behind which it had been agreed that Hardy Flint should wait for him with the horses. A minute more and he stood in the presence of his accomplice—a man he needed now more than ever, and yet one whom he dreaded to meet.
               "Did you finish the job?" was Flint's first question, as he sat quietly upon a large stone, smoking a short stump of a pipe, while he held the bridles of their horses.
               "No," said Carlos savagely.
               "Didn't! Why, Carlos, what a bungler you are!"
               "Hush, Flint; mount your horse and let us get away from this accursed spot."
               "Ha! ha! come three thousand miles, only to run away! You are braver in your heels than your head, Carlos. But let us ride; if you are satisfied with the night's work, I am."
               "If we must quarrel again, let it be done as we ride, Hardy; it is a little dangerous for us to be found hereabout after what I attempted to do at Holly Tavern. It's easy enough for you to have remained here on that stone smoking and holding horses, while I was fighting two to one: a man at my throat with the grip of a tiger, that made my tongue loll out; while another clutched my arms, and almost succeeded in holding me until help enough arrived to put me in the county jail. Why, man, there were enough, as daring as we are, at Holly Tavern to have broken up the best-laid scheme; and if you have blame for me, Hardy, after what I tell you, may the curse of God rest on all you ever do."
               "It's not likely that you are on such good terms with the Almighty, Carlos, as to command his curse on me, or any one else but yourself—of that I'm not afraid. As for blame, it's nothing to me, your not having put the old man under; I have already done all and more than all I promised, and if you are willing to go back to England and risk the chance of old Roscoe Sparks turning up there some fine day, all right, the quicker we get afloat the better." This was said while Hardy arose from his seat on the stone, knocked the ashes from his pipé, put it into his breast-pocket, and gathering up his reins, vaulted into the saddle.
               Carlos had already mounted; and the speed at which they now dashed along over the dark muddy road, effectually silenced the quarrel that only a few moments before gave serious promise of something more serious than words, and each of the angry fugitives had ample time to grow calm, as he thought that in the midst of a danger in which they were of necessity equal partners, they should find no time for strife with each other.
               Toward dawn the silence was broken by Carlos, who reined in his horse as they were ascending a steep red hill, bringing him down to a quick walk as he said, "Flint, not so fast now; my horse can't stand this, and it will take many hours' hard riding yet before we can afford to lose a horse, so we must ease up a little."
               "Eh! spur up, man; we can rest and get breakfast a short way ahead."
               "Do you think it safe, Flint?"
               "Safe, the devil! I am going to get something to eat at old Bumpass's, and I'd like to see the sheriff that would prevent me. Don't look like a criminal, Carlos; play it bold, and act the fine gentleman. You know how to do it. We will ride up just about the time the first gray streaks come in the east, and will be sure to find the old man about the stables in the lane. He will ask us to alight and take breakfast, for he is very hospitable, but very inquisitive, and will ask a thousand questions if we only answer them. Our plan is to ask him a great many, and keep him answering questions instead of asking. You take that in hand now. I shall be a deaf mute you are taking home; do you understand?"
               "Flint, you are a deep one; I understand, and will catechise the worthy squire more thoroughly than his parson. See that you play deaf mute, and a little crazy fit after getting through breakfast might make him glad to bid us good-bye."
               Thus in few words their plan was arranged, and true to Flint's conjecture they were approaching the lane that led up to Squire Bumpass's house with the earliest streak of morning light.
               Halting at the large gate that opened into the barn-yard, they were spied by one of a pack of hounds loitering around the stables, who immediately began to bark furiously, soon bringing to his aid his yelping companions, who formed a circle around the strangers, and continued baying until Squire Bumpass, attracted by the unusual din, came out of the stable, and began storming at them with such vigor as to reduce their demonstrations to an occasional yelp or a low growl.
               "Down, Yelper! be quiet, dogs!" and the old man struck the gate with his staff as he leaned over it, saying, "Good morning, gentlemen, hope my dogs haven't worried you. Do alight; you are early travellers, and should want your breakfast—'twon't be long before my old woman will have the horn blown. Where might ye have come from this morning?" This was all said in a quick, sharp voice, while the little man peered curiously at the strangers as he opened the gate for them to ride in.
               Flint touched Armero with his elbow as they passed into the barnyard, a hint that it was time to begin his catechism; nor was he slow to take the hint.
               "A hard ride we have had of it, old gentleman," Armero began. "I have a brother here who is a deaf mute, and a little crazy occasionally; when the fits come on he runs away and wanders abroad for weeks together: I am now on my way home with him, and he took it into his head a few miles back to attempt an escape, so he has been riding at a furious gait, and it has been all I could do to keep in sight of him. He is quiet now, and I hope will remain docile during the continuance of our journey, for our horses have been sorely tried. How far do you call it to Suffolk?"
               During Armero's recital Squire Bumpass stood leaning on his long staff, occasionally striking the end of it on the ground, and when he spoke of the deaf mute as being sometimes a little crazy, he ejaculated, "You—don't—say! But—bring him in—bring him in— poor fellow—I hope he'll keep straight while he's here." Then as he was about to ask further about them, Armero again questioned, "How far did you say it was to Suffolk?"
               "Oh, ah! yes, you did ask. Well, stranger, it may be somewhat less than ninety to a hundred miles from hereabout. Going there?"
               "We are going near there, but beyond. We shan't stop except for rest until my brother reaches home, where he can have rest, quiet, and the best treatment, for he needs it, poor fellow."
               Here the Squire called loudly in sharp, penetrating tones to the hostler, who could be heard currying inside the stable, to come and take the horses, and the quick knock of his currying-comb against the side of the stall as he answered, betokened a prompt obedience.
               "Rub well, feed well, Oscar. And now, gentlemen, walk in; I hear our horn. Hush! you brutes" (turning to the hounds who began yelping as they heard the familiar blast), "answer when you are called," and the Squire laid about him with his staff until the whole pack scattered, leaving an open path up to the house.
               Taking the strangers to a long porch at the back of the house, fresh water was soon brought from a well near by, and the bright tin basins fitting into their places on a long shelf were filled, clean towels were hung up on large rollers against the wall, and by the dim light of a tin lantern ablutions were made which proved cleansing and refreshing. Squire Bumpass held the lantern himself, and kept up a continuous stream of conversation, while he saw that his guests were well brushed off; for the mud had bespattered them until they presented a most bedraggled appearance, nor did their coming into the bright warm dining-room, where everything was scrupulously clean, tend to give them a more tidy look.
               Behind a huge Britannia urn, at the head of the table, sat Mrs. Bumpass, a waspish-looking little figure, with angular features, a long nose, and very sharp little black eyes that twinkled incessantly, impressing one with the idea that their owner was as sharp as they, and ever on the alert to find out all she could of what was going on around her.
               As the strangers were ushered into the room the Squire glanced toward his wife, then turning toward them, said inquiringly, "Wife, let me introduce Mister—ah, Mistu-ah—"
               "Jones, Jones," Armero said quickly.
               "Yes, Jones; and this is Mister Jones too," nodding toward Flint; "but he is deaf and dumb—can't hear a word you say, poor fellow. Come, let us give 'em some breakfast. You are hungry, gentlemen?—tired, wet, muddy; sit on the side next to the fire and be comfortable."
               At the allusion to his being a deaf mute, which it must be supposed was conveyed to him by the Squire's significant nod, Flint gave an ugly grin and began to shake his head from side to side, giving a peculiar roll to his eyes that quite astonished the Squire and his sharp-eyed little wife.
               "Gracious sakes, Squire Bumpass!"—and his frightened spouse bounded up from her seat behind the urn, as if to retreat from the room.
               The Squire looked as if he were also half inclined to follow his wife, when Armero made a few signs to his companion, who instantly became calm; then turning to his host and hostess, he explained, "My brother has long fasted, and the sight of food excites him; a warm breakfast will soon bring him round and make him more tractable, unless something should suddenly occur to displease him: he is very moody of late."
               "Sit down, wife, and pour out the coffee, Mr. Jones won't hurt you. The quicker he gets his coffee the better for all of us," said the Squire in rather doubtful tone as he seated himself at the foot of the table, that being the seat most remote from the strangers, and fortunately for him the one which civility required him to take.
               The breakfast well begun, the Squire again grew inquisitive, his curiosity getting the better of his fears.
               "It's strange, strange! Mr. Jones, how long since your brother begun to have fits?" he questioned, adding—"and so well and hearty looking too, it's a pity."
               "Ever since he was a lad; and sometimes if you could see him you would think he had the strength of twenty men. He is unusually mild this morning, quite gentle indeed."
               "Good lack!" exclaimed Mrs. Bumpass, as giving a nervous glance at the subject of conversation, she now saw only the whites of his eyes, while with mouth opened wide he was in the act of inserting between his teeth half of a large roll. "Does he always eat that way?" she ventured to ask.
               "Generally, Madam; only he is even queerer at times than you see him now. I must hurry him through his breakfast and once more take the road, or there is no end to the trouble he may give me."
               
               It may well be understood that the Squire found but little inclination to question further, while Mrs. Bumpass kept the servants busy in supplying the needs of her strange guests; nor was it until they walked out to the barnyard, and she saw them ride through the gate into the lane, did she feel that she could again breathe freely.
               Once out of sight of the house, Armero turned toward Flint, saying as he gave a grin of intense satisfaction, "Hardy, you played your part well. You were the most idiotic-looking creature I ever saw, and when you rolled your eyes it was a fearful sight."
               "I wanted them to 'speed the parting guest,' and the delight that shrivelled little old woman showed at our going was worth all my efforts at playing the fool. We have given the old couple something to talk of for the remainder of their lives. But speed up a little, Carlos; we must ride hard for a few miles yet before we stop again, don another costume, and assume a new rôle."
               Leaving the main county-road, Flint led the way first through a by-road, keeping the same direction; then bearing to the south-east, he turned into a bridle-path that wound its way through pine thickets and old fields of broom-sedge, passing here and there a decaying orchard in the midst of which stood a chimney, the house having long ago crumbled to dust, its former owner no longer near to preserve a vestige of the home once so dear. It was a part of the country early settled, where there were many large plantations; and when fields became unprofitable for cultivation they had been turned out to grow up in pines, while fresh fields were cleared, affording more profitable return to the husbandman. Thus for miles did the fugitives ride without meeting a human face or hearing a sound except the roaring of the wind in the pines, the hum of insect-life, the distant tinkle of some neighborhood cow wandering through the range, or the song of the ploughmen in some far-off field. The solitary path and the quiet all around them was oppressive to Armero, who broke the stillness they had kept for more than an hour by saying—
               "Flint, this is the most man-forsaken and God-forsaken country I ever saw."
               "All the better for us, Carlos. We are pretty well God-forsaken too, and I'm sure I don't want to meet any one now, for we are in most suspicious plight—all mud from head to foot, and our horses jaded and foaming. Do you see that long dark line through beyond the pines yonder?"
               "Yes."
               "Well, in the darkest spot in that forest will we rest not an hour hence, if we have luck;" then turning quickly in his saddle, he aimed at something in the thick grass with his pistol, adding as he did so, "and I shall give you a broiled hare for dinner." The report quickly followed, Flint as quickly dismounted, and stepping a few feet from the path, returned, bringing with him the hare, which was soon dangling from his saddle-bow, while he again mounted and rode on, loading his pistol as he went.
               It was about noon, and they were well into the forest when Flint called a halt.
               "Do you remember this spot, Carlos?" he asked, as he proceeded to take the saddle arid bridle from his horse.
               Glancing around him at the trees, now putting on their autumn dress, the old spring bubbling up through a fissure in a solid bed of rock, the little winding branch that flowed through the decaying leaves at their feet, and at the sloping sides of the deep dell into which they had descended, Armero replied: "Yes; this is the very spot where we camped twenty years ago. I remember now; and what a time we had with young Sparks just as we were about leaving. I thought at one time that he would be too much for both of us."
               "And just then and there we made a mistake, Carlos. If Hampden Sparks had been buried then six feet under the roots of yonder oak-tree instead of our sparing him on his promise of going to India, you would only now be waiting for the death of the man you didn't kill last night, and soon all would be yours. As it is, you don't know what may turn up."
               "Hardy Flint, what do you mean? I didn't want to butcher the young man when I could get him killed just as easy. You don't mean to insinuate that he may still be living?"
               "I don't 'sinuate anything; I mean if he had been dead twenty years ago, he couldn't come back on you now."
               "But can he come back? That is just what you went to India to prevent; and if he should, woe to Hardy Flint."
               "Nonsense, Carlos. I told you all I could find out, and travelled from England to Calcutta, thence to Bombay, touching at Madras, and up into Punjab and beyond, to get the information, but I didn't see him die; and should he ever come back, it will be just what you deserve for being so chicken-hearted as not to take my advice. Don't dare to tax me with your ill-luck!"
               
               Carlos seeing that his ally was growing warm, softened his tone as he answered: "Easy, easy now, Hardy; you know we are partners and can't afford even a partial dissolution. We will build a fire, take something to eat, a drop of good brandy from my flask, and then over our pipes we can discuss what we have done and what we ought to do now. But we must keep anger down; it's no good for us to quarrel."
               "Be done with your snapping and snarling then; keep your own temper, and leave me to take care of mine. But no, you are such a devil that the minute anything goes wrong with you, a victim must be found to take all the blame and all the cursing, instead of you putting the 'saddle on the right horse.' Our joint partnership is almost at an end, Carlos. Once rid of this Sparks business, I shall also be rid of you, leaving you to plan and execute all your rascalities as you choose; you must then find some other tool to work with."
               This was said in a sharp, energetic manner, full of earnest determination, while the speaker busied himself in preparation to skin the hare he had carefully suspended from a short limb over his head, only now and then turning from the work in hand to glance at Armero, who was equally busy in piling broken sticks on the fire they had kindled.
               "Keep cool, Hardy, and I'll try to be more civil. I don't mean to be ugly, but this temper of mine sometimes runs away with me. It's only a little while, and we can both afford to be honest gentlemen. Come now, you don't think young Sparks could possibly have survived climate, battle and captivity?"
               Hardy's face gradually grew more calm as he replied to the eager question, "Carlos, it's my experience that men live longest that you want particularly to die, and therefore it's best never to let a good chance slip to put 'em under. You know the old saying, 'Dead men tell no tales.' The chances are that young Sparks is dead; for certainly nothing has been heard from him in many years, and I tried as hard to trace him as ever a man did. But," and here Flint gave the last jerk at the hare-skin, "there is no telling, and my advice is, should his head ever pop above ground, unexpected-like, just make sure of him—see him under. Do you comprehend?"
               "I should think I did; but what do you say about old Roscoe Sparks?"
               "I thought you'd made up your mind to risk his dying soon."
               "I do think it just as well; but we are partners. What do you think of it, Hardy?"
               "I am tired of the whole job. Twenty years is too long for me to be mixed up in any one scheme, and if you are willing to risk it, Carlos, it's nothing to me; let the old man die natural, and we will go home without any more risk or bother except such as we can't help. We will stay here until night, and then strike out for the Dismal Swamp, which we can reach by daylight to-morrow morning; and there we can stay till things quiet down, then to Norfolk, and home aboard the first ship out of port."
               Armero acquiesced in all that Flint had suggested, and the confederates continued their conversation during the rude meal that constituted their dinner and luncheon, and while they smoked their pipes; then tethering their horses in a little green plat of grass a few yards off, they again mended up the fire, and using saddle-blankets and leaves for a couch, each sought to quiet guilty unrest in the repose which worn and tired nature demanded.
               The sun was down and twilight had become darkness in the sheltered dell before either of the sleepers awoke. First to become conscious, Armero shook his companion, who sprang up, saying, "Quick now, Carlos, we must change dress and leave this place with all speed."
               The change was soon made: the muddy suits were rolled up and strapped behind their saddles, and in their stead appéared two substantial suits of gray homespun, causing the wearers to look like well-to-do countrymen or substantial drovers. Each drew forth from one of his capacious coat-pockets a drab slouch-hat, and Hardy was not long in manufacturing from a leathern strap and a stout hickory switch a substantial drover's whip, which would go far toward making an impression on any stranger they might meet as to the nature of their business.
               Thus equipped, they saddled up and were soon threading their way along the forest-path, which grew more and more open as they journeyed, until it led into a broad and smooth highway which Flint recognised as the road to Suffolk, along which they might expect for several hours to meet comers and goers before it should be too late for many travellers to be journeying; and it was not without some apprehension that they felt constrained to pass along a road so public on their way to the Dismal Swamp.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               WILD CAT HOLLOW. OLD ACQUAINTANCES.
               IT was near midnight when far off in the gloom Flint saw a few flickering lights, which told him that they were approaching Suffolk. Turning to his companion, he said, "Once past this place, and we are safe; a few miles then will bring us to the swamp, where we might live until the moss grew on our backs without fear of the sheriff."
               "It's a nasty hole for all that, Hardy: mud, water, cypress knees, bear, snakes and niggers, with now and then a spot where you can stick out your nose and breathe heaven's pure air."
               "Men on our errand must not be over-nice, Carlos. What we are after is a safe hole, and 'the Dizmil,' as the natives call it, is certainly that. I have some curiosity to know if old Juba, our former host at 'Wild Cat Hollow,' is still living; and we must stop in Suffolk, if it is only to buy a jug of whiskey to carry with us. If the old fellow hasn't gone under, he will drink to our health with a rare toast."
               "The old black imp! I haven't thought of him for years. Don't you think it risky to stop in Suffolk, Hardy? We don't really need the whiskey, and we can grease old Juba's palm with a little gold, you know."
               "You talk like a child, Carlos. Who cares for a little risk? No adventure is worth much without it, and I tell you now, I shall stop and get the whiskey; it will open that old black rascal's cabin quicker than money. We will stop at the public-house on the main street; some one will be up there. If not, I'll soon wake them up, and getting what we want, we will depart, leaving them our money and our blessing—valuable things, you know."
               They entered the town at a brisk pace, and Hardy led the way to a house with a long porch in front, where a light shone out from a tallow candle placed in the window-sill, and they soon succeeded in bringing to the door the fat, drowsy bar-keeper, who greeted them gruffly, saying, "What do you want? for it's time all honest folks were abed."
               "That's why you are up," suggested Hardy, curtly. "But never, mind; we want a gallon-jug of whiskey, and be quick about it, for we are in a hurry—no rattlesnake nor blue lightning, tapster, but a good old whiskey."
               "Come in and taste for yourself," was the reply. This Hardy was nothing loth to do, and he was soon engaged in a genial chat with Tappy, as he called his new acquaintance, over a strong whiskey-punch, while Carlos held the horses outside.
               "Flint, why don't you come along?" urged his companion, as he began to grow chilled by remaining still so long in the night-air.
               "Yes, coming. Tappy, make my friend a punch, hot and strong; it was so comfortable in here that I had almost forgotten him."
               "Make him come in; I'll wake that boy," pointing to something curled up under a blanket by the stove, "to hold the horses."
               "No, no! I will go out and let him come in and warm a little while; then we must take the road."
               The persuasions of the tapster proved of no avail in changing their plan, although they found him much more social and agreeable awake than half-asleep. Carlos swallowed his punch, stuck his feet against the stove for a few minutes, filled his pipe, and then bidding the bar-keeper good-night, joined Hardy outside, and they were soon out of sight and hearing.
               "Hardy, why did you leave me so long in the cold a while ago? I thought you were going to stay in that bar-room all night," said Armero a little sharply, for he had not forgotten how comfortable Flint had looked as he saw him through the window thawing out under the genial influences of a hot punch and a warm room, while he was shivering outside.
               "'Twas no waste of time, Carlos. I was pumping Tappy about the roads hereabout, the swamp, and several other things it's well enough for us to know. I found out too that Tappy is a Henglisher not long landed; and when I told him we were, he melted immediately."
               "I hope your whiskey didn't loosen your tongue too much, Hardy?"
               "I never lose my head, and know when to hold my tongue. We will find Tappy of use to us before we can leave the swamp. Mind what I say: work with all tools, dull or sharp, if they help you in doing what you have to do, and grind your knife on any stone. Follow these rules, Carlos, and you may not always do what law-officers call right; but you will have marvellous luck in doing wrong, and that's your profession just now."
               
               "Did you find out Tappy's name?"
               "Yes; but that's not the name he goes by hereabout. The bobbies have given him many a chase, and he once came near peeping out of the bars in Bow Street. I've seen him before to-night."
               "Where?"
               "Had many a game with him down at our den near old Battersea, and we did a little business together once in Regent Street—hand-some lace-store there not far from the circus. We cracked toward midnight and made a paying job of it."
               "Did I ever meet him before, Hardy?"
               "Why yes. Don't you remember Watt Chubb?"
               "You don't mean to say that is Watt Chubb?"
               "Devil a body else. I knew him the minute he spoke, but he didn't know me until I asked him 'if he did anything in laces now-a-days.' You ought to have seen how his eyes popped open, and I thought at first he was going to run for it; but he took a second look at me, I began to laugh, and then he almost wrung my hand off. Watt's a good fellow, and says he's come to America to reform. Hope he'll do it, for he was always a bungling hand in my line, and had more conscience than is good for a professional."
               During this conversation the horses toiled along at a slower pace through the heavy sand until they came down to a walk, and now their riders guided them at intervals through pools of stagnant water and marshy spots, which indicated a near approach to their place of refuge.
               The gray of dawn, faintly glimmering in the east, revealed a thick cloud-like fog, which seemed now to stretch further eastward until its shadow could well be imagined to rest upon the Atlantic. The road was growing narrow, the pools of water deeper, and the growth of pine and cypress more dense, when Armero, whose horse had just stumbled and thrown him headforemost against a huge cypress-knee, asked, "How far now, Hardy? I am getting tired of this."
               "We are well into the swamp, and daylight is a God-send; for I would never find Wild Cat Hollow without it. We must travel slowly now for fear I pass the blind path, which is the only way for man or beast to reach the Hollow without wading or swimming."
               It was now approaching sunrise, and the fog began to lose its density, floating higher and higher until it seemed suspended above the tops of the trees. Before them was the narrow track leading deeper into the tangled growth; around them they only saw swamp-grass, ugly knotted knees, and roots protruding from the yellow swamp-water, while from the huge trees hung in graceful festoons the sombre gray moss, draping the whole picture in the garb of mourning. At length Hardy paused, looked all around him, examined carefully the bark of a beech-tree that stood near the roadside, and said, "This is the place we turn in; an hour now will bring us to the Hollow."
               "How do you know so well where you are, Hardy, when you have not been to this spot for twenty years?"
               "I always leave my mark in case I should want to come again. Look at that beech-tree, Carlos."
               Riding up to it, Carlos read on the side farthest from the road, "H F. C A. Juba. Shall we three meet again?" The words were distinct, although they had grown wrinkled with age and stormy weather, and they asked a question that would soon be answered now, for two of the trio were fast approaching the spot where they had left old Juba twenty years before. Picking their way through the tangled growth, they soon came to an opening, and in the distance saw a little patch of corn growing on firm ground, its dry blades rustling in the wind, and each stalk overrun by pea-vines hanging thick with well-filled pods. Near the corn-patch were melon and pumpkin-vines, with other household vegetables; but nowhere did a habitation appear, and in vain did they listen for any sound that would indicate the presence in this vast wilderness of any human being.
               Reining in his horse, Hardy Flint gazed about him, and at last said in an undertone, "I expect old Jub's gone under, Carlos, or we'd have heard from him before this. Some of his tribe doubtless live hereabout though, and I am going to search till I find them."
               Here Carlos dodged perceptibly, as very near to his right ear he heard the familiar "zoo!" of a bullet, while the stillness was also broken by the sharp crack of a rifle. "That's pretty lively, Flint. It is hard for us to be murdered in this swamp without a chance for life. What shall we do?" exclaimed Carlos, as he quickly dismounted.
               But Hardy was nowhere to be seen, as his companion's eye ranged around the open space about him in a vain search. Seeing a white puff of smoke floating up from the edge of a dense growth of cane a few yards from the path, he had dismounted, and rushing quickly to the spot, plunged into the thicket before Carlos discovered that he was gone. Nor was it long before he reappeared attended by a creature more indescribably wild and demoniacal in appearance than anything Carlos had ever seen in all his life. His brow, black and wrinkled, was shaded by a rude coon-skin cap, with the striped tail dangling from the peaked top. His eyes, deep-set and dark, were fringed with white woolly brows that corresponded to the heavy shock of white woolly hair that stood out from beneath the edge of his cap. His features were heavy and coarse, but their hideousness was softened by a short grizzled beard several shades darker than his wool, his whole appearance from his shoulders up being that of a shaggy-visaged terrier whose inquisitive nose had led him to thrust his head into an open meal-sack. His shoulders were broad, his chest deep, his arms long, hands bony, and his back crooked, having like a camel two distinct humps; while his legs and feet, crooked, bare and scaley, looked as if this part of him might partake of the nature of the alligator. A cotton shirt, belted with a deer-skin girdle, constitutéd his outward apparel; and as he hopped along by the side of Hardy Flint with a quick, shambling gait, holding his long rifle at a trail, Carlos was half-inclined to think that they had discovered a genuine American gorilla.
               "What devilish-looking creature have you got there, Hardy?" he questioned, as the two drew near to him.
               Hardy only shook with laughter, while the savage growled out, "I not de debil, Massa Carl'. You no know me? You no know old Juba?" Then changing his growl to a guttural laugh, he came to Carlos, and taking his hand in his rough, horny paw, said, "Glad to see you bofe, Massa Flint, Massa Carl'. Old Juba no see good now. Tank God he keep me from kill you. Come to de cabin; glad to see you. Little Juba had seed you fust, he shoot good and no miss; so glad I see you fust."
               Beckoning with his bony finger, he now bade them follow him into the cane-brake, leading their horses after them through the narrow opening scarcely wide enough for a man to pass. Soon the opening grew wider, until suddenly they came to a halt before what appeared to be an impenetrable wall of cane, and here Juba, seeing their perplexity, hopped about and chuckled with delight, jabbering all the time.
               "You no see house, Massa Flint? You no see house, Massa Carl? I show you. My house he grow out ob de groun'; see," and pressing against the wall of cane, a door swung back, and he ushered them into a large room.
               "You ingenious old devil!" exclaimed Carlos, as he gazed about him at all the rude evidences that Juba gave of mechanical skill and ingenuity in the construction of a home in this desolate spot.
               "'Genous! No, Massa Carl'; I take what God gib. He grow de cane, I cut out what I don't want; den I make roof wid dat and moss and swamp-grass. De walls already dere, de roof dere; only I puts 'em togedder. I got big house; see," and telling them to leave their horses there "until little Juba came from de traps," he led them through the cane structure from room to room, convincing them that his surroundings were as luxurious as his simple wants demanded, and that they were all the result of his own toil. His best room was a curiosity. Here he had constructed a fire-place and chimney of sun-dried brick, and the mantel was of live oak, rived and dressed from a log cut out of the swamp. Some of the furniture was of cane and bits of board, manufactured by his own and little Juba's hands, while the quaint old mirrors hung at each end of the room, together with an old desk, a few chairs, and a table he had picked up over on the coast a few years before after a severe storm. Even the floor was covered with a matting ingeniously woven of tough swamp-grass of various colors; the cane walls were hung with a few colored prints, and all the surroundings indicated that Juba had not forgotten the lessons learned of his master before, as a fugitive from a stern demand of the law, he had sought refuge in the Dismal Swamp.
               Leaving his guests in the best room, Juba passed on through into the kitchen and could be heard giving some one orders for an immediate breakfast. "Hurry now, Chlo! 'Member de bar-steak, eggs, hot coffee, and all you's got good in de cabin; and sarve it quick, for dey's hungry." Passing again through the best room, he was heard telling little Juba, who had now returned, to "feed dem hosses wid all de hay dey will eat, and den come to wait on the gent'men."
               It was evident that old Juba's word was law in his dominion, for in an incredibly short space of time breakfast was served; and when the little Juba, to whom reference had been made, came in to serve the table, the guests were astonished to find he was a giant in stature, being six feet six inches high, with broad shoulders and long brawny arms—a perfect Titan.
               "And this is little Juba?" exclaimed Flint with a laugh, as he surveyed the monster from head to foot.
               "Yes, dat's him," the old man replied. "He was born one munt arter you all lef' here, and is growed all dat since; but I calls him Little Juba all de same, fur nobody is bigger dan I is in dis house."
               "How many children have you, Juba?"
               "He my onliest one, Massa Flint. All de rest un um done dead and burried in de swamp yonder," and the old man shook his white head from side to side with solemnity as he said it. "Nobody lef' now, Massa Flint, but ole Chlo, Little Juba, and me. I sometimes longs for ole Massa Bostick an' de ole plantation; but I 'feared to go back, 'case de law nuver furgits when a man kill nudder man, even if he done it when he's drunk. I been hidin' in dis swamp thirty years nigh 'bout, and while I has a heap of things around me, and nuver wants for nothin' to live on, de oler I gits de more I longs for de ole times. Old Juba ain't as bad as he look, Massa Flint."
               "You are old enough, Juba, to be better, if you are ever going to be," said Flint, cynically.
               "Dat is so, Massa Flint."
               "You have got very good since you tried to shoot us in the swamp a while ago, Juba. Suppose you had killed Armero?"
               The old man shook his head mournfully, saying, "I should a cry much, Massa. I nuver kill anybody but de man I run away for killin'; we no need in dis swamp to kill anybody. I tink I skeer you much, but I no kill."
               "Do you never go out of this swamp, Juba?"
               "Oh yes, Massa; of nights I usen to, but I too ole now. Little Juba he go out heap a' times."
               "Does he ever go to Suffolk?"
               "Oh yes, Massa; every week ob de world."
               "I am glad to know that, for he can be of service to us, and we will want him to go there for us some time next week." Thus ended the conversation at breakfast, and then old Chloe came in from the kitchen to pay her respects to her guests; nor did her shrivelled features and frame present less of an antediluvian appearance than her liege lord.
               The days spent in the swamp were days of rest and enjoyment, accompanied by a rude attempt at luxurious entertainment on the part of host and hostess. Their beds were filled with the softest down from the breast of the wild goose found in great abundance in the waters around them; their traps furnished rugs and mats of bear and wolf skins; their table was supplied with venison, fish and bear meat in great abundance, while old Chloe seemed determined to exhaust her skill in the culinary art that she might tempt to even greater excess the ready appetites of her guests. There was a wildness in the life temporarily very attractive to Flint and Armero; but two such restless spirits could not long remain amused and entertained with only such adventures as a bear-hunt, a deer-hunt, or a chase in pursuit of the wild hog, with which the swamp abounded. They desired once more to seek adventures in a more congenial field.
               On the evening of the tenth day after their arrival at "Wild-Cat Hollow," as they were returning from an exciting chase, bringing with them the carcass of a grizzled shaggy-looking boar whose swiftness and desperation had foiled old Juba many times before, while the old man and his son led the way through the almost pathless jungle, and rejoiced together over their prize as they carried it on a pole between them—Flint began a conversation with Armero by saying, "Carlos, this is a safe place, but we must not remain much longer; I think we may venture to Norfolk now, and I shall send little Juba to Suffolk to-night with a note to Watt."
               "Are you going to get him to sell the horses?"
               "Oh that is all arranged; Watt takes the horses at a price named the other night, and will send us the money by Juba. I shall start him off as soon as we get through supper."
               "You are certainly a man of business in your line, Hardy. Who would have thought that the time you spent in that village bar-room, smoking and drinking with an apparent stranger in a slouchy careless way, was only part of your plan for getting us out of our dangerous situation?"
               "You remember what I told you, Carlos, about 'grinding your knife on any stone.' Never do you forget that, and it will help you out of many a tight place. Not only will Watt Chubb take the horses off our hands, but he will send us tidings from Norfolk what vessels are in port, and all that. He is a trusty fellow, you may be sure, and just the man we need at this time."
               At this stage of their conversation they drew near to the house, and as they passed in through the outer door, old Chloe could be heard calling out in shrill tones, "Jes in time, for de supper is done brown and only waits for de company. Come right in, gent'men," and soon they were seated at the table, while host, hostess, and little Juba vied with each other in supplying their needs, and pressed the tempting dishes upon them with genuine hospitality.
               
               Supper over, Flint and Armero lit their pipes and withdrew to the best room, leaving Juba and his family to complete their meal unrestrained by their presence, and when half an hour after the old man came shuffling in, with a short cob-pipe in his mouth and puffing out smoke like a volcano, Flint opened his mind to him about their departure, by saying: "Well, Uncle Juba, we have been living on you long enough, and must now think about going."
               "No, no! Massa Flint."
               "Yes, but we must, and I want little Juba to go to Suffolk for me to-night. Can he go?"
               "To be sure he kin ef you wants him to; but you ain't gwine to lef us yit, is you?"
               "Must do it, Uncle Juba; and if you will tell little Juba to get both of the horses ready, I will write a short note to a friend in Suffolk who understands all about what I wish done, and he will send an answer back by him."
               The old man hopped out of the room and gave his orders to little Juba, while Flint proceeded to trace in pencil on the blank side of an old letter taken from his pocket the following characteristic epistle:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "WILD-CAT HOLLOW, "November —, 18—.
                              
                           
                           "DEAR CHUBBY:—You see we keep on run of days or years where we are now, and there's no need to; one day is just like another, and it seems a year since we came here.
                           "I send by the bearer the two horses, and you may safely trust him with the money. Send any news you may have from Norfolk, for we want devilish bad to come out of this hole.
                           
                              "Yours; in laces,
                              "HARD FLINT."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               LITTLE JUBA AND MR. CHUBB. THE PARTING.
               WATT CHUBB sat by the stove in the bar-room at Suffolk smoking, drinking from a large tumbler on a little table by him, and dozing by turns. His little Ethiopian bar-tender had long since curled up under the blanket, and was now snoring so vociferously as frequently to disturb Watt's naps, causing him to give the little sleeper sundry wholesome reminders, which only produced convulsive sounds more hideous than the regular snore; these were followed by a sharp whetting of his teeth together, a grunt or two, and then a temporary lull, giving Watt sufficient time to take another sip from the glass and go off into another nap.
               The last gossiping sponge had toasted his feet at the bar-room fire, taken his "night-cap" and departed, and a quiet brooded over the place, only disturbed by such sounds as may be heard in any lowland village, when Watt was suddenly aroused by the sound of horses' feet, a tramp on the porch, and a heavy knock at the door.
               "Who comes there?" he called out in a gruff, drowsy tone, at the same time rising and walking toward the door.
               He was answered by a deep guttural voice, which asked: "Is dis whar Mr. Chubb live?"
               "Yes. Who are you, and what do you want with Mr. Chubb?" Watt questioned, as he now leaned against the door and held it until he should be satisfied as to who the new visitor might be.
               "My name is Little Juba, Sah, and I brings a paper from Massa Flint; and I got de hosses too, Sah."
               At this announcement Watt opened the door, and as the light revealed the giant form of Little Juba just ready to enter, he involuntarily started back, and retreated toward the stove as Juba advanced, holding in his hand the note he had brought. Still keeping at a good distance, and on the opposite side of the stove from his visitor, Watt began a series of questions by asking: "What did you say your name was?"
               "Little Juba, Sah."
               "Little what?"
               "Juba, Juba, Sah."
               "Little Juba! And where did you say you lived?"
               "In de Dizmil, at Wild Cat Hollow, Sah."
               "And you have a note from Mr. Flint?" reaching timidly across the stove to take it from Juba's huge black hand.
               "Ezackly, Sah; dis is de paper, and de hosses are at de door."
               "Sure you brought this from Mr. Flint?" and Watt turned the crumpled paper over in his hand before attempting to read it, while he surveyed a little suspiciously the uncivilised-looking creature before him.
               "Sartin, Sah. You read him and see, and you takes de hosses—ain't dat enough? Don't look so skeerd, I ain't gwyne to hurt you, Massa Chubb, ef I does live in de swamp."
               Thus rebuked for his cowardice, Watt walked toward the candle and carefully read Flint's note; then waking up the little darkey, he dispatched him with a lantern to show Juba where to put the horses, and during their absence addressed himself to the task of answering the note and counting out of a buckskin bag, in sovereigns, the amount of money he had agreed with Flint to send.
               Chubb's answer was quite in character with the man; the heavy scrawling hand looking not unlike the irregular, ragged lines of a cedar-brush fence as he spread the paper out on the counter before him, and with a blunt-pointed quill-pen traced his homely thoughts. When completed it read as follows:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "SUFFOLK, VA., Friday Night.
                           
                           "DEAR HARD:—You have my hearnest sympathy, being in so mournful a place as that blarsted narsty swamp. The natives must be poor company, hand betwixt them hand the hallegaters I should be fearful of being killed alive hand heaten whole. I send by the himmense savage you call Little Juba ¥40, which is as understood. The Harvest Moon will sail from Norfolk on Tuesday of next week, bound for ome. It is a staunch craft, and the captain is a hold friend of your humble servant's: go in this vessel by hall means. I send along with this a little tender piece for dear Debby. Tell her Watt is reformed, and opes to come back hand claim her in a year's time. Don't say anything more about them laces, I ain't hacquainted with the harticle any more, but remain your loving friend,
                           
                              "WATT CHUBB."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The piece of foolscap on which this was written Watt now folded carefully in letter shape, and inclosed within it the little billet directed with much irregular precision to Miss Debora Flint. It was evident that the billet had given him more trouble in its composition than the effort we have recorded above; for during its progress his face became flushed until his plump cheeks were ablaze, his tongue took regular turns in plumping out first one cheek then the other, while the perspiration stood in great drops on his brow, as if the thermometer had suddenly climbed up into the nineties. At last striking his heavy fist down upon the counter, he exclaimed: "Done, by Jove! and a sweet little job I made of it! Won't Debby be glad to get it, too! Now this" (taking up the packet, which he had already sealed, and gazing admiringly at it) "is writ in the style of a clerk, 'andsome, quite 'andsome, h'and as plain as print. Debby won't know how I got to be such a scribe, h'and she'll wonder 'mazingly. That F is quirled beautiful, h'and that H can't be surpassed in the United Kingdom, while the little letters is raked in between rather scientific. Oh, don't I wish I was going 'ome, too, 'stead of writing, though! For never mind how well a fellow tells his girl his feelings on paper, it's no more like the real thing than a note of 'and is like real sterling; it's as tame as kissing her picture or her shadow on the wall. "He was here interrupted in his soliloquy by the return of Little Juba, who had stabled the horses, and now stood near the stove, with his coon-skin cap carelessly thrown on the floor near him, while he quietly awaited commands. Turning toward him Watt now asked: "Are you going back 'ome to-night, Juba?"
               "Yars, Sah," was the quick response.
               "Not going to rest before you start, h'and 'aving to walk all the way back, too?"
               "Dat is small matter, Sah; dem hosses travel slower comin' den I will goin'. I'll be dere afo' day-dawn. You sildem see a hoss dat will keep up wid me."
               Watt gazed in wonder at the ponderous frame of the half-clad African, then stepping behind the counter selected his largest tumbler, which he poured half-full of whiskey, and then proceeded to mix a spicy dram, the fragrance of which filled the room. Juba watched the proceeding attentively from its beginning, and when at last Watt walked towards him with the tumbler, its smoking contents caused him to grin from ear to ear; but when he comprehended that it was intended for him, that he was expected to drink it all, he executed a number of marvellous contortions of body, bowed his head, scraped his feet, and retreating as Watt advanced, closed his exhibition of politeness by stumbling backwards over the little ebony bar-tender and rolling over on the floor.
               "Bless de gracious! you gwine to kill me?" grumbled little Sambo, as he crawled out from beneath Juba, who, astonished and confused at his fall, quickly arose and answered:
               
               "No, chile, I not gwine to hurt you."
               "'Case you done did it, dat's all," muttered Sambo, as he crawled around to the other side of the stove, rubbing his head. "Nuver seed sweeten' dram befo', and had to turn fool ove' it, you wild nigger you!"
               Here Watt commanded the peace, saying authoritatively: "Come, Sambo, be quiet, h'and go to sleep; it was a h'accident, h'and no one ever 'eard of your 'ead being so h'easily 'urt before. Here, Juba, drink to my 'ealth, this bumper will do you good."
               Juba quickly obeyed the invitation, giving a grin of intense satisfaction as the last drop passed his lips, then turning towards Chubb, said with a low bow: 
                     
                        "Dis year lucky, grow in station,
                        Next year wife and big plantation;
                        Nuver hungry, nuver dry,
                        Long time live befo' you die.
                     
                   Dem's my wishes, Massa Chubb, and now I tells you good-night, for de way is dark, and dey wants to see me at de Hollow bad enough, for Massa Flint he gettin' powerful restless." Another low bow, a scrape of his right foot against the floor, and Juba vanished from the door-way as suddenly as he had made his appearance there an hour before, and with stealthy cat-like strides was soon far out on the road to the Swamp.
               "Praise de Lord he's gone!" growled little Sambo from beneath his blanket.
               "Did you h'ever see him before, Sambo?" asked Watt, rather amused at the thankful mood of the urchin.
               "No, Sir, and hopes I never may again. He's one of dem wild niggers out'en de Swamp, and I'd as soon see de debble any day," was the ready response.
               "Well, Sambo, don't say h'anything about 'is being here, there's a good lad. Here's five cents for you now, h'and you can go to sleep."
               Sambo quickly picked up the coin that Chubb had tossed him, slyly thrust it between his teeth that he might test its value by a mode which he considered infallible, and approving it genuine, said, "Thankee, Sir," as he stuck it edgewise into a crack in the floor until he should wake in the morning.
               True to his promise, Little Juba reached Wild-Cat Hollow before dawn; Hardy Flint and Armero meeting him at the door, and both anxiously inquiring as he came in, "What news?"
               Juba answered by handing Flint the packet containing the letters; then leading the way, he brought them into the best room, where he soon kindled a bright light-wood fire; then handing over the money which he had brought tied in the corner of his red cotton handker-chief, he stood intently watching Flint as he read what Watt had written, listening too to catch any remark he might make.
               Hardy read the letter carefully, then turning to Armero, said quickly: "Next Tuesday, Carlos!"
               "Next Tuesday what? You speak as if I knew your thoughts, man."
               "Oh, I had forgotten you did not read this. Chubb says 'The Harvest Moon' sails next Tuesday for home; he knows the captain, and advises our sailing in her; he sends the ¥40 for the horses, and also incloses a bit of a love-letter to my sister Debby. The poor fellow isn't cured of that fancy by going away from home, as I hoped he would be."
               "I didn't know you had a sister, Flint."
               "Very few people do. Debby is a lady if her brother is—an adventurer; and she has but little idea how my money has been earned. She knows I'm wild, reckless, and rough, but her soft gentle heart trusts me; and never shall she know, so help me God, that her brother has blotted the name. Carlos, I should have been dead or banished long ago but for that bright pure child; she is the only connecting link between me and the little good there is in the world."
               "You are lucky to have even one link, Hardy. My old father was the devil's own; my mother I never knew; and I have grown up like a stinging nettle: at war with everything and everybody I touch. Had I even known a bright pure woman, I might have been a better man. I must know that sister of yours, old fellow."
               "God take her first! Such as she should never know such as we. What you might have been is one thing, Carlos; what you are is quite another!"
               Here Carlos curled his lip and laughed in a way peculiarly his own: it was the old scornful chuckle that Flint had learned to know well. And he spoke with some sharpness as he said, "That old devilish laugh—have done with it, Carlos. Pray tell me what amuses you now?"
               "I am truly amused, and the question also puzzles me: how Miss Debby Flint ever came to know so proper a gentleman as Mr. Watt Chubb?"
               
               "Carlos, you are probing an old wound; for once be a man, and respect my feelings. How Watt ever knew Debby is more than I ever knew; and I tell you now she has about as much idea of marrying him as she has of taking a trip to the North Pole. The poor fellow loves her, but such a marriage would be a genuine case of 'Beauty and the Beast.' She has never seen him a dozen times in her life, and will laugh at this" (tossing up the billet and catching it again)" as a good joke. Poor Watt! he's a good-hearted fellow; we are under many obligations to him, and I feel sorry for him, but Debby marry him? No, never! he is only presuming upon his knowledge of my friendship for him. But enough of private matters, Carlos; we must leave here to-morrow, make our way to Norfolk, and get ready to ship on board of 'The Harvest Moon.' Do you agree?"
               "Yes, I have nothing better to suggest; but before we leave the subject we were discussing, let me say I beg your pardon for speaking lightly of a pure woman, and that woman your sister; I had as soon speak roughly of an angel as a pure woman. Never did I crave pardon of any creature on earth until now, but I hope you will forgive me, Hardy."
               Flint said "yes" in a tone intended to be particularly gruff, and brushing his coat-sleeve quickly across his eyes, walked rapidly out of the room.
               Once more as day dawned did the three stand under the old beechtree by the side of the road, and on this occasion Little Juba stood with them. They were now parting from old Juba for the last time, and the old man wept as he held them by the hand, and with his dim eyes gazed into their faces, repeating in solemn broken tones, "Nuver no mo! nuver no mo! farwell!" Their sojourn with him had brought up happy memories: when, unstained by crime, he had dwelt in association with the white man on the old plantation. After their departure he would again be left in his old age to the sad monotony of swamp life, with only the companionship of his decrepid wife and Little Juba.
               How soon Flint and Armero were to be separated they did not then know, but the old man's grief at the parting touched even their rough natures, and tinged them with gloom as they slowly walked away; nor could they resist a last look at his bent form, as, with both hands shading his eyes, he gazed after them, and continued to exclaim, "Farwell!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               ON BOARD. A STORM. WRECKED.
               CAPTAIN BARKER, of the bark Harvest Moon, was well-known in the coast cities of the Southern States, and was everywhere recognised as a genuine specimen of his craft. Short, stout, red-faced, bald, bluff, and jolly, he was also firm as an officer, requiring the full measure of duty from his subordinates, and meting out to all with whom he had dealings the most even-handed justice. He was such an off-hand character that he had earned among the shipping-merchants, to whom he had long been known, the sobriquet of "Honest Captain Billy"; and let the channels of trade flow ever so sluggishly, he found but little difficulty in obtaining a profitable freight for the Harvest Moon whenever she was ready to receive, and seemed equally successful—as a rule—in obtaining good seamen. If we are to judge from his excited manner as he now walks the deck and plainly speaks his mind to two sailors who are lazily engaged in swabbing-off, he has for once been deceived in choosing men; but his determination is quickly taken.
               "Mind's made up, boys, you don't suit; 'twould give me a fit to ship you another voyage. So we will settle, and consider yourselves discharged from now."
               "So short up as that, Cap'?" questioned one of the men, as he turned to take a look at Captain Barker.
               "Yes; you have come short of duty the whole voyage through, and have been a little worse than ever since we reached Norfolk. This is my last day for taking in cargo, but go you shall, and I'll trust to luck for getting better men. No deck-hand ever yet dictated terms to me. When a man don't suit me we part company, and I have never yet been worsted by following this rule. Laziness and Barker never sailed in the same craft before you shipped with me, and I don't mean to carry any more Jonahs if I can help it."
               "Cap's in yearnest, Jack, we'd as well pack our traps," said the spokesman to his companion. "Let's go ashore and leave him to take in this last bit of cargo any way he likes, as he's so blarsted huffy," and both the sailors walked toward the forecastle.
               The Captain had not observed the keen interest with which two strangers standing on the wharf had listened to his abrupt and summary dismissal of the men, and he would probably have gone ashore without noticing their presence had not one of them accosted him as he left the gang-plank. With a respectful touch of his blue cap he smiled pleasantly as he said: "Beg pardon, Captain, but we saw you dismiss two men just now, and would be pleased to know if you would like hands in their stead."
               Captain Barker turned suddenly and measured the speaker with his keen eyes from head to foot, then scrutinised his companion with equal closeness. They were dressed in new suits of navy blue, had the well-to-do air of men just paid off, and were altogether so respectable in appearance and manner as to arrest his attention and induce him to question them further. "I do want men, my lads, but have had quite enough of such as you saw walk plank just now. Where are you from, and in what vessel did you ship last?"
               The stouter of the two continued to act as spokesman, and replied: "We came out from England, Sir, in an emigrant-ship, but have soon grown tired of this wild country—all brush and swamp—so we are looking for a good chance to work a passage home."
               "Have you ever shipped before?"
               "Oh yes, Sir; we are at home aboard ship."
               "Do you live in London?"
               "As much as sailors do anywhere, Sir. I was born there."
               "But your companion looks like a foreigner?"
               "Only of foreign parentage, Sir; he's an Englisher too."
               "Well, lads, I like your looks, come with me up to the Consul's office and we will see if we can come to terms. Captain Billy Barker is a duty man, all the sailors say, rough but right. If a man signs my ship's articles I expect him to do all he promises, nothing more, nothing less. If he does his duty all goes well; if he shirks, the Harvest Moon is the most uncomfortable place he could possibly have chosen for a voyage. That's my picture, how do you like it?" and he laughed with a jolly shake as he paused in his walk and looked them full in the face.
               "Well enough on a short acquaintance, Captain. Afore the mast is no child's play, and we expect to earn our wages, so it's not likely we will fall out about work. We promise, too, a civil tongue, and hope the same from you. Orders are orders, but there's a civil way, and we hope you will take that way, for it's our experience that men think more of themselves when officers don't browbeat 'em."
               "That's smooth talk, lad, but I can't promise much on the score of civility. I never swear at my men, but I don't polish up much when I want things done in a hurry. Imagine Captain Billy Barker saying, 'Jack, you'll please port that helm,' and Jack's replying, 'Aye, aye, Sir, with pleasure.' I should think in such circumstances that I was at a dancing-school. No! I speak short and sharp, but I don't mean anything but business, and my men must take me rough and tumble, as the old saying goes."
               The sailor and his companion exchanged glances and then they took a searching look at the Captain; the one coolly calculating and valuing all the positive elements in the character of his man; the other—with those restless fiery eyes that our readers will remember—looking as if a rough word from the captain would speedily precipitate a rough and tumble of an unpleasant nature. Seeing the danger that threatened their plan should there be even a slight display of anything looking toward insubordination at this early stage of their negotiation, Hardy Flint (for it was he that had undertaken to manage the captain while Armero should be silent) now quickly answered: "We understand you, Captain, and are willing to ship and take chances. I've sailed with worse than you and lived through it. Barking dogs don't bite."
               Within an hour after this conversation, Flint and Armero had signed the ship's articles as "Jem Stone" and "Charles Romer," had brought their movables on board the Harvest Moon, and were hard at work stowing cargo. The quickness and promptitude with which they proceeded with their work, and the intelligence with which they labored, soon convinced the captain that he had not in his emergency accepted the services of raw hands; good fortune had once more favored him with men who at least understood their work, and ere night came on he was heard to say, "Well, the new brooms sweep very clean at any rate, and I'll keep them sweeping. That sharp-eyed fellow must work all the time, or the devil will play rare pranks with him."
               The last bale of cotton had been stowed, and the new hands had given so much dispatch to the business that the captain, who was now more jolly than usual at the prospect of sailing so promptly, could not refrain from a word of encouragement as he passed near them. "You have done well, lads; I never had men who more thoroughly understood business; we will now get off bright and early in the morning." And the captain rubbed his hands gleefully as he went ashore, leaving Flint and Armero to congratulate each other on having made so good an impression.
               "We have the wool over his eyes pretty well, Hardy," Armero whispered," and no small thanks to 'Mr. Jem Stone.' I came near spoiling it all by my foolish temper when the old fellow began to talk roughly to us, though."
               "Carlos, I always remember what the clown in the show told the lion-tamer when he put his head in the lion's mouth: 'Don't pinch his tail now.' It's a bad time to pinch the lion when he can pinch the hardest. We have got the old fellow on our side now, and it is the part of wisdom to keep him there. Should it ever grow unhealthy for you in London, you might try a 'life on the ocean wave,' and the friendship of the Captain would then be valuable."
               "Men who drift through life never know when they may run upon the breakers, or find some storm about to swallow them up; and therefore your cool head has given me wise advice, Hardy. How I shall take it, and by what means I am to govern my passionate will, are questions hard to answer; even with your example before me I am, after twenty years, as heedless as ever. If I had some restraining influence, such as you have in your sister, I might do better; but I am a wanderer. 'I care for nobody, nobody cares for me,' about tells the story. I told you I never knew my mother; that was true, but I did know my step-mother: she was of gentle blood, very proud, and paid but little heed to the wretched waif that for a short time drifted into her home after her marriage with my father. I soon found that my birth, humanly speaking, was a miserable mistake, and that I had a home no longer in my father's house. I drifted out into the world, and am now what you see me. This is more than I have ever told any human being of my early days, but I desire that you shall understand some of the secret springs that move my wayward nature; for you have, even if law officers and the world think differently, been a true friend to me. Many of our plans have been dark and stained by crime. We have together wronged others and used that which we did not earn. And when I think over it all, I could sometimes wish to blot out the past; but I can't, and then I become more reckless."
               "That is just me," said Flint in an emphatic whisper; "and when the reckless fits come on, there is a picture right in here next my heart that says to me, 'Brother, come back, I love you.' That fetches me back when nothing else will."
               "Hardy, will you think ill of me if I again ask you to let me become acquainted with your sister when we reach London? If she is good and true enough to lead you back, may not her gentle influence soften my hard life?"
               "Meaning no offence, Carlos, I again answer, Debby is a lady. I took her from the wretched hovel down in Chelsea when she was too small to remember that her mother was a common drunkard. She has been educated and well brought up in a clergyman's family not far from Coventry, and knows nothing whatever of her origin. I didn't see her myself for five years once,—the time I went to India; but she was taught to write to me regularly, and I paid the clergy-man a liberal amount every quarter punctually to the day. She moves among people far above us; and when I visit her I feel as awkward as a pig on ice, although she tries so sweetly to make me feel that I aint rough and awkward and wicked—calls me her dear good brother, and makes me feel like I would give all the world if I had it just to be good one minute. Oh, I am afraid for any one who associates with me to know Debby; I'm almost afraid to know her myself!"
               "Well, I won't insist, Hardy; you have been too good a friend to me for us to fall out about that; you may think over it on the voyage, and it may be you will change your mind before we reach home. If you do not, I shall feel disappointed, but will not blame you."
               With a bright morning and a favorable wind the Harvest Moon began her voyage. All her canvas was spread, and a brisk run of a few hours carried her past the Capes and out into the broad high-way beyond, whose waters had so often before yielded to her prow and carried her in safety. Three days passed by, the wind continued favorable, and Captain Billy was unusually elated, for never had his staunch bark performed her work more nobly, and he had every prospect of a speedy voyage. The dawning of the fourth day was equally propitious, and passing on deck "Jem Stone," who had continued to grow in favor with the Captain, he said cheerfully, "Well, my lad,"—the Captain called all his favorites "My lad"—"at this rate we shall soon see old England."
               "Too much luck at the start, Captain," was the quick reply.
               "Nonsense, Jem; I thought you had more sense than to believe in lucky and unlucky signs."
               
               "Can't help it, Sir; but don't you believe in luck, good and bad?"
               "No, I believe in old Master who guides the helm up aloft: He orders the luck for us."
               "That is so, Sir, but He sends the signs. Our Irish game-cock flew overboard this morning, and that means a storm as sure as mercury falls, and you had as well get ready for it now. So much fair weather only makes the foul all the worse when it comes."
               Captain Barker laughed until his face grew red at "Jem's" sign, and as soon as he could command his voice, said, "I should have changed the sign, Jem, had I known the old cock intended to commit suicide: the cook should have helped him out of the world and into the pot; he would have been no worse off, and I should have had a better dinner. Away with your signs, Jem; with stout hearts and brave hands we will soon work our way into port," and the Captain hurried away to another part of the vessel, leaving Flint only the more firmly convinced that there was danger ahead.
               "He may say what he chooses about signs, Carlos," said Flint, as they were together on watch that night, "but men can't help being influenced by little things in forming conclusions about big things. I have a presentiment that ill-luck hangs over us; I can't shake it off, and I'm going to look it straight in the face. The moon changes tomorrow night, and I believe we will see sights in the shape of weather in the next forty-eight hours. Did you never feel that something evil was coming while everything around you looked bright and promised just the other way?"
               "Yes, I have; but you are too cool-headed to be governed by whims of that sort."
               "I never had such a presentiment before, and that is why it has taken such a strong hold on me. I know it was foolish to feel so about the old game-cock's sudden flight overboard, but I couldn't help it. Now, Carlos, if we do have hard weather, and the Harvest Moon can't ride it out, and you should be picked up while I go down where so many now sleep—"
               "Hush, Hardy, are you going crazy?"
               "No, I am talking in earnest. Now listen. If I go under, I want you to promise me to try and save a little package which you will find in the bottom of my chest. Tie it fast to your body; and if you ever get home again, deliver it in safety to my sister. Do you promise me?"
               "I can safely promise, Hardy; but I thought you didn't wish me ever to meet your sister?"
               "This would be a different thing, Carlos; I now put you on honor, and ask that for my sake you will promise to be a friend to Debby if I should no longer be above ground or water, and she needed a friend. You know all about my affairs; see that she gets her dues, and just watch her like I do—at a distance."
               "I pledge to be her friend for your sake, Hardy; and never will I seek her society except in the execution of my trust, unless I see that a further acquaintance would result in good to me and prove acceptable to her. Can't you trust me that far?"
               Hardy uttered a feeble "yes," and here the conversation ended.
               In the early morning-watch there was a change. Captain Barker had been tempted by the fine weather to indulge in an all-night nap, but had risen early, and was not a little surprised to find the beautiful star-lit sky of the evening before now overcast by thick black clouds, the sea every moment becoming more agitated, and the wind already beginning to moan and whistle, as now in fitful gusts and again with rushing force it played through the rigging. Already the mate had given orders to take in sail, but the work had not been executed more promptly than the exigency demanded, for in an incredibly short space of time the gathered fury of a fearful storm burst upon them, and the Harvest Moon was soon engaged with wind and waves. The issue of the struggle none on board dared to predict; but there were no coward hearts there, and master and men toiled as only those do who feel that an idle moment may cost them the loss of every earthly hope, and even life itself. One by one the closely reefed sails were torn away and hurled into the deep; wave after wave dashed over the deck, sweeping cotton and every movable thing before it; and still the men stood at their posts, clinging with the energy of desperation to anything that would enable them to resist being carried overboard by a passing wave, and working when work could be done to ease the vessel or in any way better their condition. Before breakfast-hour all the deck-load had disappeared, and every moment seemed only to add to the fury of the storm, while the heavens grew blacker still, and the sea boiled like a huge caldron as it lashed the sides of the bark. Suddenly Armero heard a voice above the confused Babel of sound, saying; "Carlos, my time has come, I can hold on no longer; remember your promise; God help me!" There was a shock, the vessel trembled with her effort to struggle up from beneath a huge wave that had almost engulfed her; and as she once more labored up, Carlos felt himself borne along by an irresistible force—where, he could not tell, nor did he find out for several minutes afterward that he had been swept along the deck—the wave having struck on the starboard bow—and hurled down the gangway leading into the forecastle.
               Soon recovering his feet, he was forcibly reminded of his companion and of the promise of the night before, by seeing Hardy's chest sliding about in the water that now covered the floor. To drag it to the driest spot he could find, open it, and make search for the precious package, was the work of a moment; and even in the midst of danger and sorrow he felt a thrill of joy as his hand touched the package and drew it forth. Only taking time to observe that it was securely wrapped in india-rubber cloth and bound with red tape, Carlos carefully placed it in the folds of a buckskin belt in which he carried all his valuables, and securing it about his person, ascended the gangway once more to aid in the struggle which momentarily grew more serious. Near the forecastle stood the captain, calm and cool in the midst of danger, and giving his orders to the men in a clear voice that could be heard above the roar of wind and waves. Seeing Carlos emerge from the forecastle, he called out: "What carried you below, Romer? Now is no time to be shirking!"
               Carlos looked savagely at him as he replied: "The same wave that carried poor Jem overboard washed me into the forecastle gangway. I'm not shirking!"
               "What! Jem Stone overboard?"
               "Yes, Sir."
               "How long since?"
               "When we went down under that heavy wave and staggered so, not more than ten minutes ago."
               "God of mercy! our best man's gone; but stand by us now, Romer, and we may yet be able to ride the storm out."
               Before night closed in upon that day of storm the Harvest Moon was a dismasted wreck drifting and laboring to keep afloat, with only half of her men and the captain left clinging to her for life, working by details to keep under the leak that was steadily gaining on them, and that threatened to engulf them in the angry deep.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               RESCUED. OLD HAUNTS. THE WIDOW SHORT.
               THE day after the storm was one of quiet beauty. A bright autumn sun was shining, the sea had grown almost as placid as a quiet land-locked lake, the wind had gradually subsided until only a light breeze was left to stir the distress-signal that floated over the Harvest Moon. So complete a wreck was the good barque that she could no longer be guided on her way homeward, and Captain Barker with the remnant of his crew could only labor to patch her up and keep her afloat, with the hope, that they should at last drift across the path of some friendly vessel and thus escape. Fortunately their supply of food had received but little damage, and there was no immediate danger of starvation; but the season was one of storms, and another such as they had just passed through would not leave a timber of their hull afloat, or a vestige to tell their sad story. It was therefore with eager eyes that each man when on watch ranged the circle of the horizon in search of a sail that should inspire them with the hope of an early rescue.
               "Come, Romer," said Captain Barker, as he handed his glass to Armero, "try your keen eyes, and be sure you discover help, for we sadly need it."
               "Ay, ay, Sir," was the response, and Carlos mounted the temporary lookout that had been hastily constructed, and proceeded to sweep the whole range of vision with a restless eye that in its eager gaze let nothing escape. Two hours passed in silence, and noon was fast approaching, when those on the deck saw him start as if shocked by an electric-battery, and then bending forward, as he directed his glass toward a given point, he cried out in shrill, sharp tones: "Sail ho! Starboard bow!"
               In an instant Captain Barker had climbed up into the lookout, and seizing the glass, fixed it on the point indicated by Armero's finger, while he at once engaged in speculation and thankfulness.
               "Yes. No. Yes, indeed, it is a three-master, bearing nor'east, all sails up; she'll pass in a mile of us. The breeze is just right for her, and she stands well up to it. Thank God!" Then calling out to the men below, he said: "Almost safe, lads! Rig up all the old canvas you can, save your breath until she bears nearer to us, and then shout like a thousand furies."
               The speck of canvas grew, until it seemed like a small cloud low down near the horizon; a little longer, and it stood out with shape well-defined against the sky, its nearer approach causing the Captain to continue his soliloquy. "Yes, she sails beautifully, beautifully; eight knots easy, I dare say. English built; and homeward bound I hope. Still bearing down, Romer?"
               "Yes, Sir. No; she's changing tack, bearing more north."
               "Great heavens! that would be too bad! Shout, lads, with all your lungs; we must never let her slip by!"
               Shout after shout went up from the little band, and the moments they were held in suspense seemed like ages; for all felt and seemed fully to realise how much depended on their being discovered now.
               "They see us, Captain!" earnestly exclaimed Armero. "See! they again change tack, and are bearing down upon us!"
               "Sure, Romer?"
               "Yes, Sir. Watch her steadily, and see how she grows upon you."
               "True; you are right. Shout louder, lads!" and the Captain led off with a roar worthy of the highest type of the British lion, while the men, emulating his effort, made the air ring with their huzzas.
               Soon came the answering shout from the friendly vessel, and then with joyful hearts they saw a little boat dancing on the water, impelled towards them by sturdy arms and warm hearts, eager to rescue them. Strong men who had bravely struggled with the storm and nobly borne the hardships of shipwreck bowed their heads and wept as the boat came alongside and they received the hearty greetings of its crew.
               It was with mingled feelings that the Captain and the remnant of his men left the dismasted hull of the Harvest Moon and sought refuge on board the Dolphin, a staunch English craft, only a few days out from Havana, and on her homeward voyage to Liverpool.
               Captain Barker had made many voyages in the Harvest Moon; he knew every plank in her decks and every nook and cranny about her from stem to stern; and as she slowly drifted out of sight, he watched her as a father might a wrecked and ruined child floating on to inevitable destruction, and shading his eyes with his hand turned mournfully away, saying, in tremulous tone: "Good bye. We have rode through many a storm together; I loved you well, but now we part, and I shall never again see another Harvest Moon."
               "Cheer up! cheer up! Captain," said a voice very near to Barker as he bade adieu to his wrecked vessel. Turning, he saw standing by his side a tall, portly-looking man, with light sandy hair and side-whiskers, his face brimful of good-nature, his eyes beaming with good-feeling and sympathy, his broad honest palm already extended to bid his unfortunate fellow-captain a most hearty welcome. In the hurry and excitement of getting from the boat on board the vessel, Barker had paid but little heed to any one who might be standing on the deck, and the captain of the Dolphin had considerately waited a little while to give him time to grow calm before coming forward to offer his sympathies and extend the hand of welcome.
               "I suppose you are the captain of this vessel, and I must thank you in real earnest for coming to our rescue," said Captain Barker, as he grasped the offered hand.
               "Yes, Sir. My name is Hunter, and our vessel is the Dolphin. No thanks are due for duty done."
               "Hunter! Are you Captain Heber Hunter of Hull?"
               "The very same."
               "Then you should know me, 'Honest Billy Barker of the Harvest Moon'; we were in port at Bombay together once."
               "My old friend! how glad I am to see you, although it makes me sad to see the wreck of your noble ship. Keep up a stout heart; you did all that man could do to save her. She goes down after a noble struggle; and remember, you and your men have a hearty welcome on board the Dolphin. We have plenty of room, no lack of rations, and with favoring winds may hope now for a prosperous voyage; so cheer up!"
               No one could long remain despondent in the genial atmosphere that surrounded Captain Hunter, and the two captains were soon making themselves comfortable over a substantial dinner, growing more and more communicative at its close over a rare old bottle of port, with a relish of genuine Stilton; while the rescued crew were feasted to the full in the mess-room of the Dolphin, and soon drowned the memory of their toil and danger in a glass of Jamaica rum. The Dolphin encountered heavy weather before reaching the Channel coast, but passing through in safety, arrived at Liverpool in a little more than three weeks after picking up the crew of the Harvest Moon. Both captains went ashore together; the one to report his arrival, the other to report his vessel to her owners as a total loss.
               As they were about parting at a street-corner Captain Hunter said hopefully: "Come with me, Barker; 'tis only a little way to the office of my owners, and after reporting I will go with you to see yours. You go on a sad errand and need company. I've had the same thing to do before now, and it goes hard against the grain."
               "Indeed it does, Hunter. This is my first total loss, and it almost makes me swear off from the sea."
               "Tut, man, take your turn at ill-luck like the rest of us! It is surprising to me that you floated at all after such a blow as you describe. As good luck would have it, we only caught the rear of it, you bore the brunt. Be thankful that you lived through it. Make up your mind that it is one of those things that couldn't be helped. Report loss to your owners, and we will then be as jolly as we can over a good dinner at 'The Adelphi.' What do you say?"
               "I don't feel jolly, Hunter, but won't mind the dinner; so let us hurry up and dispatch business."
               And now we must bid temporary adieu to our two captains, leaving them comfortably seated at a small table in the public dining-hall of "The Adelphi," where, with a keen sailor's relish, they are discussing hot-joint and all the etceteras of an elaborate dinner, as they pledge mutual friendship and drink to the memory of the Harvest Moon.
               Armero has once more reached London, and as he calls a cab and orders the driver to take him to the old number in St. James street, many conflicting emotions crowd upon him, and his excitable nature becomes so moved as almost to produce a nervous chill. He had lodged here when there was a price set upon him, and when every day he had in safety passed detectives on the street. So thoroughly had he impersonated two characters that none of the roughs with whom he had planned and executed daring breaches of the law (with the exception of Hardy Flint) knew at any time where he lived. The only man who had known him in all the phases of his crooked character had suddenly been called to his account, and now the prime mover in the Sparks conspiracy was left to complete alone his own work, or free to retrace his steps, and there remained no witness against him. He was so occupied by memories and chaotic plans for the future that he started visibly as the driver drew rein before the familiar door and called out: "'Ere's the place, Sir. You've no luggage?" and with a questioning glance at his passenger, he held open the cab-door.
               "No luggage. Here is your fare," and the driver watched with curious eyes as he turned away to see "who would let that queer man in," while Armero impatiently pulled the bell and rapped the knocker twice in quick succession before it could possibly be answered.
               "Slow as ever, Solon," was Armero's first salutation. "The devil will get you, because you are too lazy to keep out of his way."
               "It's sometimes wise, Sir, not to be in a hurry to open the door; one might let the devil in. But I'm ever so glad to see you, Mr. Carlos. Where on earth did you come from? The mistress said just now nobody but you ever rung a bell like that. And where is your luggage, too?"
               "I brought no luggage, Solon; don't ask so many questions. Any one occupying my rooms?"
               "There has been, Sir: a half-pay naval officer; nice gentleman, Sir, he was, too, and he only went down to St. Leonard's this morning; he was in poor health, Sir, and had to find—"
               "That will do, Solon, the captain may go to Davy Jones for aught I care. Tell Mrs. Short I have come and would like the use of her parlor while mine is being set in order."
               Solon Rattey, the head-servant in Mrs. Hannah Short's lodging-house, was one of its fixtures. He had been placed there through the influence of Armero, who had befriended him for certain service rendered while he waited in the chambers of Agrippa Clinch, Esq., in Chancery Lane, years before. The service performed had given Armero a singular power over the thin, sharp little Solon, who seemed ever after the willing servant of the man he had served; and now, when bidden to acquaint Mrs. Short of the presence of his master, he placed a chair for him in the hall and trotted off to execute the command with all possible speed.
               Mrs. Hannah Short was most inappropriately named, for she was taller than the average of her sex, nor was she short in any of her ways or works; in short, she was graceful in person and handsome in features, with bright blue eyes, rosy complexion, pretty teeth, and saucy-looking dimples that dotted each cheek whenever she smiled in her most coquettish way. She had been a widow ten years, although still on the sunny side of thirty; and doubtless nature and art had combined to teach her "when to sigh and when to smile." Nor was she less informed as to which style of cap was most becoming to her.
               
               She had in a reasonable space of time after the demise of Eli Short, lightened her mourning, but still wore the jauntiest little mourning caps with jet pins, and out from beneath crept, apparently at random, a profusion of wavy chestnut curls, that could not fail to give a girlish grace to the woman who knew so well how pretty and innocent they made her look when she laughed and tossed her head. The late Eli Short had been a careful man. As the London agent of a large manufacturing establishment in Sheffield, he had succeeded in putting by a snug little sum; and the widow, by shrewdly investing the amount, might have lived on her interest from "the funds." She had invested to some extent in this way, but preferring a life of activity as well as independence, she had purchased the house in which she now lived, and added to her income by taking a few lodgers, and, in rare cases, a table-boarder.
               Mrs. Short had been much admired by sundry lodgers, including a chemist, a Calcutta merchant, a retired naval officer, and in one instance a dashing captain in the Horse Guards; but to all appearances she was as far from matrimony on the day of Armero's arrival as she had been at any time since her widowhood began. Treating all attentions with a reproachful willingness to hear, she had declined all offers with so much soft decision as to take away from each suitor all shadow of hope, or even the credit of a successful flirtation. She is now sitting in a bright little parlor at the back of the house, near a window looking out upon a bit of garden hemmed in between the walls of neighboring houses. Her window-seat is filled with beautiful flowers, and suspended by a cord just over them hangs a large bird-cage with its door left open, while the little feathered inmates make themselves quite at home among the flowers, or perch upon the back of Mrs. Short's sewing chair. There is a knock, the door opens, and the frightened birds take refuge in their cage, while their mistress, laying a piece of fancy worsted work upon a linen stand, turns toward her servant with the question: "Who rung the bell just now, Solon?"
               "It was Mr. Carlos, Mum, and you wouldn't know him if I didn't tell you it was he."
               "Why should I not know him, Solon?"
               "Because he is all dressed up like a sailor, Mum, and looks as brown as a pea-pod, and like he'd been sick too."
               "Well, why did you not show him up?" And Mrs. Short arose and took a careful survey of her handsome face and figure in a large mirror at one end of the room, at the same time giving a nervous twist to one of her rebellious curls.
               "I just came up, Mum—"
               "Solon, how often have I told you about calling me Mum; it is strange that you, who can speak so correctly, should adopt the Irish servant's slang. You have called me Mum three times now; what should you say?"
               "I beg pardon, Ma'am, I should have more respect to you and the memory of Master Agrippa Clinch. I will say Ma'am in future."
               "Well, go on."
               "Master Carlos is come, Ma'am, sends his compliments, and wants to know if you can spare him your parlor until his apartments be ready?"
               "Tell him no, Solon, but I will share my parlor with him until his is ready if he has learned to behave himself since he went away." And Mrs. Short re-arranged the folds of her dress, gave another twist to her refractory curl, and, as Solon closed the door behind him, with a saucy toss of her head and a mischievous glance that she doubtless intended to use again very soon, laughed audibly.
               There could be no mistake in that quick nervous step and hurried rap; and the widow, all smiles and roses, called out merrily: "Come in, wanderer!"
               Carlos needed not a second bidding; the door was quickly opened, and Mrs. Short advanced to meet him with extended hand, saying: "And where has the bad boy been that he returns in such sorry plight?"
               "I came near going down among the coral and sea-weed, sweet Mistress Han; and is this your warmest greeting? You know so tame a welcome doesn't suit the 'bad boy,'" and Armero quickly caught the widow in his arms, and amid her muffled shrieks and blushes kissed her at least a dozen times.
               "Oh! you wretch," she exclaimed, as almost out of breath she laughingly shook her little clenched hand at him, "sit down this instant! Did Solon deliver my message?"
               "And much I cared for that! I never expect to behave like other folks. You may shake your fist again, and call me wretch too for another dozen kisses; is it a bargain?" and Carlos made as if he were going to initiate the new bargain without delay.
               "If you do! Just see now how you have ruined my cap and tumbled my hair, you frightful creature: if you were not an old friend I would refuse to let you stay in my house another minute!"
               "Well, I will give you a new cap for another dozen. I did not know your kisses were so sweet before."
               "Just hear him! Oh! what shall I ever do with such a saucy creature in my house? You grow worse than ever; age does not improve you one bit."
               "It does you though; it is the difference between the bud and the full-blown rose. I am charmed, really, to see how well you look, sweet Mistress Han. The wonder is that some one has not spirited you away in all the time that I have been wandering."
               "Come, Mr. Carlos, enough of your nonsense; are you not ashamed to be so impudent to me? I know that you are an old and true friend, but think of what the gossipping neighbors would say if they only knew that you had dared to kiss me, not once but a dozen times! It is a scandalous proceeding, Sir," and the widow again frowned, pouted her pretty lips, and endeavored to look angry.
               "Smile again, my bonnie lassie, and I will promise not to be so extravagant in the future," said Carlos, with mock humility. "Forgive me now, and we will take a late breakfast or early lunch together—whichever you choose to call it—as a memorial of our truce. Women as well as men grow generous under the genial vapors of the breakfast-room. While you look to the breakfast I will go into my trunks and see if I cannot find apparel there better suited to present company. I know now why you were so incensed at the kisses," and Carlos took a glance at his sailor's suit, then making a low bow, walked quickly out of the room and up the familiar stairway to his old quarters.
               The widow had not recovered from the effect of Carlos's greeting, but was still laughing and blushing by turns before the mirror, when her little pantomime was interrupted by a knock which she recognised as Solon's familiar signal. Quickly seating herself in the sewing-chair, and snatching the fancy work, her fingers were busy when Solon entered.
               "Did you ring, Mum—ah—Ma'am?"
               "Yes, Solon. I wish a hot lunch prepared immediately; Mr. Armero has had no breakfast—tell the cook to be quick about it."
               "And the master's gone out so soon, Ma'am?" questioned Solon as he glanced around the room with a wicked grin.
               The widow blushed, but quickly said: "He has gone to his room, Solon; deliver your message to the cook, and then go to him, he may need you."
               "Yes, Ma'am," was the response, but still Solon remained irresolutely standing, first on one foot, then on the other, not unlike some half-frozen goose on a frosty morning. At last, with the tip of his tongue displayed at one corner of his mouth, he ventured to say: "Be you very glad, Ma'am, the master's come?"
               "Yes, Solon, I am always glad to see your master."
               "And it's lucky too, Ma'am, the half-pay officer's gone."
               "Yes, very fortunate."
               "And I'm glad the Captain in the 'Orse Guards don't come any more, Ma'am."
               "What do you mean, Solon?"
               "Only there might some time be a little scrimmage, Ma'am, and I know who would get the best o' that—wouldn't it be funny?"
               "Go this instant, Solon, and do as you are bid—you forget yourself," was Mrs. Short's energetic response, and her wiry "man of all work" dropped the foot which he had held in uneasy suspense, and making good use of both his pedal extremities, soon disappeared through the doorway, and was heard all the way to the kitchen laughing with a chuckle peculiarly his own.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE RIDE TO RICHMOND. TAKING ADVICE.
               OUR readers must now go with us back to Old Virginia, and to the nine-passenger coach as it rumbles away from Holly Tavern, taking the road in the direction of Richmond. There were several strange passengers besides our party of five, and when they were snugly stowed away inside there was little room left for any way-passenger that might chance to seek a ride.
               In striking contrast with the stormy night on which they had arrived at Holly Tavern, was this beautiful morning, with its bright sunshine melting the feathery frostwork that covered field and forest until all nature seemed glittering with jewels. The air was so pure and invigorating that all were glad to permit Johnny Conklin to roll up the curtains and let the sunlight and breeze roam at will through the coach, even Mrs. Sparks finding her shawl and furs a sufficient protection, and seeming to delight in all her surroundings and to forget for the time that she was an invalid. Mr. Sparks was in a most cheerful mood, and could be heard crooning in a low tone snatches of an old song, while he kept time by tapping his cane against the floor of the coach. Miss Bettie Flinn, never out of spirits, found food for merriment in watching her young friends Ronald and Elise, now and then playing off upon them some prank that would cause all the passengers to join her in making merry at their expense. Ronald was in fine humor, bore Miss Bettie's teasing with most commendable equanimity, and often succeeded in turning the laugh upon her with such force as to bring a rosy blush to her already florid cheeks.
               After one of her most mischievous attacks Ronald turned quickly around, for Miss Bettie was now on the back seat with Mr. and Mrs. Sparks, and with a twinkle in his eye that indicated a lucky thought, he said, "Mr. Sparks, pardon me for interrupting your song, but I wish to ask you if you have any knowledge of palmistry; I do not mean in the common acceptation of the word, but magnetic palmistry, such as is conveyed, for instance, by a gentleman when he tenderly squeezes the hand of a lady." Miss Bettie blushed deep scarlet and began to search on the top of her hat for her veil. "No, no, Miss Bettie, that is not fair; this is an open-field fight—no intrenchments. Stand fire like a brave woman," and coming to Ronald's rescue, Elise quickly caught the veil, removed it out of reach, adding, "Do, dear papa, enlighten us."
               "Palmistry," said the old gentleman, "is the so-called art of reading one's fortune by tracing the lines in the palm of the hand; but this, I presume, is not exactly what Mr. Irving means. There is, or was when I was young, a peculiar language conveyed by means of the hand. Many sentiments were thus silently expressed although no word may have been spoken, and I do not suppose that the young people of to-day are less informed about such matters than we were, my dear," and the old gentleman smiled significantly as he gave a side glance toward his wife. "I should say, Mr. Irving, if I witnessed the tender squeezing of a lady's hand by a gentleman, that he intended to intimate that which he would soon find words to express. I should infer that he was not insensible to her charms; and if it were of frequent occurrence, I should assuredly expect the usual denouement—courtship, succeeded by marriage."
               "Unquestionably, Mr. Sparks, your decision is correct. Now for my application, as the preachers say."
               Here Ronald was interrupted by Miss Bettie:—"Now, Mr. Irving, if you will only desist. I promise to tease you no more during our journey; be generous, and let us play quits."
               "That is a graceful surrender, Miss Bettie, but I cannot lose my application. Did you notice anything remarkably tender in the leave-taking at Holly Tavern, Mr. Sparks?"
               "Yes, I did observe that Mr. Crowder and his good lady seemed to be seriously troubled at our departure, and the poor widow and little Elfie were loth to see us go; the Doctor too—"
               "Ah, Mr. Sparks, now you are touching the tender spot. What of the Doctor?"
               "Well, he seemed a little regretful; but we gave him so much to do, I really cannot see why he did not show decided pleasure at bidding us good-bye."
               "Look at Miss Bettie, Mr. Sparks, and you will read the answer to your question. Could you only have seen as I did the tender pressure of her hand as he assisted her into the coach: it was a lesson I shall not forget."
               "O ho! the Doctor and Miss Bettie! Well, it would not be a bad match," and with a quiet twinkle of humor in his eye, the old gentleman shook with laughter as he turned toward Miss Bettie, who, thoroughly discomfited, now took refuge in one corner of the coach, while she exclaimed, "It is ungenerous in you, Mr. Irving, to tease me so, and it is foolish in me to be so annoyed by such nonsense; but a trifle will sometimes annoy one more than a serious trouble, and the absurdity of all this is what worries me."
               "Wait until you get to Richmond, Miss Bettie, and see how absurd it will be when the Doctor makes his appearance in search of one Mr. Flinn who lives on Marshall Street. I only hope I shall not leave for the university before he comes; it will be rare fun to see the grave and imperturbable Doctor really in love and going about a diagnosis of his disease in his most professional style."
               "May I be there to see!" sung Elise, cheerily. "The Doctor was an easy prey, Miss Bettie, and how many of our fellow-travellers might have capitulated who can tell, had we not been interrupted in our journey to Richmond?"
               "Nonsense, child! I make no conquests, nor do I think of such things now. My sentimental days are over, and my time is taken up with practical every-day matters: my dairy, my garden, my weaving-room, and the busy home-life that gives me all the occupation I desire. Dr. Sawkins is as practical as I am, and is more in love with his books, his horse, and the skeleton in his office than with any other objects. I should as soon expect to see the evil spirit that haunts Holly Tavern visit Richmond as the Doctor."
               "Should he come, Miss Bettie?" questioned Ronald, provokingly.
               "Should he visit Richmond while I am there, I should be glad to see him; he is very agreeable, and not so grave as you young people suppose. When he chooses to give play to his humor he can be jolly enough, and under a quiet exterior I am sure he hides rare social qualities."
               "Pray tell us, Miss Betty, how you found out so much about the Doctor?" asked Elise. "He may be very good, and all that, but who would ever think such a dry old bachelor had any fun in him?"
               "I use my eyes, child, and if there is any humor to be found in an individual I am sure to discover it. I hope the Doctor will come to Richmond; I should be willing to submit to Mr. Irving's teasing for the pleasure of bringing the old bachelor out."
               The afternoon of the next day brought our travellers in sight of the ancient town of Manchester, with its quiet country-village look, as it rested half-asleep on the hills overlooking the south bank of James River. Along the main street the coach rumbled, the sound bringing shopkeepers and idlers to their doors and windows that they might take a peep at the travellers, or give a familiar nod to Johnny Conklin, who seemed to know every man, woman, and child in the place.
               At the post-office, where Johnny paused long enough to deliver the mail, a crowd soon gathered to question him as to the latest country news, the weather, crops, wayside gossip, and especial inquiry was made by the old postmaster in relation to recent tidings from the Holly Tavern mystery. "Caught him!" exclaimed Johnny. "Divil a bit, Sir; he is niver to be caught any more than lightnin'! He is gone; but whist! I've got the very gintleman aboard that fought him in a dark room somethin' less than half the night, and only let him go when he put a knife into him so deep," and Johnny, dropping his reins on the dashboard, measured with his right the length of his left hand. At this announcement all eyes were turned in wonder towards the coach windows, and those standing nearest ventured to draw still nearer, some even peeping in to see if they could not at a glance discover the hero of such an adventure.
               "And I've got aboard the very lady, too," continued Johnny, "who was rescued from the river that stormy night I telled ye of, by this same gintleman; and her father and mother too are here—charming old couple!" Johnny made each announcement in a most emphatic stage-whisper, loud enough to be heard by his audience, but not so loud as to be intelligible to his passengers, and having wrought up the curiosity of the crowd to its highest pitch, he gathered up the reins, exclaiming: "I could talk to ye, gintlemen, about it all for hours, but the time fails me," and, with a crack of his whip and a succession of nods, winks, and smiles, he bade them good-afternoon, and urged his horses into a brisk trot, leaving his friends to discuss at their leisure the bits of news he had given them.
               The toll-gate passed, Johnny, in strict conformity with a notice which had been placed at each end of the bridge, brought his horses down to a walk, and our travellers were thus afforded time to enjoy the splendid view which here meets the eye. Above the bridge, dotting here and there the rapids, could be seen a number of little islands, still green with a growth of grass and reeds, and looking like emeralds in their setting of spray and foam. The trees that fringed the river and the larger of the islands were now dressed in their most beautiful autumn colors, from deepest crimson to brightest shade of orange, intermingled with quiet russet and many-tinted green. The river was as clear as a summer-brook, reflecting as a mirror the amber, purple, and fleecy clouds that were spread as a couch in the western sky, while over all the scene the glorious autumn sun shed a mellow light, its beams glancing from the water in long, wavy golden lines. Ronald and Elise were not alone in their enthusiastic admiration, for Miss Bettie had just begged Mrs. Sparks to "look at the beautiful rapids," and Mr. Sparks had called out to Johnny requesting a halt, before Elise found words to express her appreciation of the scene.
               "Oh, how lovely! Did you ever see anything half so beautiful, Mr. Irving?"
               
               "I have seen this many times before, Miss Elise, but never when I thought it so complete. Johnny has halted just at the right point, for here we take in all its beauty: the rapids, the islands, the clouds, the sunlight, the shadows, the bridges, vessels in the distance. What a scene for a painter!"
               "Could any painter reproduce this—such a mellow light, those soft, wavy clouds, the shimmer of the sunbeams on the water? Oh, Mr. Irving! I never saw any work of art like this; and man's best efforts are, after all, but feeble attempts to copy nature!"
               Ronald enjoyed the enthusiasm of his young companion; whose life among the low sand-hills of Georgia had prepared her to see beauty in every hill and valley through which she had passed since reaching Virginia, and he pointed out each phase of this landscape with a new pleasure now, because it interested one in whom he felt a deep and tender interest. The whole party were reluctant to leave the scene, and watched from the windows its kaleidoscopic changes as the coach slowly moved on; nor were any of them sufficiently alive to the present to realise that their journey had really ended until aroused by Johnny's query: "And where would ye, ladies and gintlemen, be like to stop in the city?"
               "Are we really here, Johnny?" asked Mr. Sparks doubtfully, as he carefully removed from his head a worsted travelling-cap and put on his broad-brimmed beaver-hat instead.
               "Sure and we are here, Sir, all safe; no accidents this time."
               "Well, Johnny, you may drive us to the Columbian Hotel," the old gentleman continued. "From all accounts there is no better house of entertainment, and I like its quiet respectability."
               The Columbian was speedily reached, and to the astonishment of its smiling host, who came quickly to the coach-door, every passenger got out with the exception of Miss Bettie Flinn, who, bidding her friends adieu for the present, gave Johnny the number of her brother's residence on Marshall street, where she was greeted most heartily by Mrs. Flinn arid a veritable troop of little Flinns, who rushed pell-mell into the hall and front porch to see the big trunk brought in.
               Miss Bettie's brother, Howard Flinn, was not unlike her in appearance, and was one of those large-hearted men who delighted in dispensing hospitality because it afforded him real pleasure, and fortunately his circumstances were so easy as to enable him to entertain with liberality. Few days passed during the year that some friend, or the friend of some friend, did not sit at his table, and there all found abundance without display, and such a welcome as only the truly hospitable can give. Bright and early the next morning Miss Bettie joined her brother and sister in the breakfast-room, and she was scarcely seated before Howard betrayed a large-hearted intention by asking: "Bettie, don't you wish little wife and I would go down with you after breakfast to call on the folks at the Columbian?"
               "Sister is going at any rate, Howard, and we would be delighted if you can only spare time enough to join us. Will you, now?"
               "Oh, certainly. I never lose an opportunity to see a pretty girl, and I have great curiosity to take a peep at young Irving."
               "You are a good brother indeed, and I shall take pleasure in introducing you to my new friends."
               "No blarney, Bet. Say, little wife, how many vacant rooms have we? I can't bear an empty house."
               "We have three chambers, Howard, you know, but Bettie occupies one."
               "Exactly. We will put the pretty girl in with Bet, the old folks in the large room, and young what's-his-name in the other. I shall then feel that the house is comfortably full, and we can proceed to the business of entertaining,"
               "Gracious, Howard! I believe if you could not entertain otherwise, you would give a stranger your bed, and pillow your own head on a soft brick in the chimney-corner, and expect your wife to do likewise; but I am thankful we have the room to entertain Bettie's friends, and we will take the carriage down that we may bring them back with us."
               All unconscious of this little plot the travellers were making a most sumptuous breakfast at the Columbian, when the servant brought in two cards on a waiter and handed them to Elise. "Oh, it is Miss Bettie!" was her first exclamation. "The dear creature! to think of us and come so soon to see us. And here is another card: Mr. and Mrs. Howard Flinn. Mamma, I will go immediately to the parlor, you and papa can come at your leisure." Ronald making his excuses, joined Elise, and the young people were soon greeting Miss Bettie with unfeigned cordiality, and Mr. and Mrs. Sparks coming in a short time afterwards, found them conversing with Mr. and Mrs. Howard Flinn, after the manner of a friendship fully ripe.
               Three days passed swiftly by, and still Ronald lingered in Richmond mond. He had declined the hospitable invitation of Mr. Flinn, pleading engagements that necessitated his remaining at a hotel; but every afternoon and evening found him in the bright cozy parlors on Marshall street, and Miss Bettie took good care that the dear old people should have rest and quiet, while to Elise was given the agreeable task of entertaining her visitor. On this his last afternoon in the city Ronald came to take Elise out for a quiet walk; and as he sat alone in the parlor waiting until she should be ready, he heard the rustle of a dress, a familiar step, and turned from the window where he had been standing in time to meet and give an answering smile to Miss Bettie's bright face. "Alone and waiting: the one a hard thing to be, the other still harder to do, Mr. Irving," was her first salutation.
               "You never said truer words, Miss Bettie."
               "Poor fellow! yours is a desperate case of love at first sight. Pray tell me now, how do matters go? Does the little Southern beauty smile or frown upon your wooing?"
               "Indeed I cannot tell. It may be that you can enlighten me, for who but a woman can read the heart of a woman? She always smiles, Miss Bettie, but looks so tender and innocent all the while that I have never yet dared to do more than hint, for fear that I should startle and cause her to avoid me."
               "Two precious little chickens! Startled indeed! Now, Mr. Irving, if you love Elise, tell her so; and if you meet with the reception which I hope may be in waiting for you, she will soon recover from her fright. There is nothing like a manly course. Frankness without audacity, with just enough of shyness to give a spicy flavor, is the most winning way to approach a woman, especially an inexperienced one."
               "Bravo, Miss Bettie! I thought you were a novice in such matters, and lo! I find in you a most sage adviser. I shall follow your advice."
               "And what advice has Miss Bettie been giving you, Mr. Irving?" said a soft, gentle voice, so near where he sat as to make him start and change color as he arose to acknowledge her approach.
               "Make him tell you, Elise; be sure you do," said Miss Bettie, as she hurried out of the room as if to meet some pressing engagement, leaving the young couple free to take their ramble or to remain where they were in the full and uninterrupted enjoyment of their last afternoon together for many months.
               An awkward pause ensued after Miss Bettie's departure, and Elise thought she had never heard the antique little marble clock on the mantel tick so loudly before. She could almost imagine that it was the tall old-fashioned clock that stood on the landing of the stairway at home; and when with a sudden warning click it began to strike five she almost jumped from her seat, saying as she did so, "I am ready."
               "Five!" exclaimed Ronald, glad of anything to break the stillness. "Did you say you were ready? Then we had better go, for I wish to take you where we can see the last gleam of sunset, and it is a good walk from here."
               The sun had gone down behind a bank of dark clouds, and the shadows were gathering thick upon one of the most beautiful of those hills that overlook the river; but our young friends still lingered there and seemed unwilling to turn their steps toward Marshall Street. An observer would have easily perceived too that now all the childish restraint of the afternoon had disappeared, and in its stead there had been a rapid growth of tenderness and confidence. It grew at last so dark that they were brought to realise the lateness of the hour by the ruddy flash and glow from the furnaces on the river bank below, as the toiling laborers like spectres dragged out from the fires the blazing bars, or some chimney emitted a lurid light. "Pardon me, dear Elise," said Ronald, as he gave her his arm and turned to leave the spot, "for having kept you so long in the cool autumn air. I was too selfish, and I fear your mamma will be seriously displeased. But really I could not help it; you have made me very, very happy, and I shall try to deserve the treasure you have given me."
               "You gave me back my life, Mr. Irving," was her trembling reply.
               As Ronald rang the door-bell he heard Miss Bettie's quick step in the hall, and they were greeted by her uplifted finger as she exclaimed, "Well, runaways, have you been to Manchester, Rocketts, or Screamersville? I was just about to dispatch a servant to have the alarmbells rung, and I really feared Mrs. Sparks would have a nervous spell. You are a naughty fellow, Mr. Irving, to keep Elise out so late."
               "I plead guilty, Miss Bettie, and beg that you make peace for me with Mrs. Sparks. Miss Elise does not look the worse for her walk, and"—with a mischievous glance—"I am quite sure she has more roses now than when she went out."
               
               Ronald now paused an instant, listened intently, then motioning with his head toward the parlor, asked, "What familiar voice is that, Miss Bettie?"
               "Whose do you think?"
               "Tis the Doctor!" said Elise, gleefully. "Oh, Miss Bettie, I told you so. Mr. Irving, we will be decidedly de trop to-night."
               "It is the Doctor, you foolish children, and he is making himself as agreeable as possible to Papa and Mamma Sparks. It seems that he is an old friend of brother Howard's, and this is not his first visit."
               "Nor will it be his last," whispered Ronald.
               "You provoking fellow! Come in and speak to the Doctor while I go and put the cook in a good humor by ordering tea; it has been ready this half-hour, and all has been kept waiting for you. Be civil, Sir, or I will not forgive you."
               "Consider me under bond; the Doctor shall not exceed me in dignity, and when we tell you what beguiled us into so long a walk, you will doubtless be equally confidential; and then—a truce to teasing."
               Ronald entered upon his labors at the university with a zeal stimulated by a new inspiration and a heart buoyed up by bright hopes for the future. Having made known to Mr. Sparks his attachment to Elise, he found the old gentleman quite ready to assent to the understanding that existed, after he had prudently consulted Ronald's friends to whom he had referred in the city; and at their parting most cordially did he extend to him the hospitalities of his far-off home in Savannah, and bid him God-speed in his work of preparation for the duties and honors that awaited him in life.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               HAMPDEN SPARKS AT LAST APPEARS. HIS STRANGE STORY.
               WITH slow step, examining each number as he passed that he might be sure of getting the right one, an officer in colonel's uniform was seen walking along Tottingham Court Road. His manner indicated that he was either a stranger in London or had been so long away as to have forgotten localities that might have been once familiar. At last pausing before a handsome residence with a broad flight of steps leading up from the street, he consulted by the light of a street lamp a card which he held in his hand, and said audibly, "I have it; this is the number, and I shall soon see face to face my father's old friend." With the measured stride of a soldier he ascended the flight of steps, rang the bell, and stood tapping time with his cane and whistling a lively air as he awaited the answering step of the servant. The door was opened, and the officer was greeted with an obsequious bow.
               "Does Captain Harvie Gwynn reside here?" was the first query.
               "Yes, sir; will you be pleased to walk in?"
               "Take him my card, and say that Colonel Sparks would be pleased to have a private interview with him at the earliest moment that he is disengaged." And following the servant, the Colonel was ushered into the drawing-room and there awaited the convenience of the master of the house.
               Captain Gwynn our readers will recognise as an enlarged edition of the gallant young captain in the Scot's Greys. The sandy side-whiskers are now frosted at the tips, the clean-shaven chin has grown, double, the once lithe and graceful figure rotund; but the same good humor beams forth from every feature in his genial face, and it is a pleasure to watch him as in dressing-gown and slippers he now sits in his easy-chair in the library, reading an evening paper and smoking a most fragrant Havana. He was quite in the mood for visitors, and looked up with an air of satisfaction as Thomas announced his approach by a knock, and then thrust his plethoric frame inside the room through the narrowest opening he could possibly make use of, murmuring to himself, "the master hates draughts."
               "A visitor, Thomas?" and the Captain reached forth his hand and took the card from the receiver on which it had been brought.
               "Yes, sir; a Colonel Sparks sends his compliments and asks a private interview."
               "Colonel Sparks!" and Captain Gwynn arose hastily from his seat as he pronounced the name. "How does he look, Thomas, young or old?"
               "Rather youngish, sir; forty or thereabout, and very handsome."
               "Show the gentleman up here, Thomas, and excuse me to all other visitors so long as he remains."
               By the same squeezing process, Thomas made his exit, and was not long in obeying his master's command, only varying the mode of ingress gress on his return by opening the library door sufficiently wide to accord with his idea of the social dignity of the visitor he had shown up.
               Captain Gwynn arose as the young officer entered the library, and advanced to meet him with extended hand and steady gaze, saying as the stranger introduced himself, "Sparks! A very familiar name indeed, although it is years since I have met any one who bore it. My dearest friend and companion-in-arms in Spain was Colonel Hampden Sparks of Mallow Marsh; but he is gone, noble soul, and there is no living relative left in all the realm. The beautiful old home is a sad wreck with no one to keep it in order, and will pass forever from the name unless lawful heirs soon appear. Beg pardon, Colonel, for having kept you standing; be seated. I was thinking of other days, and had forgotten to be civil."
               Returning the greeting he had received, Colonel Sparks astonished Captain Gwynn by the announcement: "I bear the name of Hampden Sparks, and am lawful heir to Mallow Marsh; it is to consult with you as an old friend of my father, Roscoe Sparks of Savannah, Georgia, that I am now come."
               "But, Colonel, how is this? you an American and wearing the uniform of a colonel in the British army? Pardon me, but it is very strange."
               "Yes, my present position is an anomalous one and requires explanation; but you may feel assured, Captain Gwynn, that the truth of all I say will be fully vindicated."
               "Where have you been, Colonel, in all these years since the death of Colonel Sparks of Mallow Marsh, and how do you intend to prove too that you are indeed the heir? No will has ever been discovered, and if one ever existed it was stolen at the time that a valuable chest was taken by undiscovered thieves from the chambers of their proper custodian, Agrippa Clinch, in Chancery Lane."
               "Did you or Mr. Clinch never receive a letter or letters from my father, soon after the death of my father?"
               "Never. How long is it since you left your Savannah home, Colonel?"
               "A little more than twenty years."
               "But you have heard frequently from your father?"
               "Not in all those years; and I have only been in England forty-eight hours."
               "Remarkable, remarkable! All this really does need explanation, Colonel, and you must pardon my seeming incredulity."
               "I am fully aware of the doubtful position I occupy, Captain, and if you can give me an hour of your valuable time I think I can tell you as strange a story as you ever heard."
               "It is not probable that we shall now be interrupted, as I have excused myself to all visitors; and it will give me pleasure to have you explain this mystery, Colonel. You bear a name I love and honor because of the dear friend who bore it; and it would be a real gratification to me to know that one bearing the same name, one all worthy of it, was to inherit the old homestead, where I have spent so many happy days. Join me in a cigar, and while we smoke we will have your story."
               "I must begin my story, Captain Gwynn, by saying that we should have met more than twenty years ago, but the fates were against it. Early in September, 1824, my father, Roscoe Sparks of Savannah, received a letter from Mr. Agrippa Clinch, Solicitor, London, informing him of the demise of my uncle, Colonel Hampden Sparks of Mallow Marsh, and requesting that he or some one authorised to represent him fully should hasten to London without delay, as business of importance awaited him. On the 3d of October I left Savannah, bearing letters of introduction to you and to other early friends of my father in London, having also on my person important, papers in relation to my father's interests here. A short time before leaving home I met with two strangers sojourning in Savannah, both Englishmen; and from my first acquaintance with them I was struck with the remarkable contrast between them, not only in appearance, but in refinement and cultivation. The older of the two was a heavy, thick-set man with coarse features and a devil-may-care, sea-faring look; the younger was handsome, refined, and in outward seeming a polished gentleman. Travelling together for many days, the ordinary acquaintance before existing soon ripened into friendship. We talked freely, and they informed me that they had been making a tour of pleasure through the South and were now on their way homeward, expressed themselves as highly gratified by all they had seen and learned of the manners, customs and social life of our hospitable land. Young and inexperienced in the ways of the world, I was much flattered by their attentions, and soon made known to them the nature of my business abroad, received from the younger promises of friendly aid when we should reach London, and assurances that he knew Mr. Clinch well, was the intimate friend of Captain Gwynn, and in his earlier days had visited Mallow Marsh, being at that time in his last year at Rugby. His description of my uncle and the old home coincided exactly with all that my father had ever told me about them; and as we journeyed he kept me entertained, and in the most social and communicative humor, drawing out in the course of each conversation more and more of the details connected with my business. Not long after we reached the North Carolina border the rough companion bade adieu to his friend, urging a temporary engagement many miles distant from the main stage-road, but promising to rejoin us at some point of our journey before we should reach New York. I did not know then the nature of his engagement, but gained my knowledge by a sad experience only a few days afterward. Reaching one night a stage-stand in South Side, Virginia, known as 'Holly Tavern,' we were told that we could there rest until dawn before resuming our journey, and my companion, who by the way bore the very Spanish name of Carlos Armero, and was of remarkably fiery temperament for an Englishman, was assigned to a bed in the same room with me. Weary with my journey I slept heavily, and can now recall only one conscious moment during that horrible night, and that was just after receiving a heavy blow. For an instant I saw the form of a man by the dim fire-light, and felt that I was being dragged from my bed; then everything in the room seemed lost to view. There was a mist before my eyes, and hours passed before I became aware of what had happened or where I was. In the dim awakening of first consciousness I perceived that I was weak and helpless, there was a dull heavy pain in my head, stiffness in my limbs, and the peculiar sensation one has when made sick by swinging came over me frequently. I was also conscious of being in rapid motion; could see objects along a country road spin by me in the most fearful and fantastic manner; nor did full consciousness return until all motion ceased. I then found myself in a dark shady spot in a dense forest, the companions of my journey, Armero and Flint (that was the name of the rough character), standing guard over me, and I then understood that to accomplish his part of the plan of my abduction was the sole engagement that had induced him to leave us in North Carolina with the promise of rejoining us before reaching New York. My taunts and reproaches seemed only to amuse the brace of hardened villains who had me in their power. Armero told me coolly he had long determined that the rightful heir should never inherit Mallow Marsh; his plans had been made before my uncle's death, and no time had been lost since that, to him, happy event; he had all the important papers in his possession; and with a devilish gleam in his eye announced that his visit to Savannah was not without a purpose, which he hoped now to be able to accomplish at least in part. Exasperated by the impudence and villainy of the man, I summoned all the strength which in my enfeebled condition I could command, and grasping the dead branch of a tree lying near, I struck him a blow which brought him to the ground. As quick as a flash he arose. The muzzle of his pistol covered my heart; an instant more and I should have slept my last sleep. Our eyes met, and slowly lowering the pistol, he said with an earnestness that was simply diabolical, 'Sparks, I do not want your blood, but Mallow Marsh. I spare you now oil only one condition, and that is: as soon as we reach England you enlist and go to India. Understand, it is India or certain death.' Weak and feeble from loss of blood, I was no match for my abductors in a hand-to-hand encounter, and yielding to the hope of freeing myself from them at some future day, I redeemed my life by giving the pledge to enlist. On reaching England I was promptly enlisted in a regiment under orders for India, Flint enlisting in the same company that he might be with and keep watch over me, to prevent the possibility of my escape and return to plague by my presence his guilty accomplice. We arrived at Calcutta in time to participate in the closing scenes of the Burmese War, and were then ordered far into the interior among the hill tribes, where we spent years in post duty, being changed only from one outpost to another. Like the Old Man of the Sea, Flint clung to me for four years; and I would doubtless have been under his surveillance until now had not a strange event brought about our separation. During the summer of 1828 a detachment of our regiment was ordered to advance still further to the northward and establish a post some distance beyond Lucknow, and approaching near to the border of Punjab. The post once established, brave officers and men were not lacking to undertake expeditions involving adventure and much hazard, such excursions being looked upon as a pleasant and desirable relief from the dull routine of ordinary camp life. Marching orders came one morning; only a small squad was detailed from our company. Flint was left behind, and for the first time since we landed in India, to my infinite relief, we were separated. I have never seen him since that hour, nor do I know whether he still lives. During that expedition I was captured by a hostile band of Sikhs, carried to the northern extremity of Punjab and kept for years wandering up and down among the mountain passes and valleys of that strange and beautiful country, the favored servant of a capricious chief, who valued me so highly for my knowledge of many things which served him well, that he kept a careful eye upon my movements and gave me no opportunity for escape. I had given up all hopes of ever seeing home, friends, or even the face of one of my own race again, when a strange Providence led our chief in the line of march of the British army then advancing upon Cabul. I can convey but a feeble impression of the joy I felt as from an elevated mountain slope I watched the long line of redcoats, their burnished arms glittering in the sunlight, their banners waving, a promise of protection could I only once more rejoin my adopted countrymen. But how this was to be accomplished I knew not, I could only watch, hope, and bide my time. Hovering on the flank of the British army, the Sikhs, as I had hoped, camped very near them that night, keeping well up on the mountain and putting out a strong picket in the direction of their enemy, but leaving the mountain side of their encampment unprotected. My resolution was quickly taken. Waiting until those around me had fallen asleep, with the stealth of an Indian I picked my way through the camp, often stepping over prostrate forms. Reaching a mountain path, I ascended for some distance, then making a detour, to be sure of avoiding the lines of pickets that had been posted in the direction of our army, I descended slowly and carefully. Reaching a point where the descent was less abrupt I was suddenly halted, answered the challenge in good honest English, was soon taken into camp and to the headquarters of General Pollock, where I became quite a lion.
               "To cut a long story short, Captain Gwynn, it was in that campaign I won my colonelcy, as you will see by these (pointing to his medals). I was familiar with the country, was accidentally placed in a trying position at the Khyber Pass, lived through it, and am once more in old England to try and establish my heirship to Mallow Marsh. You have my story, and I now need your friendly aid; for while I have earned in India honor, my occupation has not given me a full purse, and in this great city I am almost a stranger."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               SPARKS VS. SPARKS. A MYSTIFIED HOST. TIMELY ARRIVAL OF A STRANGE PACKAGE. ARMERO'S STORY.
               As Colonel Sparks concluded his story Captain Gwynn grasped his hand, and shaking it with warmth, said, "Yours has indeed been a strange and adventurous life, Colonel; the story written out would prove a most interesting romance. Give it to Blackwood and let others enjoy it as I have. You need not fear finding friends too in England, and foremost among them let me name Harvie Gwynn; command my services in any way you may need them, and permit me the pleasure of entertaining you during your stay in London. You see I live in a quiet unfashionable part of the city, but I can promise you something better than camp-life in India."
               "You are very kind, Captain."
               "Not at all; I am a social animal, and it will be kind of you to come into my quiet den. Say you will."
               "I can only meet such open-hearted hospitality in the same frank, open spirit, and will send my luggage around in the morning."
               "Good. Let us have another whiff together, and I will order a bowl of hot punch on the strength of your promise."
               While mine host and his visitor were thus pleasantly engaged in the library, quite a lively scene was being enacted down in the hall, the hero of the occasion being none other than Thomas. He was standing with the hall-door half open, his hand upon the knob, and in an excited tone of voice was endeavoring to convince some one standing outside that "the master was not at 'ome to wisitors."
               "But I must see your master; take him my card this instant," said the stranger.
               "Werry sorry, sir, but I can't disobey the master."
               "Will you then say to your master that a gentleman is waiting to see him on urgent business, a gentleman recently arrived from abroad?"
               "If I do that, sir, I'd as well take the card."
               "Take the card then and go to the devil with you."
               "I don't want to do that either, sir."
               "Then take this to your master, for I do not intend to leave the house until I see him," and pushing by the burly form of the flushed and angry servant, the stranger walked into the hall and seated himself, coolly determined to carry his point. With sullen dogged step Thomas turned away and walked up the broad flight of steps leading from the hall, anon wagging his head and taking side-long glances at the intruder, all the while muttering, "A would-be gentleman—a werry much dressed up pad he is. I'ope the master will tell me to put him in the street."
               To the well-known knock of his servant Captain Gwynn responded, "What is it, Thomas?"
               "A wisitor, sir, sends his card, and says he is just come from abroad and must see you on urgent business. I told him you was werry much engaged, but he said he wouldn't leave the 'ouse until he saw you. Oh! he is queer, sir, werry queer."
               "This is very odd," was the Captain's first exclamation as he glanced at the card which Thomas had handed him. "Colonel Sparks, what do you think of this?" handing the card to his visitor.
               "I think it is a cool piece of impudence and villainy; and if you will have the sender of this card shown up, I think I can introduce you to Carlos Armero."
               "Do you really think so?"
               "Yes indeed. Let Thomas show him up; I will take my seat in this alcove just behind the curtain, and when he shall have introduced himself and fully enlightened you as to his business, I will confront him."
               "Very good; invite him up, Thomas."
               With quiet dignity Armero entered the library, Thomas only opening the door wide enough to admit him; and as Captain Gwynn arose to meet him, he was struck with the grace of person and manner with which he introduced himself and his business. He claimed to be the son of Roscoe Sparks of Savannah, had been a wanderer to and fro in the earth, but tired of adventure, had now determined to claim his estates and settle down at old Mallow Marsh for life. He here produced a letter of introduction from Roscoe Sparks of Savannah, Georgia, written more than twenty years before, saying, "Doubtless you think me an unworthy truant son, Captain Gwynn; but 'tis' never too late to mend,'and I trust you will not disown my claim to your friendship because of my seeming indifference to it in all these years. Events I could not control at the time led me to India, and—"
               There was a movement in the alcove, and as the true Hampden Sparks walked forth and confronted his abductor, he said in a firm measured tone. "Carlos Armero, you lie! Hampden Sparks still lives. Do you know me?"
               In an instant Armero's eyes flashed as if lighted by the fires of the pit, and turning upon the speaker a look of well-feigned surprise, exclaimed "No! Who are you that dares to insult a gentleman in a gentleman's house? Captain Gwynn, whence comes this tinselled creature? Do you permit such insults to be given in your house? For shame!"
               "Upon my honor, gentlemen, this is all very queer; I do not understand it at all. A gentleman calls and introduces himself as a son of my old friend Roscoe Sparks of Savannah. I receive him with cordiality and make him my guest. Within an hour another gentleman calls and tells the same story; the two confront each other; one calls the other Armero; the other protests that he is not Armero, but Sparks; the lie passes. It isn't comedy, gentlemen, for it is no laughing matter, and for God's sake do not make it tragedy in my house."
               Pointing his finger at Armero, Colonel Sparks said with a trace of scorn in his manner, "Captain Gwynn, I did not seek your hospitality, nor shall I now accept it until you are assured that I am no impostor. You need fear no tragedy, for I would not soil my sword with the blood of such as he unless in self-defence. He has just handed you the letter he took from my person twenty years ago; 'tis a wonder the villain has not made good use of it before now."
               "Really, gentlemen," said the mystified Captain, "this whole affair is most unexpected, and I beg pardon if I seem to give offence to either of you. Can't we come to some happy explanation? There cannot be but one Hampden Sparks, son of Roscoe Sparks. Do not engage in criminating charges, but let us reason a little about it."
               At this juncture there was a rap at the library door, and Thomas thrusting himself inside, handed his master a package, saying, "Brought by the express-man, sir," adding in undertone as he made his exit, "looks werry waluable too."
               The Captain took the package and broke the seals, begging to be excused a moment that he might examine the contents. Unfolding a large foolscap sheet yellow from much age and handling, he read what was written thereon carefully; then taking out of the envelope a delicately icately tinted note-sheet traced in a beautiful feminine hand, his eye ran rapidly over the page, and as he read a new light seemed to dawn upon his hitherto perplexed countenance. Turning towards Colonel Sparks, he exclaimed with energy, "In all my life I never heard of anything to equal this. We are not living in wonder-land, but a genuine wonder is wrought before our eyes. Listen!
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "'THE WILLOWS,' NEAR COVENTRY, December 28th.
                              "'CAPT. HARVIE GWYNN, London:
                           
                           "'Sir:—In obedience to the last wish of a wayward and erring one, I now send to you a package which will be found to contain important papers in relation to the estate of Colonel Hampden Sparks of Mallow Marsh, county Warwick. That you may understand it all without any painful explanations from one whose heart is wrung when even a thought of it comes over me, I send his confession, which you may read, use if necessary in the interests of the rightful heirs, and then destroy.
                           
                              Very respectfully,
                              "'DEBORAH FLINT.'
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "And this," resumed Captain Gwynn, taking up the yellow-stained foolscap sheet, "is the confession, which not only confirms every word of your story, Colonel, but supplies many missing links known only to the writer and to you," turning toward Armero, "if you be Carlos Armero, the accomplice of Hardy Flint."
               The accumulation of evidence was too great and came too suddenly for the ordinarily quick-witted Armero, and his keen eyes drooped before the steady gaze of his accusers. At last looking up with a stolid attempt at indifference, he said, "Well, gentlemen, what do you propose doing with your humble servant?"
               "Why, we will hand you over to the tender mercies of the law, of course," responded the Captain.
               "Think not," was the cool reply.
               "And pray why not, Sir?"
               "Because it will not serve the best interests of all concerned to do so."
               "Ah! Enlighten us as to how your being at large will in the remotest degree aid our cause," said Colonel Sparks with energy. "Had you been transported twenty-five years ago I should have been saved much suffering, and would now be in quiet possession of the home of my ancestors."
               "You will now inherit the home of your ancestors without further trouble if I am permitted to go free; not without much trouble if I am placed in the hands of the law. For I have valuable papers still in my possession, which you will never get if I am prosecuted. Hear what I have to say, gentlemen, and decide for yourselves what you will do. The papers Captain Gwynn has just received were in my possession three days ago, and only a sense of honor—do not smile, gentlemen: no human creature is without some sense of honor—only respect to the wishes and memory of a dead friend prevented my breaking the seals and examining the contents of the package which he committed to my charge for his sister. I could not bring myself to break the seals of that package, although I feared that there was something within which might endanger the final success of a scheme which has occupied in its planning and execution the best years of—you would have it—an ill-spent life. Be it so. Judge as you like; but now we will go back in my story more than twenty years, to the time of my father's second marriage with Señorita Pico La Riva, in Badajoz, Spain, and I will give you a glimpse of my early life that you may see what made me less honorable than you, and you, Captain Gwynn and Colonel Sparks. The Captain will remember my father, and that at one period in his life no man in all Spain could better have afforded to bring up his son a gentleman. He had houses, lands, orchards, vineyards, money, and I was his only child. I would speak no ill of the dead, for he has long since gone to his account; but truth compels me to say, I never knew a father's love, and very little did I receive of his care after reaching an age when I could take even the most indifferent care of myself. Becoming infatuated with Señorita Pico La Riva, who was young, beautiful, high-born, but heartless, she married him to relieve her father of some pecuniary difficulty, and I, with no home at home, was sent to England to be educated at Rugby, where on a scant allowance doled out to me in quarterly instalments I existed during a youth of many trials and temptations. By some means Colonel Hampden Sparks of Mallow Marsh learned that I was at Rugby, and while tradition hath it that he owed my father no good will, he displayed a noble, generous spirit and was kind to his wayward son, even as a father, and I became familiar with all the nooks and crannies of the old place, where I had permission in my holidays to roam at will. It was in my last year at Rugby that I conceived the idea of gaining possession of Mallow Marsh, and since that hour I have been as one possessed of a devil. Every thought and purpose of my life seemed to converge to this point, and my noble friend and benefactor had not long been sleeping under the larches at the old place before the chest containing the will, stocks, bonds, bank-bills, and family jewels disappeared from the office of their custodian, Agrippa Clinch, in Chancery Lane. Who spirited away these valuables was a question frequently asked but never answered. One who could answer now sleeps deep down in old ocean; the other, who might, can only do so on his own terms."
               Here Armero paused, folded his arms upon his chest and gazed with his keen eyes into the faces of his auditors, who had listened with breathless interest to his recital.
               "What terms do you propose, Armero?" questioned Colonel Sparks.
               "They are quickly stated. First, I am not to be prosecuted; next, I am not to be pressed for the restitution of such moneys or jewels as may have been made use of since the chest disappeared; and thirdly, no publicity is to be given to my connection with the whole affair until I have time to leave the country. Pledge me on your honor, gentlemen, that you will faithfully adhere to my terms, and I will place in your hands all that Colonel Sparks may need to gain quick possession of Mallow Marsh."
               Colonel Sparks looked toward Captain Gwynn, who nodded approvingly, and then said: "Armero, we give you our promise. You have dealt hardly with me, one a stranger to you; but you have been sinned against too, and in this hour of your humiliation I am willing not only to strive to forget, but to forgive. You need not fear to tell us all."
               "The remainder of my story is short, gentlemen. Having possessed myself of the chest, I found therein a handsome sum in Bank of England notes, for Colonel Sparks always kept money at home, and the chest was taken to London just as he had left it. Upon the money and the proceeds of a few diamonds I have lived and endeavored to execute my plan. I did not think it safe to lay claim to Mallow Marsh until assured of the death of the rightful heirs, and have just returned from America, where I endeavored, I am sorry and ashamed to say it, Colonel, to hasten your father's death. I have now the pleasure of stating that he still lives in the enjoyment of a green old age; and you will find your mother and sister well and glad to welcome you home. Home! what a mocking sound that word has to me! You, gentlemen, have homes; I go out into the world with at least the shadowy outlines of the brand of Cain upon me, with no one to care whither I go or where or when I die." For the first time showing deep emotion, Armero folded his arms and with quivering features turned away and walked into the alcove, while with pitying eye the two who had heard his story sat in silence and watched him. He had indeed committed crime, and for years lived like the sons of Ishmael; but in this hour they could not do aught else than pity one brought so low, so much a wreck of what he might have been.
               Waiting until he grew more composed, Captain Gwynn ventured to ask him the fate of his father's second wife, Pico Armero.
               "She too has gone into the great unknown, did not live long to plague my father or enjoy her ill-gotten wealth. Years afterwards my old Spanish nurse, whom I met in this city, told me of her death, and a sad picture she gave of a beautiful woman fading as the brightness fades from a summer-cloud at sunset, and saying with her last breath, as she seemed to be living only in a happier past and linking the old proverb to some pleasant memory, "By the street of By-and-Bye we arrive at the house of Never.'"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               CLOSING SCENES.
               WINTER has passed away, and spring in all its beauty is animating nature with new life. The Virginia woodlands are fresh and green, and the dog-wood blossoms peeping out between the leaves are swaying to and fro beneath the weight of happy singing-birds. Old Holly Tavern nestling down amid a mass of bloom and shade, looks sweeter than ever before, and as we approach, it is noticeable that something unusual is either in progress or expected, for everybody about the place seems astir.
               Burwell Crowder, our jolly landlord, is more jolly than ever as he follows Mother Crowder from room to room, inspecting her every preparation and commenting as freely upon it all as if he were thoroughly up in all the arts of housekeeping. "By shot! old woman, this bridal chamber looks gorgeous; them curtains are as white as cherry blossoms, the matting looks refreshing, and this furniture—what could Sawkins have been thinking of to spend all that money on marvel-top wash-stand and bureau? We were just as happy forty years ago without all that foolishness. But really it all looks splendid."
               "Indeed it does, honey," was the response, "and you just let it all be, Burwell. Sawkins knows what he is about, and the best in all the land is none too good for Miss Bettie, I can tell you."
               The beds had all been sunned, every room scoured and thoroughly aired, the piazza floor sanded, while in the culinary department there had for many days been no lack of preparation, and any one else would have thought all things ready, but still Mother Crowder bustled about, and up to the last moment kept her hands busy in putting things to rights that she had fixed a dozen times before.
               Little Elfie, tired of following Mother Crowder and her mother around, had caught Burwell by the hand, and was now leading him down the circle in the direction of the road, for the sun was nearly down and the Doctor and his bride might be expected at any moment. "Crowdy, why don't they come along?" said the little one impatiently, as she stamped her little foot against the gravelled path.
               "Oh they will come presently, little woman. Look!" and just then a carriage was seen to leave the main road and take the direction of the tavern. From the window they saw peeping out Dr. Sawkins and Miss Bettie—no, 'tis Miss Bettie no longer, but Mrs. Sawkins—looking bright and happy as she receives the greetings of her friends and settles down in the most natural way on the very first evening into the hearts of all in her future home.
               The Sparks's had returned to Savannah, and settled down into the quiet ways of a very quiet house. The old lady had been much benefitted by her trip, notwithstanding the two severe shocks she had received, and her sweet sad face began to wear a brighter expression as she daily watched her lovely child, now as happy as a bird, flitting about the house, ever singing joyous notes of love and melody, and ready to cheer and bless by her sweet ministrations. The library was the favorite family room (every family has some favorite room), and here in the evening the old people would sit in their easy-chairs, and listen while Elise read aloud to them, or in the twilight before the lamps were lit, with graceful touch awoke her harp to melody, and sung to them the sweet old airs of other days. It was at the twilight hour that the servant brought one evening an unusually large mail and placed it on the table before Mr. Sparks, soon returning again with the lamp all trimmed and lighted. In an instant Elise was at her father's side, saying in tender tones, "Dear Papa, you are weary; let me read your letters for you."
               "You may, my darling, for I am indeed weary and depressed to-night; I have been dwelling much in the past to-day."
               Taking up the letters, Elise turned them over carefully, and selecting two with foreign post-mark, exclaimed excitedly, "Oh, Papa, two from abroad!"
               "Indeed, child? Read them."
               Elise broke the seal of the first letter, and as she read the first line in it, the sheet dropped from her hand and she could for the instant only say, "Dear Papa, brother Hampden!"
               "What, child! What! Speak! What of my lost boy?" and the old man reached forth his hand to pick up the letter.
               In an instant Elise recovered her self-possession, seeing urgent need that she should now be calm; and picking up the letter, she read it aloud, and then the other from Captain Harvie Gwynn. The first, from Hampden Sparks, told his wonderful story and conveyed the joyful intelligence that he was now safe with his friend Captain Gwynn in London, where he should remain until joined by his father, mother and sister, whom he urged to be present when he should take possession of the ancestral estates. Captain Gwynn's letter was kind and genial, calling up many happy scenes in Mr. Sparks's early life, and concluded by pressing his old friend to lose no time in making preparations to join his son in the fatherland.
               There was joy in that house such as the old patriarch Jacob experienced when the glad tidings reached him that Joseph still lived; and when the first shock of joy was over, the old people seemed to have renewed their youth and entered with much alacrity upon the work of preparation for their journey. Just three weeks before they had determined to leave Savannah there was a sudden arrival which was destined to change the plans of somebody and add a fourth to the party going abroad.
               
               It was near sunset, and Elise was quite ready to descend from her chamber to the library. She was only sitting by the window a moment listening to her canary and listlessly plucking a few buds and geranium leaves from her flowers, and it may be, thinking of one far off in Virginia; suddenly her attention was arrested by the soft sound of wheels in the sandy street below, and looking, she saw a coach stop at the door and some one get out. She looked quickly, even nervously, and a blush came to her cheeks. "Could it be?" Her heart answered "Yes," for just then she had no words, and with quick step she ran down the hall, and before she could check her speed was caught in the strong, loving arms of Ronald Irving. Ronald had suddenly concluded to finish his law course abroad, having reached a point in the university course which would enable him to follow up successfully new advantages elsewhere. His delight at finding that Elise and her parents were even then preparing for a foreign trip will be imagined, and his first successful pleading resulted in a wedding-scene before their departure from Savannah. The bride and groom walked down the crowded aisle to the rich tones of the organ pealing the wedding-march, and received the congratulations that were offered on every hand. Never had a more brilliant wedding taken place in the city. The Sparks family had many warm friends who, sympathising with them in all their years of trial, now heartily rejoiced at the many blessings that had suddenly clustered around the bright young bride and dear old people.
               "Wonders will never cease!" was Mrs. Grimcheek's first exclamation as Archie Clevis, in excited manner and with voice even more cracked than ever, told her "the new master has come to life at last, and we are to have another Hampden Sparks at the old place."
               "I don't like the idea, Archie; he's 'Merican, I believe."
               "Yes, but his father was born in yonder wing room, and he is a colonel in Her Majesty's service, and that's 'nough for me, Mrs. Grimcheek I shall clean things up, put the lawn in order, set the carpenters to work, and drill the tenants so as to give the new master a reception worthy of the mighty 'casion."
               "Certainly, Archie, we must do all that is befitting; but it seems very strange to me to have new people in the 'ouse, and our dear old master's things all ransacked, when they have been kept with the dust all on 'em just as he left everything years and years agone. These 'Mericans are meddlesome kind of people, ain't they, Archie?"
               "Not more than most of people who inherits property they didn't work for, Mrs. Grimcheek, so we mustn't judge of them until they come."
               The work of preparation went forward, and the din of saw and hammer waked the echoes in the old place, causing a ceaseless grumble on the part of Mrs. Grimcheek, who vowed that she should "never, no never, have any more peace!" But as the calm follows the storm, so peace came, when all was in readiness, and the tenantry marshalled by Archie Clevis in the very old coat he had worn at Badajoz, opened ranks on each side of the park-gate, and doffing their hats, gave three cheers for Colonel Hampden Sparks, the new master of Mallow Marsh.
               The grand old hall was ablaze with a flood of light, bringing out the ancestral pictures on the walls and making them look like visitants from the ages past. The old friends of Colonel Hampden Sparks, Sr., many of them even recollecting the long-absent Roscoe Sparks, and others, desirous of meeting with the successor to a name so honored and loved in their memories, in obedience to a general invitation had gathered there. Ronald Irving and his beautiful bride became the central figures in all the scene. The young belles and beaux of Warwickshire, amazed at the grace and dignity of their demeanor under such flattering circumstances, and attracted by the unrestrained charm of manner about them, seemed never weary of paying them courteous attention. That night as Ronald bade Mrs. Sparks goodnight, the dear old lady whispered tenderly in his ear, "God has rewarded you, my son; I thank him that I have now two loving sons to cheer my old age."
               And now, dear reader, we must leave not only this happy scene but all others connected with our story. Some of our travellers have ended their travelling days; others of them, like "stage walkers" in a play, serving their purpose, have gone their ways: we will see them no more. To all we bid adieu, and record the "Story of Nine Travellers" as ended.
            
         
      
   
