
    ----CITATION----
        Edwards, Henry, (1824-1891). The Belle of Central Park .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6369
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE BELLE OF CENTRAL PARK. 
               A Story of New York Life. 
             
            BY HENRY EDWARDS, ESQ.
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               ADVANCE PUBLISHING COMPANY.
             
          
       
      
         
            The belle of Central Park 
             
             
            THE BELLE OF CENTRAL PARK. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               Gently glides the serpent whose sting is most surely fraught with death; and insidious are the wiles of the fame-blasting seducer. 
               Reader, in this, my life-history, you will find stirring adventure and constant excitement. Men and women of all grades, and of every character have been familiar to the writer. Love-ambition-intrigue-all that agitates mankind, the hope and the fear, the labor and the pleasure-the great drama of vanities, with the little interludes of wisdom-these will furnish forth the materials of that history of woman's life in this great city a which we live-New York. 
               Come, then, reader, and look upon the picture of a present day; and as the shadows and lights of a checkered and fearful existence flit before you, watch if, in your own hearts, there be aught which mirrors the reflection. 
               With this prelude, by way of an introduction to the readers of 'Ned Buntline's Own," I will begin the history of my eventful and stirring life. 
               I have determined to give to the world my history, for the purpose of warning such of my sex who may come after me of the fearful temptations of city life-where vice is so gilded over that it appears to be the very reverse of what it really is. 
               Mothers have loved daughters, whom they love as much as my own mother loved me; and fathers have sons whom they wish to see well settled in life. Now how can these fond parents advise and warn these loved ones unless they know something of the fearful dangers and temptations that beset their path in a city where sinful humanity assumes a thousand forms to lure the poor, unsuspecting victim to its utter destruction. 
               To my own sex I would say it is more dangerous, however wise it may be for men, to commune with their own hearts, and to be still. But I must not anticipate my history. 
               Oh, for the days of innocence. Oh, for the power to recall those stainless years when the imagination saw everything in the gayest colors. 
               Oh, man, who glories in the shame and ruin of poor, helpless woman; who takes a savage pleasure, as it were, in her seduction-in her degradation and ruin-this, too, I must treat in the forthcoming pages. 
               This blight, alas! falls on too many of my poor sex-on too many of nature's fairest flowers! 
               Gently glides the serpent whose sting is most certainly, unerringly fraught with death; and insidious are the wiles of the fame-blasting, soul-destroying seducer! 
               Accursed be the villain who dares to tamper with that heart which God originally made so pure, so heavenly! 
               Maledictions on the man who can calmly sing the dirge of her reputation! For who that sees the brow of innocence encircled with a chaplet of white roses, would ruthlessly stretch forth his hand and tear away the fairest flower to gratify himself for a moment, a single moment, with its perfume-that perfume which his own lust-heated breath destroys at the same time? Ah, who could do this and at the same time boldly raise his head and say, "I am a man." while the poor
                   outraged girl lies a ruined and life loathing thing at his feet? 
               The reader must pardon me for this plain, unvarnished narrative; but having felt the pain I write about, I speak feelingly on this subject. 
               Let us, kind reader, reflect-it will be a useful lesson-on the atrocity of the case. A young, a lovely, a too confiding girl is basely ruined by a villain whose heart is fraught only with lust, but who is loved to distraction by the being he takes advantage of. Let us remember that unfortunately these instances are frequent and far from extraordinary in the world; let us contemplate the terrible evils they entail on the miserable victim of guilty passions; and, oh! let us essay to close our hearts as much as possible against the approach of those desires which threaten such awful consequences to our helpless follow creatures! 
               Their characters for ever gone; their peace of mind destroyed; their hearts almost broken by treachery; themselves degraded, aye! cast from the rank in society they once held; spurned, contemned, spit upon by the haughty and unfeeling individual whose name is haply unimpeachable; then seen patrolling the streets to earn a precarious livelihood by the sale of their persons; drinking deep to banish care; and lastly rendering up their parting sign either in a work house, or in a miserable garret, where not a single eye sheds the balmy drop of sympathy upon them; where no fond mother, no affectionate husband, nor kind friend enlivens the last moments of feeble existence; and where memory, during a gloomy retrospection over the actions of a mis-spent life, can remark but little to afford the slightest consolation:-this-deceitful man, is all thou bringest on her whom thou didst render the victim of thy last; this, hard-hearted villain, is the true sketch-the short tale of those years she wretchedly drags out till the hand of death relieves her; this is the history-read, thou abandoned ruffian, and tremble! 
               Nor canst thou say that the picture is overdrawn. Go-contemplate the streets of New York when the sun has deserted this hemisphere-mark the thousands who throng them, the multitudes of polluted women who affect joy, while the cankering worm of woe is in their hearts, and while their thoughts do but ill accord with the gaudiness of their dress or the voluptuous language of their tongue. 
               Then see others of a more degraded stamp still, half naked, shivering in the cold, expelled from a wretched lodging by a ruthless landlady; abroad in the world, without friends or assistance. Oh! gaze on all this; and do not dare affirm that I have misrepresented the state of these unfortunate creatures. 
               But to continue. 
               A true history of my life I will write to warn my sex. I do not depend upon my imagination for facts, however much real life may appear in these pages. 
               I am an orphan, both my parents having died when I was quite young; so that at an early age I was thrown upon life-and such a life! for my existence. 
               My poor mother was very beautiful and highly accomplished. But, alas! her beauty could not save her; and her accomplishments only hastened her fall by increasing the temptations that surrounded her. 
               The man who had won her affections and promised so fairly, forsook her soon as he had accomplished his own ends, and my poor mother sunk into an early grave another victim to man's perfidy and lust; and I was thus early left to battle with life's troubles, perplexities and manifold temptations. 
               I came to the city when I was about fifteen years of age, and was, what the world calls, good looking, attractive and fascinating. 
               My hair was long, luxuriant, and hung-in curls over my shoulders; my eyes were not particularly large, but dark, replete with fire and vivacity; my complexion was healthy and clear; my nose was exactly straight; my mouth small to a fault; and my lips, when opened, disclosed a set of the whitest teeth. My figure was small and delicate, and exquisitely proportioned as the critical eye of the most experienced woman-lover could desire. 
               The reader must excuse me for giving such a minute description of my personal appearance, but before he or she shall have perused the history of my life, they will pardon me for so doing; for it has much to do with my after life. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               I VISIT NEW YORK. 
               As I mentioned before, at fifteen I visited this great city of New York, and went to live with an aunt who resided in Harlem. 
               I had, as the reader may readily, believe, many admirers, and among the number was one I madly loved. His name was Clarence Morgan. He was the son of a Wall street financier, who was reported to be very rich. 
               Clarence Morgan pretended to be very much smitten with me, and was a very frequent visitor at my aunt's house. 
               Morgan was well skilled in reading the human character, and in penetrating into its hidden mysteries. 
               The breast of no one was altogether a sealed book to him; for when he could glean nothing by means of words, he would study the countenance, watch all its varying expressions, and discover a language in the glances of the eyes. 
               It was not astonishing, then, that he had for some time perceived the increasing passion I entertained for him; while he concealed his own, determining to wait for the first opportunity that might arrive to make himself the master of my charms. His heart was inured to form schemes far worse than this: he did not shrink at sacrificing the peace, the innocence, the respectability of a beautiful being that adored him, so long as he could satisfy his own selfish lusts. 
               But I did not then know his true character. Besides, I was innocent of the ways of the world, and knew not the heartlessness of man as I have since learned it to my sorrow. 
               Aristotle was right when he reckoned love among the number of virtues. A young and beautiful girl's earliest passion is the tenderest that can be perceived It is the attractive power to which her other ideas incline; it is the spring of all her thoughts-thoughts that over connect themselves with the cherished affection! 
               Such was my love for Morgan. 
               But alas! had I known that this love was reciprocally felt, though proceeding from different sources; the one emanating from purity, the other owing its existence to selfish last, many a weary sigh many a burning tear, had been spared me. I seldom caught his eye, but he turned it away, fearful of exciting my aunt's suspicions. 
               At the back of my aunt's dwelling was a delicious garden, with a summer house in a retired spot, surrounded by twining jasmines and by the clustering boughs of the sportive clematis. 
               Thither the beams of the scorching meridian sun could but languidly penetrate; and there the odors of sweet flowers gave perfume to the evening breeze. 
               It was such a spot as that were, in the poetry of Persian bards, we read of the fond Megnoun whispering tales of love to his beautiful Leilah; or where Hafiz might have composed his admired poem to the roses in the bosom of his mistress Pancharillah. 
               In this delightful place Morgan and I were seated. He told me of the extent of his love, while I listened with rapture and joy; then he declared his intention; falsely declared his resolution of speedily communicating with my aunt on an honorable able marriage; and as he spoke those apparently honied words which came from a venomed tongue, my heart beat quickly and I returned the thrilling kiss that he impressed upon my burning lips! 
               Oh, how my young, passionate heart beat for him at that moment! 
               But, oh! the heartlessness and cruelty of man, who, after having destroyed and utterly ruined a too confiding heart, then throws the casket away having stolen the jewel contained within! 
               The world is selfish and cruel; like Ambrosio, the monk, it is stern and merciless in its decision. How well the following scene from the monk illustrates what I mean: 
               "Stay, oh, stay!" cried the erring nun in accents of despair, while she threw herself at the friar's feet, and bathed them with tears. "Father, compassionate my youth. Look with indulgence upon a woman's weakness, and deign to conceal my frailty! The remainder of my life shall be employed in expiating this single fault, and your lenity will bring a soul to heaven." 
               "Amazing confidence!" replied the inflexible 
                     Ambrioso
                     Ambrosio
                  . "What! shall St. Clare's convent become the retreat of prostitutes? Shall I suffer the church of Church to cherish in its bosom debauchery and flame? Unworthy wretch! such lenity would make me your accomplice. Mercy would be a criminal. You have abandoned yourself to a seducer's pleasure; you have defiled the sacred habit by your impurity, and still dare you think yourself deserving my compassion. 
               "Your boldness confounds me. Shall I conceal your crimes-I whom you have deceived by your feigned confession?" 
               The world is another Ambrosio, and like him is hard, unforgiving and relentless. In vain the child of misfortune sinks upon her knees, beating her bosom, as she touchingly appeals for mercy. Oh, well may she exclaim in the language of the fallen nun, "proud, stern and cruel world, you could have saved me; you could have restored me to happiness and virtue, but you would not; you are morally my murderer, and on you shall fall the curse of my continuance in evil! Insolent in your unshaken virtue and self-righteousness, you disdained the prayers of a penitent; and left her to look to God for that mercy which you have not shown. And where is the merit of your boasted virtue? What temptations have you vanquished? Coward! you have fled from it, not opposed seduction! But the day of trial will arrive. Oh, when you yield to impetuous passions-when you feel that flesh is weak and born to err; when, shuddering, you look back upon your crimes and unforgiveness, and solicit with terror the mercy of your God. Oh, in that fearful moment think upon me! think upon your cruelty to an erring one, and despair of pardon!" 
               Such has been the language of more than one Agathe, but it is unheeded or unheard; she is hurried away and immured in the darkest dungeon of crime-condemned to prostitution for life-passed the hope of redemption. Gentleness kindness, mercy, might have saved her. 
               
                   
                     Speak gently to the erring, 
                     Ye know not of the power 
                     With which the dark temptation came 
                     In some unguarded hour. 
                  
                
               But to return. 
               My lover-for such I must call Morgan-was easy and graceful, and his conversational powers were unequalled. But he was a child of passion. When he loved, he loved with all the ardor of his soul. In him lovely woman had a true worshipper. But he was dangerous, dangerous to me, dangerous to my sex; for his countenance had that soft, melancholy expression that woman cannot resist. If he flattered, who would not grant? 
               It was near sunset when we sat down neath the shade of some trees, and, in his fascinating, bewitching style, related to me a scene-a touching love scene-in his early life, long years before he saw and loved me. 
                
               "There are no rational moments," said he, "between the cradle and the grave, sleeping or waking, when the thoughts are not busy. The mind is a sea, and the billows upon its surface are the thoughts-ever restless-every hurrying on. 
               The passion are the winds and the storms that sweep over and lash it to fury. Blot the passions from the catalogue of human characteristics, and it is doubtful what man would be. Perhaps he would be all that is amiable and excellent; and possibly he might be all that is supine, tame and worthless. Some would be good, doubtless; and some good for nothing. There might be too much monotony in life without the stimulus of passion. 
               A man without passion would see few attractions in lovely woman-and the woman without it would see nothing in the opposite sex very different from which she recognizes in her own. The most elegantly rounded limb, and the divinest symmetry would give no impression of beauty and stir up no delicious feelings. 
               There would be no charm in the soft rustling of silks, no mystery beneath exquisite drapery. The pulses would not quicken at the approach of woman-the nerves would not thrill to her touch, and desire would not awaken in the impressive bosom. Love's sweet dalliance would be unknown; and the joy of possession be a mystery unthought of. 
               The eye might wander over the fairest proportions, and call up no sensations; the hand would feel no curiosity to follow the eye, and woman, lovely woman, would be commonplace, and excite no tenderness in the breast. 
               I will not linger upon the opening years of life, dear Fanny, which are usually like the first chapters in a book-uninteresting. 
               At seventeen I was a great wanderer; I loved to climb the mountain, and, sitting down in some secluded spot, to muse the day away. 
               The country about me was peopled with husbandmen; their sons were sturdy as oaks, and their daughters lovely as the wild flowers that grew in the gorges. Oh, what strange thoughts came unasked when I beheld them-thoughts that I could not drive away. I often met these fresh and blooming creatures in my solitary walks, when they would blush and flit away, leaving me filled with their images. 
               One bright summer day, when tired of strolling, I laid myself down upon a beautiful grassy mound shaded by tall trees as the foot of a mountain; I felt lonely, and sighed for some one to love; I pictured one beautiful as Eve, and warm as a sunbeam. 
               In the midst of my reverie I looked up, and saw the flutter of white drapery far up the mountain above me. The rude winds were toying with a female dress; I was near enough to catch a glimpse of an elegantly turned ancle and an unexceptionable foot. 
               I am a worshipper of the beautiful in nature or in art; I could never gaze upon a faultless proportion without sensation. 
               I instinctively arose to my feet and endeavored to catch a glimpse of her face. I knew she was fair-my instincts seemed to tell me so; but her head was turned from me, and I only saw a portion of her neck; I was bold enough to walk slowly towards her; I was completely electrified by her symmetry of form and gesture; there was grace in her every movement. 
               Her attitude though natural, could not have been better chosen for effect. She looked like some graceful bird reposing in its nest. 
               She sat, or rather reclined upon the edge of a cliff overlooking a valley below. Her elbow rested upon a stone overgrown with moss, and her cheek lay in the palm of her hand. One tiny little foot was thrust negligently over the cliff, while the other was half concealed by the folds of her dress. 
               The repose and case of the entire figure of this beautiful being was very striking-a fit subject for a painter. 
               It was not justifiable perhaps not to give her notice of my approach, but I felt, somehow, irresistibly attracted towards her. 
               In her great hurry to rise, forgetting probably the peculiar position she occupied, she lost her balance and fell. But strange mortal that I was, I was rather pleased at her misfortune; for I hailed with joy the opportunity thus offered to do her a favor. 
               I instantly sprang forward and caught her in my arms. Oh, precious burden! I am to be pardoned if I held the lovely being longer than was absolutely necessary, and relinquished her with reluctance. 
               Though much frightened and agitated, she did not faint. I placed her very gently in the place she had hitherto occupied. 
               My sudden appearance had confused her; and the rich blood mounted to her cheeks as she saw my eyes fixed upon in an intensity of feeling. 
               We were both much embarrassed, and at a loss for words. 
               At length I mustered courage to inquire if she was hurt. 
               With a sweet smile, which went directly through my too sensitive heart, she replied in the negative, and thanked me for my timely aid. 
               I had now a chance to see her face. I had not been too highly prepossessed in her favor. She was indeed a charming creature. Her cheeks were beautifully suffused with red, and her lips were ripe and slightly pouting-enough to make them tempting. The eyes seemed to swim in their liquid depths of dark blue; the hair was more than dark, and not so black as jet. The eyelashes were long and silken, like Eastern beauties; the mouth was small, and the lips of a rich strawberry hue; the teeth was nearly in their whiteness! 
               Was it any wonder, then, that I felt completely electrified, at the sight of so much beauty and attractiveness that met my gaze! No, indeed! 
               My first impulse was to kneel and worship her; but I did not obey it; for that would have been too abrupt, and made her suspicious, too, of my motives. 
               Her voice was very musical, and its sound filled me with ineffable bliss! 
               She noticed my emotion in my dilated lips-for women are quick at reading the heart-and she read my worship in my flashing eye! 
               Our souls seemed to speak to each other; but there was no audible murmur of voices. It was a whisper unheard by the external senses; but every faculty of the mind heard it. 
               She withdrew her eyes more than ever confused. 
               I rallied; and, looking into the depth of her beautiful eyes, said: 
               "I have been fortunate," I said, "to render assistance to one so charming and lovely." 
               "Oh, sir, you need not spoil me by flattery," she said, while a sweet smile suffused her countenance; but without raising her eyes from the ground. 
               "I could not do that," I replied; "oh, I would not if I could." 
               "I thank you very much," she said; "for I might have been dashed to pieces against the rocks below. Even now I shudder at the bare recollection of my narrow escape from instant death! Oh, sir, do not think that I value your act of kindness lightly! No, I feel it here!" and she laid her beautiful little white hand upon her beating heart. 
               "You make me too happy in being rewarded thus!" I said; "I could not ask for more; but I ask pardon when I entreat of you by the life preserved, to allow me to cultivate the acquaintance so strangely begun; I can take no denial," I said hastily, taking her warm hand and pressing it to my lips, and then dropping it, blushing at my boldness. 
               "I will think of it, sir," she replied, after a pause; "I know not what to say to you; my friendship is little worth; I am but a poor country girl, unsophisticated, and but little acquainted with the ways of the world; yet if you think a rustic friendship like mine is worth having, I may not, perhaps, refuse it to you!" 
               "Oh, I thank you from the bottom of my heart," I said, passionately; "and perhaps you will let me call you sister sometimes!" 
               "Certainly, sir, for I have not a brother." 
               "Allow me, then, to claim a brother's privilege," I said, "and conduct you to your home!" 
               With a deep blush upon her cheek she took my proffered arm. 
               Oh, what a delicious pleasure it was to feel the slightest pressure of her hand! 
               I had now a better view of her person. 
               She was of medium stature; her entire figure might have been termed elegantly voluptuous; the waist was small and airy; yet the form was full enough to give the idea of luxuriousness. 
               She seemed to float along when she walked, and did not trip her dress as the sex too often do. Her limbs had gathered strength by exercise, and she was agile as a fawn. 
               I never felt so happy before as when I put my hand upon her waist to help her when the way was rough. 
               So fascinated was I with my new acquaintance, that I prolonged our walk by every expedient in my power. 
               I learned her name. It was Mary Stevens. Her father lived in an adjoining county. She had come to the wild mountains to teach "the young idea how to shoot;" and I wished myself a child once more that I might sit near her, day after day, listen to her musical voice and gaze into her face. 
               The more cool reader may think, perhaps, that it was a foolish wish; but he or she must remember that I was young and impulsive, and that my blood coursed rapidly through my veins. 
               I only write down my feelings at that time, however exaggerated they might have been. I was then seventeen, and Mary sixteen. 
               She was the high minded and sensible girl-I, the impassioned and impetuous youth! 
               Yes, passionate beyond my years. 
               When I left Mary I was deeply in love; I endeavored to picture my love pure and without one atom of earth; I could think of her and her only; I believed her as essential to my happiness as the air I breathed or the sun which shone in the heavens! 
               She was my universe, containing all the elements of my existence! Oh, I dreamed of her love by night! I saw, a thousand times over, the flutter of her dress, and of my saving her from being dashed to pieces. But I awoke from my dream of fancy! But I wished to dream it over again, it seemed to fill my soul with such inexpressible bliss, and soothed my troubled spirit! 
               I met her again; for I could not rest till I did. We walked and talked together. I led her to the spot where I first saw her. I sat by her side, with hand in hand, and gazed into the liquid depths of her clear blue eyes till the crimson blush came upon her cheek, and she looked more beautiful than ever. 
               I could contain my feelings no longer, and, on my bended knees entreated her to let me worship her always. 
               Mary was startled at my earnestness and impetuosity. 
               Perhaps she saw something of earth in my eye, and she drew back instinctively; but it was of short duration; for the expression of her countenance softened, and all traces of fear again vanished from her countenance. 
               Looking me full in the face she said, while a smile beamed over her beautiful countenance: 
               "Arise," she said; "let us not be precipitate; "we are young; this outburst may be but a transient thing!" 
               "Then you do not love me?" I eagerly inquired. 
               "That I did not say; I was only questioning your own feelings," she replied. 
               "Oh, can you doubt; you, who are my light, my everything; you, who have all my thoughts and all my boundless love. No, it cannot be," I said, throwing myself at her feet, and gazing fondly into her eyes. 
               "I fear this sudden outburst is but the voice of passion; ask and try your own heart!" 
               "I have asked-I do ask; and if idolatry be passion, then mine is passion! Oh, cruel being! You are not touched with my emotions; you are calm while I am on the rack of suspense; I am the most unfortunate of men!" 
               "Cruel did you say? Is love cruel? if it is, then I am indeed cruel!" she said sobbing. 
               "Then you do indeed love me!" I exclaimed. "Oh, entrancing thought! Let me seal the confession upon your lips!" And I caught her to my arms and imprinted a kiss upon her lips. 
               "Calm these transports; you alarm me!" she exclaimed. 
               But I could not calm and moderate my feelings! The fair girl could no longer withstand me; but gave herself up to the intoxication of love-love required. 
               I held her close to my loving heart; and heard hers beat to mine! 
               I forgot everything else in the wide world but the divine creature in my arms! 
               I wished all else might be blotted out of existence but ourselves, and we only be left, to exist in each other! 
               But all at once she seemed to recover herself, when she exclaimed: 
               "Forbear! Offend not thus again as you value my love! Do not touch me! There is fever in your blood! Come no nearer, or I will cease to love you!" she continued, as she sprang lightly to her feet and stood trembling in every limb a few steps from me. 
               Her lips were parted, her face pale, and a tear trembled in her eye. 
               I looked at the fair being before me with admiration and awe. 
               I feared I had offended past forgiveness. 
               I sank down at her feet and pressed the hem of her garments to my lips. 
               She permitted me to do this. 
               I resembled the slave doing homage to an Eastern princess. 
               The poor girl trembled like an aspen leaf. 
               She laid her hand upon my brow. 
               I took it and shed tears upon it. 
               While in this act she bent over me, and tears fell upon my neck. 
               I drew her to me to kiss the pearly drops from her dark lashes, but she would not permit me. 
               "Not now," she said, with a smile; "you are not yourself, or rather too much yourself; I must be mistress if you wish me to love you!" 
               I submitted. 
               "If you love me now, you will love me always," I said. 
               "Don't be too sure. Woman sometimes ceases to love, when dishonored and slighted." 
               "But I will not dishonor and slight you!" 
               'Let us go!" she said; "I fear you!" still trembling in every limb. 
               "Alas!" I cried, "what have I done to make the woman I adore shrink from me with terror!" 
               I attempted to take her hand again. 
               "No, no," she said; I cannot permit you!" 
               She turned her back upon me. 
               I became penitent again, and pressed my lips to the hem of her garments, and begged of her to forgive my presumptuous actions. 
               She grew calm again, and turned towards me, offered her hand and smiled upon me. 
                
               I arose from my knees. 
               "I forgive you," she said; "but this must be our last meeting!" 
               As she said this she turned her face away. 
               "Why this conduct; what have I done to cause you to act thus?" I inquired in an anxious tone. 
               "Your love for me is not of the pure kind!" 
               "Forgive me this once," I cried, "and I promise never to act in this manner again!" 
               She turned her eyes upon me and said, hurriedly: 
               "No; this must be our last meeting. Farewell!" 
               And she quickly disappeared from my sight. 
               "And did you never see her again?" I inquired, looking anxiously into the face of my lover, Clarence Morgan." 
               "I never saw her again, as I left that part of the country soon after." 
               "And did you really love her?" I asked. 
               "I fancied I did then; but my boyish passion soon wore away. "No, dearest Fanny, I never really loved until I saw you!" 
               And he pressed my hand warmly as he said this. 
               And I, innocent and unsophisticated, believed what he said. 
               Suddenly he saw my aunt approaching, and released my person. 
               He knew well how she would look upon his demonstrations. 
               "Why, Fanny, I did not know where you had gone to, you have been absent so long; but you have very agreeable company," she said. 
               "Yes, I always endeavor to make myself agreeable to the ladies," returned the young man. 
               "Yes, no doubt of that," said my aunt; "you are a very fine gentleman, perhaps; but the ladies you like are young ones; you have an eye for the young and tender!" 
               "As regards the young ladies you speak of I have let them alone for some time, for I am still a bachelor." 
               "A bachelor!" she repeated; "what of that? You have loved so many, perhaps, that you could not love any one long enough to marry her! I have seen such men before in my life!" 
               After some more conversation of a like character my lover departed, apparently not very well pleased with my aunt's opinion of him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               CENTRAL PARK-A NEW ACQUAINTANCE 
               The reader will please accompany me to that beautiful and attractive spot-Central Park. 
               The time is winter-the winter of 1865-and, as the reader will remember, was celebrated for its coldness. 
               Gay was the scene on the night in question-a beautiful moonlight night-and the skating pond was thronged with the gay of both sexes, enjoying themselves on their skates; while many others stood looking on seeing the dear creatures enjoying themselves. 
               No snow had yet fallen, and the ice was smooth as a mirror. 
               Years before I had learned to skate, a sport of which I was extravagantly fond. 
               My motions were very graceful, and I made very quick turns upon the ice; for I had a ready command of my muscular powers, and made a splendid figure as I gracefully moved over the smooth surface-the observed of all observers. 
               My cheeks in the clear frosty air would show the rich red blood, and the curling ringlets of my dark, glossy hair would stream-out behind, and attract the eager gaze of all the young fellows on the ice, and some of the old ones, too; for I often caught these old libertines looking at my splendid proportions as I gaily sped over the smooth ice. 
               On such occasions, no doubt, I presented a charming and fascinating appearance. 
               At this time I was about sixteen years of age, and my appearance was attractive and taking. 
               At least, I had the authority of several young men for believing so. 
               The young fellows had often told me that I was the most beautiful girl on the skating pond! 
               While amusing myself on the ice, a handsome and well dressed gentleman came up and addressed me very politely and, as I was all life and animation, we entered into conversation, and soon became well acquainted. 
               He praised my manner of skating, admired my beauty, and made numerous and flattering allusions to my handsome figure, all of which pleased my vanity; for I must own to the weakness of my sex, viz: a desire to please the gentlemen; more especially the handsome ones: such as my present companion was. 
               Beginning to feel that I was beautiful, I so carried myself as to please him, for I felt ambitious to be thought the belle of Central Park. 
               Such vanity, pride and ambition then possessed my heart, and laid the foundation for some peculiar traits of character which developed themselves more fully in after life. 
               And in my work of charming this gentleman I succeeded quite as well as I could desire. 
               "How gracefully you skate," said the gentleman, looking upon me and admiring my beaming countenance. 
               "You must not flatter me, sir," I replied, feeling gratified at the compliment paid me. 
               "Oh, it is no flattery," he repeated; "it is but the truth." 
               "The gentlemen are such flatterers," I said, pleased with his compliments, and returning his ardent gaze. 
               "Young ladies seldom learn to skate so well as you do," he said; "but I think well of the art." 
               "So do I." 
               "I should judge so from the way you skate," he added, smiling, still keeping his eyes fixed upon me, being charmed by my fresh looks, charming figure and sparkling dark eyes. 
               As I before hinted, he was a splendid looking and attractive gentleman, and I was pleased to possess the power to charm him. 
               I cannot say that I had any love for him, yet I felt a strong desire to please him, so that he might publish the fame of my beauty in New York, for I was ambitious to be the reigning belle of the Park! 
               There was a something about this stranger that attracted and drew me towards him-a fascinating influence he exercised over me which at the time I could not account for; but which, if the reader will follow me and my history to its close, he or she will understand-a deep and fearful mystery, which it will be my province to unravel! 
               In looking back on those days of dawning womanhood, I am inclined to believe that even at the age of sixteen I was somewhat of a coquette. 
               But be that as it may, I rejoiced that the stranger admired me. 
               What strange, unaccountable fancies occupy the hearts of young girls! 
               I firmly believe mothers are not aware of what is passing in the hearts of their young daughters; they seem to have lost all remembrance of their own girlhood, of they would be more careful and cautions in the education of their daughters, who are just entering life, and exposed to all the temptations of a city like New York! 
               Mothers do not begin soon enough to instruct their children; at least so it appears to me. 
               Oh, woman, what an angel you are till man spoils you! 
               How little she knows that passion blinds a man to the past as well as to the future; ices the heart that once was hot as "the lava flood which burns in Etna's breast of flame;" veils honor, breaks vows, and dares all danger in its headlong course! 
               But to return. 
               The stranger, after a brief pause, continued: 
               "Do you reside with your parents in New York?" he inquired. 
               "No, sir; my parents are both dead; I reside with my aunt; but why do you ask?" 
               "I should be pleased to call on you if you have no objection," he said. 
               "You have my thanks for your kind intentions, but I cannot permit you to call on me; but perhaps at some future time we may meet again," I said as I turned away. 
               And with a momentary glance of fondness-but a world of expression in it-the handsome stranger hurried away. 
               On reaching home I found a young lady friend awaiting me; and as she will figure in these pages she may as well be introduced to the reader. 
               Her name was Ida Clarence. She was about sixteen years of age, and was a most beautiful girl. 
               Being somewhat fatigued with the excitements of the day we soon retired to bed, and were ere long enlaced in each other's arms. 
               The dark hair of the one mingled on the snow white pillow with the clustering ringlets of the other, and formed, with their matchless faces glowing and radiant with beauty and health, a picture upon which no male eye could long have gazed with impunity. 
               They were both falling into the slumber that brings either good or evil dreams, when Fanny murmured: 
               "Ida, darling!" 
               "Yes, Fanny!" 
               "We may as well go the fortune-teller's to-morrow!" 
               "Very well!" 
               "Good night; and may each of us dream of the man we like best!" 
               The image of the stranger on the Park floated before the mental eye of Fanny, until she fell into a light sleep, broken by murmurings and whisperings, and every now and then a firm clasp of the neck which her beautiful arm encircled! 
               And let these two beauties sleep on! For on the morrow they are to pay a visit to a celebrated fortune-teller in Bleecker street, and they will require repose to enable them to pass through the terrible ordeal-the particulars of which the reader will find recorded in the next chapter. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               VISIT TO THE FORTUNE-TELLER. 
               In fulfilment of a long-age formed resolution, Fanny and Ida Clarance, on the day succeeding the one named in the last chapter, paid a visit to a fortune teller who had acquired some celebrity among the ladies of the fashionable world. 
               She was one of those shrewd adventuresses who know so well how to take advantage of the tendency to superstition which appears to be mutual is every degree of civilization, and, perhaps, will never be wholly extirpated from the human mind. 
               Indeed, so long as the doctrine of fatalism mixes so large in all our religious convictions, it never will; for circumstances are so perpetually altering the complexion of our lives, that we are led to attribute every change in our condition to the operations of some rigid law of destiny. 
               And thus it is how the great human family are so anxious to pry into the future. 
               The fortune-teller's name was Madame Careau. 
               She occupied a splendid residence in Bleecker street, and had made much money by her profession. 
               She had extensively advertised her ability to gratify the powerful, all-pervading feeling of curiosity which agitates the human breast; but she discarded all the ancient methods of imposing on the credulity of her visitors. She was an adept in her art. 
               This unprincipled woman professed to be a mesmerist, and always had a clairvoyant in the person of an interesting young girl, gifted with the faculty of reading the past, present and future; of calling spirits from the vasty deep, and also of describing the occurrences taking place, while in her mysterious state of coma, at the uttermost extremities of the earth. 
               California was as easy a flight for her prescient imagination as the newly erected house on Fifth avenue; and as for the North Pole, she had long ago ascertained the precise situation of poor Sir John Franklin and his unfortunate companions. 
               And as to the thoughts of any individual, either in her presence or out of it, provided their ideas assumed the English garb of language, she could read them as easily as she could the page spread before her eyes when in a state of every day existence. 
               She was a wonderful creature, that clairvoyant; and no lady ever left her presence without feeling either awed or terrified at her revelations. 
               Then, Madame Careau ascertained the characters of people on receiving a lock of their hair or a specimen of their handwriting, and thirteen uncut postage stamps! 
               Piles of the latter were constantly on her table, and her numerous agents could only dispose of them by allowing a liberal discount. 
               Altogether, this Madame Careau was a very clever person; there was nothing vulgar either about herself or her establishment-all was decorous and genteel; and the servant who attended to the hall door wore a solemn expression on her countenance, which no impertinent scepticism could disturb. 
               The apartment into which visitors were first ushered was a neatly furnished parlor with a round table in the centre covered with the light literature of the day. 
               As the divinity up stairs announced herself ready to receive another feverish trembler on the brink of his or her destiny, a servant ushered them in turn up stairs to the drawing room. 
               It happened that Fanny and Ida were the only arrivals; and in due form and courtesy were promptly introduced into the presence of Madame Careau. 
               She was seated at a large writing desk, perusing, possessing herself of the inclosures, and answering the numerous letters of her correspondents. 
               Her replies were only lithographed copies of the various forms she had prepared to suit each particular case, and the only labor she had was writing the address on the envelopes. 
               The original letters were thrown carelessly into a waste paper basket, and another held the countless locks of hair, of every imaginable hue, which were daily submitted to her minute inspection. 
               This learned interpretor of the decrees of the fates was something beyond the middle age, and had a venerable imposing appearance. 
               Her face was pale as marble, deathlike in color; but a close observer might have noticed that it was an artificially prepared one; the enamel disclosed itself when the mouth opened, which it seldom did; for, like the oracles of old, she only spoke when inspired. 
               Her vocation was to listen, and solemnly expound. 
               The dress which she wore was of black satin, and fitted tightly round her short, plump figure. 
               A massive gold chain, suspended from her neck to her waist, sparkled on this rich ground, and completed her official costume. 
               She bowed gravely to her visitors as they entered, and with a gesture requested them to be seated. 
               Regarding them with more curiosity than she usually bestowed on her votaries, she, in not an unpleasant voice, demanded their names. 
               "Miss Brown," "Miss Jenkins," were the replies. 
               These were duly entered in the visitor's book, and then, in a very business like manner, came the question as to the purport of their errand. 
               The two young ladies, who evidently had anticipated seeing an old woman of the ancient pack-of cards and dismal-owl school, were much embarrassed at the position sition in which they found themselves, and for some little time were unable to speak. 
               At length Miss Brown, alias Fanny, hesitatingly said: 
               "Having been informed of your extraordinary power in the art of-what the vulgar-I mean what is generally termed-fortune-telling, we desire some proofs of your abilities." 
               "Ask and you shall receive; but as a preliminary, I require the payment of a dollar from each of you." 
               The money was speedily paid; and Fanny, whose natural assurance was very rapidly returning, then inquired: 
               "You say you can describe a person's character from the color of the hair. You see what mine is; now what should you say my disposition was?" 
               "Hum! dark hair, dark eyes, and a rich embrowned complexion. You belong to the sanguine-billious temperament, and, although possessed of immense control over your emotions, are naturally fiery and impetuous, ardent in your passions, and bold in seeking to gratify your inclinations!" 
               Ida, with a slight sneer, objected that these were the attributes commonly assigned to persons of her temperament. 
               "Not always," retorted Madame Careau, sharply; "they may be subdued by culture. Yours never were, from your cradle to your present blooming girlhood. You never permitted a want or longing to remain unsatisfied. Your career has been a chequered one, bright and dark by turns; and so it will be to the end of your existence!" 
               And, as if her words were as precious as the golden links by her side, she turned to Fanny. 
               "Light hair, floating in golden masses over shoulders of dazzling whiteness, eyes of deep blue, and a complexion in which the red struggles with the white of the Parian marble; you, my sweet young lady," continued she, addressing Fanny in milder tones than those she had previously assumed, belong to the sanguine-nervous class, with no slight dash of the lymphatic. In disposition you are yielding and unsteady; but when influenced by one grand sentiment, can be pertinacious in your hastily-formed determinations, even to the extreme of obstinate persistance in error. Your desires are not violent, but they are impulsive. You would yield to the ardor of love, and then bitterly regret the concession. You are peculiarly susceptible of love, and, when animated by the presence of an object to which you would be drawn by an invisible and imperious attraction, would bathe in a flood of ecstacy!" 
               "Hold!" exclaimed the excited girl, her warm blood firing at the suggestion, and her eyes emitting flashes of light. 
               "Would you know something of the past and the future?" asked Madame Careau, relapsing into the formal manner in which she had first addressed them. 
               "Yes," resolutely exclaimed Fanny, who thought the old woman before her no other than a stringer together of apt phrases; "tell me of the past, and then I shall be able to estimate your prognostications as to the future at their real value!" 
               "Be it so!" 
               And, with this brief reply, this learned expounder of physiological attributes left the room. 
               "Ida, dear," whispered Fanny, "let us go away; I feel terribly alarmed already; that woman has a mysterious knowledge of human nature!" 
               "Oh, nonsense!" was the laughing reply; "she has only told us what we both knew long ago; I needed neither witch nor ghost to tell us that we were partial to the society of the opposite sex!" 
                
               "Hush! she comes!" 
               Madame Careau returned, leading by the hand an interesting-looking girl of about fourteen years of age. She was attired in a white dress, that fitted close up to the threat, and tightly round her slender, sylph-like form. Her face was pale-painfully so; and was rendered more so by the expression of two remarkably large black eyes, that threw their glances around with a kind of stealthy rapidity. 
               "Allow me, ladies, to introduce you to Miss Mary Bell, the most celebrated clairvoyant of the present or any other time, since the world lost its faith in the spiritual communings of the soul!" said Madame Careau, with pomposity. 
               Both the ladies regarded the child with affectionate interest; but her conductress, contrary to her usual custom, prohibited any approach or conversation between them; and proceeded, in the usual manner of the mesmeric operators, to place the young creature in a chair, and then go through the ceremonies that are considered necessary to produce that state of repose which is supposed to liberate the mind from the restricted sphere of action inseparable from contact with the body. 
               The remainder of the formula having been gone through, the girl, who either feigned or was really under the influence of the mesmeric sleep, was now pronounced ready for examination. 
               The death-like features, and the rapid passes which the operator made over the head of the girl, producing occasionally spasmodic contractions, had the influence upon the already severely taxed nervous strength of Fanny and Ida; but the latter disdained to exhibit any signs of timidity in the presence of the presuming old woman, whom she had begun instinctively to hate 
               Dislike, as it is with one ardent species of love, commences at first sight-it is an intuitive principle, which defies the strongest judgment and the most elaborate reasoning. 
               It was precisely so in the present instance. 
               Ida had never seen Madame Careau before; but she felt a repugnance to the society of the latter rapidly stealing upon her. And, strange to say, as this sentiment grew stronger, so, in proportion, did the more amiable one of a warm concern for the pale, fragile being who sat so motionless in her seat. 
               Little time, however, was allowed for silent speculation, for Madame Careau's manner became impressively imperative as she requested that the clairvoyant might not be kept in her exhausted state longer than was absolutely necessary. 
               "Let us go away," whispered Fanny, frightened at the rigid expression which the face of the girl conveyed. 
               Ida returned a resolute denial to this request, and, flashing the full glance of her bright eyes upon the ferret ones of the operator, demanded to be informed of the incidents of her previous life. 
               Madame Careau placed several of her fingers on the various organs of the girl's head. 
               The questions addressed to her elicited the following startling revelations-startling to their object, for, in her bewilderment and terror, she never surmised the possibility of collusion between the mesmerist and the clairvoyant: 
               "I see a country school, with a rippling brook at the end of the pleasant garden There are girls of various ages romping and playing with each other. Among them is one of striking beauty-dark, tall and slender, with eyes over flowing in their liquid radiance. She walks apart from her merry playmates, absorbed in thought. An open letter is in her hand, which, as she reads, brings
                   blushes to her cheek, and a brightness to her bright eyes. I see the sun go down behind a range of forest clad hills; the twilight is deepening into the sable of night, and that fairy-looking girl is stealing through a gap in the fence of that garden; she crosses over the trunk of a prostrate tree, and, with the swiftness of the wind, flies to the shelter of a clump of trees on a gentle acclivity. A gentleman darts forward, throws his cloak over her shoulders, and then clasps her passionately to his eager arms." 
               Ida started as if she had been stung by a wasp; her face became deadly white; and, to sustain herself, she grasped the back of a chair with one of her hands. 
               This emotion was unobserved by her companion; but the keen eyes of the mesmerist noted it with satisfaction. 
               The girl went ox, her low voice falling sweetly on the silence that prevailed. 
               "The pair indulge in the caresses of fond lovers, and walk beneath the stars that, one by one, are peeping out above, and, with his arm about her thrown, they slowly enter beneath the dense foliage that decks the mountain side. A mist hides them from my sight-all is dark and indistinguishable, save a long, unbroken sea of forest leaves. But the moon opens her silvery eyes upon the night, and I see them again. They are seated on the mossy root of a huge tree; she is weeping on his bosom, and he is soothing her with the long-enduring kisses of early love. The rays of the moon, pouring through the branches of the tree above them, fall on his bare, lofty forehead, shaded with clustering chestnut hair; there is a gleam in his eye and a glow on his cheeks, like that which mantles the face of a warrior flushed with conquest. Now she is calmer-her frame quivers with the thrill of love-and she hangs convulsively round his neck. Their eyes meet, and they yield themselves no to the rapture of a long and passionate embrace. Now they arise-the lover tenderly adjusts his cloak on her shoulders, and, with an arm encircling her waist, half carries the sinking girl to the brookside; she is too faint to cross, and he bears her over in his stalwart arms. Another kiss-another-and another, and the girl totters up that garden, and disappears from view." 
               A choking sob burst from the now terribly agitated Ida, which so alarmed the now ashy-faced Fanny, that she entreated that they might leave the place at once. 
               "Not yet," uttered Ida hoarsely; "let the dreamer proceed; I wish to know more." 
               "The school, and the garden, and the forest scene vanish," resumed the presented or real clairvoyant; "and I see a room darkened, and in it a bed, on which the same fairy-like girl tosses in unutterable agony. There is a lean old man, and a stout woman, in whispering conversation. There is a bustle and confusion, a long-drawn shriek, the shrill cry of a child, and the woman hurries from the room with something in her arms carefully wrapped up. The sufferer falls into a state of insensibility, the room darkens, the bed, the furniture, the old man disappear; and I can see no more." 
               "The child! what became of the child?" gasped Ida. 
               "It lives; but-" Here the utterance of the girl died slowly away. 
               "She is exhausted," said Madame Careau. 
               "One more question?" hurriedly asked Ida. "The gentleman-him with the high, clear forehead and curling chestnut locks?" 
               The girl appeared suddenly to revive, and with some animation revealed, as hidden by the conductor of her will: 
                
               "I see a battle field; men are marching through grass that nearly tops their shoulders; there is a flash of steel, an overhanging smoke and rapid advance. The combatants close upon each other-there is a waving to and fro-and men are falling like the leaves in autumn. At length they are all gone; the smoke rises in curling wreaths; and there are the dead and dying in their ghastly disorder. In one corner of the field, upon some hastily-collected branches, lies an officer, his life blood oozing rapidly from a frightful wound in his chest. He kisses the portrait of a full dark-haired girl-he sinks upon his face. Ah, merciful heaven I the next instant that once gay and manly form is borne in the jaws of a ferocious wild beast, into the dark recesses of the neighboring forest. I saw his face as his head trailed through the glass-it was that of the chestnut-haired lover's." 
               "My God!" exclaimed Fanny, as she clung to the fainting form of her fair friend. 
               Madame Careau, more collected, administered a powerful cordial, which soon had the effect of restoring her patient to a state of consciousness. 
               "Do you wish to put any other question to the clairvoyant?" 
               "No, no!" exclaimed Fanny. 
               "Can your protege read the future?" inquired Ida, with energy. 
               "I see nothing but a golden light, falling on gay forms and festive scenes; oh! now I perceive some bright red characters over the portico of what appears a temple; they are-'Eat, drink and love; the rest's not worth a straw.'" 
               "Nor is it!" exclaimed Ida, starting up, and now thoroughly recovered; "and I accept the lesson-it is worshipped by lordly man; and now that the last fond tie of my unsophisticated girlhood has been severed, so it shall be by me. It shall be a tripping without measure. Come, Fanny, ask and you shall receive I am all anxiety to know what this fair enchantress can read of your past." 
               The more timid nature of Fanny recoiled at the proposal; but the girl, probably in obedience to some preconcerted signal from her mistress, broke out into the following strain: 
               "The twin rose of the dell had a very pliant heart, and, in the greenwood shade, exchanged vows of stainless love with the fair-haired playmate of her happy childhood. She wantoned in the summer breezes, and played with the destinies as a fond lover would with her floating ringlets. She sang like a bird all the day long, and at night dreamt of the hot breath and bubbling kisses that fell on her rosy lips during the sylvan ramble of the evening. The traditions of her youth cling in her memory; and tossed upon a wild sea of sorrow, regret and passion, her course, like that of her ardent friend, is towards the temple on which the Asyrian voluptuary has set his seal-'Eat, drink and love; the rest's not worth a straw.'" 
               "Courage, Fanny; our woman's wit will carry us safely through it all!" exclaimed Ha; and it is consoling to know that we are to go the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire!" 
               Fanny composed her visage, from which the roses had fled, and allowed its lineaments to relax into a smile; the manner of her more determined friend had inspired her with courage, and she saw nothing very dreadful in the prospect of breathing the incense of enjoyment and adoration. 
               "Let us go," said Fanny, softly. 
               Ida no longer objected; and in a few seconds Madame Careau and her apt young pupil were alone. 
               "Wake up, my little queen," said madame, gaily; and as you have acquitted yourself so well, you shall take a whole holiday." 
               The child's eyelids slowly drew up, but soon dropped again, for the light proved too strong for their weakened power; and it was not until she had repeatedly opened and shut them that they distended to their natural size. 
               At first she stared round her vacantly, and then, as she gradually recognised the familiar objects around her, in very piteous accents imploringly said: 
               "Oh, mother, don't let me say any more lessons to-day?" 
               "You shan't, my queen," was the assuring reply; "you shall have the day to yourself." 
               The clairvoyant clapped her pale, thin hands together, and rapturously exclaimed: 
               "What a good mother you are; I know, when you say that, you are going to take me into the country to see the green fields and the flowers, and the trees, and hear the pretty little birds sing, as if they were thanking God for giving them such nice homes." 
               "Not to-day," was the brief but not severely-spoken negative. 
               The child, with her well-trained docility, knew that was sufficient, and although the tears sprang into her eyes, meekly curtseyed, and left the room. 
               "I have them both in my toils," muttered the mesmerist; "I have breathed upon them a spell which will prepare them for any purpose. Their natural desires are already inflamed, and the old woman will yet revenge the slight of her poisoned youth. True, I fell, and disobeyed a human law, by obeying the dictates of a natural one. I dared to take my fill of love without the sanction of parson or priest, and I was scorned, reviled and thrown helpless on the hard stones of a hard world. My own sex honored me as a contagion-a moral pestilence; and I went forth to seek my fortune under the doom of a bitter curse. For that wrong I swore to be revenged-to make woman's lust her  oath. I have made and then unmasked the secret harlot; and she has felt, as I once did, the agony of shame, remorse, and what fools call repentance. 
               "Repentance! pshaw! it is the loser the puny thing who lacks courage to browbeat, tamper with, and hoax the gullible multitude, who should re; not the woman or the man who sharpens her or his instincts by indominitable perseverance and consistency in a chosen line of conduct. But it is only a few of the victims to the code who know anything about it; and, as I am one of those, perhaps a favored one, it shall be my task to turn my knowledge to my own advantage; and who dare affirm it an impossibility that, in the pursuit of wealth and my revenge-that is my attendant genius-my ministering demon, but I may in time bring rulers to my feet!" 
               Thus reasoned this unprincipled we man; but for the present must leave her to work out her deceptions upon the unsuspecting of both sexes, and pass to other scenes and incidents in this true picture of city life. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE MIDNIGHT MEETING. 
               We will now return to Clarence Morgan, Fanny's lover. 
               He was a married man, having a nice, respectable woman for a wife; but he neglected her for newer and younger faces. 
               Fanny was entirely ignorant of this libertine's true character. 
               He was rich, and was thus enabled to make our heroine many valuable presents. 
               On leaving Fanny on the evening of the day on which the interview in her aunt's garden took place, recorded in a previous chapter, Clarence Morgan proceeded, with rapid steps, towards Fulton street ferry. 
               He now bent his way to the house is which Jack Wade, a notorious 
                
                
               He was bent on a hellish and deep-laid crime of villany. 
               An innocent, confiding woman was to plotted against, and, if possible, ruined. 
               Heaven shield her! 
               We will follow him. 
               As we remarked, Morgan bent his steps to the spot in which Jack Wade had appointed their meeting. 
               To the fastidious reader these details, trifle in themselves, may be a little wearisome; but this is a romance of real life, and the reader must take what is  with what may be more epic-the pettiness and the wants of the daily world, with its loftier sorrows and its grander crimes. 
               The night had now closed in, and its darkness was only relieved by the wan lamps that vistaed that great thoroughfare-Broadway. 
               A few dim stars struggled through the reeking haze that curtained the great city of New York. 
               Morgan had now reached Fulton street ferry, and, in no time dead to scenic attractions, he there paused for a moment, and looked upon the dark river that rushed below. 
               Oh, God! how many wild and stormy hearts have stilled themselves on that prospect, for one dread instant of thought-one calculation-of resolve-one instant  last of life! Look at night along the coarse of that stately river, how gloriously it seems to mock the passions of them who dwell beside it-unchanged, unchanging-all around it quick death and  itself smiling up to the gray stars, and singing from its deep heart as it bounds along. Besides it is the senate, proud of its solemn triflers,  there the cloistered tomb, in which,  the loftiest honor, some handful of the est of the strugglers may gain forgetfulness and a grave! 
               There is no moral to a great city like the river that washes its walls. 
               There was something in the view before him that suggested reflections similar to these to the strange and mysterious breast of Morgan. 
               A solemn dejection crept over him, a warning voice sounded on his ear, the fearful genius within him was aroused, and even in the moment when his unholy triumph seemed complete, he felt only as 
               "The torrent's smoothness ere it dash below." 
               The mist obscured and saddened the few lights scattered on both sides the water; and a deep and gloomy quiet brooded round; 
               The very houses seemed asleep, 
               And all that mighty heart was lying still. 
               Arousing himself from his short and sombre reverie, Morgan resumed his way, and threading some of the smaller streets on the Brooklyn side of the water, arrived at last in the street in which he was to seek Jack Wade. 
               It was a narrow and dark lane, and appeared altogether of a suspicious and disreputable locality. 
               One or two samples of the lowest description of rum shops broke the dark silence of the spot; from them streamed the only lights which assisted the single lamp that burned at the entrance of the alley. 
               Bursts of drunken laughter and obscene merriment broke out every now and then from these wretched theatres of "pleasure." 
               As Morgan passed one of them, a crowd of the lowest order of ruffian and harlot issued noisily from the door and obstructed his way. 
               Through this vile press, reeking with the stamp and odor of the most repellant character of vice, was Morgan to force his path! 
               The darkness, his quick step, his downward head, favored his escape through the unhallowed throng, and he now stood opposite the door of a small and narrow house. 
               A ponderous knocker adorned the old door, which seemed of great strength, being thickly studded with large nails. He knocked twice before this summons was answered, and then a voice from within, cried: 
               "Who's there? What want you!" 
               "I seek one called Jack Wade." 
               No answer was returned; some moments elapsed. 
                
               Again he knocked, and presently he heard the voice of Jack Wade himself call out: 
               "Who's there?" 
               "Jack Wade, it is I," answered Morgan, in a deep tone, and suppressing the natural feelings of loathing and abhorrence. 
               Jack Wade uttered a quick exclamation; the door was hastily unbarred. 
               All within was utterly dark; but Morgan felt, with a thrill of repugnance, the gripe of his strange acquaintance on his hand. 
               "Ha! is it you! Come in, come in! let me lead you. Have a care; cling to the wall; the right hand; now then-stay. So-so"-(opening the door of a room in which a single candle, well-nigh in its socket, broke on the previous darkness), here we are! here we are! And how goes it, eh?" 
               Jack Wade, now bustling about, did the honors of his apartment with a sort of complacent hospitality. 
               He drew two rough wooden chairs, that in some late merriment seemed to have been upset, and lay, cumbering the unwashed and carpetless floor. 
               He drew these chairs near a table strewed with drinking cups, half emptied bottles and a park of cards. 
               Dingy caricatures, of the large coarse fashion of the day, decorated the walls; and, carelessly thrown-on another table, lay a pair of huge horse pistols, an immense shovel hat, a false mustache, a rouge pot and a riding whip. 
               All this Morgan comprehended with a rapid glance; his lip quivered for a moment-whether with shame or scorn of himself, and then throwing himself on the chair Wade had set for him, said: 
               "I have come to discharge my part of our agreement." 
               "You are most welcome," replied the burglar, with that tone of course, yet flippant jocularity which afforded to the mein and manner of his visitor a still stronger contrast than his more unrelieved brutality. 
                   sum mentioned is secured to you the instant you quit this country. When shall that be? Let me entreat haste." 
               "Your prayer shall be granted. Before daybreak to-morrow I will be on the sea!" 
               Morgan's face brightened. 
               "There is my hand upon it," said Jack Wade, earnestly. "You may now rest assured that you are free of me for life. Go home-make yourself happy with the beauty you have chosen-enjoy your existence-as I have done. Within these weeks, if the wind set fair, I am in old England!" 
               "My business is done; I will believe you," said Morgan, frankly, and rising. 
               "You may," answered Wade. "Stay. I will light you to the door. Devil and death! how the d-d candle flickers!" 
               Across the gloomy passage, as the candle now flared, and now was dulled, by quick fits and starts, Wade, after this brief conference, reconducted his visitor. And as Morgan turned from the door, he flung his arms wildly aloft, and exclaimed, in a voice of one from whose heart a load is lifted: "Now, now, for Fanny; I breathe freely at last!" 
               Meanwhile Jack Wade turned musingly back into his room, muttering: 
               "Yes, yes; my business here is also done! Competency and safety abroad! After all, what a bugbear is this conscience! My child, too-my Jane-shall not want; shall not be a beggar nor a harlot!" 
               So musing, Wade threw himself contentedly on the chair; and the last flicker of the expiring light, as it played upward on his rugged countenance, rested on one of those self-hugging smiles with which a sanguine man contemplates a satisfactory future. 
               He bad not been long alone before the door opened, and a woman, with a light in her hand appeared. 
               She was evidently intoxicated, and approached Wade with a feeling and unsteady step. 
               "How now, Boss! drunk as usual. Go
                   into a chair. And her situation, disgusting as it was, could not conceal the rare, though somewhat coarse beauty of her face and person. 
               Even Wade (his heart being opened, as it were, by the cheering prospects of which his soliloquy had indulged the contemplation), was sensible of the effect of the more physical attraction, and drawing his chair closer to her, he said, in a tone less harsh than usual: 
               "Come, Boss, come; you must correct that d-d habit of yours; perhaps I may make a lady of you after all. What say you to leaving New York and taking a trip with me to England, old girl, oh? and let you set off that handsome face; for you are devilish handsome, and that is the truth of it, with some of the gewgaws you women love. What if I were? Would you be a good girl, oh?" 
               "I think I would, Jack; I think I would," replied the woman, showing a set of teeth as white as ivory, with pleasure partly at the flattery, partly at the proposition; "you are a good fellow, Jack, that you are!" 
               "Humph!" said Wade, whose hard, shrewd mind was not easily cajoled; "but what's that paper in your bosom, Boss? A love letter, I'll swear!" 
               "'Tis to you then; came to you this morning; only some how or other I forgot to give it to you till now!" 
               "Ha! a letter to me!" exclaimed Wade, seizing the epistle in question. "Hem! the Newark postmark; my mother-in-law's crabbed hand, too! What can the old crone want?" 
               He opened the letter, and, hastily scanning its contents, started up. 
               "Mercy!" cried me; "my child is ill; I may never see her again; my poor, dear child; the only thing that loves me; that does not loathe me as a villain!" 
               "Heyday, Jack!" exclaimed the woman, clinging to him; "don't take on so; who so fond of you as me! what's a brat like that!" 
               "Curse on you, hag!" exclaimed the enraged man, dashing her to the ground with a rude brutality; "you love? pah? My child; my little Jane; my pretty Jane; my merry Jane; my innocent Jane; I will seek her instantly; what's money, what's case, if-if-" 
               And the father, wretch, ruffian as he was, stung to the core of that last redeeming feeling of his dissolute nature, struck his breast with his clenched hand, and rushed from the room, from the house. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               CENTRAL PARK-THE TWO LOVERS. 
               It is the pleasing mission of him who would give you "truth in fairy fiction dressed," the truth, be it of scene or situation, of character, incident or group-to picture the variegated whole as marked and stamped by him in his unobtrusive peregrinations among his race, or as studied by the aids of reflected lights in the privacy of his habitation. 
               While engaged in such a task, it will be his let to bring out some cheering gleams from the gloomiest corners, as well as to descry dark tints in the brightest; elicit wholesome teachings from the vilest, and show that although all appears to the unpractised eye and the unsearching and unbalancing mind to he utter confusion, yet that it is of confusion regularly controled and driven. 
               And if there be a more instructive and gratifying task than another for such a limner of life, surely it must be something not widely removed from what we are endeavoring to perform-to give a true chronicle of city life. 
               Central Park and its environs-those lungs of New York-were the frequent scene of Clarence Morgan's perambulations, which, however, were seldom undertaken or persevered in without an object, although we shall not at present inquire or asseverate how sinister and unworthy the motives might be. 
               But to return to the infatuated Fanny, in whom, we suppose, the reader of these pages must take a lively interest. 
               The unprincipled lover, Clarence Morgan, had scarcely been made quite sure that he possessed despotic away over the heart of the beautiful Fanny than 
                   began to rule it as a sovereign; by degrees assuming the mastery; and within a week of her unqualified and unguarded confession of love, making her become the suitor, while he was the dispenser of small favors and smiles as rewards for her extremest protestations. 
               It indeed came to this: that she would invite him to take a ride with her in Central Park, he sometimes affecting to be straightened for time, even for the enjoyment of such an honor! 
               One day, however-it was now late in the season-he readily acquiesced in the proposal. 
               Accordingly they proceeded to the Park, and strolled through its beautiful and most retired nooks. 
               The beautiful, innocent and unsophisticated maiden with the unprincipled libertine! 
               And yet she suspected not. Her heart was pure; and she, not knowing the depravity of man's heart, thought every one else honest! 
               But that hard lesson she was yet to learn! 
               Presently Morgan said, looking at his companion; 
               "Fanny, I do think you grow handsomer every day! You do infinite credit to my taste!" 
               The maiden smiled and looked pleased, even at this vapid and insulting compliment. 
               "Dear Clarence," she answered, "if it please you, it is all I wish; but it-' 
               "If what, dearest!" he asked. 
               "If you should ever get tired of me and-" 
               "Have not I sworn to love for ever? and I have told you over and over again that there is not a person in New York to be compared to you!" 
               Fanny again smiled, and almost nestled her head in Morgan's bosom. 
               "Oh!" she cried, "you are so noble-and so handsome! How strange that you should love me. Do you know, Clarence, I can sometimes scarcely believe it true?" she said, looking at her lover. 
               "Oh, not at all strange," replied he, complacently. "My taste in beauty is excellent!" 
               "You have a winning tongue, dear Clarence," she murmured. 
               A woman always considers the tongue that has won her to be most irresistibly winning. 
               "But, Clarence," she continued, "how much happier should I be, if I could but know that my aunt knew and approved of our mutual love!" 
               "There are still difficulties in the way," he said. 
               "But difficulties," she replied, "are surely to be overcome. How often have you told me that love laughs at difficulties, and even drags the impossible into the circle of the probable?" 
               "Yes, dearest; but difficulties that are inevitable are very different from those we willingly create." 
               "But-but," said Fanny, "I should be so much happier." 
               "Would you, dear? I thought that with my love you were happy!" 
               "Yes, I am; but still-" 
               "Farewell, Fanny. If there be a single doubt, there is no love. I must, when I return back with you to your aunt's, bid you farewell for ever, if you have a single doubt of my loving you!" 
               "Oh, no, no!" cried the maiden; "oh, forgive me, dear Clarence; I knew not what I said. Oh, do not speak of farewell!" 
               "You ought to know, Fanny," said Clarence, "that my affection for you is of such a nature that it will permit no doubts." 
               "I know it, Clarence. Yes, I know it. I rely on you!" 
               And she smiled. 
               This was sufficient at the moment for Morgan. 
               Although he loved her, and would not have deliberately wounded her feelings, he was not too regardless of the pangs which smiles might cover. 
               After all, however, if it be as some female writer has said, that it is imprudent even in a wife to confess her deep devotion to her husband, how wrong and perilous in a young, inexperienced maiden to disclose in such terms her affection for her wooer. 
                
               Ah, poor girl, we cannot but tremble for your safety! 
               In every scene, describing Fanny as she was, we have painted her beautiful; but now, her face glowing with the rosy sunlight of happiness, her eyes sparkling with the holy dew of pure joy, her every vein thrilling with pleasure which she did not try to conceal-her bosom throbbing with the wave-like heavings of first love, she was gloriously beautiful! 
               When Morgan pressed her passionately to his bosom she did not repulse his ardent love. 
               When the burning lips met here she did not shrink from his fiery kisses. 
               She knew no danger-her heart and soul was centered in one wild, mad and ecstatic feeling! 
               It was love, even to adoration. 
               When a true woman loves for the first time, her love is like the zeal of a new convert-it is all faith, all confidence with her. 
               And never can she, if once deceived, love again as she has done. 
               After his warm embrace and a few passionate caresses, Morgan said: 
               "Dear Fanny, since we both love, our union need not be delayed. I have no parents to consult; I have only an uncle to please, and he is in New Orleans. I would like to please him in my choice, for he is rich and childless, and I would rather inherit his good will and property than to see it go into the hands of utter strangers." 
               "Why do you not write to him and ask his consent!" 
               "It would take three weeks to get an answer; "and, dear Fanny, I could never wait so long!" 
               "And why not?" 
               "Can you ask! To see you daily, so angelic in your beauty, and know that you love me, and to feel that you were not wholly and forever mine, would but madden me!" 
               "I love you alone!" exclaimed the fond girl. 
               "Yes; but I can never rest till we are united!" 
               And he pressed the blushing maiden to his breast 
               And he felt her heart beat and throb again his own. 
               "Yes," continued Morgan, "I see you ever before me-you are a part of my being; I cannot exist without you; not another sun must set before we are one forever!" 
               "Oh, so soon?" 
               "Yes!" 
               "Why such haste?" 
               "Do you not wish it?" 
               "Yes, but-" 
               "But what?" 
               But The blushing girl answered not? she only nestled her head almost in his bosom. 
               The contact of this sweet girl against his breast only increased his ardor. 
               He press d her still closed in his warm embrace. 
               "Oh, Clarence!" she murmured, "why such haste!" 
               "I though you loved me?" 
               "So I do. Oh, how passionately and devotedly!" 
               "Thy why object?" 
               "I have net consulted my aunt." 
               "She will not object." 
               "I am not so certain of that." 
               "Why!" 
               "You know she don't like you very well!" 
               Morgan winced. 
               "Oh, when she knows that the affair is determined on she will give her consent to our marriage." 
               "Perhaps so; but then there are so many preparations," said the blushing girl, "which I must make; I have clothes to make!" 
               "I will charter a whole dressmaker's establishment. Go to Stewart's; here is my pocketbook; it contains over one thousand dollars; use it all; buy what you please; before to-morrow noon it shall be made up!" 
               "Oh, what need of such haste or of such extravagant expense," dear Clarence. I need but little. I do not love you because you can dress me richly-it is for your warm, good heart; because you love me!" 
               "Then, sweet girl, do not delay my happiness! Our marriage need not at once be made public; in fact I would rather not have our marriage made public until I have purchased and fitted up a house up town. We can be married at the minister's; I have a lady acquaintance who will come!" 
               "And my aunt?" 
               "Of course, if you wish it; only I fear that in her fond joy at seeing her niece married, she'd publish the news before we wish it spread!" 
               "Oh, I'll warrant her prudence. She never refused me a request; and for all the world I would not be married without her knowledge or without she was present. I would real as if Heaven would not bless our union if I did!" 
               "Well, sweet one, it shall be as you desire; I wish only to make you happy!" 
               "Dear, noble Clarence, how can I ever repay you for such goodness and devotion! A whole life-time of unwearying love will I give you! I will work for you, cheer you through every care, and be all that woman can be!" 
               "And you will be ready to marry me to-morrow evening?" 
               "If you desire it. I will tell my aunt of it at once, and get ready as soon as I can!" 
               "Bless you, my own sweet Fanny! I am indeed a happy man! To you I owe tell my happiness!" 
               Again and again he printed his burning kisses on his willing lips, and madly pressed her lovely form to his raging breast. 
               "This world would be my place without you, Clarence!" murmured the sweet girl. 
               And he pressed her closer to his heaving bosom. 
               "Yes," continued the excited girl, "I would be lonesome in the company of angels if you wore not there." 
               By the time that the conversation had reached the point to which we have just brought it, the sky became troubled and overcast. 
               "There is a strange darkness gathering round us," said Fanny; "and we are a long distance from any shelter." 
               "True," replied Morgan, looking inquiringly around him. "The clouds look gathering for a storm; but it is perhaps after all only a transient shower; let us go further among those trees." 
               And to an adjacent grove did they repair together. 
               Fanny clung to Morgan as if his protection would avail against the storm of heaven! 
               The delicious contact of the affrighted girl inflamed his blood. 
               And, casting his arms around her, he glued his mouth to her's. 
               She did not attempt to withdraw her vermilion lips from these of her lover; and when his rude hand invaded the treasures of her bosom, and toyed with her in a manner that seemed to portend consequences fatal to her honor, her cheeks grew red and her eyes were half-closed in soft, voluptuous languor, as he pressed the bosom that heaved with the excitement of passion. 
               The increasing darkness seemed to favor the design of Morgan, and to augment the peril in which the maiden was placed. 
               But at this moment a tremendous clap of thunder startled them. 
               The forked lightning flashing to their very feet, and the beaks booming and rattling above their heads in awful majesty, were enough to reach the fears of the two. 
               Then suddenly he remembered how dangerous were their situation among the trees. 
               The thunder storm preserved the trembling maiden! 
               "Fear nothing, dear girl," said Morgan, in a kindlier tone than he had before spoken; "the storm is passing over. Do you not hear that the thunder sounds more distant with each peal?" 
               "God help us!" cried Fanny. 
               "Hush-hush! all is well; the fury of the tempest is gone by!" 
               The storm had indeed passed over. The thunder in the far distance sounded as if it had been the mutterings of some incensed giant that had retired to rest. 
               Fanny looked up, and, throwing her arms round Morgan's neck, she burst into tears. 
                
               "Oh! Clarence," she cried, "it was awful! What if that lightning had stricken you! I shudder at the bare thought!" 
               "But, come now, cheer up, trembler! Let me again see the color in your cheeks but this minute so blanched!" 
               Fanny clung closer to Morgan, as if to reward him more fully for his gentler manner, leaning her head upon his shoulder. 
               "Come, dearest," he said, "we must hasten back." 
               A burning kiss and an embrace-fend on one side but cold as hypocrisy on the other-arm-in-arm, they retraced their way homewards. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               "FIRE! FIRE!" 
               Clarence, as he left Fanny, felt his heart to be larger and warmer than before-his bosom panted as if swelling with unprecedented resolves. 
               Nor at the instant did it seem to him that anything which was within the compass of man's daring was beyond his reach. 
               Hardly had he reasoned himself up to this pitch, than the cry of "Fire! fire!" smote upon his ear. 
               That cry which, especially at the dead of night, when one a wakens from a deep sleep, makes the very hair of the head to participate in one's emotions, nerving, with sudden inspiration, to the boldest enterprise. 
               No sooner was the cry of "Fire! fire!" heard by Morgan, than he felt it revealed within him that there was a triumph immediately for his performance; and that he was about victoriously to contend against obstacles with which at any other time he must have regarded it as the madness of despair to attempt waging battle. 
               "Fire! fire! the flames are making awful progress; and at least one female is at the mercy of the burning mass!" exclaimed an affrighted person in the street. 
               Down Broadway he rushed, and ran to the spot; and, from amid the dense cloud that enveloped the upper floors of the house, he heard woman's distracted cries for aid! 
               A moment after-a gust of wind partly dividing the murky volume, and partly by means of the vomited sheets of flame that flashed from the lower windows-he descried the agonized creature, making as if to leap outright from her fearful position, where assuredly she would be dashed to pieces. 
               "Hold! hold!" he shouted; "wait but for a few seconds, and I will save you!" 
               The dense crowd was cleft open by Morgan's sturdy arm. 
               The fireman, who were already retiring from the main door and driven from the staircase by the belchings of fire which thence encountered them, exclaimed:- 
               "Are you mad?" 
               But they offered no other opposition-they were amazed at our hero's resolute calmness. 
               A moment more, and he disappeared from view. 
               The shrieks of the woman, the crackling of kindled timbers, and the voice of the raging element, were alone for a short space heard, every one holding in his breath as if to behold a miracle, or rather to witness a self-immolation, as Morgan dived into the doomed tenement. 
               But hardly was he lost sight of when the screams of the multitude were resumed.-some imploring the female to retain her position an instant longer, for that she may be rescued-others asseverating that the adventurous youth must himself be destroyed! 
               While these discordant cries were adding horrors to the appalling scene, lo! a glimpse of a figure emerging from the attic was caught, and a minute afterwards the intrepid young man was seen swinging a noosed rope from the parapet towards the window where the female had been standing. 
               "In the name of heaven," Morgan repeatedly cried, "entrust yourself to the cord by placing it round your waist, and I shall bear you aloft!" 
               But there was no response-nothing attempted in obedience to the instruction! 
               Every moment was Morgan placing himself in the most imminent peril, were it but by longer remaining on the roof. The screams from the crowd, too, became more and more urgent for him to look to himself, since "the woman must be dead!" Still his nerve faltered not-his arm was not weakened-his resolution had been taken. 
               Fastening one end of the cord to where he stood, he entrusted his weight to the tackle, and dropped down to the window immediately beneath; there he again disappeared, like one on the most eager and persevering search. 
               More dreadful now was the suspense of the people than it had yet been. 
               The flames were raving and roaring louder and louder-larger and fiercer volumes were gushing from the windows, while from the myriads of sparks that followed every crash, it was manifest that partitions and the more slender portions of the house were falling in masses. 
               Terrific sight! Tremendous condition to be within the very jaws of the devouring element-of that which hath no pity, but whose incessant cry is, "Give me more! more!" 
               Once again voices exclaim, "A figure issues from the roof!" 
               Blessed be heaven! the report was true; and a shout of joy rent the air-a shout prolonged and rapturously uttered, blended with vociferous cheering, as Morgan was plainly beheld to be bearing over his left shoulder a female form, but who was either dead or bereft of all consciousness, he the while making all speed to escape from the licking flames that flashed at his very heels! 
               An effort more, and he mastered the intervening gable which formidably up-reared itself between the doomed dwelling and the adjacent tenement. 
               It was achieved. The female was indeed saved! 
               Morgan descended to the people, who had been witnesses of his almost unprecedented valor and prowess, now to be received with an exulting welcome and exuberant applause. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE TEMPTATION-THE FALL. 
               The next evening Morgan, with perseverance becoming the prize he was playing for, paid another visit to the beautiful Fanny. Her aunt was not at home, thus giving the young libertine a favorable opportunity of having a very agreeable interview with this beautiful girl. 
               He designed spending the whole evening with his intended. 
               Reader, Morgan was not so much at a loss how to pass the time with Fanny, in the splendidly furnished drawing room, as you might suppose. 
               They talked as lovers always do converse-Fanny exacting vows and promises, and Morgan readily giving there to the fair girl. 
               But at last there was a dead silence, a silence only as to words; for, as Fanny was clasped in his arms, their eyes spoke eloquently. 
               "A traitor's and a treacherous deed it were, poor fond, trusting maiden!" said Morgan to himself, "to rifle thee, at a ruthless moment, of thy peace of mind and purity for ever. But temptation is more powerful than I; and unless I tear myself utterly away from thee, thou art, clinging one, doomed to fall. And I have sisters! Some perfidious man may at this moment be ensnaring them. Sulphurous hell to the villain! But what right to imprecate or curse, hath he who meditates a like enormity? His proper office, although a brother of the despoiled, it cannot be to chastise the ruffian who works such havoc; nor would it be for him to look his widowed mother in the face any more, or offer to sustain her drooping head. Let the spirit bear the rod, and let the vile flesh shrink and be subservient." 
               These last words were spoken aloud, accompanied with a blow of the open palm. 
               This instantly recalled the dreamy senses of the impassioned maiden. 
               When she, imploringly, and with a still more clasping amorousness, entreated to know what troubled him in such a manner. 
               Without a syllable of reply, he untwined her arms, gently freeing himself from her embrace, and started to his feet, pacing the floor for some time as if to work himself to a resolute pitch. 
               But, alas! he again threw himself upon the sofa, resigning himself to her caresses, even the more anxious and warm, the longer she beheld the tumult of his soul. 
               To pacing the floor he would once more suddenly betake himself, but as surely as before, he would return to the downy seat, there to luxuriate in the sense of Fanny's soft pressure and feminine charms. 
               Thus, with these transitions-from sensual intoxication to awakened reflection, and from awakened reflection to sensual intoxication-hour after hour sped. 
               Fanny's bliss must have been nearly complete; for such was her abandonment, that she heeded not the discomposure of her ringlets. 
               
                  ed their dalliance, as she lay panting on his bosom, and closely kissing his lips! 
               But she was still innocent! 
               At a later period of the day supper was served up. 
               Morgan drank the champagne and the other delicious wines freely; and he took care that Fanny should at least taste whatever sort he patronised-taste and retaste again. 
               She did so; and her eyes glistened the brighter, her love sparkled the higher. 
               She actually looked, longed, and bore herself like to one in transports; and Morgan, too, betrayed similar emotions and fervid fancies. 
               Twilight set in; the shades of evening gathered round apace, and the youthful pair betook themselves to the drawing room, where they might enjoy a perfect privacy-he curtain of night, the absence of the aunt, and the position in which they were placed, being to the utmost of the heart's contend that any person could desire. 
               Oh, yes; here they resumed their intoxicating acts, accounting their delight seraphic. 
               Morgan had armed himself with a bottle of champagne, and he urged the maiden to the sip of the nectar. 
               She assented; and was again in transports. 
               It was autumn, and the weather delicious; the night serene, and the sky an untroubled expanse of the deepest blue, only variegated by the trembling stars. 
               Oh! it was a night for love-an ecstatic night; it was not for flesh and blood to continue longer unsated in any way. 
               They moved, still entwined, across the floor. 
               Whose impulse was the strongest and tenderest we know not 
                   traversed; and then they found them selves in the beautiful, shaded garden. A moment more, and the snow-white arms of the maiden clasped him round; those arms so delicate and plump that the pressure of a lip would dimple them! 
               As soon as Fanny came to her reason, she was terribly excited. By degrees, however, her grief became moderate. Her villanous seducer swore by everything most holy that he would shortly demand her hand in marriage of her aunt. 
               Then her tears fell less rapidly; and she sank into his arms, declaring that as he had ruined her, she must trust to his honor, and deliver herself over to his mercy. 
               He promised faithfully-she became pacified, and gave herself up, now that the first plunge was made, to the luxuries of love. 
               And Fanny abandoned her person-her honor-her charms to the man whom she adored! 
               When they again sought the drawing room, Fanny-poor deluded girl! had so far compared herself, that her aunt failed to notice any little alteration that might have been in her looks. 
               Yet ever and anon she turned red and pale as suddenly as the canvas of a ship, when shifting with the wind, alters its lines in the rays of the sun-then a tender glance from Morgan recalled her scattered ideas. 
               It was late that night when Morgan returned to his home. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE DECEIVER AND THE DECEIVED. 
               On the next morning the following letter was received by Morgan. It was from Fanny. It ran thus: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              HARLEM. 
                              MY DEAREST CLARENCE:
                            
                           I have taken advantage of the address you left with me to write you a line. Let me ask you to write if you cannot come immediately; do this, for God's sake, and relieve my anxiety. Oh, Clarence, if you love me-if you have any feeling for her who fondly, oh! too fondly, perhaps, confided in you, and in your honor-if you regard those awful, solemn vows which you pledged in the sight of Heaven's awful majesty ere you left me at Harlem-do not trifle with me-but either make me your wife or seal my doom at once by a refusal! Suspense is still more agonizing than actual knowledge of the worst. 
                           But while I am engaged in writing this epistle, you may be upon the way to espouse your Fanny. You say you love me; then you, by knowing what affection is, can allow for my anxiety either to see or bear from you. Only one look from your eyes-one kiss from your lips-one pressure of your hand-one word from your pen to say you still love, and will not deceive me. Oh! these will give relief! 
                           Oh! to retain it all in this poor heart of mine, is to choke-to suffocate the best feelings of life. I retire to my chamber to weep; and cannot, although it would relieve me; then, when I would wish to hide my tears, they flow copiously, and I do not experience relief. And what dreadful stories am I obliged to tell my aunt, when she sees me drop those tears! But I will fatigue you no longer. Either write or come directly, and make happy or miserable for life your eternally devoted 
                           
                              FANNY.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               To this affecting epistle, which rather perplexed the hypocrite whose imaginary virtues and excellencies had just been eulogized by the very being he had ruined, Morgan, after some consideration, returned the following answer, purposely introducing delicate allusions to her seduction, that she might be thus restrained from making their correspondence the subject of any confidence she would otherwise perhaps be innocently led to place in another individual: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              NEW YORK. 
                              DEAREST FANNY:
                            
                           Your letter has much grieved me, because it seems to say that you are unhappy; this must naturally annoy him who adores you. Be not alarmed, dear girl; but put the utmost reliance on the performance of my promise. If a short time, however, should intervene between this and the period when our union shall take place, endeavor to pass the intervening time tranquilly. Should, on the other hand, any disagreeable result ensue from the thrilling moments of happiness we enjoyed together in the delicious summer house, when I and my lovely Fanny tasted the bliss of a sincere passion in each other's arms, then we must be immediately married, with or without your aunt's consent. 
                           Do not in your letters say one word relative to our mutual love to any one: I have my private reasons; and I know that my dearest Fanny will ever put the utmost confidence in the love and sincerity of her affectionate 
                           
                              CLARENCE MORGAN.
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Such was the epistle poor Fanny was to be duped by. 
               The object of Morgan in hinting to her that some time might elapse before their nuptials could be celebrated, was that he might, by excuses and delays, so attune the mind of the unfortunate girl, that she would be able to support less despairingly the fatal disclosure which must eventually be made-that he could not make her his wife. But this artful villain had determined upon a mock marriage, in order to quiet his victim. 
               It is, however, difficult to describe the exact state of Fanny's feelings after she had read that letter; because mingled joy and sorrow agitated her bosom. She thought Morgan's letter was kind to the utmost; but she fancied he wrote quite loosely and lightly of those tender embraces and amorous dalliances in the garden of her aunt's house, where virtue fled before the puissance of heated passion! 
               She nevertheless derived consolation from those parts where he fondly seemed to encourage her to put implicit confidence in his integrity and honorable designs, and where he declared his warm affection. 
               Long-long did she ponder on the rapturous theme-long, long did she press the paper to her heaving bosom, while frequent where the sighs that agitated those glowing globes-sighs of delight, of anxiety, of unutterable feeling! 
               She was more comforted than when she wrote her letter to Morgan; and her countenance was even radiant as she sought her aunt in the drawing room. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               MAN'S PERFIDY. 
               Days passed on-still no letter from Morgan! 
               Fanny's suspense was insupportable, her anxiety alarming. 
               She therefore sate down and addressed an epistle to him, in which she expressed all she endured in so touching a manner that a misanthrope himself would have wept. 
               She besought him by all he reverenced in heaven-by her tears-her affection-to write or hasten immediately to her. This, with many tender sentiments, many injunctions not to forget her, and reiterated entreaties to attend to her requests, composed the contents of her letter. 
               Morgan received it on the following day; and he saw the necessity of undeceiving her at once as to their immediate union; he might soothe her by promising marriage at some future day; for he knew that suspense was killing her; and he reflected that she had better know the worst than remain in a state of incertitude. 
               With this impression he set off, and arrived at Fanny's residence in time for dinner. 
               We may suppose the joy of Fanny; the delight she experienced in once more beholding the dear object whom she so adored. 
               She felt as happy as the bird, that, having been long imprisoned in a cage, suddenly obtains its liberty. Her eyes now beamed with very gladness-her glowing bosom heaved with a sigh of pleasure. 
               She naturally conceived that some favorable news would greet her ears from the lips of her lover; she longed for the dinner to be over, that they might steal together into the arbor at the end of the garden, and converse on the matters that interested them. Never did any meal pass away so tediously. 
               The dessert, however, came at last; and in half an hour Fanny was seated with Morgan in the summer house. 
               Her head reclined upon his shoulder; his hand clasped her delicate waist; she smiled upon him; he kissed her delicious lips, and drank in her mellifluous breath. 
               Could he defeat the hopes of one so fair? could he destroy her peace of mind for ever? could he abandon the girl-the confiding girl whom he had seduced from the paths of rectitude? 
               Yes; his heart was flint; he had never loved her save for the enjoyment of her person. 
               He had triumphed in her rifled charms; he had tasted the sweets of her virgin innocence; he had ruined her for ever; and now he was about to destroy even the faint hopes that remained to cheer her! 
               But how was the fatal disclosure to be made? How break the awful news to the ears of her who expected the words of felicity? 
               Yet it must be done, thought Morgan; not a single sentiment of compunction restrained him-fear only for her sanity compelled him to begin cautiously and by degrees. 
               "My dear Fanny, you declare that you love me so very much," he began; "now what would you say if I were to leave you for a little while? Could you support my absence, think you?" 
               "No, it would kill me, Clarence; and did I not know that you were jesting, I should faint at the very idea!" 
               "What! are you so weak, dearest, that you could not support the temporary misfortunes of life?" asked Morgan. 
               "Indeed, my nerves are quite strong enough to endure the common miseries of this world; but were I to be informed that my beloved one had died-had left me-had proved faithless-Oh, dear Clarence, I could not bear up against THAT; the calamity would overwhelm me-would crush me into the grave!" 
               "You are confident in your own energies, your own powers!" continued the wily deceiver. 
               "But why these questions, since my nerves will never he put to the trial you mention?" inquired Fanny, gazing fondly into the face of the seducer. 
               "Because-do not be alarmed, dearest one-I have some unfavorable news to tell you; and would gradually-" 
               "Speak-speak, for God's sake!" exclaimed the agonized girl. "Has my aunt refused her consent? Then I will hasten to her, throw myself at her feet," continued she, almost frantic; "bathe my hand with her tears; implore her not to seal my misery; and if that will not do, then," she added bitterly. "I will confess all-my shame, my disgrace! I will demand her as a duty to allow me the only means of covering my dishonor, of making me happy; for I find that men enjoy the pleasure, while we, poor defenceless beings, are laden with the stigma, and subject to the reproach!" 
               "And then if your aunt were to refuse?" 
               "She could not-she would not-she dare not!" exclaimed the excited girl. "Let us together; let us join our entreaties; how could she resist them?" 
               "That is useless my love." 
               "Useless! Oh, no! Recollect that I deserve you; remember that I have given myself up to your disposal," proceeded the poor girl, distractedly, for she felt a sad presentiment of evil; "reflect on your promise, that if my aunt denied her approval, we should be united clandestinely. Oh, Clarence, I am myself worthy of your love; I love; I adore you; I could lay down my existence for your benefit!" 
               And as she uttered these words, a violent flood of tears denoted her grief, as her head reclined on his shoulder. 
               He was startled. He had not well calculated her powers; he had deemed her stronger than she really was; or rather be had underrated the extent of her affection for him. Still, cost what it would, he was resolved to undeceive her that evening." 
               "Cease, cease these tears, this nonsense," he said; "what are we mortals born for, but to misery, to misfortune?" 
               "Do you mean to deceive me, Clarence? If you do-if your intentions be not honorable-Oh! God, my brain whirls; I shall become distracted, unless I know the whole!" 
               "Fanny, I love you; love you as tenderly as I can; but-" 
               "But what? Speak. Anything is better than this suspense!" cried she, partially nerving herself to hear some dreadful disclosure fatal to her happiness. 
               "Present circumstances, dear girl; only present ones, prevent our union." 
               "And what are they? Why should you have any secrets from your Fanny, who loves you so?" she demanded in a suffocating tone. 
               "Because they are of a nature-" 
               "That you cannot disclose them. Oh, Clarence, I am fearful. Something tells me that this is an excuse; but let me know the worst; you have amply prepared me," she said, wiping her eyes, though an expression of despair pervaded her countenance; "yes, you have amply prepared me to hear all." 
               "It is no excuse. Hope for the best, sweetest girl," returned Morgan, as a sudden idea prompted him how to inspire hopes of future happiness to pacify Fanny, and by which he could account for his treacherous conduct a least for a time. "A few weeks will soon pass away," he continued, as he kissed the pale cheek that was colorless with sorrow. 
               "Oh, then, you are indeed the tender being I took you for," said she, relapsing into fondness, and catching at a straw. "I thought you could rot deceive me; I knew you would not leave me to utter despair!" 
               "And believe me, Fanny, that I am as wretched as yourself; I love, and can yet restrain the ebullitions of my woe." 
               She ceased to fear his treachery; she only grieved for their separation. 
               "We shall soon meet again, my dear Clarence; shall we not? Then our nuptials shall take place; shall they not?" 
               "Yes, Fanny. Let me kiss away those 
                     ters
                     tears
                  !" And he embraced her tenderly. 
               She clung to him as if it were for the last time; and her heart beat quickly. They lingered long in each other embrace, and enjoyed the tender dalliance of love's delights. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE PLOT THICKENS. 
               Lost girl I hast thou no shame with thee? no other blushes but those of the hot blood that crimsons thy cheeks? How proud thou seemest of thy charms, remembering how thou entranced thy guilty companion! But much better had it been for thee hadst thou taken to heart the Wise Man's counsel, where he speaketh to the young of the days that are to come when they shall say they have no pleasure in them-when the grinders shall cease because they are few, and the golden bowl is broken. 
               If length of years be vouchsafed to thee, wrinkles and withering shall overtake thy skin and flesh; or, unless by a miracle thou art regenerated, sorrow and guilt shall plant furrows on thy brow, and evil passions shall stamp on thy visage, so innocent and sweet to behold, the hate and revenge of a demon. 
               On the following day Morgan paid another visit to Fanny. He whispered to her that he was longing to spend a secret hour with her, and should certainly embrace the first chance of doing so. 
               But we shall not go into details of such a nature; suffice it to state, that, for some eight or ten days he was quite punctual to his appointments with her, until, indeed, he grew cloyed with her abandonment; and, forgetful of the rights he owed his lawful wife, Morgan determined, since he had fairly begun the career of debauchery, to riot in variety, and to court the uttermost excitement that his sensual passions could sustain. 
               Nor did Fanny continue long to be insensible to his exhausted fervor; and with a woman's jealousy she hastened to charge him with inconstancy. 
               "I am sure, Clarence, that there is some change in you. You look not in my face as you recently did; you speak not to me with the same honied accents-you remain with me but as if it were a weariness. Oh, if your love has indeed fled, or if your fondness has cooled, let me be told the truth at once; and I shall not long trouble you with my importunity, nor with my presence." 
               At first Morgan would at times jeer her for being silly; tell her that they could not always be cooing and billing like pigeons; and that she must learn to bear with a man's altered manner when he had serious concerns to think of. 
               "Is this the way you talked to me but lately?" she would, with a slightly up braiding tone, inquire of him; and then he would render her almost desperate by insinuating that he had been making new acquaintances among the fair, and which, of course, she interpreted by the words "new conquests." 
               In short, it was but a few days after her grievous fall had taken place, that unutterable anxiety and misery of mind overtook her-robbing her of that placid loveliness which heretofore had characterised her style of beauty-working sad havoc among the harmonies of her face and the round graces of her fine person. 
               She flung herself upon her knees; she tossed her arms heavenward; and, with the look of a maniac, thus implored:-"Great God, arm me with hate towards my destroyer! Let him not escape the vengeance of my too trusting soul! Let perdition seize me, so that I send him to the bottomless pit before his time!" 
               Who would have dreamed that that lovely girl could have been so suddenly-transformed into a fiend? Who could have imagined that a nature so apparently feeble; that a character so little cultured, should in a moment be strung to greatness; the greatness of ireful passion-the inextinguishable hatred of a spirit of hell? 
               Fanny had not the slightness foretaste 
                  vined that she was born to act the part of a malign heroine. 
               Now, however, that she was thus mercilessly thrown upon her own poor resources; now that she was stung to fell vengeance; that she was hurried to the very verge of black despair; nay, that her immortal part was filled with the sense of guilt and wrong with remorse; while added to all to these terrible experiences, frightful bereavement, unimagined ruin and unutterable woe pursue, and with surest aims overtake the fated beauty; she is, as if by the wand of sorcery, almost instantaneously changed from the ductile and pliant beauty to almost a demon in her hate. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               A MARRIAGE. 
               A wedding scene! Now open your eyes, dear young lady readers; we know such scenes interest you. 
               Morgan, finding that Fanny was determined that he should perform his premise and make her his wife, or he should be made to feel the full extent of a woman's hate and vengeance, determined upon a mock marriage. He hoped in this way to keep his victim quiet for a little while longer; for this arch villain and unscrupulous destroyer of female innocence had not accomplished his hellish work yet. 
               It is to this scene, then, that we invite the reader. 
               Morgan, dressed in more than his usual elegant style, was seated in a very handsome room. A gentleman, attired in a plain suit of black, wearing a spotless cravat of linen, was seated near him. 
               "How do I look, Morgan; priestly at all?" 
               
                  
                
               "Sometimes a wish is father to a thought; and by the time the thought is born the wish is realized," said the assumed priest, as he heard the rustle of a dress and light footsteps approaching. 
               The door opened, and Fanny, accompanied with her aunt entered the room. Her dress was plain, a snow white muslin. Upon her head, contrasting with her glossy hair, was a wreath of white flowers intermixed with blue. 
               She looked beautiful; she looked very happy. And she was. 
               She did not know the serpent whose glittering eye had charmed her-his fangs had not yet fastened in her loving heart, the poison had not reached her soul! 
               Devil though he was, she knew it not; and she looked upon him as an angel, he appeared so fair. 
               A blush suffused Fanny's countenance when she entered the room; it was not a blush of shame, but one of happy innocence and modesty when she glanced at him whom she supposed to be a minister of the gospel; he who was to speak the words which would forever bind her to her heart's choice. 
               "The Reverend Mr. Smith, my dear Fanny!" said Morgan, introducing his friend. 
               The "reverend" gentleman bowed low to the young lady, lower still to her aunt, and said: 
               "I am happy, ladies, on so auspicious an occasion, to meet you; very happy; I may say, decidedly happy!" 
               Then turning to Morgan, he added. 
               "Are we not ready for the ceremony, sir? When the bride is present the groom should not be backward." 
               "I am ready, sir. Dear Fanny, take my hand." 
               She did so. 
               The usual ceremony, according to the 
                     solem
                     solemn
                   form of the Episcopal church, was gone through. 
               Fanny's voice did not tremble, nor her cheek blanch , while she uttered the re- 
                  She was bold in her innocence and in her just rights. 
               The ceremony was over. She was, though all unknown to her, wedded by an imposture, HIS WIFE. The vows had been spoken which with her never could be broken. She was indeed a wife. 
               Wine was brought in after the ceremony, and the "reverend" minister did not neglect it. And warmed into enthusiasm by its potency, he said many things and made many an un-ministerial joke which it is not necessary for us here to repeat. 
               She had, as she supposed, been married to Morgan, and felt happy. She loved him only as a woman in her first passion can love. 
               We will again look at her as she is seated in the magnificent apartment her pretended husband had provided for her. We have repeatedly described her great beauty; but never when her countenance was so suffused with a flush of glorious happiness as now. Her eyes seemed larger, brighter than before; her lips bursting in ripeness, her lovely form swelling into fuller proportions. She was indeed lovely. 
               She had been married three days. She had time to feel that it was a reality of joy and not a dream born but to vanish and fade away. 
               Morgan entered the room. His face was pale and a frown rested on his brow. He sat down at the table without hardly noticing her, and commenced writing; she noticed his looks, and a shade of anxiety darkened her fair face as she inquired: 
               "What is the matter, my dear husband? Something annoys you!" 
               "Yes; do not bother me now; I am not in the humor to be interrupted." 
               She looked at him in utter astonishment; but as if she thought he was in jest, merely trying her temper, she bent forward and kissed his brow. 
               "Oh, go away; I don't like kissing!" he said, quite rudely pushing her from him. 
               "Clarence, dear Clarence, you are not serious in this unkind repulse; you are only trying my temper. I love you dearly; you need not try me!" 
               "Then go away; don't bother me!" 
               "Is this the language to use to a fond, true wife, who has given to you a pure heart, and her very soul-used towards her, too, when she has been your wife but three brief days!" 
               "My wife! Yes, that is a pretty term; but it would be prettier if it was substantiated!" 
               "Substantiated! What do you mean? In the name of Heaven tell me! We are married, are we not? I love you, and you love me!" 
               "So you say; you may love me!" 
               "Clarence, you do not doubt me!" she asked. 
               "No; but I doubt that your love will continue. I'll bet a diamond ring against a pair of gloves, that you'll hate me before the night is out; yes, before the sun sets!" 
               "Clarence, why jest with a fond, trusting heart?" 
               "I am not jesting, madam!" 
               "Madam! Why ever before you have called me Fanny. For Heaven's sake, tell me why is this change? Why do you call me madam?" 
               "True; I am in error; I might call you miss! You have no right to the title of madam, nor never will have until you find some one fool enough to many you, which will not be very soon!" 
               "Marry me!-a wedded wife!" 
               "Yes, a left-handed one; a kind of a spiritual wife!" 
               "Clarence, what does this mean? I cannot comprehend you! In the name of the God who made us, tell me what you mean?" 
               "I should think you could comprehend me!" 
               The poor, deluded girl made no reply to the creature-for we cannot call her pretended husband a man-and he went on: 
               "Well, then, since you are so dull of comprehension, I will take the trouble to say that I do not need your services any further-you are not my wife! You understand now, don't you?" 
                
               "Not your wife!" she gasped; "surely the minister was-" 
               "An accommodating friend of mine! So, madame, or miss, you may as well take a final farewell of your temporary husband!" 
               She did not shriek, or faint, or weep as the heroines of novels do on such occasions. 
               Her tall form seemed to dilate, her eyes to enlarge, and her red lips to pale, as if frost had touched them. 
               She looked a moment in his face: and when she saw the villain quail before her earnest gaze, she felt satisfied of his guilt and of her irrecoverable disgrace. 
               And then, while her eyes told him how sudden is the change from fervent love so bitter hate, she spoke in a low whisper: 
               "Wretch, why have you so wronged me!" 
               "To tickle my fancy and please my taste for beauty. Now go, courtezan! Go and mingle with the common herd, whose path is over burning coals, and the end of which is in the Potter's fields; go!" 
               "I go!" she returned; "but, Clarence Morgan, like the river oak, I recognise my blasted hopes at a flash. You may now triumph; but in less than an hour fear for thyself, for thy crime shall be fearfully punished!" 
               Then while her eyes flashed, and her farm seemed still to grow larger and more beautiful, she left the house. 
               "Well, so far for the first breath of the gab; it blows but lightly, and I think I can stand it!" 
               His victim, when she left his hated presence, walked out wildly, but with a firm step, to the office of the District Attorney. 
               And there, before a politician, her tale of wrongs she told. 
               For a wonder it was listened to by that officer. 
               Had she not been beautiful; had she been haggard with poverty and suffering; had she been as are the beggars and outcasts of Christian New York, she would have been thrust forth from the threshold of justice unheard; but she was pretty, therefore she was listened to. 
               After the deceived and wronged girl had related her touching story of desertion and insult, she was informed that her seducer, Clarence Morgan, was under the surveillance of the police; that there, in his office, papers were filled ready for his arrest; that they possessed evidence which would send him to the States prison; but it was not yet deemed politic to arrest him. 
               Not politic to perform duty! To take an oath, and then break it! To shield a criminal by delay, while he commits new crimes. This, then, is policy-the policy of New York justice! 
               Yes, reader, such it is. Hundreds of criminals already known, with the proof of their guilt in the hands of those who are bound to prosecute, are shielded by the law's delay, or rather the delay of those whose duty it is to execute the law. 
               Not disheartened, but more determined than ever, Funny left the office, vowing vengeance on her seducer. 
               And when an angered woman vows vengeance, then let man beware. She who is an angel in her good humor, is a devil in her wrath. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               FEARFUL SHIPWRECK. 
               "'Xtra Herald! Dreadful shipwreck; only six cents, and twenty lives lost!" yelled one of the army of newsboys. "A particular account, and a baby drown-ed. 'Xtra Herald-only six cents!" 
               Clarence Morgan passed the newsboy without noticing his cry, for little did he think there was news in it that would interest him. But, reader, we will give the news precisely as it is reported; and then guess whether or not he was interested. Here it is: 
               Dreadful shipwreck! Great loss of life! Noble devotion of a self-sacrificing mother, whose baby was drowned! Vessel and crew lost! 
               By our special reporter, who killed two horses in riding express from the scene of the disaster, we are enabled in advance of all our contemporaries to give the full particulars of an awful, distressing and most melancholy catastrophe upon the coast of Long Island. 
               While our sagacious and talented reporter was engaged in the pleasing performance of 'opening a hasty plate' of clams near the beach, he saw a crowd of citizens rushing wildly toward the seashore, and upon raising his eyes and adjusting his eye-glass, he descried far out upon the angry sea, a ship, partially dismasted, coming helpless in upon the surges, which, according to his judgment, were at least forty feet high-probably more! 
               Our reporter, ever alive to the calls of suffering humanity, instantly dropped his clam basin and rushed to a good point of observation; and being happily provided with materials for so doing, took down a note of the entire scene, and in his own graphic, but eloquent words, we give it: 
               The sea rolled mountain high, as if it would link both earth and sky, and with terrible roar it lashed the rocky shore. The while surges rolled up upon the quivering beaches. The clouds above, by Boreas driven, were oft with lurid lightning riven, and on she came all recklessly. Upon her deck a pallid crew, who were about to bid adieu to this vain and transitory world of show, where money makes the 'grey mare' go. And there, in wild despair, her baby in her arm, her bosom filled with wild alarms, her form all full of charms, a woman stood, gazing on the flood all hopelessly. 
               It was terrible. Each wave that rushed toward the shore, the hapless vessel to her sad fate bore. At last, with fearful shock, she struck a hidden rock, and uprose one wild, mad shriek-the vessel was a wreck! Plank from plank was torn; and here and there the struggling forms of those who oft had battled in the storm were seen a moment struggling in the foam, but soon they passed away. 
               But clinging to a spar we saw a woman fair, who to her bosom pressed her child. Not boat had we to breast that sea, and bold were he who'd dare to launch one there. On-on, like a lily torn by the gale from off its stem, as helpless and as pale, she came. More near; and then there were those who through the surf did wade to aid the fair. At last, so close that we could see her lips in prayer move and note her eves upturned towards the skies, we thought her safe. But sad to say, a monstrous sea came rolling on; a moment from our view it veiled her form; she rose, but her poor babe was gone. 
               They seized her as she drifted in, and bore her to the shore. "My child, my boy!" she cried; "my angel and my pride; oh, where is he?" 
               These men could not reply; a tear drop filled each eye, and sadly, silently they looked out upon the sea. 
               She needed, then, no word to speak its face; and like a bird that's lost its mate and of its young been robbed, she felt alone and desolate. She would have instantly turned and sought a grave beside her baby in the waves, had not these men held her. 
               Of all that crew that fair bereft was all alive, then left. The vessel was from old England. 
               The rescued lady will arrive to-morrow in our city, and an object she, in pity, will we hope receive attention kind, her sorrows to relieve. 
               Our reporter is too feeble in consequence of his superhuman exertions to give further items this evening; but as soon as he is somewhat recovered, he will give farther particulars. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               AN INTERVIEW IN BROADWAY. 
               That first step when man or woman deviates from the right road, walks aside from the chalk-line of morality and honor; is a fearful one! It is worse than a leap from a precipice which at once destroys life; for it takes from life all that is in it worth possessing. Thus you will ever see those who have taken the one step, dash madly on over the turn-pike of crime, never pausing until they teach the gallows or are plunged in the irretrievable gulf of misery. 
               When Fanny was alone, she sighed and shed tears over her sad condition-deserted and spurned by the man she had sacrificed so much for. 
               All her love had now changed to hate, deadly hate. The spring time of love was losing its freshest, sweetest flowers! Reader, may your heart never bleed as did Fanny's 
               So it is too often with man, sometimes with woman. They love madly, wildly at first, are hungry, so to speak, in their attachment; but then like one who has partaken of a hearty meal, they are satisfied, their appetite cloys, and their hunger is appeased-love gives way to indifference, and at last it becomes utter forgetfulness. Like the stream raised in a mountain ravine by a sudden shower, the torrent is for a brief time resistless and impetuous-like it, when the shower is over, the source is dried up by the sun, and the stream is no more. 
               Marriage, too, apart from the vows which Heaven hears and angels record, but a mockery. How many a marriage vow uttered below, but not coming from the heart, and never recorded above, is broken! 
               But to return. 
               After all the crimes which the unscrupulous Morgan had been guilty-and the reader will agree with us in saying they were legion-if the afternoon's pleasant, come down to the city, and among the best promenaders of Broadway, you can find Clarence Morgan, and leaning on his arm most probably some love-sick damsel, who can see in dress and tinsel what she could never discover in a man of real worth. 
               Reader, if you are a woman, or a girl with heart yet untouched, beware of the heartless fop whose merit consists in his dress, who, like many a tall, forest tree, is all brush at the top and rottenness at  a palace and feed on tortures. Love not lightly-love wisely, and love well. 
               We will now return to Fanny. 
               When she left the office where justice should be meted out she passed stern and stately up Broadway, unheeding the admiring glances which many a promenader cast upon her magnificent figure. 
               Fanny walked along, buried in deep thought. 
               She was studying how to be revenged upon her dastardly seducer. 
               Poor, and powerless in friends, knowing that she had wealth to war with, she was studying what course to pursue for revenge. 
               And on revenge, alone, she was fully determined! 
               A terrible revenge on him who, having robbed her of her innocence, turns her coolly away as a cast-off thing! 
               Where, Heaven, is thy awful vengeance! 
               Fanny did not notice that she was closely followed by a man who was dressed in the height of fashion, though not exactly foppishly. He was a little above the medium height, rather well made up, had eyes dark as the door of night, and heavy black whiskers and mustache. His face was pale, but not intellectual; the animal evidently predominated in his nature. Yet he was one that would not pass unnoticed in a crowd. There was a kind of bold, fierce expression in his countenance that would induce one who did not understand human nature to set him down as a brave man. 
               The person here described is one well known to the writer; he lives in New York. 
               The last time we saw him was in the dress circle of Wallack's theatre, with a lady by his side, who was not only a faithless wife, but one who had deceived and wronged the truest friend she ever had on earth. 
               She started, paled and trembled when she met my eye, for she knew I was 
                   our gaze, he cowed like a hound before its master. After a moment's conversation the wretched, misguided woman, whose beauty and intellect once so peerless, deserved a better fate, arose and accompanied her paramour from the place. 
               We will call this person Spencer, as any name will do for a man who dares not assume in his own country the name which he bore when he was compelled to leave it. 
               This Spencer passed by Fanny several times, and as often cast his dark, libertine eyes upon her pale but beautiful countenance. 
               He could see that she was laboring under some intense excitement; for her clenched hands, her hurried gait, her bloodless lips, her eyes rivetted on the pavement over which she passed, all betokened intense excitement. 
               And of this, if possible, he intended to take advantage, to gain an introduction, for already his eyes gloated upon her splendid figure. 
               They passed on up Broadway until they reached Bleecker street, where, just as he was about to pass her again to get a glance at her face, her foot caught against an 
                     uneaven
                     uneven
                   part of the pavement, and she would have fallen, had he not sprang forward and caught her. 
               She could not but acknowledge the kindness of the act, and he at once began a conversation. 
               "I was happy, fair lady," he said, "to be near to aid you, and yet you was the cause of it." 
               "I, sir?" 
               "Yes, lady; I acknowledge to an impropriety. I have followed you for some blocks, because you seemed unhappy and in trouble; I felt interested, and wished to serve you." 
               She looked at him earnestly, and seemed to study for a moment what reply to make, at length she said: 
               "Sir, how can you feel interested in a stranger!" 
               
                   whom to trust. I have been deceived basely deceived by one whom I loved better than life. In whom can a wronged and betrayed woman trust but her God?" 
               "For future happiness perhaps none; but for revenge of past injuries-" 
               "Ah, sir; that is it! You have spokes the word-REVENGE! Revenge is all I seek. Oh, if you are bold enough-but no; I should not ask you, who look so bold and good, to incur risk or danger for me a poor, friendless and unprotected stranger!" 
               "Lady, do not deem me a stranger. If you have been wronged, I dare to and will punish the wronger. Tell me your history." 
               "Ah, sir, it is a sad but a brief one. Perhaps when you have heard it you will despise me." 
               "Never, lady. One so beautiful as you could do no wrong in my eyes!" 
               She looked at him as he uttered these words, as if she would read his very soul through. 
               She knew that if his intentions were honorable, that was no time for unmeaning compliments, no place to speak them. And deceived once, she doubted him. 
               He saw the doubt pictured in her expression, and hastened to remove them if possible. 
               "Lady," said he, "because I so boldly spoke of your beauty, which none could see and not admire, think not it was that which interested me or caused me to offer my services. I am no common flatterer, no dangler about the skirts of the female sex. I saw that you was unhappy, I feel interested; I with candor and true heartedness and kindness of intention offered my services. It is for you to accept or reject them." 
               "Sir, excuse me-excuse one who has been deceived, if a doubt as regards the motives of proffered services crosses her mind. I will not doubt you now. I do need a friend-a bold, daring friend-
                
                
               "Lady, let me accompany you home. Tell me what you wish done, and it shall be accomplished!" 
               "Home! Ah, sir, I have no home now! I had one before HE met me! But to go back to my poor aunt, disgraced, dishonored, I cannot!" 
               And the poor, heart-broken girl wept hot, burning tears. 
               "Lady," continued Spencer, after a short pause; "did I not fear to offend you, I would offer you the use of my own apartments; I can remain at a hotel." 
               "Sir, I thank you. I do not ask you to give up your apartments; but if you can afford me one small room where I can remain secluded and alone until my aim is accomplished, I will accept your kindness." 
               "Lady, you shall have a room, sacredly private to yourself; and I shall feel honored by your acceptance of so simple a favor!" 
               "The favor to me, as I am situated, is great indeed; and I accept it freely as it is offered, trusting implicitly in your honor" 
               "Then, lady, take my arm. We will soon reach my apartments; and then I ill farther hold myself subject to your orders." 
               She did not reply. 
               Spencer, glorying in the hope of possessing another victim, led her off. 
               And with him for a time we leave her. 
               Yes, sad though it he, with a keen, designing, talented, unscrupulous wretch, devoid of honor or courage, but with tact enough to conceal his faults and magnify his apparent merits, we must leave that noble-hearted, lovely woman! 
               God help her! No one else can. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XV. 
               FANNY-THE SPIRIT OF REVENGE. 
               Six months. How much can transpire in six months-how much weal or woe to nations! 
               If some who read these lines will look back over six months, they will feel the point of our remarks. 
               Some of you six months ago were happy, now you may be wretched; some of you then looking forward to joy and happiness in the dim distance, have found thorns where you expected roses. Some who then were poor and miserable, now are well off, able to enjoy a perusal of these lines and appreciate the change which six months of time may produce. 
               But moralising isn't in our line. We must on with our true history. 
               It is night. Fanny is pacing to and fro in her chamber, which was elegantly furnished. 
               Her face, once so rosy is pale; her figure, once so gracefully rounded, is thin; her expression is worn and desolate. 
               There beside the lamp she sits, and often presses her hands against her forehead, as if it ached with pain; and ever and anon long drawn sighs heave up from her bosom. 
               Yet she was beautiful still. Majestic and queenly in mien and form, she was one of those who never can fade so far as to lose the semblance of beauty which nature has stamped upon them. 
               She seemed to be angry, for her brow was knit, her lips compressed, and her dark eye flashed as she paced to and fro across the carpet. 
               She was not alone in the room. Seated in an easy chair, in his dressing gown and embroidered slippers, was Mr. Spencer. He seemed perfectly at his case, for, with careless nonchalance, he smoked a cigar, regardless of the presence of the lady. 
               She for a time paced the floor in silence, seeming to try to control the passion in her breast, then turning to him, she said: 
               "Charles Spencer! Do you remember what you promised me, when, six months ago, I trusted you, blindly trusted you, yielded myself, soul and body, to you? You do not answer me you are silent. Does the consciousness of your having deceived me, seal your tongue? Speak, or are you afraid to speak before a woman? When I met you I thought that you was brave; yes, brave and honorable. But I have been deceived; you are at best but a coward and honor never knew a spot in your breast where it could find a temporary resting place, not to speak of a home. You won me to your arms, not by love, for I am one of those who can love but once. I became yours on one condition, and that was, that you should revenge my wrongs. Hate, revenge, and not love, made me yours! And for six long, hateful months I have borne with your disgusting caresses, because I knew you to be base enough, and thought you was possessed of enough brute courage to kill him. You promised to do it; but liar and coward as you are, you dared not do it! You frown. Why do you not curse a little? Your lips are more used to lies and blasphemy than to gentler or purer words. Once you could flatter and wheedle one who knew you not into the idea that you were a gentleman, or at least a man. Now I know you, and despise you as a lying and cowardly wretch. Yes, I, lost, fallen as I am, feel that my deepest degradation is in my association with you!" 
               "Woman, I will hear no more. Leave this room, and forever, or I will strike you to the earth!" cried Spencer, now rising. 
               "Yes," she replied; and her eyes flashed like those of an enraged tigress; "yes, you would strike a woman, but before a man you would crouch like a hound which licks the hand that beats him. You wish me to leave your apartments. I shall; for I feel that the lowest brothel in this city is superior to these rooms when you are in them. You will strike me! That was what you said; now do it! I dare you to do it! Coward, I defy you!" 
               Spencer, his face flushed as red as fire with anger, his whole frame quivering with excitement, snatched a can from a corner of the room, and with it raised, advanced towards her. 
               Quicker by far than we can write this line was her movement. She drew from the bosom of her dress a small ivory handled pistol, and levelled its barrel of glittering steel at his breast. She did not speak; she smiled so calmly that it did not seem that she held death in her very hand. 
               He had never seen her smile so before, and with the cane in his hand he paused and trembled too. 
               "For God's sake don't shoot, Fanny!' he cried. 
               "I told you you were a coward!" she exclaimed, "Yes, frown again; and now offer to strike if you dare. I have expected that this hour would come, and I have prepared for it. And now, sir, lay down that cane. Do not hesitate; for if I am not obeyed in all I demand, so sure as there is a God above us, I'll send a bullet through your black heart! Stop, sir; do not move or turn! The finger of an injured, betrayed woman is on the trigger of the pistol-it needs but a single touch to end you to perdition!" 
               "Do not, Fanny, dear Fanny; do not keep that weapon pointed towards me; is might go off accidentally; I know you are only jesting with me!" 
               "Sir, I just no more. Obey my orders now, or abide by the consequence. I am the commander now; you have been in power long enough. Lay that cane down. No delay, sir. Do it before I can count three! One, two-" 
               The cowardly wretch dropped the cane to the floor, for her dark eye glanced calm and clear over the deadly barrel. 
               "Now, sir, kneel. You have knelt to me before; kneel now; hesitate if you dare. Ah, that is well; you are in the proper position of a slave. What shall I do with you? You were about to strike me just now. Ought I not to strike you or to spurn you like a dog from my feet? I ought; but that would be labor badly bestowed. Let me think. Ah, you have a face which I once thought to be rather good looking; you have a superb beard and mustache; you pride yourself on the beauty of your face, and yet I will humble that pride. Stop, sir; do not offer to rise, or I will lay you so low that there will be no resurrection for you. I only wish to do as the camel does to one 
                     it it
                     it
                   hates, as it does to a cruel master-merely to spit in your face!" 
               These words were accompanied by the action they indicated. 
               His face flushed as red as a boiled lobster; his eyes flashed with deadly anger. Could looks have blasted her, she would have sunk beneath the glances he cast; but he dared not move. 
               She kept her eye on his; the pistol was at his very breast; one touch of her finger and he knew he would die, and he did not possess the courage to meet death, and bore the indignity. 
               She smiled in bitter scorn, and exclaimed: 
               "Now, sir, you a moment ago wished me to leave these apartments. I am going to do so; and I am going to do want you dare not do-avenge my own wrongs. And beware, sir, how you interfere with any of my plans. I am now desperate; fearless of all consequences; reckless of all danger; ready for murder! Yes, to murder!" 
               She turned away and left the room. 
               Not until she had gone did that recreant thing arise from his kneeling posture. 
               When he did, he looked around, as if he feared she would return. 
               "That woman is the devil!" he muttered; "I believe she would as soon murder me as not. She's a splendid woman, though; and I'm almost sorry I didn't shoot Moran to please her; but it was her o; there are other flowers in the field. But I wouldn't like to stand in Morgan's shoes when she sets an eye upon him!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               WOMAN'S REVENGE. 
               After Fanny left Spencer's apartments, she hurried down the street towards Broadway. 
               Morgan, too, happened to be passing at the time, and perceived a lady who was closely shawled and veiled, but whose elegant figure seemed familiar to him. He, however, was in no mood to observe beauty just then, and would have passed on; but at a gentle beckon of the lady's hand, given as if she desired to speak to him, he paused. 
               "What can I do for you lady, or whom have I the honor of addressing?" he asked, bowing profoundly. 
               The lady slowing raised her veil, and he beheld the pale features of Fanny. She did not speak, but her eyes seemed to pierce his very soul. For a moment he seemed rivetted to the ground as if under the spell of some fell enchantress. Then hurriedly he spoke. 
               "What do you want woman? If it is money, here take my purse and trouble me no more!" 
               'Clarence Morgan, I do not want your money. I seek revenge! The avenger is on your track. Nay do not start, though I could slay you on the spot, I would not do it now. You have got to endure a portion of the misery I have felt. You shall yet rot in a dungeon. I know now your associates and your deeds and crimes. It is I woo have exposed you to your new victim-it is I who will save her from your toils, save her father from ruin!" 
               "Woman, curse you, you shall suffer for this. What prevents me from crushing you with a single blow?" 
                
               She laughed as she saw his momentary tremor. 
               "You men are all cowards!" she said. "Now Mr. Morgan, you are warned, you may go! Remember, be on your guard as much as ever, do your worst or your best to avoid me, but my vengeance, slow but sure, will follow you. I have friends, powerful ones-those who will obey me in every wish!' 
               She turned and rapidly walked up Broadway. Morgan's first impulse was to follow her, but after a moment's hesitation he pursued his original course, muttering as he went: 
               "That woman must be got out of the way. She has more of the devil in her nature than I dreamed she had! Her friends are powerful she says. I must have her tracked and find out who they are. She says she knows my crime and associates, but that is a mere boast I guess. The woman Cancouse, is the only one outside who could betray me-she knows too much, I wish she was dead. 
               Now reader we will follow Fanny, and see if we can discover the secret of her boasted power, find out who are the friends she spoke of. 
               After she left Morgan, with rapid steps she proceeded up Broadway, turning once or twice to see if she was followed. Several blocks above where she had parted from him, she turned to the left and after walking up the street some two or three blocks, paused before a large mansion, built in modern style of marble and free stone. Its size, architecture, and the ground around it occupying at least one-fourth of the entire block, showed it to be the abode of wealth. 
               She paused a moment at the gate way, looked at the house and shuddered.  when I have accomplished all, I can die!" 
               She passed on to the door and rang the bell. A liveried servant appeared. 
               "Is your master at home!" she asked 
               "He is, Madam, in his library!" 
               "Bear this card to him!" 
               "I will, Madam, be pleased to walk into the drawing room. I will return in a moment!" 
               Now reader for a new character in our book, one however that is true, the picture of a millionaire banker, whom you can sometimes see rolling down Wall street in his elegant carriage. Here is his portrait. 
               Seated in a large easy chair, cushioned and backed with velvet, his feet pillowed on an ottoman, you will observe a man at least sixty years of age, though by his foppish dress he attempts to appear younger. 
               His face was purple by the use of wines and liquors, his frame swelled, bloated and gouty from over-living. He wore a wig to conceal his baldness and Ballard's hair dye had been called into requisition to dye his eyebrows and whiskers. His reddened eyes, thick lips and sensual expression betokened his disposition. There he sat, robed in a stuffed and quilted morning grown of flowered satin, his gouty feet slippered in velvet, the personification of a wealthy old roue whose race of pleasure had become a painful, miserable tottering wreck towards the grave. 
               The servant whom we saw below entered, and with a low obeisance banded his master the card Fanny had sent up. 
               A deep flush came over the red face of the millionaire as he read the name, and a chuckle gurgled out from his thick lips. 
               "By the jolly god of love, it's has; I thought she'd accept 
                
                
               "Well, send my valet to me instantly. Sprinkle boudoir number three with the essence of violets, a few drops of otto of roses, and a little of Lubin's odor cicle; let in just light enough to make the statues look soft and life-like. After that is done conduct the lady to it, and say I will be there in a few moments. Set the new musical contrivance in the rear room to work, and start the fountain of flowers. Hurry up my valet. I must prepare to make a favorable impression, for she is a magnificent creature!" 
               The servant bowed and retired. 
               In a moment another appeared, a little Frenchman. 
               "Perot, help me to the dressing room. You must use all your skill to dress me well as possible; must make me look handsome!" 
               "Oui, monsieur," said the valet; "it shall be done; I shall make you seem young." 
               With evident pain, assisted by the valet, he hobbled from the room. 
               And now we are about to do what for the world we would not were a lady in the case-enter a dressing room. 
               We did once, by the foolish misdirection of a stupid servant, get into a lady's dressing room, but we staid a brief time; we knew in an instant I was in the wrong box. I heard a faint little scream, and saw-nothing! We left quicker than a rocket from a little boy's hand on a Fourth of July night. 
               The dressing room we are about to visit is that of our millionaire. Look at it. See the cosmetics which load the table-paints, white, red and black; here a wig, there a false set of teeth; here pads for the legs, there pads to fill out the chest; back and front braces, supporters, etc.; all descriptions of pomades, complexion renovators. Mirrors surround the room. A lounge beside every bath. 
               Yet how miserable the millionaire, who can command all these things! 
               Compare him with one of our friend less boys who can earn a bare living, whose cheeks are made rosy by healthy exercise; but who with strong limbs, free from diseases, can leap into the river, and there, in the God-given bath, refresh himself after the hours of labor is over! 
               Yes, see that old libertine hobble in on his gouty legs, and between a grunt and a groan, mutter: 
               "Confound this gout! It will be the death of me yet. Perot, prepare me a regenervating bath!" 
               "Our, monsieur, that bath is a great benefactor!" 
               "Quick, and disrobe me!" 
               "Ouir, monsieur, I shall be quick as no time" 
               Reader, we are modest; it is time we left. 
               Fanny remained some minutes in the drawing room before the servant came back. 
               But her time was occupied in regarding the magnificent paintings which adorned the wills. 
               They were by the most famous artists of a ancient and modern days. 
               When the servant came in he bowed and said: 
               "Madame, my master is engaged for a few moments on important business; he begs that you will permit me to conduct you to a more pleasant sitting room where he will join you in a few moments!" 
               Fanny followed the servant, who conducted her to the boudoir member three. 
               As she entered the room she pauses in utter astonishment at the scene before her. 
               The low, sweet sound of fairy-like music, and the gentle plashing of water touched on her ear. 
               She advanced into the room, which seemed to be peopled with beautiful creations of life. 
               She thought she was in a fairy land, surrounded by nymphs and goddesses. Still further she advanced. She saw a fountain which threw flowers up amid the ever ascending and descending mass of silvery spray. 
               Over it, as if stooping to pick one of the flowers from its nest of diamonds, bent the form of a very venus; and the light falling through rose-hued curtains, fell so soft and flesh-like upon it, that the statue seemed to live. 
               The walls of the lofty room were hung in perpendicular folds, with satin of delicate pink, orange and blue, the blended hues producing a kind of rainbow light. 
               Statues were scattered all around-here a Cupid and a Psyche; there an Eve gazing upon the fatal apple from the forbidden tree; here an angel just poising its wings for a flight; there a satyr just seizing a lovely nymph of Dian's matchless train. 
               While in the distance, bending her bow, could be seen the bright goddess herself, about to stop his proceedings by sending an arrow through his heart. 
               And the light, coming softly in through curtains of pink, was so disposed as to give each figure the appearance of life. 
               A rich, almost overpowering fragrance seemed to be borne by invisible wings fanningly through the room, such a fragrance as comes from the spicy flower groves of the south when evening winds cool the warm brows of tropic lovers. 
               Low couches, wrought curiously of silk and satin, so as to resemble beds of roses and other flowers, were scattered here and there. 
               Fanny looked in vain for the source whence the music so sweet and heavenly emanated 
               A dreamy feeling came over her, and, astonished, she sunk upon an ottoman near the fountain of flowers. 
               When she had first seen the apartments of Morgan, she had thought them rich and elegant beyond comparison; thought them rich beyond all her former ideas. 
               But in comparison with this they appeared no more than a beggar's hovel. 
               In this lofty apartment the symmetry of the curtained walls was not destroyed by lascivious pictures, and the hues so delicately blended by the dropping certain folds broken by them. 
               The statues, from the hands of eminent artists, were, it is true, voluptuous-such as would excite maddening passions in the breast of a man; but to a woman they seemed more chaste; to her more especially so, for she was now alone, even like a Diana with her fair nymph bathing around her. 
               The music still was heard. She breathed the rich fragrance of the an, and almost sunk into slumber, forgetting where she was. 
               But the voice of the millionaire aroused her. He stood by her side. 
               "Beautiful lady, you have come at last," he said; "have I at last, after so long a tune, so many handsome offers, won you away from the happy possessor of so many peerless charms? Will you become the queen of my palace-the fairy angel to preside over my future destiny?" 
               "A truce to compliments, sir," she replied, assuming a sweet smile, and not withdrawing her small, white hand which he had seized between his huge paws; "I have received your last note, and if you are willing to support me in my extravagance, for I am very extravagant, I will on certain conditions consent to remain in your magnificent mansion. I have left Spencer, and forever! A mean, soulless wretch, devoid of real honor and principle, I despise myself for ever having countenanced him!" 
               "Oh, I am so glad to hear you say so!" cried the old voluptuary, seating himself beside her. "You mentioned 
                   the window curtain, she exclaimed with all the eagerness of a pleased child: 
               "Oh, how beautiful!" 
               "What do you see?" 
               "Oh, such a lovely garden, even at this season teeming with fruits and flowers; fountains sending showers of silver high up in the air; and those beautiful women walking about; who they are?" 
               "Your servants, lady; you are queen here!" said the old voluptuary, gazing gloatingly upon her tall and elegant form. 
               But we will drop the curtain here, and pass to other scenes intimately connected with this our true history. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               MORGAN AND THE STRANGER. 
               The evening had already deepened into night. Along the sere and melancholy wood the autumnal winds crept with a lowly but gathering moan. 
               Where the water held its course, a damp and ghostly mist clogged the air, but the skies were calm, and checkered only by a few clouds, that swept in long, white, spectral streaks over the solemn stars. 
               Now and then the bat wheeled swiftly round, almost touching the figure of Morgan as he walked musingly onward. It was one of those nights half dim, half glorious, which mark the early decline of the year. 
               And now Morgan had just crossed Harlem bridge, when the stranger suddenly emerged from a shelter and stood before him. 
               "I tarried for you here, Morgan," said he, "instead of seeking for you at home, at the time you fixed; for there are certain private reasons which make it prudent I should keep as much as possible among the owls; and it was, therefore, safer, if not more pleasant, to lie here than to make myself merry in New York." 
               "And what," said Morgan, "again brings you here? Did you not say when I visited you some months since in Brooklyn, that you were about to leave the country for ever." 
               "And so I intended; but fate, as you would say, or the devil, as I should, ordered it otherwise. I had not long left you when I fell in with some old friends, bold spirits and true-the brave outlaws of the road. In a word, I joined my friends. Since then we have cruised around the country, regaled ourselves cheerily, frightened the timid, silenced the fractious, and by the help of your fate, or my devil, have found ourself by accident brought to exhibit our valor in this place" 
               "Trifle not with me, Wade," said Morgan, sternly; "I scarcely understand you. Do you mean to imply that yourself and the lawless associates you have joined, are lying out for plunder in these parts?" 
               "Perhaps you heard of our exploits last night, some four miles hence?" 
               "Ha! was that villany yours?" 
               "Villain!" repeated Wade, in a tone of offence. "Come, Morgan, these words must not pass between you and me, friends of such date and on such a footing." 
               "Talk not of the past," said Morgan, with a livid lip, "and call not those whom destiny once, in spite of nature, drove down her dark tide in a momentary companionship, by the name of friends. Friends we are not; but while we live there is a tie between us much stronger than that of friendship!" 
               "Oh, you speak truth and wisdom," said Wade, sneeringly; "for my part I care not what you call us, friends or foes." 
               "Foes, foes!" exclaimed Morgan, very 
                   foes to each other." 
               "It were foolish, at least at present," said Wade. 
               "Look you, Wade," continued Morgan, "drawing his comrade from the path into a wilder part of the scene; and as he spoke, his words were couched in a more low and inward voice than heretofore; "look you, I cannot live and have my life darkened thus by your presence. Is not the world wide enough for us both? Why haunt each other? What have you to gain from me? Can you not leave me alone? Does not a ghastly air, a charnel breath hover about us both? Leave me-oh, leave these scenes! All earth spreads before you; choose your pursuits and your resting place elsewhere, but leave me alone!" 
               "I have no wish to disturb you, Morgan; but I must live; and in order to live I must obey my companions; if I deserted them it would be to starve. They will not linger long here; then, live the Indian animal, they will strip the leaves and desert the tree. In a word, after we strip the country, we are gone." 
               "Wade," said Morgan, passionately, and frowning till his brows almost hid his eyes, but that part of the orb which they did not hide, seemed as living fire; "I now implore, but I can threaten; beware! Silence, I say! Dream not o staying here upon an errand of dread and violence-the minions of the law aroused against you, girt with the probabilities of apprehension and a shameful death-" 
               "And a full confession of my past ins," interrupted Wade, laughing at his companion. 
               "Fiend! devil!" cried Morgan, grasping his comrade by the throat, and shaking him with a vehemence that Wade, though a man of great strength, impotently attempted to resist. 
               
                   another word of such import; dare to menace me with the vengeance of such a thing as thou, and, by the God above us, I will lay thee dead at my feet!" 
               "Release my throat, or you will commit murder," gasped Wade, with difficulty, and growing already black in the face. 
               Morgan suddenly relinquished his gripe, and walked away with a hurried step, muttering to himself. 
               He then returned to the side of Wade, whose flesh still quivered, either with rage or fear, and, his own self-possession completely restored, stood gazing upon him with folded arms, and his usual deep and passionless composure of countenance; and Wade, if he could not boldly confront, did not altogether shrink from his eye. So there and thus they stood, at a little distance from each other, both silent, and yet with something unutterably fearful in their silence. 
               "Wade," said Morgan, at length, in a calm, yet a hollow voice, "it may be that I was wrong; but there lives no man on earth, save you, who could thus stir my blood-nor you with ease. And know, when you menace me, that it is not your menace that subdues or shakes my spirit; but that which robs my veins of their even tenor is that you should deem your menace could have such real power. And now I am calm; say what you will, I cannot be vexed again." 
               "I have done," replied Wade, coldly; "I have nothing to say; farewell!" and he moved away. 
               "Stay!" cried Morgan, in some agitation; "stay; we must not part thus. Look you, Wade; you say you would starve should you leave your present associates. That may not be; quit them this night; this moment; leave the neighborhood, and the little in my power is at your will" 
               "As to that," said Wade, dryly, "what is in your power is, I fear me, so little as not to counterbalance the advantages I should lose in quitting my companions. I expect to net some hundreds before I leave these parts." 
               "Some hundreds!" repeated Morgan, recoiling; "that were indeed beyond me. I told you when we last met that it is only by an annual sum that I could help you." 
               "I remember; I do not ask you for money; these hands can sustain me," he replied, smiling grimly. "I told you at once the sum I expected to receive somewhere, in order to prove that you need not vex your benevolent heart to afford me relief." 
               Again Morgan's face worked, and his lip quivered; but he conquered his passion, and said: 
               "Quit this neighborhood now, and a month hence let us meet again. At that time, whatever my resources may be', you shall know them." 
               "It cannot be," returned the burglar; "I quit not this place without a certain sum, not in hope, but possession. But why interfere with me? I seek not my hoards in your coffer." 
               "It matters not," replied Morgan, with a deep and ghastly voice; "but when you are near me I feel as if I were with the dead-it is a spectre that I would exercise in ridding me of your presence. But this is not what I now speak of. It is that you are engaged, according to your own lips, in lawless and midnight schemes, in which you may-and the tide of chances runs towards that bourne-be seized by the hand of justice!" 
               "Ho," said the burglar, sullenly; "and was it not for saying that you feared this and its probable consequences that you well nigh stifled me but now!" 
               "Are you bent upon your own destruction as well as mine, that you per severe in courses which must end in a death of shame?" 
               "And what else can I do? I will not work. My character is marked-those who once knew me shun me now. I have no resources for society-for I can not face myself alone-but in the fellowship of men like myself, whom the world has thrust from its pale. I have no resources for bread save in the pursuits that are branded by justice and accompanied with snares and danger. Now what would you have me do?" 
               "Is it not better," said Morgan, "to enjoy peace upon a small pittance, than to live thus from hand to mouth-vibrating from wealth to famine, and the rope around your neck, sleeping and awake? Seek your relation; in that quarter you yourself and your character was not branded. Is not this better than a ghost career of dread?" 
               "Morgan," answered Wade, "are you, in truth, calm enough to hear me speak' I warn you that if again you forget your self, and lay hands on me-" 
               "Threaten not," interrupted Morgan, but proceed." 
               "Be it so. Now mark me, Morgan. I have been treated as a fool, and I will not be governed as a friend. I will not 8th from the vicinity of your home till my designs are fulfilled. And now I am revenged." 
               Though Morgan trembled with suppressed passions from limb to limb, his voice was calm, and his lip wore a smile as he answered: 
               "I was prepared for this." 
               "Ah!" returned the burglar. 
               "Yes," returned Morgan "you utter nothing that appals me." 
               "Why so I" 
               "Because I know you! You are a man of vehement passions, but interest is far stronger with you than passion! Go, and do your worst!" 
               "You are right-I can fetter the tiger within, in his deadliest rage, by a golden chain!" 
               "Then, Wade, it is not your interest to betray me-my destruction is your own, you know!" 
               "Granted; but if I am apprehended and to be hung for robbery!" 
               "But my interest induces me to wish that you be removed from the perils of apprehension." 
               "Nothing can be clearer," returned the burglar. 
               "What then do you propose?" returned Morgan. 
               "The proposition is-that I must have money!" exclaimed the burglar, with great coolness. 
               Morgan gasped for breath. 
               He made several strides forward and muttered rapidly. 
               "Even were this possible it would be but a short reprieve. I could not trust you." 
               "And why not?" inquired the burglar, eyeing his companion. 
               "Because the sum would be spent, and I again in the state to which you have compelled me now." 
               "Oh, no," said the burglar; "you shall not be disturbed again!" 
               "So you have promised before," said Morgan. 
               "Trust me this time!" 
               "No, no," said Morgan; "if the blow must fall be it so one day as another-let it come!" 
               There was a pause. 
               At length the burglar exclaimed: 
               "As you will; but-" 
               Just at that moment a long shrill whistle sounded below, as if proceeding from the water. 
               Wade paused abruptly. 
               "That signal is from my comrades-I must away!" 
               "No, no!" exclaimed Morgan, "we must not part thus!" 
               "I must away. Hark, again! Farewell!" 
               "Farewell, if it must be so," returned Morgan; "but to-morrow, should you know of any means by which I could feel secure, beyond the security of your own word, from your future molestation, I might-yet how?" 
               "To-morrow," returned the burglar, "I cannot answer for myself." 
               "And why not?" 
               "Because it is not always that I can save my comrades." 
               "Then when shall we meet again?" asked Morgan. 
               The burglar seemed to think a minute, and then said: 
               "Hold! The night after to-morrow-the Sabbath night-I can meet you!" 
               "Where?" 
               "Not here!" 
               "Where then?" 
               "Some miles hence." 
               "What place?" 
               "You know that quiet spot near High Bridge; and I will tell you a secret that I would trust to no other man." 
               "What is it?" 
               "Why it is close by our present lurking place." 
               "Well." 
               "Meet me there!" 
               "Yes." 
               "It would be pleasanter to hold our conference under shelter; but at present it would not be well to trust myself beneath any honest man's roof in this place at present." 
               "Perhaps not." 
               "Adieu! On Sunday night, one hour before midnight!" 
               The robber-for such, then, he was-waved his hand, and hurried away in the direction from which the signal appeared to come. 
               Morgan gazed after him, but with vacant eyes, and remained several moments rooted to the spot, as if the very life had left him. 
               "The Sabbath night!" said he, at last, moving slowly on; and I must spin forth my existence in trouble and fear till then. What remedy can I then invent? It is clear that I can have no dependence on his word. But courage, my heart; and work thou, my busy brain! Ye have never failed me yet!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE MIDNIGHT MEETING. 
               It is a stormy night-such a one, too, as is well suited to deeds of daring and villany which we, as faithful chroniclers, are compelled to record. 
               "It is time that Wade was here," said Morgan, looking around him. 
                
               It was a stern and dreary spot-well suited for such conferences as Morgan and Wade alone could hold. 
               And which, whatever was the original secret that linked the two men thus strangely, seemed of necessity to partake of a desperate and lawless character, with danger for its main topic, and death itself for its coloring. 
               Morgan now paused, and with an eye accustomed to the darkness, looked around for his companion. 
               He did not wait long. 
               From the profound shadow that girded the space immediately around the spot, Wade now emerged and joined Morgan. 
               The stunning noise of the water where they met forbade any attempt to converse. 
               They walked on by the course of the stream, to gain a spot less in reach of the deafening shout of the water. 
               It was noticeable that as they proceeded Morgan walked on with an unsuspicious demeanor. 
               But Wade, pointing out the way with his hand, not leading it, kept a little behind his companion, and watched his motions with a wary eye. 
               Morgan, who had diverged from the path at Wade's direction, now paused at a place where the matted bushes seemed to forbid any further progress, and said, for the first time breaking the silence: 
               "We cannot proceed-shall this be the place of our conference?" 
               "No," said Wade. 
               "And why not?" 
               "Pierce the bushes." 
               "I cannot." 
               "I know the way, but will not lead it," said the burglar. 
               "And wherefore?" 
               "The mark of your gripe is still on my throat," replied Wade, significantly. 
               "What do you fear?" 
               "It is not always safe to have a friend lagging behind." 
               "Let us rest here then," said Morgan, calmly. 
               "Yet it were much better," said Wade, "could we gain the cave below." 
               "The cave!" said Morgan, starting, as if the word had a sound of fear. 
               "Ay," said the burglar; "and the grin of his teeth was visible through the dullness of the shade. 
               "Come on!" 
               "Give me your hand," said Wade, "and I will venture to conduct you through the thicket-that is your left hand," observed Wade, with a sharp and angry suspicion in his tone; "now give me the right." 
               "As you will," said Morgan, in a subdued, yet meaning voice, that seemed to come from his heart; and thrilled, for an instant, to the bones of him who heard it; "as you will-there!" 
               Wade hesitated before, he took the hand now extended to him. 
               "Come," said Wade, grasping the hand of the other; "this way; hold" he continued, under his breath, as suspicion a new seemed to cross him; "hold! we can see each other's face not even dimly now; but in this hand, my right is free, I have a knife that has done good service ere this; and if I feel cause to suspect that you meditate to play me false. I bury it to your heart-do you heed me!" 
               "Fool!" said Morgan, scornfully; "I should dread you dead yet more than living!" 
               Wade made no answer. 
               He continued to grope on through the path in the thicket. 
               He evidently knew them well; for in daylight, so thick were the tress, and so artfully had their boughs been left to cover the track, no path could have been discovered by one unacquainted with the clue 
               They had now walked on for some moments. 
               And their steps had been threading a rugged and somewhat precipitous descent. 
               All this while the pulse of the hand Wade held, beat with as steadfast and calm a throb as in the most quiet and pleasant mood. 
               Although Morgan could not but he conscious that a mere accident, a slip of the 
                  , an entanglement in the briars might awaken the irritable fears of his Italian comrade, and thus bring the knife to his breast. 
               But this was not the form of death that could shake the nerves of Morgan. 
               Wade now halted, again put aside the boughs. 
               And by a certain dampness and oppression in the air, Morgan conjectured himself in the cavern his companion had spoken of. 
               "We are landed now," said Wade; "but wait, I will strike a light; I do not love darkness, even with another sort of companion than the one I have now the honor to entertain!" 
               In a few moments a light was produced and placed aloft on a crag in the cavern. 
               But the ray it gave was feeble, and dull, and left all beyond the immediate spot in which they stood in a darkness little less than Cimmerian than before. 
               "'Fore Gad, it is cold!" exclaimed the burglar, shivering; "but I have taken care, you see, to provide for a friend's comfort!" 
               So saying, he approached a bundle of dry sticks and leaves, piled in one corner of the cave, applied the light to the fuel, and presently the fire rose crackling, breaking into a thousand sparks, and freeing itself gradually from the clouds of smoke in which it was enveloped. 
               It now mounted into a ruddy and cheering flame, and the warm glow cast its reddenning light over the forms of the two men. 
               Wade stood close to the flame, spreading his hands over it. 
               A sort of grim complacency stole over features singularly ill favored and sinister in their expression as he felt the animal luxury of the warmth. 
               Across his middle was a broad leathern belt, containing a brace of large horse pistols, and the knife, or rather dagger, with which he had menaced his companion. 
               It was an instrument sharpened on both sides, and nearly a foot in length-a very formidable weapon. 
               Altogether,  with his muscular breadth of figure, his hard and rugged features, his weapons, and a certain reckless brave air which marked his attitudes and bearing, it was not well possible to imagine a fitter habitant for that grim cave. 
               After a short pause Morgan broke the silence. 
               "I tell you, Wade, that the terms are no longer at your control; you must at once leave this part of the country, or you perish." 
               "Why so?" 
               "Because the whole population is now alarmed, and the most vigilant of the New York police is engaged, add on your track." 
               "Aye!" 
               "Yes." 
               "You can't scare me," exclaimed the burglar. 
               "But life is sweet to us all; and I cannot suppose you so mad as to incur, not the risk but the certainty of losing it-what say you!" 
               "Go on." 
               "You can no longer, therefore, hold the threat of your presence over my head." 
               "And why not?" 
               "Because, were you able to do so, I have the power of freeing myself from it." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes. Am I chained to New York? Have I not the facility, of quitting it at any moment I will?" 
               "Perhaps!" interposed the burglar, with a grin. 
               "Could I not seek a hiding place which would baffle not only your vigilance to discover me, but that of the law?" 
               "Doubted!" 
               "And what ties are strong enough to arrest the steps of him who flies from a fearful death? Have I not reason on my side?" 
               "What you say is true enough," said Wade, reluctantly; "I do not gainsay it; but I know you have not sought me in this spot, and at this hour, for the purpose of denying my claims-the desire of compromise alone could have brought you here." 
                
               "You speak well," said Morgan; "it is not easy for either of us to deceive the other." 
               "You are right," said the burglar. 
               Morgan continued. 
               "We are men whose perceptions a life of danger has sharpened upon all points; I would fain be rid of all apprehension from you. There are two ways only by which this security can be won: The first is by your death." 
               The robber started. 
               "Nay, start not nor put your hand on your pistol. Had I chosen that method of escape I could have effected it long since." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes; when months ago you slept under my roof, what should have hindered me from stabbing you during the slumber. Two nights since, when my blood was up and the fury was upon me, what should have prevented me tightening the grasp that you so resent and laying you breathless at my feet?" 
               The burglar started. 
               "Now, though you keep your eye fixed on me and my motions, and your hand upon your weapons, you would be no match for a desperate and resolved man, who might as well perish in a conflict with you as by the protracted accomplishment of your threats. Your ball light fail-oven now I see your hand trembles-mine, if I so will it, is certain death!" 
               Morgan paused, as if to see what effect his words had upon his companion in crime. 
               Then, after a few moments' pause, he continued- 
               "No, Wade, it would be in vain for your eye to scan the dark pool into whose breast yon cataract casts its waters as for you to fathom my motives. Your murder, though in self-defence, would lay a weight upon my soul which would sink it forever; I should see in your death new chances of detection spread themselves before me; the terrors of the dead are not to be bought or awed into silence by us. Let us turn to my second method of attaining security. It lies in your absence from this spot alone; you must quit the country; you must never return to it; your home must be cast and your very grave dug in a foreign soil! Are you prepared for this? If not, I can say no more; and I again cast myself passive into the arms of fate!" 
               "You ask," said Wade, whose fears were allayed by Morgan's address, although at the same time his dissolute and desperate nature was subdued and tamed in spite of himself by the very lofty mind he had now to encounter. "You ask," said he, "no trifling favor of a man-to desert his country for ever; but show me the advantages which I am to gain by exile and farewell to New York for ever!" 
               "Listen," said Morgan; "I am willing to coin all my wealth into an annuity to yourself; is will be so vested that it shall commence the moment you touch any foreign shore; and cease the moment you set foot on any part of American ground; or mark, also, at the moment of my death. Through one channel alone could I then fear-namely, that in dying you should enjoy you fruitless vengeance of criminating me. But why should you do this! At my deathbed I will solemnly swear to respect your secret-why not on your part! We cannot love one another; but why hate with demon vengeance? No, however circumstances may have darkened and steeled your heart, it is touched with humanity yet. No, no; dislike, hate, menace me as you will, I still feel I shall have no cause to dread the mere wantonness of your terrible revenge!" 
               These words, aided by a tone of voice and an expression of countenance that gave them perhaps their chief effect, took even the hardened nature of Wade by surprise. 
               He was affected by an emotion which he could not have believed it possible the man who till then had galled him by the humbling sense of inferiority could have created. 
               He extended his hand to Morgan. 
               "By -!" he exclaimed, with an oath, which we spare the reader; "you are right! I accept your offer!" 
                
               "Very well," returned his companion, Joyfully. 
               "After all, this is a pleasanter way of settling business," said Wade, "than by threats and anger." 
               "Certainly." 
               "And now," continued Wade, "I will say on what I could live without looking beyond the pale of the law for more; but then I must have half-settled on my little daughter." 
               "What! have you a child!" said Morgan, eagerly. 
               He was well pleased to find an additional security for his own safety. 
               "Ay, a little girl, my only one, in her eighth year." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes; she lives with her grandmother, for she is motherless; and that girl must not be left quite penniless should I be summoned hence before my time. Some twelve years hence-as poor Jane promises to be pretty-she may be married off my hands; but her childhood must not be left to the chances of beggary or shame!" 
               "Doubtless not!" 
               "It must not be!" returned the robber. 
               "And now name the sum that you deem sufficing." 
               "Why," said the burglar, counting on his fingers, and muttering, "one thousand dollars will do!" 
               "He it so!" said Morgan; "I will engage by one means or another to procure it. For this purpose I will not love a moment in seeing the necessary settlement made as we have specified. But in the meanwhile you must engage to leave this neighborhood, and if possible cause your comrades to do the same, although you will not hesitate, for the sake of your own safety, immediately to separate from them!" 
               "Now that we are on good terms," replied Wade, "I will not scruple to oblige you in these particulars. My comrades intend to quit New York before to-morrow; indeed, some are already gone! Let us meet in New York after the business is completed, and there conclude our last interview on earth!" 
               "What will be your address?" 
               "In Cherry street, there is a narrow court that leads to Roosevelt street, by the name of Gotham court. The last house to the right, towards the river, is my usual lodging-a safe resting place as all times and for all men!" 
               "There, then, I will seek you. And now fare you well. As you remember your word to me, may life flow smooth for your child!" 
               The night had now, indeed, suddenly changed its aspect; the rain descended in torrents, oven move impetuously than on the former night, while the thunder burst over their very heads, as they wound upward through the brake. With every instant, the lightning broke from the riven chasm of the blackness that seemed suspended as in solid substance above, brightened the whole heaven into one livid and terrible flame, and showed to the two men the faces of each other's rendered deathlike and ghastly by the glare. Wade was evidently affected by the fear that sometimes seizes even the sturdiest criminals, when exposed to those more fearful phenomena of the heavens, which seem to humble into nothing the power and the wrath of man. His teeth chattered, and he muttered broken words about the peril of wandering near trees when the lightning was of that forked character, accelerating his pace at every sentence, and sometimes interrupting himself with an ejaculation half oath, half prayer, or a congratulation that the rain at least diminished the danger. They soon cleared the thicket, and a few minutes brought them once more on the bank of the stream. 
               "Let the storm without howl on," thought he; "that within hath a respite at last. Amidst the winds and rains I can breathe more freely than I have done on the smoothest summer day. By the charm of a deeper mind and a subtler tongue, I have then conquered this desperate foe; I have silenced this inveterate spy; and, heavens be praised, he too has human ties; and by those ties I hold him! Now, then, for New York." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               A CHANGE OF SCENE. 
               Reader, was you ever in a burglar's crib? No! Then you haven't seen half the sights in New York yet. 
               There are a dozen of them, besides full a hundred "fences," or places for depositing stolen goods. 
               Some of these are kept under the sign of pawnbrokers' shops; other as exchange offices; others as junk shops, &c. 
               But there is one crib, the resort of the heavier class of burglars and felons-men who commit no light crimes; and when they do a job, "they do it up," as Captain Tobin says. 
               As it is under police surveillance now, we cannot minutely describe its location at this time. 
               It is a very cozy and pleasant drinking saloon, in a street which crosses Broadway, and not far from that great thoroughfare. 
               It is frequented by a set of quiet, gentlemanly looking men, mostly Englishmen, who drink their ale, read the newspapers, and do not seem to do much of anything else. 
               Yet the customers of that house all seem to know each other. 
               Once in a while a rough, ungainly appearing man drops in; he is knows by most of the others, and a word or two may be exchanged; but he drinks his mug of ale and vanishes. 
               The house is very still, and the blinds are always closed in front. 
               There are a few small rooms back for very private purposes. 
               Behind a small bar a neat and handsome woman stands, ready to fill the mugs with ale. 
               This female dresses rather coquettishly in half mourning, to indicate that she is a widow. 
               She is quiet and calm, though a lurking devil seems to be glancing in the eyes which are shaded by long, dark eyelashes. 
               A boy, neatly dressed, stands outside of the bar, ready to take the beverages to her customers. 
               There is nothing to indicate that disreputable or criminal characters resort here. 
               Everything is fair and open to the eye of the observer. 
               But wait a little while, reader, and we shall see what we shall see. 
               The next door to the entrance of this "shady" retreat is but a private entrance to the same building. 
               Upon a silver plate is neatly engraved a name; but it is not the real name of either the owner or the occupant. 
               We will call the name Marks. 
               Before this door a carriage stops-the driver and footman are liveried. 
               The carriage door is opened, and a lady, closely veiled, descends. 
               Though it is the dusk of evening, we need not for a moment hesitate, from her form and her graceful carriage to say who it is, for Funny cannot disguise herself from one who has seen her once. 
               The footman by her direction ring the door bell. 
               After a moment's delay the door was opened, and by the fair widow whom we have seen behind the little bar. 
               "Madame Marks, I believe?" said Fanny, entering. 
               "That is my name, madame; but I know not whom I have the honor to receive or the occasion of this visit." 
               "The password I give," whispered Fanny, "is 'contraband!' 'mam' 'the carriage. Lead me to a private room and you shall know why I have come." 
               "The password and countersign are correct; but are we go in please order your carriage to proceed up to Broad way or around the corner to wait for you-is might create suspicion here." 
               "True; I will give the orders." 
               The carriage moved away, and the two females entered a parlor which was separated from the bar we have spoken of only by a door. 
               After they had entered the room, and Fanny took a seat proffered by the widow, she raised her veil. 
               The latter looked as if she had expected to recognise an old acquaintance; she was evidently disappointed. 
                
               "I do not know you!" she said. "How did you become acquainted with our password!" 
               "That I cannot reveal at present. You do not know me; but you do know one Clarence Morgan?" 
               The widow started as if an adder had stung her to the heart. 
               First her face was pale as snow, then red as fire. 
               "Know him!" she cried; "yes, well do I know the cursed villain who betrayed my poor husband and caused him to die in a felon's cell, where even I could not go to console him in his dying hour!" 
               "Ah!" exclaimed Fanny. 
               "If you are a friend of his, go from beneath my roof before I curse you as I have done him!" 
               And the widow became terribly excited. 
               "Be calm, madame; I am not his friend-rather am I his deadliest foe!" 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes," continued Fanny; "in me you behold one of his last victims. I have come here to seek aid to ruin and destroy him." 
               "Ah!" 
               "Yes, I could kill him; but that will be no vengeance to me; I want him to dias your husband died-in a prison cell I want to see him live as long as life and misery mean the same thing!" 
               "Ah!" said the widow. 
               Fanny continued: 
               "You need not doubt me; I am a woman-women never deceive each other except when influenced by envy or jealousy. No one loves me-I love no one! You cannot-must not doubt me for one instant!" 
               "I do not, madame!" 
               "I have sworn vengeance on the head of my vile seducer!" exclaimed the excited Fanny. 
               "By what name may I address you?" asked the widow. 
               "Call me Fanny-nothing else!" 
               "I will." 
               "Now we understand each other, do we not?" asked Fanny. 
               "Perfectly!" returned "How can I serve you?" 
               "You have a house which is used as a rendezvous by a class of bold and reckless men, who, thinking that the world owes them a living, do not scruple to take it!" 
               "Yes." 
               "So far so good." 
               "How did you find it out; about my house I mean?" 
               "I accidentally heard a conversation between Morgan and one of your visitors, a man who himself seems to dislike Morgan while he fears him." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes." 
               "Do you know his name?" 
               "I do not." 
               "Should you know him if you should see him again?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Describe him." 
               "He is a slender, dark complexioned man, with a large scar on his brow, extending down upon his right check." 
               The widow seemed to be trying to recollect. At length she said: 
               "Ah! I think I know this man." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes." 
               "Can I see him?" 
               "Yes." 
               "When?" 
               "Now." 
               And the widow, rising, motioned the excited Fanny to follow her, when she said: 
               "Come to the little wicket in the door here, and see if you can recognize him among the men who are sitting in yonder room." 
               "Can they see me?" 
               "No." 
               "I would not be discovered." 
               "You need not fear; they cannot see us here." 
               Fanny did as she was desired. 
               She looked through a narrow aperture made by a slide in the door. 
               "Yes, he is there!" 
               "Where?" 
               "It is the man by the window, who is smoking a cigar and reading a newspaper." 
                
               "I thought as much." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes." 
               "What is his name?" 
               "His name is Smith, and he is a deep villain." 
               "I thought as much." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes; that Smith is a deep villain; but I think Morgan has got ahead of him about the proceeds of some haul; I heard him swear vengeance myself!" 
               "Can we trust him?" 
               "Yes, if he has a motive." 
               "I can pay him." 
               "He can be influenced by money." 
               "Yes." 
               "Or by a desire for revenge." 
               "Good!" 
               "You have money?" 
               "Yes, plenty of it." 
               "Then he will serve you." 
               "Can you call him in?" 
               "Yes." 
               "I should like to have an interview with him." 
               "Yes, if you desire it; but do not trust him too far. Smith, like all other villains used to crime, is liable to be used by the highest bidder." 
               "I will bid as high as any one-bring him in!" 
               In a few moments the man, who combined in himself the qualities of burglar, forger and counterfeiter, entered the apartment. 
               He looked at Fanny distrustfully; for he knew at a glance that she was a lady, and not one of a class with whom he had been used to associate. 
               She observed his embarrassment, and at once hastened to remove it. 
               "You need not fear me, Mr. Smith," she said; "I have come to get you to do me a favor, and am willing to reward you for it." 
               "Anything in reason, madame. What do you want done?" 
               "You know a fellow named Clarence Morgan?" 
               "D-n him, yes, madame. Forgive me for swearing; but he is a bloody thief!" 
               "You know him to be a thief!" 
               "Yes, madame; and a receiver, too, of stolen goods." 
               "Can you prove it so that I can get him into State Prison, if I pay you well for it?" 
               "Why you see, ma'am, this peaching is rather against my principles; besides, if I did, I might got myself into trouble; for since you know my name, so you will probably know that I am on a lay once in a while that the law don't exactly countenance. I'd rather split his wizzen through than cat. He has had some of my best friends 'sent up,' and I know he will get me up if ever he can!' 
               "If you will procure me proof to convict him so that I can get him imprisoned for ten or fifteen years, I'll give you ten thousand dollars; five thousand the day he is arrested, and five thousand more when he is convicted. I have powerful friends to aid you if you get yourself into trouble!" 
               "By thunder, that's talk, ma'am. Forgive me for roughness, for I ain't used to the company of ladies; but if you'll do what you say, d-n me if Jack Smith don't see him through!" 
               "I will do what I say. See here-there are over five thousand dollars in that book. I will give you a thousand to begin your work with. Be faithful, and I am able to reward you; deceive me, and fear me, for I have power!" 
               "Jupiter, what a pile of flimsies!" muttered the man to himself, thief-like, debating how he could best and easiest get hold of the whole pile; but receiving the thousand dollars she gave him, he said: 
               "Thank you, ma'am; you shall heat from me soon. Now where shall I send word to you." 
               "Leave it here with Madame Marks. Now hasten the matter!" 
               "Depend on me, ma'am; I will!" 
               The villain left the room-a thief was set to catch a thief. 
               Fanny now turned to Madame Marke and said: 
               "Do you think be will do it?" 
               "I hope so. He will do anything for money!" 
               "I have one thing I want done. Have you among any of your visitors a genteel looking, powerful man whom I can get to chastise a man in public who insulted me? I wish to have a person, who pretends to be a gentleman, cow-hided and spat upon in a public assembly. I will pay well to have that thing done." 
               "Oh, how I'd like to see it done. There are so many of these unmanly puppies who insult us lone women!" exclaimed the widow. "Yes, the very man is in the back room. He is a gentleman tleman, though he is on the cross. Circumstances ruined him. He doesn't say much to any one, but if he gets mad he is awful. He don't curse or swear; he turns pale when he is angry; his lips close together as if he was locking his teeth between each other, and his eye looks green-green as a cat's in the night time. I saw him mad once. He is an American, and a big English chap cursed him and his flag, and called his mother a hard name. He looked at that Englishman about a minute before he moved, and then it was like a terrier dog springing on a rat. The man had no time to holler before all his teeth were down his throat, his face kicked into a jelly, and the boys carried him off to the hospital, where he lay for three months!" 
               "That man will do-let me see him at once!" 
               The man came in. 
               He did not look like either a criminal or a dangerous man. 
               He was slender, about medium height, quite pale, with light brown hair and a soft blue eye. 
               His expression was subdued and very melancholy. 
               "Lady, Madame Marks said you de sired to see me," he said. 
               "Yes, sir; I wish to get some brave, honorable man to chastise a villain who has insulted me." 
               "Madame, you mistake me; I am no common hireling bully; I once was a gentleman!" 
               "Sir, do not think I mistake you for a common hireling; but hear me: a man who has deceived and wronged me, raised a cane to strike me, and-" 
               "Why didn't you kill him; but, no; I forget you are a woman. He raised his hand to strike a woman!" 
               "He did; and would have done it had I not been armed and fully prepared for him!" 
               "Where is he? where can I find the coward?" 
               "He will be at the opera to-night." 
               "I cannot go there. The Chief's aids are lynx eyed; but if you will give the number of his residence, I will so chastise him that he never will forget me." 
               "His number is at - Broadway. He has the front apartments." 
               "About eight he will be dressing for the opera; it is near the time now, and I will call upon him." 
               "Do, sir; and please accept this purse." 
               "No, madam; as I said before, once I was a gentleman. I need no pay for doing my duty as a man and resenting an insult to a lady. Please give me the person's name." 
               "It is Spencer. And when you have punished him tell him it is a token of remembrance from Fanny. But do not get yourself into trouble." 
               "Never fear; I will look out for that. Good evening." 
               "Stay one moment. Accept this ring as a token that I appreciate your manly feelings." 
               "Lady, I thank you. I will preserve it as a sacred gift, to remember one who has brought back to me some recollections of what I have been." 
               After a brief conference with Madame Marks, Fanny left the house. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               Spencer was engaged in his room making his toilet. 
               A servant entered, and announced that a gentleman below stairs wished to speak to him a moment on some important business. 
               "Business at this hour? who can it be?" 
               "I don't know, sir," replied the servant; "he has a package in his hand and says his business is particular." 
               "A package! Why, it may be a present from some lady who has been smitten ten with my personal appearance. Send the man up." 
               A moment later the person entered. It was the same whom we left in our last chapter. 
               Spencer saw at a glance that it was no servant, no common message bearer who entered the room. 
               "Take a seat, sir," said he; "you must excuse me for being round in my shirt sleeves; I am just preparing for the opera." 
               "Make no excuse, sir; you are precisely in the situation I wished to find you." 
               "May I inquire your business, sir?" 
               "Yes, sir, if we are alone. I have something confidential to communicate to you. Excuse me if I lock the door on the inside. I have a confidential present to make you, and servants are so inquisitive." 
               The stranger locked the door inside, and then turned to Spencer, who was startled by this proceeding. 
               "A present you say, sir!" stammered the latter; "from a lady may I ask?" 
               "Yes, sir!" said the stranger, with a pleasant smile. 
               "Ah! some one has been struck with my fine figure!" 
               "Yes, she did say something about your striking figure!" said the stranger smiling again. "By the way, sir, I will show you the present-it was sent by Miss Fanny!" 
               The stranger unrolled the package, and displayed to the astonished bean a cowhide and a plaster of pitch. 
               "Villain, what does this mean? Get out of my apartments. Leave, sir, or I'll shout for help!" cried Spencer. 
               "Speak one word louder than a whisper if you dare!" said the stranger, in a low, deep tone, as he drew a broad bladed bowie knife and held it within a foot of Spencer's breast. "Speak, and I'll cut your cursed cowardly heart out!" 
               "Do not murder me!" murmured Spencer, in a whisper. 
               "Now kneel down, you coward. Obey me, and I will not kill you; disobey, and you die!" 
               The pallid wretch knelt. 
               Quick as thought the stranger snatched a cravat from the dressing table and pinioned Spencer's hands behind him. Then in the same moment he placed the plaster of pitch over his mouth, so that he could not utter a wold, and could only breathe through his nostrils. 
               So sudden and unexpected, and so nicely was all this done, that Spencer could offer no resistance. 
               The stranger now deliberately cut the shift from Spencer's back, and then taking the cowhide in his hand, he exclaimed: 
               "I am about to show you, sir, what ought to be done with all men who offer to raise a hand against a woman, save in kindness. I am going to chastise you. Do not attempt to get up, or with the but end of this whip I shall floor you." 
               With a piteous, beseeching glance, the piteous wretch eyed him, his whole frame trembling with terror. But he met no mercy in the stranger's eye. The latter did not seem to be in the least excited-the same calm smile rested upon his pale face. 
               He raised the twisted thong-it whistled through the air, and came down with tremendous force on the bare body of his victim. Again and again, in rapid succession, it came down, cutting through the flesh at every blow. 
               Spencer writhed and struggled; he strove to rise, and the stranger, true to his word, felled him to the ground. He wasted a moment till his victim recovered his senses, then he placed his foot upon his neck, and continued the terrible infliction, until the man's body appeared like a mass of mangled meat, and he seemed insensible to pain. Then he rolled him over on his face, and poured the-contents of his wash bowl in his face to recover him. As soon as he saw that he came too enough to understand him, he said: 
               "This, sir, is your first lesson. If you ever trouble that lady in any way for this, my next one shall be more severe. You-may thank me that I leave life in you. I am a gentleman; no common bully or thief, or I should borrow you, watch and purse from the table there, though I expect neither of them are worth carrying off. Farewell, sir. I'll send a doctor to examine the effects on my blister application to your body. All, here is another visitor-a lady." 
               Fanny entered. She saw at a glance-how terribly he had been punished-she felt how much he deserved it. 
               "Are you ill, Mr. Spencer?" she said in a tone of irony; "why do you not rise to receive a lady? What, no reply? Will you not even address me. Then I will leave you. Good evening. Mr. Spencer; my carriage waits at the door to take me to the opera!" 
               "Good evening, sir," said the stranger. "I leave you that excellent raw hide to remember me by. "There was one taw hide when I entered the room-there are a pair now. Good night!" 
               Spencer was found nearly dead an hour afterwards by his servant. He did not attend the opera that night. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               THE LIBERTINE'S SCHEME. 
               Another day opens upon us, and introduces us to Clarence Morgan, who, seated in his apartment, was busily engaged in writing a note. He finished it, enveloped and sealed it, and after directing it, rang a small bell which lay upon the table. The servant entered the room. 
               "Send the boy up here!" he said; "I have an errand for him." 
               Shortly after a boy entered the room. 
               "Take this note to its direction Inquire for Miss Fanny Graham, and give it to her yourself-on that she has it, If she wants to know who sent it, say that a lady gave it to you to carry. Beware not to mention my name, and answer no questions. Do this errand right, and five dollars is ready for you on your return" 
               The boy took the note, and departed upon his errand. 
               "That will decoy the beauty off, and shall have my revenge on her. I have imitated the handwriting of Ida exactly; and if she meets the appointment she'll find stronger arms than those of a woman to enfold her. My plan cannot fail. See will not fail to meet me. I can blind all the police around, and get their help if I need it for fifty dollars. Now for Fanny, and my revenge!" 
                
               Fanny left her house to meet the appointment. 
               She little thought of the plot laid by that arch villain Morgan to inveigle her into his power. 
               She walked on, and deviated into the intricate windings and dingy alleys which crawl behind the splendid mansions of the western divisions of the metropolis, like colonies of snakes in slow procession behind the luxuriant borders of the walls of a rich parterre. Her movements had been watched by the vindictive foe who hung upon her track, and she had no sooner got entangled in the labyrinth which, had she been in a state of composure she would have experienced some difficulty in threading, then he promptly determined on the course he should pursue. 
               Darting down a court, he knew that by making tolerable good use of his legs he should be able to get considerably in advance of her; which he did, and, under a low archway, awaited her approach. 
               Fanny was carefully picking her way with gently uplifted dress, totally unconscious of danger, when all at once she felt herself violently dragged into a filthy entrance to a court composed of the most ricketty and dismal-looking dwellings imaginable. 
               She tried to scream for help, but one glance at the man who had assaulted her made her tongue cleave to her mouth in terror and astonishment. He was that dreaded being-her seducer! 
               "Speak a word louder than a whisper, and I'll throttle you!" said he, glancing ferociously upon her pallid countenance. 
               "Have mercy, Clarence!" 
               "Silence!" was the hoarse reply, as his hand grasped her like a vice by the shoulder, and he pushed her before him up the court until he gained one of the doorways, into which he thrust her, and, with as little difficulty as if she had been a child, forced her up into a room on the second floor, which he had no sooner entered than with a brutal oath he released his hold and sent her reeling to the other extremity. He then locked and barred the door, and, folding his arms, looked down triumphantly on what he considered his lawful prize. 
               Fanny, breathless and faint, leaned helplessly against the wall; and in this position the seduced and seducer remained for several minutes. 
               The apartment was a horribly squalid one. 
               The only furniture was a deal table, jagged like a butcher's block, a broken, backed chair, and a truckle bed with scanty coverings, as brown with age and dirt as the skin of a mulatto. 
               The window, which, like most attic ones, only gave an upward view, was small and strongly barred; and the entire place had very much the appearance of a burglar's stronghold, for there was no fireplace, and the fastenings of the door was peculiarly strong and suspicious-looking. 
               Fanny felt her heart sink as she cast one despairing glance around this dismal council room of crime; for in truth it was nothing else. 
               "I have got you at last, have I, my dainty one!" cried the villain, chuckling; and my name 's not Clarence Morgan if I don't have all I want out of you before we part!" 
               Fanny, upon hearing this threat, fell fainting to the floor. 
               A doom worse than death opened hideously before her, and overstrained nature mercifully gave way, and for a brief space plunged the faculties into oblivion. 
               "I'm in luck," thought Morgan; "she won't cry after this-women never do when they come out of these dieaways. Let's see whether she has any greenbacks about her, for I am getting rather short of the needful." 
               The heartless vagabond then proceeded to search the insensible form of his victim, and upon thrusting his hand into her bosom found her tolerably well-filled purse. 
               "Greenbacks, as I'm alive!" he ex claimed, as he told over the contents by the dim light that entered the room. Well, I'll just now have a little spree after a new fashion; and my name's not Morgan if I don't, have a glorious time with her!" 
               As he uttered this atrocious determination he struck a light, and held the emptied purse over it until it was entirely consumed. 
               He now produced some brandy and cigars, and then sat himself down, with all the coolness imaginable, to enjoy himself. 
               After he had tossed a few glasses off, he deigned to bestow a few glances upon his victim. 
               Finding her still in a state of insensibility sibility, he poured a copious supply of the raw spirit down her throat. 
               He then lifted her on to the miserable apology for a bed, and left her to recover as best she could. 
               He afterwards arranged his table so as to face his intended victim, and in smoking and drinking waited patiently for her recovery. 
               While he was thus employed, he was studying how he should not only gratify his libidinous propensities, but to torture his victim. 
               "I'll touch her to turn up her nose at me!" growled he, as he recognized symptoms of revival in the poor girl. 
               As Fanny slowly regained consciousness, she gazed round her for a while, utterly bewildered; but her wandering glances no sooner fell on the burly figure of Morgan, as it loomed in the dense smoke that filled the room, than she gave vent to a cry of stifled agony, and buried her face in the dirty bedclothes. 
               "So you have waked up, my precious have you?" said her cowardly tormentor, seating himself on the edge of the bed, and proceeding to disencumber her of her outward garments, which he laid carefully by, declaring with an offensive jest that they were just the thing take the swells in with. 
               Fanny was too weakened to resist this proceeding; but when Morgan was about to take off her dress, and had exposed her bosom, she piteously entreated him to forbear. 
               "You let me do it once as a joke-now I'll do it in earnest, just to please myself!" 
               Fanny resisted with her utmost strength; but she was as powerless as a mouse beneath the paws of a cat. 
               The beastly fellow subjected her to almost every indignity that can harrow up the feelings of a woman. 
               From time to time he indulged in copious libations of brandy. 
               Finding her struggles to retain her garments useless, she abandoned the attempt, to husband her powers for a resolute denial of the last favor a woman can grant. 
               Morgan, seeing that he had it all his own way, allowed himself a respite from his labors, for the purpose of having, as he thought, a very amusing bit of fun. 
               But this did not last long; for, as the dazzling white skin, warm plump flesh and beautiful white limbs of his victim met his sight, his fierce carnal nature became infuriated, and, with the howl of a wild beast, he flung himself upon the bed. 
               We must draw a veil over that fearful contest; but in the end the ruffian was baffled! 
               Fanny had sworn to resist his embraces, and nobly did she keep her oath. To his blind, drunken fury she offered the resistance of the eel, and, slipping from his grasp so repeatedly, his frame every two or three seconds fell heavily to the floor, and he several times ran his head in full tilt against the wall, and brought the blood gushing in streams from his mouth, nose and ears. 
               At last Fanny took advantage of one of his staggering gyrations, and with the large stone bottle she had picked up from the floor dealt him such a blow on the temple that it broke in a hundred pieces, and he dropped down with the dull groan of a felled bullock. 
               Fanny stood for a moment panting, while her eyes drank in the outlines of her prostrate foe with savage exultation. 
               "I have baffled the wretch," she gasped. "I swore he should never touch me again alive, and I have kept my oath!" 
               The gleam of a knife came before her vision-to clutch it, kneel by the snorting monster's side and bare his hairy bosom, was but the work of an instant. 
                
               Her attitude was fearful. 
               Her arms, bosom and breasts were entirely naked. 
               Her hair hung in disordered masses on her snowy shoulders. 
               And her lower garments were so torn that they revealed her polished limbs in all their exquisite proportions. 
               Her face, ordinarily so arch in its warm play of features, was pale with ferocity. 
               One blow-her slender finger was on he spot where she should strike-and she would be revenged. 
               She hesitated-her features relaxed into a cold smile, and she softly said: 
               "That would be murder, not revenge. For his worthless life, mine would be claimed for the gallows! No, no. I will have a more terrible revenge. And here, on my bare and bended knees, I swear it!" 
               The whole of her oath is too fearful to record. 
               O, woman! thou art bitter in thy retaliations for monstrous wrongs as thou art sweet and gentle in thy love; and woe be it to the man who provokes thy unappeasable anger. He had better encounter the tiger in his jungle, or the serpent in its grassy shade, than the indomitable ferocity of thy outraged instincts. When roused thou art capable of resentments that would appal the hearts of the most savage of men. 
               Husbands either do not know or despise the truth; and behold how our daily records describe their slow agonies and sudden ends? 
               But to our narrative. 
               Fanny arrayed herself as she best could in her torn and sullied garments, tied up her hair so as to let it fall in dark braids on her pale cheeks, and, putting on her crushed little bonnet, with the key that hung on a nail in the wall, let herself out of that apartment of horrors, and carefully locked the massive door after her, thus making a prisoner of the man who had, in a few hours of unholy contention, severed the last link that bound them together, not as active enemies. 
               She could have forgiven the past; but the recent occurrence recalled it in all its deformity, and the deep suppression of both acting upon her excited organization, produced a vow of vengeance as terrible as its fulfilment was destined to be sure and exactive. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               AN EXCITING SCENE. 
               We will now introduce the reader to a scene of startling interest. 
               It is a deathbed scene. That of a young girl. 
               Man has been to work here. Behold his work! 
               The room is poorly furnished; it is the abode of poverty. An old woman, with her head leaning over the fireless grate, was smoking from a short pipe, the fumes of which she puffed up the chimney, and between every "draw" turned to cast a glance of malignant hatred on the prostrate form of a man, which she watched intensely with her glittering, rat-like eyes. 
               That prostrate man was Spencer, whose severe castigation was recorded in chapter twenty. 
               Two men, in the garb of mechanics, who appeared about, the middle age, and were strong and thick set in figure, were seated in the same room. 
               But there was a peculiarity of expression in their bronzed and hairy faces which spoke of evil passions, coarse indulgencies, and familiarity with scenes of violence and mischief. 
               One of them appeared to be laboring under excessive emotion, for his frame shook, and his eye moistened as he 
                  nced at the ominously-still bed, and then, as he directed them to where Spencer lay, they would glare with intense ferocity. 
               "She is waking," whispered the old woman, whose more acute hearing had caught the sound of the rustle of the bed clothes; "when does the tide turn?" 
               "At seven," lowly replied the more indifferent of the two men. 
               The old woman gave vent to a groan, and then retired again to the chimney corner. 
               "Father!" uttered a feeble female voice from the bed. 
               The curtains were hastily, but gently put aside, and the sun, which had long before poured its beams into the room, fell upon the pallid features of a young girl, evidently in the last stage of that fell disease-consumption. 
               She must have once been pretty; for her face was cast in a delicate mould; her nose, though now pinched and sunken, was beautifully formed, and her mouth small and slightly pouting over a dimpled chin. Her eyes were of winning blue, and her auburn hair was very neatly braided on her pale and sunken checks. 
               "Father!" she murmured. 
               "Yes, dear," responded the man, whose agitation has been noticed. 
               "Shall I see him before I die, as you promised. 
               "I swear you shall!" was the hushed reply; but keep quiet; you will soon be better, my poor child!" 
               The sob that accompanied this assurance prevented further utterance, for, from the change that was rapidly 
                     taking taking
                     taking
                   place in the invalid's countenance, the agonised parent saw that all would soon be over." 
               "Wake him up, Bill," he hurriedly whispered to his companion; "give him water, brandy or hell fire, but wake him up-my child must die in peace!" 
               Bill proceeded to do as he was bidden, and, with prudent forethought, dragged the still insensible Spencer into an outhouse at the rear of the premises. 
               "Bill," said the father, suddenly standing in the doorway; "when he comes to, tell him all about my poor girl; you know what to say-her dying request; say nothing about the serving out-palaver him over!" 
               "Leave it all to me, Ned; I love the child as if she was my own," replied Bill, in the same low key, as he commenced operations by taking off Spencer's handkerchief, and propped him in a sitting posture against the wall. 
               "Father," are you sure he will come; did he promise?" inquired the dying girl, with touching confidence. 
               "He did, my pretty one," said the father, choking with grief. "Don't talk; be quiet, darling, as the doctor wished you; do, Mary, for my-your poor father's sake!" 
               The girl, by a motion of her eyes and mouth, desired her father to kiss her. 
               He did so; and as she appeared to be dozing off to sleep, that man of sin knelt down, and for the first time since he was a boy, prayed for the salvation of his deceived and broken hearted child. 
               It was a blessed space in that man's life, put up to the throne of Sovereign Goodness! 
               And who knows, but in that glorious interval stolen from the hours of blood-red passion, but many a deed of guilt was wiped away for ever? 
               Be that as it may, he was soon recalled from his prostrate attitude by the feeble moanings of the dying girl. 
               "Spencer!" she muttered. 
               "Is here," said Bill, softly, as he rather dragged than led that person to the bedside. 
               "Spencer!" she again murmured, a smile like the first faint blush of morn radiating her countenance, as she recognised her seducer-"one kiss!-it will be the last poor Mary will ever give you!" 
                
               Spencer, whose hair was damp and matted, his face haggard and eyes bloodshot, mechanically stooped down and took the proffered salute, 
               "Father-dear father-do you forgive me?" gently sighed the now fast sinking girl. 
               "I do, I do; but you need it not-you are as pure as one of God's angels!" sobbed the wretched parent, as he buried his face in the bedclothes. 
               The smile deepened into one of ineffable joy; the dove-like eyes fastened a forgiving look on her undoer, and, with a gently-drawn sigh, all was over. 
               "She's gone-the tide's turned!" said the old woman, softly, as if afraid of disturbing the dead. 
               Spencer, upon whom the announcement operated like an electric shock, 'turned to flee. 
               But a gripe of iron was laid upon his shoulder, and a stern visage peered menacingly into his. 
               "We havn't done with you yet," said Bill. 
               "Give me back my child!" shouted the bereaved parent, springing to his feet, and seizing Spencer savagely by the throat. 
               The minutes of the latter would have been few indeed had not the overtaxed energies of his assailant suddenly given way, and he have fallen back on the bed insensible. 
               Bill, with a sudden jerk, threw Spencer violently on the floor, and, kneeling on his chest, with the willingly afforded aid of the old woman, bound his arms securely to his side. 
               That done, the feet had similar restraint imposed on them 
               The now thoroughly exhausted Spencer was dragged by the heels to the outhouse, and deposited in a corner on some straw, with as much deliberation as if he had been a log of wood. 
               "Mercy!" he gasped. "I have wealth; a thousand dollars-" 
               The only reply was the bang of the door as it closed upon him, and the gruff voice of Bill saying to the old woman: 
               "Give him water or brandy in abundance, but not a bit of grub-not even a dry crust. He let that poor dead girl starve to death; and now let him feel what it is to be hungry, and cold, and wet!" 
               The old woman chuckled forth a law laugh. 
               And Spencer, the rich, the fashionable Spencer, the most accomplished and successful gallant of the day, was left to his dismal meditations. 
               He had a conviction every moment freezing his heart's blood, that only a few yards' distance from him lay the inanimate remains of the once simple girl, whom, with his fine person and warm promises, he had lured from virtue and the peaceful avocations which she adorned by her nearness, taste and honest industry. 
               On the following day there was a very humble funeral in the churchyard near by. 
               On the coffin was simply inscribed "Mary." 
               The only mourners were the father and the man designated as "Bill." 
               Both were pale; but beyond that neither of them betrayed any other signs of emotion. 
               They waited until the grave had been tilled up, and then slowly and sadly left spot. 
               "She's gone!" said Bill; "so don't take it to heart. This is a queer world for the womenfolk. If they goes a point out of their proper course they take it to heart, and those that does the same and is never found out begins abusing of them, and the poor things either takes to drink, or jumps into the river, or dies sweetly." 
               "If it warn't for serving that swell out, I'd wish to be in the coffin with her," said the father. 
               "Hold up, Ned! Mary's better off than we are. She's in a place we'll never darken." 
               Upon arriving at the solitary house, which looked more dismal by day than night, the pair adjourned to the rear of the premises, and by means of a trap door descended into a long passage, leading to a number of vaults, which in former times had evidently been used for contraband purposes. 
                
               They each carried a lighted candle to guide them, and, upon arriving at a low, massive-looking door, undid the fastenings on the outside, and admitted themselves into a recess or cell, the roof of which barely permitted them to stand upright. 
               In a corner, upon some newly-spread straw, sat Spencer. 
               A pitcher of water and a loaf of bread was by his side, together with a black bottle, evidently containing something for more potent than the liquid in the other utensil. 
               Spencer, whose appearance was really wretched in the extreme, was fastened to the wall by means of a strong chain some three feet in length. 
               He evidently considered that the hour of his final doom had arrived, and had summoned up resolution to meet it with fortitude. 
               But to die in such a horrible place, far away from friends, home, and the multitude of affections which cling around the heartstrings of even the most dissipated, was too much for his endurance. He asked for mercy. 
               "What mercy did you show my child!" demanded the father. "A year ago she was a good, virtuous girl-three weeks ago I found her dying of cold and hunger-starved to death, villain; and all through your base treachery! My God! I wonder what keeps me from tearing you to pieces!" 
               "Be cool, Ned; a promise is a promise," interposed Bill, "and it ought to be kept." 
               "I will keep it, Bill," rejoined his companion; "but I must speak. What good did it do you to ruin my poor, innocent child?" 
               The guilty can only make specious defences. 
               Spencer little thought when he seduced the milliner's pretty apprentice, that he would ever have to be called to account for the deed. 
               "She voluntarily consented to avail herself of my protection, and left me of her own accord," said lie, falteringly. 
               "It's a lie!" thundered the indignant father; "you introduced yourself to her under a false name, and left her three weeks after she went to live with you. She told me all, and how, to prevent going altogether to ruin, as she had seen other girls do, she took to needlework-to making those d-d cheap shirts, that I wonder don't blister the backs of the man who wear them; and by sharing a garret with another victim of the cursed Jews of New York-the curse of God light on the whole tribe!-she managed to live on bread and tea, and perhaps a potatoe now and then, until one day she saw you in a fine carriage, and found out that you were not Frederick Smith, the linendraper's assistant, who only waited for a berth to marry her. But she found you had deceived her. From that moment she sickened and pined away, until she could work no longer, and then she starved, for her fellow-lodger had died of the fever. An acquaintance of mine heard of her by accident, and that's how I brought her to my place, and tended her until she went to heaven, like a blessed angel as she was." 
               "May God forgive me!" exclaimed Spencer, burying his face in his hands. 
               "Well may you ask that," resumed the father; and, unheeding the interruption, went on with what he bad evidently charged himself to deliver before consummating his purpose. 
               "She prayed to see you, and I wrote to you, and called several times, but you took no notice; and seeing that she was fast going, and wouldn't die happy without seeing you, I put some hands on your track, and at last took you as you was coming out of your house. That's all I have got to say; and now hearken to what I am going to do to you, just by way of revenge." 
               "Would you murder me in cold blood!" interrupted Spencer, horror struck at the cold, malignant smile that swept over the man's face. 
               "Murder you!" replied the man, sneeringly; "what good would that do me! No, no; I promised HER not to kill you, and I'll keep my word; but I'll make you howl like a mad dog before I have done with you. Just look round the nice little place you are in!" 
               Spencer could not resist casting a glance at the fearful vault that was his prison, and shuddered convulsively as he did so. 
               "Well, then, my precious jewel," said the man, with an unearthly chuckle, "just consider it an eligible little freehold of your own!" 
               Spencer started up with a cry of horror. 
               "It is a fact," continued the man; "here you live and here you die, if it was a hundred years to come; so, as you'll have plenty of time on your hands, I hope you'll make good use of it. You'll never see me again, so take the curse of a man in whom all mercy died when his child expire; and may the ghosts of all the girls whom you have murdered haunt you night and day!" 
               This malediction was uttered with passionate energy, and when he had concluded he turned abruptly on his heel. 
               "In the matter of grub," said Bill, in a mocking tone of consolation, "you'll have lashings of bread and water, and a quartern of gin every day to keep the steam up; and as to company, you will find the rats rather lively, especially when the tide's up!" 
               The pair then left, and carefully locked and barred the door. 
               Spencer, thus left in utter darkness, gave vent to a piercing cry of agony. 
               He fell back, utterly crushed by the hideous doom which his punishers had inflicted upon him. 
               After the lapse of many hours, consciousness returned, to disclose to him once more the frightful horrors of his situation. 
               It was appalling; not a sound reached his ears, save, now and then, the squeak of a rat; and the darkness was rendered more intense by the small red spots which his weakened vision threw into it. 
               He groaned and wept, and for the first time in his life that haughty man felt humbled and subdued. 
               He tried to pray; but the words died away in rattles in his throat, and all he could do was to weep. 
               After a while he became more composed; and, feeling the gnawing pangs of hunger-for he had eaten nothing for upwards of forty hours-he groped about for the bread and water, which, having found, he partook of ravenously. 
               The spirit bottle having also fallen in his way, he took a hearty draught; and then, completely tired out and exhausted, lay down, and was soon in a sound, refreshing slumber. 
               How long he slept he had no means of ascertaining; it must have been for many hours, for when he was a wakened, by the jarring of the door opening and shutting, he felt considerably refreshed. 
               His day's allowance was placed within his reach by some person who maintained a rigid silence; and for seven days did this painfully regular visit occur. 
               Spencer, into whose very marrow the chill and damp of his cell seemed to have penetrated, was rapidly sinking into the despair which produces madness-life had become a heavy burden to him in that dreadful darkness, and it was probable he would have dashed out his brains on the wall, had not relief come most opportunely and unexpectedly. 
               It was on the eighth day, about the hour, as he guessed, his food usually came, when, as the door opened, a dazzling light from a lamp darted into the dungeon, and half blinded his weakened eyes. 
               When he had become able to endure it, he observed that it was borne by a man of ghastly visage, who supported himself by leaning on a staff. 
               Long sickness, or some other prostrating cause, had reduced a once evidently remarkably vigorous frame; and although perhaps from the smoothness of his face, he might not have been supposed in reality to have exceeded thirty years of age, gave him the appearance of fifty years. 
               He was closely shaven, but his hair was white as snow. 
               Spencer at first imagined the figure to be an illusion of his disordered brain, or the ghost of some former tenant of his noisome dungeon. 
               It was not until the intruder had spoken that he was assured of his being a really flesh and blood creation. 
               "Be not afraid!" said the spectre-looking man, in hollow tones; "I have partly heard your story, and pity you. Now I am, or rather used to be, a blunt kind of man, and all that I can say is, if I serve you will you serve me?" 
               "Give me liberty-let me see the blue sky once more," said Spencer, catching with extraordinary avidity at the prospect of release that opened thus dimly upon him; and the moment I reach my residence a thousand dollars shall be yours!" 
               The man, who seemed to have hardly any life in his body, coldly assented to the offer, but annexed two conditions. 
               "What are they?" asked Spencer. 
               "First, that you give me a situation in your house-anything; I don't care what it is-I only want to spend the rest of my days under your roof." 
               "Granted." 
               "The second is, that you never tell any one how you got in and out of this horrible place!" 
               "I cannot do the latter; for I shall surely prosecute the ruffians!" objected Spencer, excitedly, forgetting that he had to accept, not make, conditions. 
               "Then you must stay here." 
               And the man turned to totter from the room. 
               Spencer instantly saw his mistake, and gave the required promise. 
               "You must swear to it!" 
               Spencer readily complied; but was somewhat astounded and alarmed when blood, drawn from his arm, was insisted upon as a ratifying accompaniment. 
               The oath was a shockingly blasphemous one, and made Spencer shudder as it was administered to him. 
               Everything being agreed upon, the man said: 
               "We ought to be friends." 
               "I shall be ever grateful for such an unlooked-for and timely rescue," replied Spencer, warmly; "but for heaven's sake knock this cursed chain from my log!" 
               The man handed him a key, and, as he did so, said: 
               "Our cause is a common one. You've been the victim of-" 
               "Man's hatred and revenge-the bitterest passions in existence," returned Spencer. 
               "More bitter in a woman," said the man, his palsied-looking body quivering again. 
               Spencer had now disengaged himself from the manacle, and eagerly pressed forward to make his escape. 
               "Hold! You must be blindfolded. You would be murdered if seen without being so." 
               Spencer for some time strongly objected to this. 
               "Well, then, I don't stir; and without me you would as soon get out of this place as a mouse would out of a stock trap. Don't hesitate, for time is precious; for I heartily wish you may got out as soon as possible; for in obliging you I oblige myself." 
               This was unanswerable. 
               And his conductor, trembling excessively while he did it, securely bound a handkerchief over his eyes. 
               That done, he was taken by the hand, and led for nearly an hour along filthy passages, some of them so low that he had frequently to crawl along on his hands and knees, until he emerged into the open air. 
               And oh, how refreshing to him were the first bracing draughts! 
               No parched traveller in the desert over quaffed the long-sought waters of a gushing spring with more delight. 
               At last they reached the river side, and embarked in a boat; and when it had been rowed for perhaps half an hour, Spencer was allowed the privilege of looking round him. 
               The time, he found, was night, and he had passed Brooklyn; and the tide being favorable, soon reached Peck slip, where he, together with his liberator was landed 
               A carriage was procured; and the very strangely assorted pair, each indulging in warm, but totally opposite kinds of exultation, were driven to the residence of Spencer in University place. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               THE FORTUNE-TELLER OF BLEECKER STREET. 
               Now, reader, go with us to the residence of the fortune-teller introduced to you in a previous chapter. 
               It was on the occasion of the visit of Fanny and Ida Clarence, who wished to have their fortunes told. 
               The house was conducted by Dr. Careau and his wife, and was situated in the most aristocratic part of Bleecker Street, and was well patronised by both ladies and gentlemen-especially by the former. 
               Dr. Careau was one of those mysterious men who wear generations out, and yet retain possession of a wonderful bodily and mental vigor. 
               He was one of those natural curiosities who are links between the past and the present, and whose lives seem to be spun out like a thread of cotton, attenuated to a surprising fitness and extraordinary length. Thin, wiry and bronzed, they appear more like Egyptian mummies than animated creatures. 
               Yet what a brightness is in their eyes! what an unyielding firmness in the play of their features! 
               And how, when after sitting in as solemn a repose as grey-haired Saturn, turned to stone, they will start up as if moved by invisible wires, or re-animated by a touch of the life-giving power of the world-electricity. 
               But all the warmer human passions do not die in them; there is one which lives, and breathes mellow tones, until the last string of the instruments snaps asunder-it is the love of children. 
               A man may be as withered as a hoary tree, and as frozen as the ancient god, but at the sight of a child, "fresh, with all its youthful pulses playing," the long-closed chamber of his soul will open to receive it, and he will caress it as tenderly as its mother would; his eyes will beam upon it with a fond expression; and, as he plays with its fine, silken hair, and dreamily listens to its prattling, sweet visions of his own young days will steal upon his memory, and open up a gushing fount of the undying and inexhaustible love that mingles with and cherishes all human existence. 
               With extreme age, petulence, doubt and suspicion vanish in the presence of a lovely child; and, in the reciprocity of the affection, how beautifully it is acknowledged that the child is the father of the man. 
               Dr. Careau was one of those cold, arbitrary old men, who, having apparently outlived all the uses for whose service the truest and noblest impulses were created, seem to look upon them with dry scorn and contempt; but he, like all his mummy prototypes, had a warm corner in his slow-beating heart, and it was occupied by a devotion for the dark eyed girl who crept to his knee in the darkness, and sang for him, or talked with childhood's rapture of the green fields and bright flowers that gem the earth as brilliantly as do the hues of health a virgin's cheek. 
               This young girl, or rather child-for she had not yet attained fourteen years of age-was the clairvoyant Mary, mentioned in previous chapters; and a more intelligent and docile creature never lived. 
               Her shrewdness and vivid imagination were of great service to her protectors, or as she had been taught to believe, parents, in their systematic and cleverly managed mesmeric and other deceptions on the gullible public. 
               Her strong, retentive memory, and a cultivated poetical mode of expression, enabled her to go through the prescribed routine of her revelations with remarkable fluency and accuracy. All her senses, especially those of touch and hearing, were so acute that she understood stood the slightest signal which her conductress gave her. 
               Madame Careau was her tutoress; and, owing to that personage's very prolific source of information and her intimate acquaintance with the secret acts of New York life, high as well as low, she was enabled through Mary, the fair clairvoyant, to make many a proud beauty tremble and quiver at her revelations. 
               The doctor, who had loved Mary from her birth, took delight in instructing her in all that forms the intellectual education of a woman. The rest he left to his copartner; but Mary did not thrive under the instruction. 
               Her accomplishments, beyond a natural and cultivated love of music, were extremely limited; for, when emancipated from control and permitted to rove over the house, she was as giddy and wild as a kitten. And no wonder; for her only playmates were the doctor and Leoline, the bear. 
               The doctor fell into one of his reveries, which lasted for some time, and when he awoke from it he found Mary seated on a hassock at his feet, and the bear crouched beside her. 
               The doctor bestowed an earnest gaze the classic dark eyes of the child as they looked up in his, and putting her head playfully, inquired what she was thinking about. 
               "I was wondering whether Leoline had got a soul like me," she replied. 
               "Have you thought often of these things, child?" said the doctor. 
               "Yes. And many things I have seen and thought of when in the trance have come true, father," said Mary. 
               "Name one thing that has been verified," said the doctor. 
               "Oh, I could mention twenty; but one was very strange-at least I thought so. Long, long ago I dreamt that I saw a handsome dark lady; she looked into my face, and in a voice soft as a late, said, 'My child?' I looked up and said, 'Mother!' Then she caressed me, and as she did so, I felt her tears fall on my face, and she vanished. Long, long after that, a dark lady came to mamma's to have her fortune told, and I saw that she was the same that I had seen in my dreams. I saw her again in Centre Park, and she looked at me just the same way as she did when I was in my sleep. Wasn't that strange, father?" 
               "It was," replied the doctor, his mind wandering to scenes that occurred some fourteen years previous, and then travelling to a speculation about the future. 
               "Oh, how pleased I should be see that lady again. Oh, she was so handsome!" 
               The doctor mused a moment, and then putting his lips to the child's ear, whispered- 
               "Your wish shall be gratified. You shall see that lady, and lie on her bosom if you please. 
               "Oh, shall I!" exclaimed Mary, clapping her hands, and giving way to all the exuberant mirth of childhood. 
               "But not a word of this to mamma!" cautioned the doctor. 
               "No, father; and now I remember, mamma said I was never to speak to that beautiful woman only as she told me." 
               "Hush!" said the doctor, kissing her; "keep the secret, and I will keep my promise." 
               Mary threw herself into his arms, and the old man folded her tenderly on his bosom. 
               A knock at this moment sounded as the door; and the doctor, who always prudently reconnoitered before he admitted a visitor, upon opening the slide, as his amazement discovered a lady, closely veiled. 
               "Can I speak with Dr. Careau?" she inquired, in sweet but rather tremulous tones. 
               The doctor promptly answered in the affirmative, and, after closing the slide, dismissed Mary with a kiss. 
               Upon admitting the lady, she proved to be tall, graceful and commanding in figure, with an easy, graceful carriage of the body; but so closely veiled, that the whole of her features, with the exception of two flashing eyes, were completely concealed. 
               "Another slip," thought the doctor, as he handed her a seat. 
               As she took it, he noticed that she trembled excessively. 
               A rather awkward pause ensued, which was broken by the doctor's requiring now he might be of service to her. 
               "How long have you occupied these premises!" asked the lady, her agitation increasing as she glanced round the room, and apparently recognised many of its feature. 
               "More years, madam, than you have numbered," replied the doctor, not at all surprised at the question; for he was frequently revisited by old patients; "for forty years this room has been my study my chamber of consultation, and my closet of ease and retirement from a world I never loved." 
               The tones of his well-remembered voice-who that had once heard its cold steel like intonations could ever forget them?-thrilled through the lady and her emotion became so violent that the doctor handed her a restorative mixture, which he always had ready prepared for such emergencies. 
               She took, but without removing her veil; and, after becoming more composed, she tremblingly began her queries: 
               "Fourteen years ago, a young lady, one winter's evening, came to his house; she was very young and--" 
               "Very pretty," said the doctor, seeing that she hesitated; "and that I presume was the cause of her coming to me." 
               "Do you remember the circumstance?" inquired the lady, eagerly. 
               The doctor shook his head, and drily remarked, that, at the particular distance of time referred to by his visitor, he was honored by the confidence of so many young and beautiful ladies, that, without the precise date and some supporting details, he could not tax his memory with any particular instances in which he had rendered professional services. 
               "The night was a dark December one, and a storm swept over the city. The lady-or rather girl, for she had not attained the age of seventeen-was brought hither by a-a-" 
               "A midwife?" 
               "Yes." 
               "The case was a difficult one, then. Proceed, and I will endeavor to recollect it." 
               'The girl, as well as her pain would allow her, implored for secrecy-a large sum of money was paid-can you recollect from that fact?" 
               "No, indeed, I cannot. You give too meagre an outline. Describe the case itself. Was it a simple delivery or an extinction?" 
               The lady's whole frame shook, as, yielding to an uncontrollable impulse, she replied: 
               "It was her desire, expressed through the medium of her attendant, to be relieved from the burden of a shame incurred in moments of levity and youthful indiscretion." 
               "The day of the month, if you can recollect it?" asked the doctor, with professional brevity. 
               "The tenth of December, 18-." 
               The doctor quietly turned over the leaves of the huge book to which allusion has been made, and having arrived at the page for which he had been seeking, read the following pithy paragraph: 
               "Ida Fitzherbert, delivered by me of a female child, December 10, 18-." 
               The lady bounded up from her seat as if plucked from it by some strong invisible hand, and the action, throwing aside her veil,  revealed a countenance whose lineaments the doctor well remembered. 
               "My God!" exclaimed she, clasping her hands together, "you know all!" 
               "I do, my dear madam; but pray be composed-there is not the slightest necessity for this intense agitation." 
               "Do you recognise me?" 
               "Most certainly, I never forget the faces I had once seen. Your charms have ripened into the luxuriant woman; but there are the same brilliant black eyes, the same splendid features and raven tresses, and the same sylph-like, but perhaps, more fully developed figure." 
               The lady sank back into her seat, her countenance paling and flushing under the pressure of a multitude of deep and terrible emotions. 
               "The child-what became of it?" at length she gasped forth. 
               The doctor paused a moment, and, as if desirous of testing her strength of nerve or affection, said: 
               "It was, if I remember correctly, your repeatedly and vehemently expressed desire, that it should not be born alive?" 
               The lady groaned, and then, in piteous accents, implored to be told the truth. 
               "Your instructions, lady, were imperative," said the doctor, severely. 
               "They were; but do not taunt me now with the unnatural crime. I was mad then, and wished to bury my infatuation in endless oblivion. Now a most unaccountable yearning possesses me. I pant to see and embrace my child, if living-or if dead to be assured of the fact, and then strive to forget her, as I have forgotten her father. I implore-I beg-I pray of you-do not keep me in suspense-tell me the truth!" 
               "The child was born alive!" said the doctor. 
               "Did it live?" inquired the mother, anxiously. 
               "It did; but was a fragile, delicate thing. To conceal your situation you laced so tightly that it is a wonder a living child was born at all." 
               The lady very well remembered all the shifts and expedients to which she had had recourse to conceal her pregnancy. 
               The half-suppressed accusation and ironical remarks her appearance excited, a burning blush suffused her face, but soon gave place to a deadly pallor, as she inquired what became of her off-spring. 
               The doctor, with the promise he had given to Mary so fresh in his mind, felt an inclination sterling over him to introduce the mother to the child; out the reflection that he have to part with his favorite, and provoke the enmity of his copartner, Mrs. Careau, restrained him, and he resolved to delay a candid explanation until after his 
                     inter-terview
                     interview
                   with her. 
               The agony, through, depicted in the beautiful countenance of Ida touched him sensibly. 
               Old as he was, he was not adamant to a woman's appeal. 
               His peculiar notions of the value of human nature did not comprise of the torture which only a woman can inflict upon a woman. 
               He, therefore, determined to allow a ray or two of light to penetrate the total darkness that surrounded the guilty, but still not wholly vitiated mother. 
               "As soon as the child was born it was carried away by the person who officiated as nurse. You, believing it dead, were impatient to get away, and at the end of the third day departed, with the conviction that the affair would henceforth remain a profound secret. On the same day I again saw the child, and was amazed at beholding it alive and likely to thrive. I paid it all the attention which my skill could suggest, and at the end of a month was gratified at seeing that it promised to be as likely a child as any I had ever seen brought up by hand." 
               "But what became of it? You torture me!" said the mother. 
               "It was seat out, together with two other children, to be nursed in the country." 
               "Did you see it afterwards?" 
               "I did." 
               "Well?" 
               "It throve well." 
               "Is it alive?" 
               "It is, for aught I know to the country." 
               "Merciful powers! Where-oh, tell me where?" 
               "I can ascertain," said the doctor, evasively. 
               "Will you promise me to do so, and soon? Oh, let it be soon! To-day-to-morrow!" 
               "It shall be as soon as I can; but I cannot say whether to day or to-morrow indeed, or this week; but he satisfied that I shall keep my word. I have hitherto done so, and am too old now to begin the experiment of a new course of life." 
               The lady frantically entreated that more expedition should be used in the inquiry. 
               The doctor, however, was obdurate, but tried to pacify her, that she at length placed implicit reliance on his solemn assurance, the more especially as it rested on a solemn foundation-the hope and certainty of receiving a promised five hundred dollars in case of success." 
               "After the lapse of fourteen years without one word of inquiry about your child, it appears strange-you will pardon me when I say so-strange that you should be suddenly and earnestly interested about its welfare!" said the doctor, eyeing her intently. 
               "I am about going South," she said, "perhaps forever; and wished to know its fate before I departed." 
               "But have you not all along labored under the conviction that it was no more!" 
               "I certainly did until quite recently." she replied. 
               She then explained to the doctor the particulars of the revelation scene at Madame Careau's. 
               The doctor, of course, knew all this before. 
               In answer to her inquiry as to whether any human being had the faculty of ceiling the past and foretelling the future in any individual's conduct, gravely replied in the affirmative. 
               "The soul," said he, "can be disengaged from the body, and, untramelled, exercise its illimitable power of prescience. It can read the past and the future as plainly as we can the occurrences of the present." 
               "I am incline to think so," said the lady; "for the little girl whom I saw at the mesmerist's told me of things of which I thought-indeed felt positive-that no human being had the slightest knowledge." 
               "It is even so. As one of our greatest writers has declared, 'There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in the philosophy of any of us.' The souls of the living and the dead are the same; but in the living they are so trammelled by the body, that their power is only exhibited in their momentary emancipations from its real slavery. Mesmerism effects this liberation, and astonishes us with the mysteries of quite another world." 
               This species of philosophical explanation was not clear to the material mind of Ida; and perhaps that may account for her having fallen into a reverie, which lasted several minutes. At last she said: 
               "I am aware that you learned men hold the mysteries of the Catholic church in contempt; and you will doubtless smile at my asking you to favor me as you did before." 
               A smile, cold as that which mocks the marble lips of a statue, played round the doctor's mouth, as he comprehended the whole of the moral scheme of the lady before him. 
               "Have you been to confession since I last saw you?" said he. 
               "Not since my marriage," she replied. "My husband was an infidel, and prohibited it altogether; and I-I-" 
               "Being too much engaged with other duties, did not think proper to disobey his commands," said the doctor. 
               "Habit is powerful, learned sir; and, having fallen into other company, I acquired their manners and tones of thinking. But all my ancestors belonged to the Catholic church; and this insatiable longing to do justice to my child, has awakened a desire to once more receive religious consolation from a minister of my own creed. Will you oblige me now as you formerly did?" 
               "I will with pleasure. Come to me about this hour to-morrow, and you may unburden yourself to one of your own clergy-a pious, holy man. 
               The lady murmured her thanks; and, after placing a substantial sum in the doctor's hands, departed. 
               "A true daughter of a corrupt church, indeed." chuckled the doctor as soon as she had gone; she would confess her past iniquities, do do penance, and then begin as jovially as ever. She shall pay handsomely for the accommodation; and I do not see why I should not play the priest myself. I have done in before; but bah! I am now only fit to listen to the prattle of children. The twaddle that should comfort sinful manhood and womanhood must fall from more buxom lips than mine. I must be cautious, though, or all will be discovered." 
               A door in one of the panels opened and in walked Madame Careau, rubbing her hands and smiling, as if delighted with herself. 
               "Guess whose coming?" said she. 
               "Don't know. Now guess who's been here!" 
               "Can't tell-guess first." 
               "Cannot." 
               "Captain Morris." 
               "Whew!" said the doctor. 
               "You will like Walter when you see him. He is one of those brave, dashing fellows who take the world as they find it." 
               "He is welcome, Jackina." 
               "You said you had had somebody here-who was it!" 
               "A friend of yours, I believe-one Mrs. Smith, formerly Ida Fitzherbert." 
               Madame Careau stared, as if struck with astonishment at this announcement. 
               "What did she want?" 
               "Her child!" 
               "Indeed! Then the hints I threw out to her, like baits, have taken. What did you say!" 
               "Admitted the fact of the child's being born alive, and still living." 
               "Did she wish to see it?" inquired Madame Careau, eagerly. 
               "She was half frantic in her desire; and I half promised she should have the child." 
               "That she never shall!" said Madame Careau, vehemently. "Sooner than let her have the sweet consolation of a mother, I'd bury a knife in the child's heart and rip it out before her face-the faggot!" 
               "The hatred you hear that woman is singularly intense," said late doctor, settling himself down in his easy chair, I regarding Madame Careau with an air of curiosity. "I don't love my fellow-creatures-indeed for sixty years I have waged war upon them-but I don't remember ever hating any one in particular for any length of time. I rather suspect, Jackina, that in your violent dislike of the whole of your sex, you single out individuals, and wreak upon them the whole of your revenge." 
               A malignant expression crossed the features of the old woman, as she bitterly replied: 
               "Indiscriminate hatred is like indiscriminate a love-false and hollow-a mere morbid affection, which is perpetually passing a shadow. Real hatred can only be sustained by the presence of objects on which to pour out its wrath. Now I have these of objects-they are before my eyes-and that woman is one of them." 
               "But hatred, like love, must be based on a motive!" interposed the doctor. 
               "I am perfectly aware of that; and my hatred of that woman, superbly beautiful as she is, is so intense that there is no hell of torment deep enough for me to plunge her into." 
               "But the cause-the cause, Jackina!" inquired the doctor, showing signs of impatience. 
               "Is this: when I had fallen, as the world, with its mocking hypocrisy terms it, from the high estate of woman, and carried the fruits of my obedience to a natural law in my arms, the parents of that woman spurned me from their door as a harlot and strumpet and threatened to let loose their dogs upon me if I did not fly. I turned and cursed them and all their race; and well have I kept my oath. I was bat a beggar then; but I have lived to see them all but two buried as beggars, and rated lower in the world's opinion than the poor girl they kicked from their doors. She and a childless uncle are all that survive of the accursed race." 
               "She, I presume, will be his heiress?" said the doctor. 
               "She entertains the hope," replied Madame Careau; "but it will never be realized; for the obstinate old fool loves chastity so dearly, that he would cast his own child upon the pitiless world if she committed an error. The child of Ida's, therefore, will be damning proof against her." 
               "The reasons you give for your animosity are strong ones," said the doctor, oilily, "and I think justified by the provocation; but don't you think you might manage better, through this child, than inducing the old uncle to disinherit your enemy. People of her temperament, and especially females, are apt to be superstitious; now, could we not so work upon her imagination as to induce her to make Ida her sole heiress?" 
               "No; she shall never possess a dollar of her uncle's property. She shall be a beggar, and then I shall be satisfied. I want revenge, not money. Indeed I would not take a fraction of the stiff-necked papist's money!" 
               "Then I will," thought the doctor; "and to obtain my own purposes must thwart yours and I will begin with the priest and the confessional. Well, Jackina," said he aloud, "have your own way; I would not for the would attempt to thwart the pretty project you have formed. Let us talk of something else. When will your friend Walter arrive! I should like to see this nonpareil of a man." 
               "I expect him every moment, and I shall leave you to entertain him, for I have an engagement to fulfil." 
               "With all my heart." 
               They were interrupted by a knocking at the door. 
               "That's Walter," cried Madame Careau, starting up; "he mustn't see me, or I shall be kept gossiping all night." 
               And so saying, she vanished by the way she had entered. 
               "Now for this paragon of a man," thought the doctor. "I have a great idea to let Leoline loose and try his courage; it will be a bit of fun, won't it, Leo?" 
               He unfastened the bar of the den, and out crawled the bear. 
                
               The doctor then, as usual, reconnoitred through the slide in the door. 
               Having satisfied himself of the quality of his visitor, admitted him. 
               It was Walter 
               "Your place, my friend, is as well barred and bolted as the State Prison," said he. 
               But the words had no sooner escaped from him, than the quick glance at once detected the stealthy approach of Leoline. 
               Now although the young man had, in the far West, hunted wild beasts, he did not feel at all comfortable in the presence of such a beast. 
               So he quickly placed himself in a posture of defence. 
               The doctor mounted a chair to enjoy the scene. And, as he did so, muttered:- 
               "Not a muscle of his body quivers! his 
                     cheks
                     cheeks
                   pale a little, but see how his eyes brighten. Don't be too rash, Leoline, or you may get a compliment or two you won't like." 
               "A curious reception this," growled Walter; "you may thank your stars, sir, that I came without my pistol. If I had brought it, your menagerie would have bad a tenant the less." 
               "And I should have been deprived of the pleasure of witnessing as pretty a pugilistic encounter as a man might desire to see," said the doctor, merrily-"be seated, Captain Morris, and forgive poor Leonline; it's not often she sees such a tall fellow as yourself, and she only wished to try your mettle." 
               "Dr. Careau," I presume?" said Walter. 
               "The same," replied the doctor, regarding the bold and handsome countenance of the young man. 
               "I am sorry to trouble you," said the young man, "but an old lady assured me that I would meet a hearty welcome under your roof." 
               "She did right." 
               And the doctor, moving about with an alacrity quite surprising for one of his years, and producing bottles of wines and cigars in abundance. 
               "What an honest looking face," said the doctor to himself; I wonder whether he is hungry." 
               Walter confessed that he was. 
               In a trice a tray was brought in, loaded with a tempting luncheon, to which the fugitive did justice. 
               After the repast. Walter betook himself to wine and cigars. 
               The doctor did the same. 
               And more fuel having been heaped on the fire, the pair stretched out their legs and prepared for a "good time." 
               We have not the space, had we the inclination, to relate the conversation that passed between these two men. So, after a world of edifying conversation, Walter was shown to his chamber, and went to bed. 
               "A true son of the earth," said the doctor to himself, after the young man's departure; "in the prime of manhood, he forgets that there are many dark morrows in the calendar of his destiny. He will find it out time enough; so let his recklessness have its way. What a splendid priest he would make; why he would proselyte a whole town with that noble and handsome face of his. By the way, and not a bad idea, either"-and here the old man smote his thigh smartly-"I'll tutor him, and he shall confess Ida-Mrs. Smith. It will be a bit of fun. I'll see first, though, whether Brown is fit to be talked to." 
               The doctor, after securely barring the door, and, as additional precaution letting Leoline loose, left the room by the door which Madame Careau had recently used. 
               And, investing his spare body in a capacious overcoat, quietly left the house. He proceeded to a saloon which stood some distance from his residence. 
               Its appearance was questionable, and its customers much more so. 
               However, it was the abode of Father Brown, a Jesuit, whose mission and tastes lay among the lower classes. 
               He was a propagandist who loved the bottle. 
               He was seated in an upper room, quit intoxicated. 
                
               The doctor merely looked in upon him. A glance was sufficient to show that he was in no state to converse. 
               "It is useless talking to him," growled the doctor, hastily descending the stairs; "the drunken fit is on him, and it will be sure to last a month. I must make a confidant of the captain; and, as the woman's pretty, he will not object. Who knows, too, but that I may gain an adherent. The experiment is worth all the risks." 
               The next morning he entered Walter's chamber, and unceremoniously introduced the subject. 
               As he had anticipated, the young soldier gladly accepted the office, and promised to exert himself to save the sold of the pretty sinner. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               IDA CONFESSES HER SINS. 
               Ida was one of those ardent creatures whose natural soil appears to be sunny Italy. 
               When she seriously examined the state of her morals, she admitted they might, and indeed, ought to be a good dead better; but then sin, and especially of one kind, was so very pleasant, that her repentance was but momentary. 
               Nurtured under the auspices of a faith which had infused into her mind a material idea of everything around her, to the spiritual conception of depravity she was a stranger. 
               Sin was only sin under peculiar circumstances; and, despite her strong will and infidel tendencies, she clung to the habit-for in an educated person it can be termed nothing else-of believing in the efficacy of prayers to certain deceased personages, and the interposition of the clergy of the church to which she had been a pecuniary, if not in her own person a very zealous friend. 
               In her chamber she had a crucifix concealed, and a little waxen image of one Saint Fitzherbert, one of her remote ancestors. 
               Her family, from time immemorial, had paid their devotions at his shrine, and he was regarded by them all as a sort of hereditary genius. 
               Her waxen copy of her saintly ancestor was never out of her possession; and if she seldom invoked the aid of the original, when she did so, it was with great fervor. 
               On the evening on which she was prepared to unbosom herself to a representative of the creed of her forefathers, she experienced a mental composure which nerved her for the coming task. 
               The conviction possessed her, that, after a careful exposure of all her derelictions, it would be admitted by her ghostly father that she had been more "sinned against than sinning." 
               There was one alloy, however, in this golden state of mind. 
               She was perpetually thinking of the gallant soldier who was to bear her off like another Helen. 
               Her eyes flashed, and her bosom heaved. 
               However, as the time for confession drew near, she endeavored to compose herself, and succeeded so well, that she dressed herself and left the house without being seen. 
               The confessor, to whom she was hastening, was awaiting her arrival in a room fitted up with all the appliances necessary to constitute a private chapel, in a very unfatherly and unghostly frame of mind. 
               Little light entered the room, but that little served to disclose the outlines of a majestic-figured man, striding across the door as hurriedly as a lover waiting for his over-due mistress. 
               "A transformation with a vengeance!" thought he, "from wielding the sword to flourishing holy texts and sage precepts. I doubt much, if she be young and handsome, whether I shall be able to go through the category, which, by the way is very long." 
               And, after taking up the manual of devotion, he improved his memory by another perusal. 
               He was about beginning a second time to go over it, when the door opened, and in walked a lady, tall and graceful in figure, gently treading and gliding in gait and closely veiled. 
               The confessor, on her appearing, very hastily took a seat with his back to the window. 
               Through this window the faint beams of a candle and, throwing as much sweetness into his tones as possible, bade the penitent approach and unburden herself of her transgressions and shortcomings. 
               She did so confidently, like one accustomed to tread such boards. 
               And, with a grace which he thought bewitching, placed herself on her knees at his feet. 
               "The devil!" almost ejaculated he, as she touched his knees; "I shall never be able to do it. Never mind, here goes-never venture, never win!" 
               And, with a violent effort to banish all improper suggestions, he addressed himself to his holy task. 
               "Father!" said the penitent, meekly, "I fear much that I have been a grievous sinner." 
               "So have all of us," was the bland, mellow-toned reply of the meek priest; "but the power of the church is great; it can drive despair front the most hideous bosoms, and plant there a living hope of salvation. When did you last humble yourself at the feet of the one true apostolical and indivisible church? Confound the jargon!" added Walter to himself; "I am afraid that, without the manual, I shall make a sad miss of it." 
               "Not since upwards of fourteen years ago," replied Ida. 
               "A sad omission," sad Walter, gravely; "but it is given to the church to receive amends for such neglect; so be comforted, my daughter, and pour into my ears the story of your errors." 
               Ida paused a moment, and then, falling into the old habit of indulging in the connected narrative necessary on such occasions, thus began her confessions:- 
               "Up to sixteen years of age, I was guiltless of many of the practices that are so familiar to us in after life. I may truly say I was as innocent as most children are." 
               "The frolics of childhood are as blameless as the laughter of angels." 
               "At sixteen I was a boarder at a fashionable seminary, and there more license, perhaps, was allowed me than was consistent with my religious duties or worldly welfare. I was as flighty and giddy as a bird, and my companions were no better-indeed, the majority were more evil-disposed than myself-and when we were alone we used to converse-and-and-" 
               "Speculate about things forbidden-or rather-I-I should say, attempted-by the laws of our holy church?" 
               "Just so." reverend sir; and those feelings created in me such a fever that I yielded to an ardent, indescribable impulse, and, in the society of a gay young soldier was unable to resist the spell of a youthful passion. I fell, father; but do not blame me, I was so very young." 
               "What were the consequences of-I presume-your clandestine meetings with this emissary of Satan?" 
               "A child-a little girl, I believe; for I never saw it." 
               "What! abandon your offspring? Incredible!" 
               "I was so young; and my indiscretion made me mad, and insensible to every consideration and feeling, save the dread of exposure." 
               The confessor shuddered, as he listened to this candid avowal of the absence of the maternal sympathies in a mere girl; but, conquesting his repugnance, mildly agreed her to proceed. 
               "With whom was the child placed!" he asked. 
               "I was wandering in the vicinity of the school one evening, half frantic with the idea that my condition could not much longer be concealed, when I encountered a woman who evidently belonged to some wandering tribe. She accosted me in the usual manner; but after steadfastly eyeing me for several seconds, suddenly changed her tone, and abruptly taxed me with what I know too well the truth. In my agitation I confessed all, and implored her assistance ance. This she readily promised me, and instructed me how to dress so as to hide my shame. From that moment I surrendered myself wholly to her direction, and by her advice left school, and took up my residence with my guardian. As the period I so much dreaded approached, I procured an invitation to spend a few weeks in town to be sent to me from a distant relative; and, as my importunities were great, I was allowed to depart in the stage coach by which it had been agreed, between me and my adviser, that she should be a passenger. On our arrival in New York, she conducted me to her residence; and on the same evening, owing to the fatigue and alarm my journey occasioned me, I was taken ill, and-and-" 
               "Give birth to the child you abandoned. Daughter, daughter, that was a heavy offence-much heavier one than that which led to its commission." 
               Ida, at this, looked up rather surprised; but the face of her confessor was shrouded in such gloom that she only caught a faint glimpse of its outlines. 
               "Proceed," said he. 
               "On the third day I proceeded to my destination, and relieved my friends of all anxiety on my account, by a plausibly concocted story of my having been taken ill on the road. The woman who had rendered me such assistance personated a lady traveller who pretended to corroborate my statement; and, as it was believed, and my health did not improve, in a few weeks I returned to the country, and concluded that the affair would never be discovered. I rewarded the woman out of the proceeds of the sale of some jewelry, and never to my knowledge saw her afterwards." 
               "A strange narrative. But tell me, at the time all this occurred, were you in communion with the church?" 
               "I was; and did penance at the shrine of the patron saint of our family-Saint Fitzherbert." 
               "And the hope of pardon was held out to you?" 
               "It was; and as I prospered, and the secret remained undivulged, I believed that I was forgiven." 
               "There is always pardon for those who believe and have faith. Daughter, proceed." 
               "Three years passed swiftly away, and I grow up to be a woman, and all who knew me said I was handsome." 
               "They did right." 
               "Ah!" exclaimed the fair penitent. looking up. 
               "I mean," continued the mock priest, "that they committed a spiritual error-praises of the person but provoke the lusts of the flesh." 
               "Indeed!" sighed the beautiful young penitent. 
               "Yes; but continue your revelations. I shall make a mull of it yet, I'm afraid." thought Walter, as he felt his self-possession shaken by the warm, sweet breath of the penitent at his feet. 
               "During those three years," continued Ida, "I do not remember any very serious offence that I committed. My girlish fault had frightened me, and I led a secluded life." 
               "Did you ever, during the period of which you speak, repeat the offence that led to your journey to New York?" 
               "Never!" 
               "Had you the inclination?" 
               "Sometimes." 
               "Did the temptation ever fall in your way?" 
               "Never." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes, father." 
               "How was you situated?" 
               "Why my guardian's friends and connections were mostly old people, and in addition we lived in a remote part of the country." 
               "Did your eyes ever carnally dwell on some good-looking menial." 
               "Never." 
               "You conducted yourself, then, at all times, whether sleeping or awake, both in thought and deed, as became a chaste person?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Well, you attained ripened womanhood!" 
               "Yes." 
               "What then occurred in your career, daughter?" 
                
               "I was married." 
               "The devil you were!" 
               Such an irreverent exclamation startled the lady so much, that Walter perceived it was necessary he should repair the mistake. 
               "Daughter," said he, "I am amazed at your intrepidity." 
               "Why?" 
               "Did you make your husband acquainted with the first terrible incident in your life?" 
               "I did not." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Was it necessary that I should have done so?" 
               "Certainly." 
               "I was ignorant of that fact," returned the lady. 
               "That is; you should have done so as a matter of duty to your conscience; but as a-a-a matter of taste and convenience, the necessity and prudence of the concealment deprived it of its most repulsive features. Where ignorance to your husband was bliss, it would have been folly to have made him wise. Such a moral delinquency may be tolerated, daughter." 
               "Indeed!" 
               'Yes. In what character did you marry-as a maid or widow?" 
               "I was married in my maiden name-I had none other." 
               "No more you had. I had forgotten that circumstance. What occurred after your marriage?" 
               "My husband the next morning upbraided me with the great deception I had practised." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes." 
               "In what particular did he say you had wronged him?" 
               "In my not having proved to be what he had expected." 
               "How did you defend yourself?" 
               "By tears and expostulations." 
               "Was he satisfied?" 
               "No." 
               "Well." 
               "He would not be satisfied unless I submitted to an examination by his own medical attendant." 
               "Did you permit the degradation?" 
               "I did." 
               "What then?" 
               "The report satisfied my husband." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes; he begged my pardon, and pretended to love me better than ever." 
               "How-how-you certainly do amaze me-how did you manage to deceive the doctor?" 
               "By telling the truth and imploring his forgiveness!" 
               The pious confessor had the greatest difficulty in the world in preventing himself from bursting out into an uproarious fit of laughter; as it was it made him cough and go nearly black in the face. 
               "Give me a woman for invention!" thought he. 
               "What was his name?" 
               Ida disclosed it. 
               But as it was given under the seal of confession, it cannot be repeated in this connection. 
               "But how did you procure the doctor's silence?" 
               Ida at this trembled so terribly that her ghostly father had to sustain her to prevent her falling to the floor. 
               "I bribed him!" 
               "The scoundrel!" muttered Walter, earnestly. 
               "Was it a deadly sin?" 
               "Not on your part-on his it was, indeed!" 
               After a short pause the mock priest continued. 
               "What kind of wedded life did you lead?" 
               "A comfortable one for the first twelve months." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "But since that time a miserable and often a hideous one!" 
               "Be frank and minute in your recital, daughter!" 
               "I will." 
               "In what respect did your husband offend you or you him?" 
               The fair penitent hesitated. 
               "Proceed, daughter," said the mock priest. 
               "Father, he was unfaithful!" 
                
               "And you-" 
               Ida again trembled so terribly that her ghostly father had to hold her to prevent her falling. 
               "And you!" once more repeated the confessor. 
               "Was so also!" 
               "Oh, daughter!" 
               "But not until he had driven me to it by his coldness and neglect." 
               "In what manner did your alienation commence?" 
               "He commenced our quarrel by absenting himself from home." 
               "Well." 
               "I was human, father." 
               "You upbraided him, and acted as a 
                     jeajous
                     jealous
                   wife?" 
               "I did!" 
               "And made the chasm between you still wider?" 
               "From coldness and neglect it proceeded to epithets and blows." 
               "The usual result in these affairs." 
               "Who was the next?" was the methodical-put question, the voice of the interrogator becoming rather severe. Indeed, it must be confessed that Walter, at this stage, was becoming rather disgusted with his conquest; for the soldier had recognised the beautiful sinner who spoke so unreservedly of her transgressions. 
               "And your next error?" 
               "I fell in love with a soldier." 
               "Indeed!" ejaculated the seeming confessor. 
               "With a soldier-a gallant, brave and handsome fellow!" 
               "Did he return your love?" 
               "He professed to do so." 
               "Have you seen him since?" 
               "Yes." 
               "And your evil inclinations are still in the ascendant?" 
               The fair penitent held down her head so low that her brow touched the knees of the holy man. 
               Her silence was more touching than words. 
               "Here's a very pretty kettle of fish," thought Walter; "I am appropriated-sold-taken by storm; and yet I am expected to give the pretty sinner absolution before I have half got through the question in the manual of a true Catholic. I must be severe, I shall a St. Anthony business of it." 
               "Father," said the penitent, up, "is there any hope for me?" 
               "Plenty; but answer me one question. Is your love for this soldier of so strong a nature that you cannot resist its impulses?" 
               "It is a madness-an infatuation!" replied Ida, convulsively clutching the knees of her spiritual guide and monitor; "when absent from him, I am all anxiety to meet him again; and when we do meet, the separation is an intolerable agony. Oh, father! had he and I but met years ago, I should never have fallen; for I feel that he is the man who would have loved me as I wished to be loved, and as I once was, for a brief-oh, sadly brief-but ecstatic period." 
               "Calm this raging tempest of your passions," said Walter, soothingly; for he wished the interview speedily to terminate. 
               "I cannot," sobbed the erring woman, as she yielded to the delirium which the multitude of emotions called up by her confession had excited. "It is death without Walter-life, glorious and eternal life, with him!" 
               The object of thin passionate avowal felt powerfully inclined to throw off his disguise and clasp the beautiful woman at his feet in his embrace. 
               Perhaps an embryo-instinct drew him from the edge of the precipice on which he stood, and devoted all his energies to the task of quelling the tumult which he had largely contributed to provoke. 
               By perseverance he partly succeeded; and Ida left his presence with a no over strong desire ever to come into it again. She had not accomplished the object of her visit. She wished for absolution for the past. 
               That the pretended confessor could not give her; or perhaps forgot it, as well at all recollection of the prescribed forms; and so construed his silence into a refusal, and departed, very much dissatisfied; but quite strong in her determination to fulfil her engagement on the morrow with Walter, and, if possible at all, prevail upon him to escape to the South in her company. 
                
               Ida, meantime, had gained the doctor's own apartment, and paid him his fee. 
               She was turning to depart, when the door opened, and Fanny glided in with a letter in her hand, which she delivered to the doctor, and was about to retire, when Ida darted forward and clutched her by the arm. 
               "Holy Virgin!" she exclaimed; "it is the same form that I have seen twice before; it is a copy, too, of a farm I once used to view with girlish delight in the glass. Tell me, sir, if you be human, who is this child?" 
               "My wife's, by her first marriage," said the doctor. 
               Mary stood regarding Ida with a countenance that blushed and paled alternately. 
               The dark lady, the beautiful vision of her dreams, stood before her; and, although ordered to retire, her feet refused their office, and she stood intently regarding her painfully agitated, but unknown parent. 
               "Your wife's, by her first marriage?" repeated Ida, keeping her gaze rivetted on the young girl's face and figure. 
               "I believe so. She was about two years old when I married her mother," said the doctor, decisively, and at the same moment giving Mary a signal to retire, which she did not dare to disobey 
               She cast one lingering, mournful look at the beautiful lady, into whose arms she longed to fly, and then quietly left the room. 
               Ida gazed after her with strained eyeballs, and as she did so, strange tears slowly filled her eyes. The fountain of a mother's love was opened for the first time. 
               "My child!" she murmured; "oh, I could clasp you to my throbbing  child, and I will keep my word-I always do-so do not indulge in such useless sorrow. Some time must necessarily elapse before I shall be able to gratify your inclination; but, depend upon it, you shall not be deceived." 
               "The sight of that girl has painfully affected me; and something whispers to me that in her I have seen my child I beg-I pray of you, do not deceive me!" passionately urged Ida, turning her tearful eyes full upon the doctor in entreaty. 
               "Tut, tut!" replied he; "you must not give way to such an idle fancy I have seen hundreds of face a that have startled me by their resemblance to those I had seen before. You shall see your child, rely on it." 
               "When?" 
               "When I have completed my arrangements and insured your safety." 
               "Mine? How can I be affected by the restoration of my child?" 
               "Your husband-" 
               "I have him; and, besides, am independent of him." 
               The doctor turned over the leaves of his book, and read:- 
               "Ida Fitzherbert, presumptive heiress of Felix Fitzherbert. He is susceptible on the score of chastity; and it is rumored would not hesitate to disinherit his niece, although his only surviving relative, should her reputation have received the slightest taint. Now, madam, if this be true, this child, if acknowledged by you, would utterly ruin you in the estimation of your uncle." 
               "Not at all," replied the lady, coolly; and here it may be stated, that when relieved from the trammels of her passions, she was a remarkably shrewd woman of the world; "the property is mine, should I survive my uncle-he has only a life estate in it." 
               "But there is your husband; he would have an estate for your life. You have  no child by him-no; well, then, it
                   would only be for your life. Should he divorce you, you would, though nominally rich, be reduced to great pecuniary distress." 
               "All that has been provided for by a marriage settlement. The property is absolutely mine. No soul on earth can touch it but myself." 
               The doctor could scarcely conceal the satisfaction he experienced at this announcement. 
               His eyes actually glittered, and a cold smile wreathed his lips. 
               Madame Careau, then, with all her astuteness, did not know all. 
               His interest now was clearly to keep Ida in subjection to him as long as he could, so that to disclose the secret of Mary's birth would be clearly to release her from all further control. 
               The doctor's avarice and devotion to the papal church overcame every scruple of conscience; and he determined, through the agency of the child, to exercise an iron authority over the frail girl and the faithless wife who had put herself in his power. 
               "Madame," said he, "every effort shall be made to recover your child. In the meantime rely upon my diligence, and don't fret your beauty away, but enjoy yourself while you have health and the means." 
               "You don't think it sinful, then, to enjoy the gifts of nature," inquired Ida, with a smile. 
               "Not at all; it is the abuse of them that constitutes the sin." 
               And, with a solemn assurance that he would employ the utmost diligence in the inquiry he had promised to institute, the pair separated. 
               Ida intimated that she anticipated having to be recalled from New York. 
               "From New York!" chuckled the doctor. "So much the better. I would rather you would elope with a man of honor than a cruel, calculating rascal of the world. I see it all: she knows that Walter is in trouble, and would persuade him to take a journey with her to the South. I would not baulk so pretty a scheme for the world. The step will enable her to get rid of her husband, and also keep her out of mischief for a long while. Ah! here comes our newly-fledged father confessor." 
               Walter, having been initiated into some of the geographical mysteries of the establishment, entered without ceremony, and with a not over-pleasing expression on his countenance. 
               "I tell you what, doctor," said he, morosely; "this confession business of your church is a cursed piece of deep villany." 
               "How so, gallant sir." 
               "Why, in the first place it gives too much power to the priesthood; and in the second, its practices seem all to have been borrowed from the stews and improper houses of our large towns. I am not much used to blushing, but upon my honor I could not refrain from doing so as I read the catechism in this 'Manual of Devotion' you gave me." 
               "Ah! ah!" laughed the doctor; "it seems you have still to learn that out of the sins of the multitude comes the wages of the few. If we were all good, there would be no occasion for any kind of priesthood. As it is, that one does the best which knows the most, so don't be too hard on the priests. Except with a few enthusiasts, religion in the present day is a speculation with every person. Look at the other churches; the majority of the ministers don't care a fig about anything but their salaries I don't see why one should be more pecked at than the rest." 
               So reasoned this vile and unscrupulous doctor. 
               Walter did not refuse his assent to some of the doctor's conclusions, and soon regained his good humor. 
               "But, doctor," continued Walter, "it is too bad of you shaven celebratists to corrupt our women with your cursed confessional discipline. The sex are inventive enough without their having all sorts of filthy suggestions put in their heads. Give up the confession, and-" 
               "Lose all our power!" interrupted the doctor. "No, no; the foundations of real power are in the mind; build yourself a firm house there, and all the powers in the world cannot eject you. But if any religious or even political body is credulous enough to trust to public professions and services for public favor and affection, it will find that when the novelty of the thing has worn away, and the necessity arises, it will be swept away with as little remorse as a boy would toss a soap-bubble into the air." 
               And now this veracious narrative must halt, to tell of a naughty girl and negligent mistress. 
               The scenes and incidents connected with this sketch occurred in one of the most fashionable millinery rooms on Broadway. 
               The girl's name was Louisa Thornton. 
               To state that she was beautiful, would be merely averring an undoubted fact; she was more-she was lovely-and she knew it, and so did her fair-complexioned and bright-ringleted mistress. 
               Louisa was a favorable specimen of your true New York girl. 
               Arch, lively and piquante, she could boast of a skin of unimpeachable snow, features glowing with radiant health, and faultless in symmetry. 
               And, above them, in endless waves of luxuriance, a mass of rich brown hair, which, when unconfined by comb or pin, stretched thickly and shiningly far below a waist just emancipated from the thraldom of sylphism, and yet bordering on that fanciful idea of quantity with which the eye ever associates the proportions of a finely formed woman. In stature she was superior to the majority of her sex, and in gait and gesture proud and defiant, yet withal coaxingly loving; as if the virgin, with all her youthful pulses warmly playing, was in a perpetual struggle with busy promptings on the one hand, and feminine timidity, dashed with sensual coquetry on the other. 
               The dress of this pretty creature heightened her charms, and she was placed in the shop as an attraction-one of her duties being to sit behind the broad glass case called a window, so as to be seen by every passer-by, and criticised with all the acumen of vulgar admiration. 
               Her mistress derived considerable business from this exposure, and the girl's vanity was so flattered that the compliments profusely showered upon her were received into thirsty ears, and, in the course of a few months, were regarded as nothing else but her due. 
               Gentlemen, it is generally thought, have no taste for visiting these costly ladies' establishments; but this is a mistake, for they are the most liberal customers, and, when the latter happen to be surrounded with a bevy of assistants, in all the glory of youth, health and beauty. 
               And so the poor vain things are used as baits to catch the roving eyes of sensuality; and should any one fall a victim to her credulity and easily excited passions, why her place can easily be supplied from out of the ranks of the needy preponderant female population of this great city! and so the system is considered an easily worked and profitable one. 
               The proprietors of these places are fully aware of the danger to which they subject the young things committed to their charge; but, being generally them selves of the genus scrago, have little sympathy with any other feeling than that of insatiable avarice. 
                
               Mrs. Skimpton was one of this class or milliners, and Louisa Thornton had been her apprentice about a year, when the superlative charms of the girl, not her proficiency-were the sole cause of her being transferred from the parlor behind the shop in front, with the nominal office of principal assistant-nominal, because she was not benefited to the extent of a dollar by her promotion. 
               Jasper-a man about town-whose peregrinations extended to all quarters of the town, discovered, this peri one day, and immediately marked her out as a victim for any person who would feel disposed to come down handsomely with the vilely-earned remuneration. 
               To step into the shop and make a trifling purchase was his first act; and, as he made many inquiries, he soon artfully engaged the girl in a conversation which enabled him quickly to form a pretty shrewd estimate of her natural character. 
               He saw that her heading sentiment was vanity, and that her love of applause, acting upon her maturing propensities and instincts, had generated within her desires which only required skilful management to lead to gratification. 
               "A woman from top to toe," he reasoned, "whom a little more flattery would render an easy conquest. I see it in the sparkle of her eye, the flush of her brow and the action of her limbs Louisa Thornton-not an ugly name-and now to find out all about her. 
               This information was soon obtained; for it only amounted to the fact that she lived with her mother, a widow in very straightened circumstances, and that she had a bean who toiled as a mechanic from the sun's rising to its setting; and from the hours he devoted to additional labor at home, managed to snatch a few, which he expended in her society. 
               This was quite sufficient for this unprincipled man; and he laid himself out accordingly for the conquest. 
               Mrs. Skimpton was not remarkable for anything but a vinegar aspect; so Jasper disregarded the notion of purchasing her good will, and applied himself to watching the girl's habits and pursuits when out of the shop. 
               A love of gaiety, he soon found out, was her present ruling propensity; and he traced her through the whole series of dancing rooms she frequented, until he placed himself before her one morning in a celebrated saloon up town. 
               The recognition was mutual. 
               The silly girl, proud of the honor of waltzing with one of her mistress's rich customers, resigned herself to the bold embrace of the sternest woman-hater in the city. 
               An introduction was next made to a fast man named Bloomfield; he was very stylish, and soon made a sensible impression on the susceptible heart of the seamstress. 
               In disposition she was for from being vicious; but, after her acceptance of several article of jewelry and a gay dress or two, it is not doing her any injustice to say that she entirely owed the preservation of her chastity to the sustained inebriety of Bloomfield. 
               Had he been perfectly sober, she would have fallen before; but drink had weakened his powers, and he had dallied with his conquest, and would perhaps have forgotten it, had it not been for the frequent hints he received from the iniquitous Jasper. 
               This unprincipled man had set his heart upon the girl's ruin, and had malignantly resolved that some one should pay him well for the girl. 
               A previous arrangement had beer made to meet at the saloon; but to prevent any disappointment, Jasper had determined to see the girl, and, if possible, bring her along with him. 
                
               It was about six o'clock when he reached the shop, into which he walked with the demeanor of one to whom the place was no stranger. 
               Louisa, who was sitting beside the advertising glass case, sewing, received him with a deep blush; for, ignorant as she was of the grossness of the evil of the temptation that surrounded her, she was not insensible to the indelicacy of the acquaintance, or the disquietude caused by the concealment she instinctively practised. 
               Like most girls of her age and class, Louisa was fond of gaiety and dress, and was, therefore, an easy prey to the libertine. 
               Her physical training had been left entirely to chance and nature. 
               Is it to be wondered at, then, that she was more liable to worship at the shrine of pleasure than of moral rectitude? 
               But yet, however active her inclination was, her sense of propriety was not wholly blunted. 
               And perhaps a lurking sympathy, a yearning towards the pure affection of her humble lover, mellowed and softened her more ardent aspirations, and thus kept her in subjection to the restraints imposed by custom. 
               Whatever it was, the seeds of a saving power were not absent from the virgin soil of her nature. 
               But deceit, fraud, seduction, or any adverse circumstance, might trample them down far below the sunshine and bury them in the darkness of a whole life of vice. 
               The tempter was now before her. 
               Jasper, under cover of a purchase of some artificial flowers, addressed her in his usual unabashed strain of familiarity. 
               "I cannot go to-night-indeed I can not," she objected. 
               "Tut! tut! you mustn't break your word." 
               "But I cannot." 
               "This is one of the grand nights; and you know you are engaged to dance with my friend. He has got such a nice present for you a pair of bracelets, I think." 
               Louisa shook her head, as she opened another box of flowers. 
               But her tempter was a wily rascal in such an affair. 
               He knew she envied a young friend the possession of a pair of sparkling ornaments for the wrists. 
               And he knew, too, that the prospect of gratifying her wish in that respect, would do much to sap the foundation of almost any prudent resolution she had formed. 
               "They are a handsome pair," continued the tempter. "He must have paid at least twenty-five dollars for them; and I am sure they would become you admirably-make you the belle of the room." 
               "Poor girls like me don't want such things," said she. 
               "You mean that rich, ugly women do not want them," replied Jasper, persuasively; "it is only beauty that should wear gold and diamonds. But you will come-you are only saying you won't, to plague me; besides, if you don't, my friend will break his heart. He is rich and honorable-! might tell you more if I dared-and who knows what he might do for you! Rich men like pretty wives; and, as he is smitten, you might keep the best of company, instead of hiding your beauty behind this counter, which, to me, is something like a rose in full bloom wasting its fragrance on a barren island." 
               With wily talk like this, he beguiled the vain, credulous girl of a promise to meet him soon after she left the shop that evening. 
               And he, to be assured, did not quit the vicinity until he had watched her to her humble home, and then saw her emerge from it smartly attired, with a small parcel in her hand, which he well knew contained a pair of ball room slippers. 
               To accost her, hail a cab, and place her in it, was the work of a few moments. 
               And the poor milliner's apprentice, with a heated cheek and fluttering heart, seemed likely to realize the destiny which the scoundrel of a pander by her side had chalked out for her. 
               But during his absence from Bloomfield, several things had concurred to render his success problematical. 
               Walter-whom we have introduced to the reader in a previous chapter-had, in his free and, easy manner, extracted sufficient out of Bloomfield to assure him that some piece of villany was being meditated; and, being seized with an uncontrollable desire to thwart it, whatever it might be, succeeded in obtaining the address of the shop from which Bloomfield's intended victim was to be procured. 
               Having left him at the saloon, he hastened to Broadway, where, by frightening Mrs. Skimpton into the belief that she had, wittingly and willingly lent herself, and reputation for unblemished chastity, to a case of cruel seduction-if not something approaching cruel violation-she furnished him with information which enabled him easily to find out the abode of the mother of the infatuated Louisa. 
               She was a plain, homely-looking woman, who kept a small shop. 
               Walter introduced himself gently as he could; but he soon perceived that the woman was one of these weak persons who fly into a rage when offered advice on the subject of their domestic economy. 
               "My daughter has got sense enough to take care of herself; she's been well edicated," said she, smartly. 
               "But, my dear woman," persisted Walter, "your daughter has fallen into bad company, and, unless she is more strictly guarded, she will be entirely ruined." 
               The mother paled at this, and moderating her tone, said: 
               "She is only gone to see a friend-she told me where she is going to." 
               "I am grieved to say you are deceived," said Walter, really compassionating the weak being before him; "she is now, or will be soon, in the company of a profligate man-a married man-one who is not bad himself, but is made bad by evil associates, and particularly a wretch who is continually laying snares to catch young girls." 
               "My God!" exclaimed the woman sinking into a crazy chair and wringing her hands. 
               After an hysterical gasp or two she slid to the floor. 
               As Walter stooped to raise her up, he detected the fumes of gin in her breath. 
               In that state he correctly judged it would be hopeless to expect any assistance from her. 
               A more sensible neighbor happening to stop in, the dilemma was explained to her, and she promptly suggested the wisdom of calling upon the girl's sweet-heart, and requesting his assistance immediately. 
               Walter went to the house indicated; but the young man was not at home-he had not returned from his daily toil. 
               So Walter was fain obliged to content himself with leaving a hurried but significant note, warning him of his supposed true-hearted love's danger, and of her being at the saloon, which he designated by name. 
               Being satisfied that he had done his utmost to prevent the flighty girl from plunging her family into misery, he hastened to the scene of profligacy, under the mask of relaxation and amusement, to attend to Bloomfield, and if possible frustrate the schemes of the unprincipled Jasper. 
               That ignoble worthy, having succeeded in placing Louisa in the company of Bloomfield, left her to the latter's blandishments. 
               Walter saw, with some concern, that Bloomfield was making rapid progress with the heart of Louisa. 
               The young girl's eyes sparkled intensely, and she indulged in such great vivacity that he felt convinced she had received the last proposal a modest woman should tolerate. 
               He was beginning to despair, when his attention was attracted from the girl he was gossiping with by a young man, decently dressed, but evidently a mechanic, who was wandering about the rooms in a hurried manner, as if looking for some person. 
               "The lover I" muttered he; "there is hope now!" 
               The young man rapidly approached Louisa. 
               And, as be drew near, Walter could distinctly hear him implore her to return home. 
               To his entreaties he added the information that her mother was ill. 
               The girl's pride was touched; and believing the story to have been concocted for the purpose of inducing her to leave the place, she haughtily repulsed him. 
               Thrusting her arm through Bloomfield's she swept away from the spot with a disdainful toss of the head 
               Enraged at such a contemptuous rebuff, the young mechanic commenced a furious assault on Bloomfield 
               Immediately there was the confusion incidental to a row. 
               The keepers of the rooms, used to all kinds of disturbance, rushed to the spot, and the champion of virtue was ignominiously expelled and handed over to the police. 
               Despite his struggles, they conveyed him to the lock-up, on the grave charge of assault and battery. 
               This incident determined Walter to act promptly. 
               Bloomfield had received several severe contusions on the face-among them being those which unmistakingly betokened the approach of a pair of black eyes. 
               Walter now addressed the trembling and agitated cause of the trouble. 
               "Your friend," said he, "told you the truth-your mother is dangerously ill! I left her insensible." 
               "You!" exclaimed she, in surprise and terror. 
               "Even so," replied Walter, drawing her arm through his own, and leading her out of the throng which had gathered around her; "she is acquainted with your being here-a most dangerous place for a young girl-and the discovery was more than she could bear Go to her at once, or the most fatal consequences might ensue!" 
               Louisa, feeling faint, leaned heavily on Walter for support. 
               He prevailed on her to partake of a glass of iced water, renewed his entreaties to depart. 
               "This is a frightful company for as innocent girl like you!" said he, very earnestly; "the men here are all completely leagued against the honor and happiness of young girls; and the women are-" 
               Observing him hesitate, the abashed girl timidly said: 
               "What?" 
               "Girls of bad character." 
               At this, a cold shiver ran through the young woman's frame; and then, as if conscious that she was menaced by a terrible hidden calamity, she sprang towards the door. 
               Walter maintained his place by her side until he had seen her bonneted and shawled. 
               He then called a carriage, placed her inside, and thrusting his card into the hand of the girl, bade the driver take her home immediately. 
               "And now to settle accounts with you, Mr. Jasper!" muttered Walter, as he strode back into the now extremely crowded ball-room. 
               Bloomfield was there, staring about him rather wildly in search of Louisa, while Jasper was busied in threading the lines of promenaders on the same errand. 
               "Caught a stinger on the nose," said Bloomfield, laughingly, as he essayed to walk steadily; "but I fancy I gave the fellow as much as he sent; but where the deuce has the girl gone to?' 
               "Bolted!" cried Jasper, who, having ascertained the fact of Louisa's disappearance through the instrumentality of Walter, unceremoniously approached and interrupted their conference. 
               "Bolted?" echoed Bloomfield; "well, that is cruel, for she was just in the humor to let me have a bit of fun with her. Who was that fellow that assaulted me?" 
               "The mechanic I told you about," replied Jasper. 
               "He was the girl's lover," interposed Walter.; "and as you know the old text, 'O, beware of jealousy, my lord,' &c., you will find an excuse for his unceremonious conduct." 
               "Jealousy!" growled Jasper, losing his temper; "who set the fool on? who made him come here?" 
               Neither heeding his words or passionate gestures, Walter led Bloomfield off and ultimately induced him to leave the place. 
               They then visited a well-known sporting house on Broadway. 
               After staying there for about two or three hours, he became insensibly intoxicated; and after placing him in bed in a hotel, Walter lighted his cigar and strolled homewards. 
               The next morning Walter was up betimes; and, after an early breakfast, proceeded to the police office, in which the young mechanic was to appear after his night's incarceration. 
               In due turn young Leigh appeared at the bar of summary justice to answer for his misdeeds. 
               No prosecutor appeared; but the police trumped up two charges of assault-on their valuable persons; and the poor fellow was mulcted in damages, which, with costs, amounted to twelve dollars 
               Walter, though he could ill spare the money, stepped forward and paid the fine. 
               Walter now left the court, with the liberated Leigh, whom he accompanied to his home. 
               "Do you love this young woman?" inquired Walter, after he had eased the poor fellow's troubled mind by a candid account of all that occurred regarding her. He took care to soften as much as possible every point that told most strongly in favor of her indiscretion. 
               "Love her!" exclaimed the young man, who, by the way, was a very fine looking fellow; "I am ashamed to say that I do dearly. She and I have been acquainted since we were children, and if anything wrong was to happen to her it would break my heart." 
               "Would you marry her if you had the chance?" inquired Walter. 
               "Aye, that I would!" was the animated reply; and as you have been so kind to me, I don't mind telling you that we were as good as engaged; and I have been working hard and saving up these two years to enable us to start in the world." 
               "I have no doubt what has happened will be a lesson of prudence to her," said Walter; "but I tell you what, my friend, you must take her from that cursed shop and marry her at once." 
               The young man shook his head, and intimated that her mother objected to the marriage of her daughter with a mechanic; and that he had promised to remove her scruples by saving up two hundred dollars." 
               "Don't let that be an obstacle," said Walter; "you shall have the money, if I advance it out of my own pocket. Besides, the parties who have been the real cause of all this pain, will, upon explanation, make handsome compensation for the annoyance, and you will be a gainer instead of a loser by the adventure." 
               The overjoyed young man blushingly stammered forth his thanks. 
               Walter stopped his utterance by bidding him set about regaining the affections of his sweetheart, and inform him when the courtship was likely to be consummated. 
               "Take her from that shop!" was Walter's parting salutation. 
               Having received the lover's permission be proposed waiting upon and expostulating with the girl herself. 
               The mother was at home; but upon hearing the name of her visitor, became so flurried that she was unable to speak rationally. 
               Walter, determined to conclude a mission he had undertaken with such good intentions, adjourned to Mrs. Skimpton's. 
               "The first object he saw was the fair Louisa. 
               She was doing her duty as usual as an advertisement, by the exposed glass case. 
               She looked pale and languid, and appeared excessively agitated when Walter addressed her. 
               "Your mother and James wish to see you," said he. 
               "James?" replied she, in an incredulous tone. 
               "Yes, even James, my dear girl. He knows all, and all's forgiven. You were not much to blame; but if you will take my advice, you will not stay another minute in this shop. You are too pretty to be stuck in a window like a wax doll, for every puppy to stare at. Had you sever sat here to show the crowds outside your lovely countenance, you would never have fallen into the snare that was laid for your destruction." 
               This was such unusual language for the pretty and coaxed Louisa to hear, that her vanity was wounded, and she burst into tears. 
               Mrs. Skimpton, ensconced behind the glass door of the little room at the end of the counter, seeing her apprentice in distress, deemed it her duty to rush to the rescue. 
               "What's all this about, Louisa?" exclaimed she, tartly. 
               Louisa was unable to reply, and Walter took the office upon himself. 
               "I should be sorry to say anything unpolite to one of your sex," said he; "but I must candidly tell you that you have nearly been the cause of the ruin of this poor girl." 
               "Me, sir?" said Mrs. Skimpton, her withered chastity taking the alarm. 
               "Yes, you, madam!" was the warm reply." "You get a pretty girl into your hands, under the pretence of teaching her your business; but, instead of doing that, you make a public show of her, dress her out to attract custom to your shop-in fact, make a sign board of her, to catch the eye of lecherous old age and amorous youth; and can it be wondered at that a young girl placed in such a position should have her head turned with admiration, and be ready to fall a prey to the first clever scoundrel who crept into her confidence. Madam, your system of doing business is bad-it's immoral; and you must be cautious, or before long you will have the parents of some ruined child pulling the place down about your ears. Come, Louisa, put on your things, and leave the infamous place. I will conduct you to your mother." 
               Louisa silently complied with the request. 
               And no wonder; for his manner and tone were peremptory. 
               Much of what he said, too, came upon her for the first time with such forcible truth that a feeling of shame and degradation came over her, and banished any reluctance she might have entertained at leaving so abruptly. 
               Mrs. Skimpton was speechless at this, as she deemed it, unparalled piece of assurance; and beheld her apprentice carried off by a total stranger without her being able to offer the slightest resistance, or utter the feeblest cries for assistance. 
               As soon as Walter had gained the residence of the girl he took her aside, and painted to her in true colors the risk she ran in receiving the attention of strangers; and, above all, in frequenting such demoralizing places as the saloon in question. 
               The girl's eyes were opened very wide indeed. 
               And, as her lover happened at that moment to stop into the room, she regarded him through her tears more graciously than ever she had done in her life before. 
               Walter having good-naturedly bid them adieu and left them together, there can be no doubt they kissed each other were good friends again. 
               It may as well be mentioned here, that Walter completed the good work he had so energetically commenced. 
               He saw the pair happily married, and more comfortably settled in life than ever they had anticipated. 
               Bloomfield, when restored to his full senses, contributed largely to this felicity; for, although for obvious reasons be chose to remain in the back ground, Walter was a faithful almoner. 
               And both, when in after years reflection became more consistent and poignant, had reason to be grateful, when they beheld in Louisa a blooming wife and happy mother, instead of the abandoned creature she would inevitably have become had she submitted to the false and meretricious caresses of the professed rake. 
               However, to return to the current of events. 
               Elated with the joy he had been the instrument of conveying to two young 
                     unpoluted
                     unpolluted
                   hearts, Walter, when he left the Thornton's house, was too much engaged with his own pleasant meditations to notice that he was followed. 
               The person close upon his heels was Jasper. 
               He had an awful scowl on his blanched face. 
               His aspect was so menacing that a pedestrian touched Walter on the shoulder, and warned him of the enemy being in his rear. 
               Quick as lightning he turned round and confronted the now ungovernable Jasper. 
               "Scoundrel!" he exclaimed; "have you been dogging my steps!" 
               "I have!" was the impudent reply. 
               "By whose orders?" inquired Walter, sternly. 
               "My own!" hissed Jasper; "and a pretty kettle of fish I find your meddling has made with my affairs. I'll shoot you for it as dead as a herring!" 
               Walter lifted the cane he carried, with the intention of applying it to Jasper's shoulders, but the latter prevented it by crying out: 
               "Not here. I have an old score to settle with you, and it may as well be done to-day as another time. If you have any pluck, I can take you to a place where we can settle our differences and have fair play." 
               Almost laughing at what he deemed the fellow's impudent audacity, he turned upon his heel with a "pish!" and stalked away. 
               "Coward!" shouted Jasper. 
               "What do you moan?" inquired Walter. 
               "Follow me, and I will tell you; the streets ain't exactly the place to have a grudge out in." 
               "Lead on, vile parody on human nature; and if I find you trifle with me, I'll break every bone in your body. Proceed in advance at least ten yards-such company as yours does not suit my reputation in the day time." 
               Walter spoke so sternly that Jasper had no apprehension that he would follow-and, with his low, horrible, dry laugh, did as requested. 
               The Five Points has many strange nooks and corners. 
                
               Some dark ones, too, where strange orgies are held and fearful deeds perpetrated. 
               But perhaps the most mysterious of them all was the place to which Jasper conducted Walter. 
               Outside it had the appearance of a junk shop; but the privileged well knew that the interior presented other features. 
               It was, in fact, a thieves' den. 
               A score of vaults for the reception of stolen goods and concealment of felons pursued by justice, extended under the neighboring houses and streets. 
               The apartments in this dwelling of crime were variously furnished-some meanly, some neat and some luxuriously and sumptuously. 
               The one to which Jasper led Walter was of the latter class. 
               On a sideboard there was a profuse display of decanters, filled with wines and liquors. 
               Jasper coolly helped himself to some brandy out of a decanter, and then seating himself, pushed it over the table to where Walter was standing, wondering at the surprising difference of appearance that house had inside and out. Suspecting some foul play, he sternly demanded why he had been brought thither. 
               "I'll tell you," said Jasper; "did you know Ida Clarence?" 
               "Ida Clarence!" repeated Walter, surprised. "Why do you ask me such a question?" 
               "Because I knew you did know Ida Clarence." 
               "Did know? Yes." 
               "Oh! I thought you knew her. She is gone South-married-bolted with a green young officer." 
               "Did you bring me here to tell me such a thing as that?" said Walter, angrily, and feeling inclined to put his threat against Jasper into execution. 
               "No, I did not," replied Jasper. "And p'rhaps, as beating about the bush ain't very agreeable, you will tell me whether you didn't go with Ida many a time." 
               "Scoundrel, this impertinence-" 
               "Hold, sir; don't get into a violent passion." 
               "Liar!" 
               "Not so fast." 
               Walter gazed upon Jasper as if he had been the arch-fiend. 
               "You are flabbergasted, are you?" sneered Jasper. 
               "Insulting vagabond, I'll pound you to a jelly!" cried Walter, springing forward. 
               "Wait a bit," said Jasper, keeping the table between him and the enraged Walter. 
               "Well, what have you brought me to this place for?" inquired Walter. 
               "To give me satisfaction-to fight me, or never leave this place alive." 
               As Jasper uttered this he sprang to his feet. 
               He immediately placed himself in an attitude for boxing. 
               Walter's composure did not desert him. 
               He eyed his antagonist with the glittering eye of a man prepared to meet any danger. 
               Walter promptly answered.- 
               "I will fight you." 
               "Now?" 
               "No. This is neither the time nor the place; besides, we shall need seconds." 
               "They are here!" shouted Jasper. 
               And, catching at a rope bell, he pulled it lustily. 
               A middle aged man made his appearance. 
               "Is the court ready," demanded the excited Jasper. 
               "It is, and the men, too. Joe Stykes has whacked Bill Stiggins, and so you can have the ring at once," was the professional reply. 
               "Show the way, and see that there is plenty of sawdust down, for we shall have plenty of hard knocks," cried Jasper. 
               As Walter stepped into the ring, one of the prize fighters, a young Hercules in figure, with a good natured expression of countenance, whispered in his ear:- 
               "Polish the fellow off quick as you, an captain; there's treachery intended for you!" 
                
               Walter refused to strip to the buff, but insisted in doing battle in his shirt. 
               His figure and scientific attitude in taking his place were the theme and admiration among the professionals. 
               Jasper stripped to the skin, and contrasted disadvantageously with his antagonist. 
               The fight began. 
               Walter played with him as if he had been a mere boy. 
               Jasper, seeing this, lost his temper, and indulged in several foul practices, to the disgust of the professionals, who, to a man, sided with Walter. 
               "Go in and win," whispered Walter's second; "finish him off at once; them follows there are a smugging together about something, and we shall have to push soon." 
               Walter himself had observed the suspicious signs pointed out by his second; and it was necessary he should bring the combat to a close. 
               This he effected in prime style. 
               He punished Jasper terribly about the head and chest. 
               Finally he closed with him, and threw him so heavily that he gave vent to a deep groan, and sank into a state of insensibility. 
               "Hoora!" cried the boxers, making a rush towards the door, and carrying the victor along with them 
               "Stop them!" "Down with them!" "That's the cove we're to slate!" vociferated the mob. 
               But they were too late. 
               The pugilists knocked them down as if they had only been nine-pins. 
               After a desperate struggle they fought their way out of the house, before which they gave three cheers, and then bore off Walter to a neighboring saloon. 
               "You have had a narrow escape for your life," said Walter's second; "it was touch and go. If we hadn't been there, you'd been murdered. We heard of it a day or two ago; but not knowing who the cove was, we didn't care. But when we saw it was you-a friend that stuck to us in need-why, it was quite another thing!" 
               Walter, assured that he owed his life to the men around him, becomingly acknowledged the obligation, by presenting them with all his money, and promising them a larger reward if they would send one of their number to him in the morning. 
               "D-n the ready!" said the young Hercules; "will you back me for a cool hundred against Slashing Jack?" 
               Walter readily promised to do so. 
               After a shake of the hand all round, he jumped into a carriage, minus his hat, coat and waistcoat. 
               Proceeding to his lodgings he rearrayed himself, and without a mark-not even a scratch-to show the nature of his morning's amusement and danger, went in search of Bloomfield. 
               Bloomfield arose in the morning with the brawler's deep mourning rings encircling his eyes. 
               The mechanic had amply avenged the outrageous attempt on the chastity of the girl whom he had selected to be his wife. 
               And as he viewed his disfigured countenance in the glass, a feeling of disgust mingled with his assurance. 
               He was ashamed of himself. 
               "Bad work this, Walter!" said he, with a sad attempt at a smile. 
               "Not the thing at all; but we must expect a few knocks now and then," was the hearty reply; "so let us set about repairing the catastrophe." 
               "How did it all happen? I must have drunk more than I ought to have done," said Bloomfield. 
               "Woman-lovely woman!" replied Walter; "you have much to answer for. Your beauty first leads us into danger, and then leaves us to shift for ourselves. However, never risk never win; and I have always found that a scrimmage now and then freshens one up amazingly." 
               "But I feel very mean." 
               "No doubt of that-you look mean," returned Walter, laughing. 
               "But how the deuce did it all happen?" again asked Bloomfield, regarding his discolored visage. 
               "I will tell you," answered Walter. 
                
               "Why, you would have that girl-what did you call her?-Louisa Thornton; her sweetheart caught you and her together, and as his blood was up and you were jolly, there was a set-to, and the young fellow was dragged to the station house." 
               "By heavens, there will be an exposure; my name will be published in the papers!" exclaimed Bloomfield. 
               "Not a bit of it," was the reply; I've arranged it all; pacified the man by telling him that you would not mind a cool hundred or two when he got married." 
               "I am so obliged, my dear fellow," returned Bloomfield. "But what did you say about marrying? You don't mean to say that I am to lose the girl!" 
               "Fact; the game's up, for the girl has taken the alarm, and won't see you again." 
               "She's too fine a girl to lose," said Bloomfield; "but if it must be so I must submit." 
               With this consoling reflection Bloomfield applied himself to the business of his toilet. 
               He endeavored to partake of a little breakfast; but he found that his appetite was completely vitiated. 
               He was fain obliged to have recourse to brandy. 
               Walter encouraged him in his propensity, by following his example. 
               And the pair resolved to have a long gossip. 
               Walter plied his companion with drink until he had reduced him to a state of insensibility. 
               He then put him to bed. 
               To rise the following day, and repeat the same scene of dissipation, for the mere love of the drink and its accompanying frenzy. 
               On the third day, Walter, whose brain had begun to reel and evince signs of insubordination, fancied that the task assigned him was nearly accomplished now. 
               Bloomfield had fallen into one of the last stages of intoxication. 
               The prostration of mind and body was completed. 
               And, as Walter rightly judged, any further persistence in the course they were pursuing might be attended with fatal results. 
               He therefore exerted himself to have Bloomfield conveyed home. 
               The pair arrived home at about ten at night. 
               Bloomfield was placed on a sofa until his medical attendant should have seen him. 
               Walter, after delivering a hasty message to his attendants, left the house immediately. 
               But we must leave the inebriate and his lovely wife, and turn to other scenes in cur story of city life. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               REVELATIONS. 
               The world we live in requires to he looked fairly in the face before we can estimate it at its value. 
               During the progress of this narrative, the compiler has had to deal with the vulgarities and perversions of passions; he has had to fulfil the difficult duty of showing virtue to be more brilliant by its contrast with vice, and at the same time to make the narrative so acceptable to popular taste as to be readable. 
               In all this he has been actuated by an undiluted desire to contribute something towards morality. 
               And he thinks he has partially succeeded in his design. 
               "Fanny, the Belle of Central Park," has been the writer's text-her frailties and virtues his subject-matter, and sundry adventures of the high-born and low-born, the honest and dishonest, his embellishing features. 
               So, without further circumlocution the writer proceeds to his duty. 
               With the reader's permission, the context of the narrative will be resumed in the singular apartment of that most mysterious of sexagenarian mortals-Dr. Careau. 
               He was alone. 
                
               He was engaged in his usual devotion to chemical science. 
               A retort, with glowing and bubbling contents was held in his hands, and he was employed in a nicely-critical examination of its contents, when a summons at the door withdrew his attention. 
               The slide was opened with his usual caution, and the brightly blooming face of Ida Clarence appeared in the aperture. 
               To admit her and provide her with a seat was the work of an instant. 
               After the doctor had placed himself contiguous to her, he announced that he has prepared to listen to what she had to say. 
               "You remember your promise," was the opening remark of the lady. 
               "I do," responded the doctor; "the child." 
               "Have you discovered it?" inquired the lady, laboring under an agitation which, despite all her assurance, she was unable to subdue. 
               "I have." 
               "And I shall see it, press it to my bosom, kiss it and hear it call me mother?" 
               "You shall." 
               "Oh, joy as great as the yielding action that called it into being!" was the murmured exclamation of the proud woman of the world. 
               "Madam," said the stoical doctor, "do not give way to transports which may be premature. Are you ready to fulfil the conditions I shall propose?" 
               "Conditions-reward you mean!" said Ida. 
               "No, madam, conditions," replied the doctor. 
               "Name them." 
               "They are such," continued the doctor, "that unless you subscribe to them you will never embrace your child." 
               "Name them!" said Ida, impatiently eyeing the doctor. 
               "The first is, that you pay me down five thousand dollars." 
               "What for?" 
               "For the education, careful training, attention to the development of every faculty of your child." 
               The lady looked her amazement at the demand. 
               The doctor, to relieve her, said, with less appearance of levity: 
               "My dear madam, I am entitled to something for the preservation of the secret. I knew where you were all the time." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes." 
               "Proceed, doctor." 
               "Ever since the moment the poor girl came into the world, I knew who was the mother." 
               "Ah!" said the lady. 
               "Yes; so that I am entitled to compensation for the manner in which I have preserved my trust." 
               The mother, half-subdued, murmured her thanks. 
               She, in the next breath, admitted her willingness to submit to the demand of the doctor. 
               "What is your next claim?" she demanded. 
               "That on the day you succeed to your property by your uncle, you pay me or my heirs the sum of five and twenty thousand dollars," said the doctor, in serious accents. 
               Ida started from her seat, as much at the amount of the claim as the revelation. 
               "Madame," said the doctor, observing her amazement; "I know all; I am acquainted with your uncle; I know you well, your early adventures, your loves, your marriage, your amusements, your everything; but be assured, in my keeping all your secrets are safe." 
               These asseverations, coupled with the peculiar meaning of the latter, which she well understood, overwhelmed her with astonishment. 
               She was prepared to subscribe to any terms the Jesuit might propose for her acceptance. 
               "Do you," she inquired, "belong to our-" and she hesitated. 
               "I am a son of the only true church," said the doctor, proudly; and you must know that in my keeping all its daughters are as safe as if they were indeed in heaven." 
               Ida was utterly vanquished by this announcement. 
               She made a low obeisance to the Father, and placed herself entirely at his disposal. 
               "Sign this document," said he; "it is a mortgage on your real estates; and, upon the payment of the five thousand dollars in cash, your child shall be gives to you." 
                
               Ida looked at him for a few seconds fixedly. 
               She was endeavoring to see if he was deceiving her; but his eyes was as firm and cold as marble. 
               As if guessing the meaning of his scrutiny, he said: 
               "Doubt me not. True daughters of our faith never mistrust their pastors. But to relieve your maternal anxiety, I swear to you on the Evangelists that the money you place at my disposal is intended for the church. She needs it much." 
               Ida was a true Roman Catholic. 
               The leaven of superstition was heavy within her. 
               Upon hearing the explanation from the doctor, she unhesitatingly subscribed her signature to the documents, which the wily priest placed before her. 
               "My child!" she exclaimed; "let me see my child, and I shall be satisfied! And believe me, father, I think for so great a boon the sacrifice is slight, slight indeed. For what is wealth to love?-divine, superhuman love! Oh, give me my child!" 
               "Daughter," said the surgeon-priest, "you have done well, and shall be rewarded. Remain here for a few minutes and, as strangers are apt to be curious accept the guardianship of the trues friend I have this side the grave. Here Leoline." 
               The huge bear crawled out, and placed herself, in obedience to his command, at the feet of Ida. 
               The doctor disappeared through one of the doors of his singular study, leaving Ida in no very enviable or placid state of mind. 
               She was sustained by the hope of a speedy reunion with her long-lost and long-neglected child. 
               The suspense of the mother was not procrastinated beyond the few minutes which the doctor required for tutoring and preparing the child for her new duties. 
               Nervously she listened for the creak of the doctor's boots. 
               And perhaps in that brief interval she felt more acute apprehension than ever she had done at the most critical periods of her life. 
               There was a powerful struggle in her bosom between maternal love and the dread of discovery, and its consequent shame. 
               There was also an oppressive sense of parental neglect, which made her almost fear to look her child in the face 
               Presently all these contending emotions were hushed. 
               And the door, through which the doctor had vanished silently opened, and he again stood before her. 
               The Mary introduced to the reader is the early portion of this work. 
               She was well and tastefully attired; and as she earnestly regarded Ida, the striking resemblance between the features of the mother and child was unmistakingly apparent. 
               There was the same large dark eye, the same red lips, and ardent, handsome nose, the same beautiful raven hair. 
               To make the likeness stronger, the same queenly gait. 
               Both regarded each other without uttering a word. 
               They were agitated by the powerful magnetic sympathy that drew them together. 
               At length the mother broke the silence by turning an imploring glance upon Dr. Careau. 
               "This is your child," said he, "and may she prove as dutiful to you as she has been to me." 
               "What proofs have you?" inquired Ida. "My heart tells me she is mine; but a mother's fondness pleads for other sureties of the fact." 
               "Do you not read a copy of yourself in every lineament of her face?" said the doctor. 
               "I do." 
               "Then why hesitate." 
               "Oh, the sight of her makes me go back to the time when I was as young as she is," replied the mother. "Eighteen years seem to have fallen from my head in her presence. But can you not fully satisfy me?" 
               "Yes," was the reply. 
               "Then do so." 
               "Do you remember the last words I addressed to you in this very room fourteen years ago?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Do you recollect distinctly?" 
               "I have a faint impression that you said something about a mark-a-a-but I have forgotten the precise words," said the mother. 
               "Then I will refresh your memory," replied the doctor. 
               "Go on." 
               The doctor continued: 
               "What I said was this:-The day will come when your heart will yearn for the child you commit to my care, and is order that you may be assured of the identity, I will imprint the symbol of your faith on its bosom, and call it, an you desire, Mary!" 
               At the mention of her name the young girl started. 
               She made a movement towards where her mother sat. 
               The latter at the same instant rose, and starting to her child tremblingly removed her dress a little. 
               On the breast was disclosed to her the blue sign of the cross. 
               The mother folded her child to her heart in one long and passionate embrace. 
               Tears of mingled joy and grief at the same time burst from her eyes, and the girl, yielding to an uncontrollable emotion, returned her caresses, and murmured the holy name of mother. 
               "Mother!" sobbed the frail woman-"mother! I never knew until this instant what magic there is in the word." 
               And she raised the young girl's head from her bosom, and gazed long and earnestly into the large jet eyes, that looked into her own with an expression of unutterable sadness. 
               "Mother! bless you for the word, my child. This long absence will make you dearer to me than all the pleasures of the world. Will you forgive me for being away from you all this time? Will you love me?" 
               Mary's only reply was a warm embrace and a kiss. 
               It was the first kiss the mother had ever received from her abandoned offspring. 
               It thrilled through her to the remotest nerve. 
               The doctor witnessed this reunion of mother and child with his habitual stoicism. 
               When the mother had become more collected, he suggested the propriety of their immediate departure. 
               "Madame Careau," said he, significantly, "is indisposed to part with the child." 
               "What for?" inquired Ida. 
               "Because she hates you." 
               "Hates me!" 
               "Even so." 
               "I never gave her any cause. I do not know her." 
               "Are you ignorant of the fact," continued the doctor, "that she is the person who brought you here?" 
               Ida blushed, and was silent. 
               "She had a deep and settled object in introducing you to me." 
               "Indeed!  doctor?" 
               "Revenge!" 
               "What for?" 
               "She bears to you and all your race an invincible hatred." 
               At this announcement Ida, who was by no means a timid woman, drew her child closer to her side, and requested an explanation of such an uncomprehensible circumstance. 
               "Your maiden name was Fitzherbert, I believe." 
               "It was." 
               "Can you recall to your memory any of the reminiscences of your family?" 
               "Not many. All but myself and uncle died when I was young." 
               "Did you never hear any stories concerning them?" 
               "Yes." 
               There was a pause, which the doctor broke by saying: 
               "You have heard, probably, the tale about one Harriet Fitzherbert, the child of one of your uncles?" 
               "I have." 
               "Do you recollect any of the particulars of what was communicated to you?" inquired the doctor. 
               Ida hesitated. 
               Well she might; for the story was one she had, in many respects, copied in her conduct. 
               "She brought scandal and disgrace into the family, I believe," said she, at length. 
               "She fell in love, and had a child," returned the doctor, laughing. 
               "I heard it was something of the kind, sir," 
               "And for that very natural but perhaps naughty act, she was driven forth to ignominy, poverty and infamy!" said the doctor. 
               Ida was silent. 
               "Yes, she was thrust forth to the mercy of the pitiless world, with curses on her head. You probably never heard what became of that Harriet Fitzherbert!" 
               "Never. It was reported that she died by her own hand." 
               "She is not dead yet," said the doctor. 
               Ida shuddered at the announcement; and with an ashy countenance, asked the grounds there were for such an extraordinary statement." 
               "The very best in the world," replied the doctor; "for they are neither more nor less than the presence of the party herself alive." 
               "Impossible! Why the affair occurred many years ago." 
                
               "Nevertheless it is true." 
               Ida regarded the doctor with some awe, and tremulously desired to know how he had learned so much about her family. 
               "Yes." 
               "Do you think her curses were ever realized?" said the doctor. 
               "I don't know," answered Ida, a dread creeping over her. 
               "You and your bed-ridden uncle are the last of your race, are you not?" inquired the doctor. 
               "Yes." 
               "Did not the majority of your family die suddenly?" 
               "Exactly. But were no suspicions of foul play ever entertained?" 
               "Never that I know." 
               "And is it not said that the brother now alive was the only member of the family who pitied her?" 
               "It was." 
               "And wherefore did he not like the rest?" 
               Amazed at such a question, she looked up in the doctor's face. 
               "Why," continued the doctor; "because he was exempted from the curse. He spoke words of comfort to the sorrow-stricken girl, and she blessed instead of cursing him. All the others she devoted to the sacrifice. And now let me ask you, 'was not the curse of the blighted heart fulfilled?" 
               "Whom and what have we to fear?" said Ida, an awful expression weighing on her spirits. 
               "The vengeance of the abused Harriet Fitzherbert!" was the solemn 
               And the mother and daughter left house together. 
               "But before you end," said a friend "you must tell us a little about the fate of the other persons to whom you have introduced us-the wretch Jade Wade-what became of him?" 
               "True; in the mysterious course of mortal affairs, this great villain escapee. But though Wade died without violence, died in his bed, as honest men die, we can scarcely believe that his life was not punishment enough; and when he died, his body was buried in secret at the dead of night, for the hatred of the world survived him. 
               "And what became of Spencer-did he meet with his just deserts?" 
               He did. He was found dead one morning at his apartments. In the night some one had gained access to his rooms, and had stabbed him to the heart. The dagger still remained in his body. The murderer was never discovered. It is supposed that it was the father of the girl whom he had seduced, whose death was recorded in a previous chapter. 
               "And Clarence Morgan, what became of him?" 
               He was convicted, on evidence furnished by Fanny, of burglary, and sentenced to the State Prison for a term of years. 
               "And what became of Fanny-did she reform?" 
               She did; and lived a secluded life for the remainder of her days. 
               "I am satisfied, then," said my friend, "and your tale is fairly done." 
             
         
       
   
