
    ----CITATION----
        Dorsey, Anna Hanson, (1815-1896). Conscience, or, The Trials of May Brooke, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6301 wright2-0771v2
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               CONSCIENCE;
               OR, THE TRIALS OF MAY BROOKE.
               An American Catholic Tale.
            
            BY MRS. ANNA H. DORSEY, AUTHOR OF "THE OLD LANDLORD'S
               DAUGHTER," "WOODREVE MANOR," "TEARS ON THE DIADEM," "THE SISTER OF CHARITY."
               ETC.
            IN TWO VOLS.—VOL. II.
            
               NEW YORK:
               P. J. KENEDY, EXCELSIOR CATHOLIC PUBLISHING HOUSE,
                  
                     5 BARCLAY STREET.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by JAMES B. KIRKER,
                  In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern
                  District of New York.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS OF VOL. II.
            
               I.—REPENTANCE. 5
               
               II.—THE NEW WILL. 22
               
               III.—THE SECRET SIN. 32
               
               IV.—THE DISCOVERY. 57
               
               V.—THE DEATH DREAM. 84
               
               VI.—REMORSE. 139
               
               VII.—REPENTANCE. 106
               
               VIII.—CONCLUSION. 171
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Conscience, or, The trials of May Brooke
            
            CONSCIENCE;
            OR, THE TRIALS OF MAY BROOKE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               REPENTANCE.
               WHEN May recovered, she looked around her with an alarmed and bewildered feeling.
                  The darkened, tossed-up room; the stranger watching beside her; the pale, silent
                  form on the bed, so motionless that the bed-clothes had settled around it like a
                  winding-sheet, were all so much like the continuation of a dreadful dream, that
                  she shuddered, and lifted herself up on her elbow.
               
               "You are better?" inquired a kind voice.
               "Have I been ill?" she asked.
               "Not ill exactly," replied the doctor; "you fainted just as I came in with the
                  watchman to your assistance." Then she remembered it all.
               "How is my uncle now, sir?" said May, sitting up, and with a modest blush
                  gathering up the masses of dark hair which had fallen from her comb.
               "He is doing well now. He is indebted to your energy and presence of mind for his
                  life," said the doctor.
               "Oh, thank God! thank God, that he is better! Do you think, sir, that he will
                  recover?"
               "He may, but it is doubtful. I shall not be able to decide until he awakes.
                  Meanwhile, lady, lie down, and rest. I will watch."
               "I could not sleep, sir; if I could, I would obey your directions; but I will rest
                  my head on the sofa here, that I may be better able to attend to my duties today,"
                  said May, in her earnest, matter-of-fact sort of way. And the doctor, a young man
                  who was rising rapidly in his profession—a son of the people, who, through
                  difficulties and rugged obstacles, and calumny and opposition, had emerged
                  purified, and conscious of power from it all, and attained an honorable position
                  professionally and socially, looked at that fragile form, and paid homage to the
                  right-thinking and right-acting spirit it contained. Her conduct had been heroic,
                  noble, and evinced so much strength of character that even he, accustomed to
                  phenomena, mental and physical, wondered. He knew not whence she
                  derived her strength; he had no idea of that divine charity which gives Titan
                  power to the weak, and considers life itself of little worth when it does battle
                  for the salvation of souls. It was a mystery, the effects of which he had
                     witnessed nessed, but could trace no
                  further than the comparative harmony of physiology. Towards sunrise, Mr.
                  Stillinghast turned uneasily on his pillow, and opened his eyes. He looked around
                  him with a puzzled, angry look; his bound-up arm—his garments clotted with
                  blood—the confusion into which his room was thrown—the strange man watching by his
                  bedside—May resting on the old sofa—what meant it all? He tried to call out, but
                  could only whisper,
               "What's all this? Have I been robbed? Who are you?"
               "I hope you feel a great deal better, Mr. Stillinghast. You have been quite ill,
                  sir," said the doctor, soothingly. "I am Dr. Burrell; allow me to feel your
                  pulse."
               "For what? I never was sick in my life. I never had my pulse felt," he said,
                  doggedly.
               "How does your head feel, sir?"
               "My head! ah, my head feels shaky. call her here."
               May was beside him in a moment, holding his hand, and looking down into his white
                  pinched features with commiseration.
               "What's all this, child? Why are you here?"
               "You have been very ill, dear uncle. You know you were poorly last night. I felt
                  uneasy about you, and sat up to listen if you should call for any thing, until I
                  heard you fall," said May, in a low, clear, and distinct voice.
               "Fall?"
               "Then, sir, I ran up here, and found you on the floor, so ill—so very ill," said
                  May, hesitating, always unwilling to speak of her own acts.
               "What then?"
               "I did all that I could, sir, until the doctor came," she said.
               "And that means every thing, Mr. Stillinghast linghast. She saved your life. She used the best
                  remedies; she put ice about your head, and bled you. When I came you were out of
                  danger; but be calm, sir; let me beseech you to be calm," said the doctor.
               "Did you do all this, little May?" he asked, looking earnestly at her with his
                  piercing gray eyes.
               "Yes, sir; I had read that such remedies were necessary."
               "Why did you do it, little one? My life or death is of no interest to
                     you. Tell me why you did it?" he whispered.
               "Oh, dear uncle, forgive me!" said May, while her tears dripped like raindrops on
                  his wan cheek; "I knew that you had made no preparation for death. I would have
                  died that you might live long enough to effect a reconciliation with Heaven."
               "Profit—gain—loss—loss—oss!" he murmured; then suddenly he put up his feeble hand,
                  and drawing May's face closer to him, kissed her cheek. "If it is not too late,
                  pray for me!" he whispered, in tones so low that she scarcely heard them.
               "Not too late. Oh no, dear uncle, it is not too late," said May,
                  smoothing back the tangled gray hair from his sunken temples.
               "Mr. Stillinghast, my dear sir, I fear that you are exciting yourself. I would
                  recommend quiet, composure; indeed, sir, it is absolutely necessary in your case,"
                  said the doctor, looking on uneasily.
               "It will make no difference, sir. I know full well whose finger has touched me. Do
                  you know that I cannot move my left side?" said the old man in his firm, stern
                  way.
               "I feared it," said the doctor, turning away to conceal the expression of pain
                  which this information caused him; "but it may pass off; you
                     may quite recover yet,
                  sir. A cup of weak tea would be good for our patient," he said to May.
               May glided out of the room, followed by the gaze of the stricken old man, to
                  prepare it for him. She ran up to awaken Helen, and told her that their uncle was
                  dangerously ill. "Dress, dear Helen, and go to him immediately, while I get a cup
                  of tea for him."
               "How very pale you are, May! Is he in danger?" exclaimed Helen, starting up, quite
                  awakened by the news.
               But May was gone. When she went up again with the cup and saucer in her hand, Mr.
                  Stillinghast greeted her with a look of welcome.
               "Do not leave me again," he whispered, as he sipped the tea; "it will not be long,
                  little one, that I shall keep you. Take this away now, and send for Mr.
                  Fielding."
               "Perhaps you know Mr. Fielding, sir?" said May, to Dr. Burrell.
               "He is my neighbor. Can I be of service?" he replied.
               "My uncle wishes to see him as early as possible. He is his man of business, I
                  think," replied May, who felt anxious that Mr. Stillinghast should attend to his
                  worldly concerns, and wind them up as soon as possible, that all the energies of
                  his soul might be directed to higher objects.
               "Here is a prescription, sir," said the doctor, "which I would advise you to take
                  immediately."
               "Will it cure me?"
               "It may relieve you very much."
               "Will it cure me, I say?" said the old man, sharply.
               "I cannot say; I can only promise temporary relief from its use."
               "I won't take it. I thank you for your patience, and shall be glad to see you
                  again; but I won't take your medicine."
               "If you were a child, sir, I would compel you to take it; but as it is, I can
                     only recommend the continual
                  application of cold bandages to your head. I will call in this evening," said the
                  doctor, kindly, as he left the room.
               "May!"
               "I am here by you, sir."
               "It is not too late to do you an act of justice."
               "Oh, dear, dear uncle!" said May, earnestly, "forget me; forget the affairs of
                  earth, and think of the judgment beyond the grave! Oh, sir! indeed—indeed, I fear,
                  that the time is too short to be wasted on perishing things."
               "Listen to me!" said the old man, gathering up his failing energies, and speaking
                  in a low, distinct voice; "I wish to save my soul, but fear it is too late. My
                  life has been one long, dark, dismal blank. There is nothing which I can
                  remember—not one single thing, to cheer this dreary hour. I have gained the world,
                  and lost—heaven. Until yesterday, I derided rided and scorned all
                  religions. It has been my lot in life to become entangled and betrayed by
                  hypocrites of various professions. They disgusted and embittered me with all
                  religion. I tried to think you a hypocrite, and cursed your patience
                  and good works as so many snares for gain. But my eyes were opened. I followed you
                  yesterday, out to that old negro's hut; I wrung the tale of your charities from
                  your unwilling lips, and know and understand all. And now, in return for all my
                  harshness, my neglect, my cruel unkindness, you save my life; you tend me, nurse
                  me, watch me, and for what? For the love of God.
               
               "Don't interrupt me, little one. You have proved the truth of the
                  faith you profess by your works. It suits me. I need no doctrinal arguments, no
                  theological and abstruse disquisitions, to convince me that it is right. I believe
                  it, May, even at the eleventh hour, when I have but little to hope. I believe—perhaps as devils do—for, child, I
                  tremble."
               "Oh, dear uncle, the grace of contrition is never given to devils. It is Almighty
                  God who has touched your heart. He pities, and would save you. 'I desire not the
                  death of him that dieth, saith the Lord God; return ye, and live.'"
               "Does he say that?"
               "Yes; that, and ten thousand times more. Think of Him, dear uncle, 'who was
                  wounded for our transgressions, who was bruised for our sins; the chastisement of
                  our peace was upon him, and by his bruises we are healed.'"
               "What must I do besides?"
               "Believe, and be baptized."
               "Baptized! I was raised in the belief of the Friends, and have never been
                  baptized," he said, musingly.
               "Better so, sir, for now you can receive properly the waters of regeneration, and
                  experience, when you so much need them, all the graces that flow from baptism into
                  the believing soul," said May.
               "I know the doctrines of your faith, May. I have read—I studied it in my days of
                     vision and unreality as an admirable system of human
                  philosophy; but you, child, in your humility—in your patience and
                  long-suffering—in your cheerful docility, have taught me that it is divine."
               "Oh, uncle, not me—not me! I have done nothing but duty," said May,
                  covered with confusion. It is the mysterious hand of Almighty God, leading you,
                  guiding you to the truth."
               "It can never—never be now! It is too late. I have wasted the hours—I have buried
                  the talents—I have derided time—now the night cometh when no man shall work," he
                  said, with an expression of anguish.
               "Shall I bring Father Fabian? He can strengthen and cheer you with
                  the promises of Christ; he has the power and authority from a divine source to absolve and prepare you for
                  your passage into eternity. Oh, sir, let me go."
               "Do with me what you please, strange—strong—wise little one! Only never leave me.
                  Send your cousin for him." Just then Helen made her appearance, elaborately and
                  beautifully dressed, as usual, and was shocked at the change in her uncle's
                  appearance, which a few hours had made. She inquired "how he felt?"
               "I believe I am ill. I wish you to take a note from May Brooke to her confessor.
                  She must remain with me," he said, in his old way.
               "I will go instantly," she said, glad to escape from such a scene, and wondering
                  what the strange old man could have to do with a priest. May scribbled a few lines
                  on the blank leaf of a book, tore it out, directed it to Father Fabian, and gave
                  it to Helen.
               "Try to sleep a little, sir," said May, gently.
               "I have no time for sleep—tell me of Jesus Christ!"
               And May took down from a shelf an old, mouldy Testament, which had not been opened
                  for years, and read, in clear, steady tones, and with sweet pathos, the Passion of
                  our Lord from Gethsemane to Calvary. When she finished, and looked up, the lips of
                  that pale visage were firmly set, and from his cold, dim eyes, tears were falling
                  apace—the first of contrition that had ever welled up from his
                  soul.
               He did not fear death—the mere act of dying, even the thought of annihilation,
                  would not have stirred a ripple, of fear in his heart, because, physically, he was
                  bold, reckless, and defiant of personal danger—but the eternal instincts of his
                  soul, developed by the providence of God, at the eleventh hour, sought their true destiny; they
                  shrunk, with dread, from the scrutiny of Divine Purity, yet longed for immortal
                  life, and immortal progress. Suddenly the veil had been torn from his eyes;
                  suddenly he felt all the gnawing, hungry needs of his soul; suddenly his weakness,
                  his wanderings, his infirmities, his tacit unbelief and indifference, were
                  revealed, in all their frightful deformity,—and how? By a still, calm voice—the
                  voice of a child, which had rung down the warning into his soul like thunder.
                     "What will it profit a man, if he gain the whole world, and lose his own
                     soul?" it had said; and earth and earthly affairs had assumed the shape
                  of nothingness; the tough, hard work of years was scattered—like a potent lever it
                  lifted away the demoniac weight of darkness and pride from his soul, as it rung
                  down into its frozen depths. And the strong angel of God, who had been contending
                  with the powers of evil, to wrest it from eternal loss, bore up the glad news to
                  heaven, that the hoary sinner repented at the eleventh hour; and there was great
                  joy among the angels of His presence, before Him.
               
                  
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               THE NEW WILL.
               FATHER FABIAN came. Miracles such as this never amazed him. He knew
                  too well that the Spirit of the Eternal God, which abides with His Church for
                  ever, was as powerful then as it had been in ages past, and that He still
                  condescended to add miracles to the testimony of revelation, to glorify the faith
                  He planted. With the angels, he only "rejoiced, and was exceeding glad," giving
                  thanks to God for this new manifestation of His clement love. Long, and earnest,
                  and touching, was the interview between the priest of God and the dying penitent.
                  He saw the depths of an old and embittered heart broken up; he heard its plaintive
                  cry, as it floated out towards the dark ocean of death, of, "Save, Lord, or I
                  perish!" and its imploring prayer for the waters of regeneration, and the
                  sacraments of the Church. All earth had failed him in this his hour of need; and
                  from the deep abyss of his misery he expected no deliverance but through them. But
                  at last, Peace was whispered, and into his soul was breathed the holy sentence of
                  absolution; and on his hoary head was poured the baptismal stream; his eyes and
                  ears had been opened by divine power; and, like Siloa's wave, it washed him clean.
                  What was the leprosy of those men of old, to the corroding infection of SIN, which
                  had for so many weary years diseased and defaced his spirit? They were healed by a
                  miracle of power,—he, by a miracle of grace. Mr. Stillinghast was much exhausted,
                  but calm and humble; he had suddenly become like a little child, so sincere and entire was his repentance.
               "I will come again in a few hours, and administer to you, my poor friend, the
                  Sacrament of Extreme Unction; and if I find that you are sinking, will bring the
                  Holy Viaticum for your refreshment and consolation in the dark and trying hour. I
                  would advise you now to settle all your worldly concerns, so that nothing may
                  interfere between your soul and God."
               "How is it with you now, dear uncle?" said May, who came in as Father Fabian left
                  the room.
               "Unworthy, child—all and utterly unworthy, but hoping humbly, through the infinite
                  merits of Jesus Christ," he whispered.
               "Mr. Fielding and Doctor Burrell are here!" said Helen, coming in.
               "Is Father Fabian still here?"
               "He is, sir."
               "Request him to come back." Soon after, the three gentlemen came in together.
                  "Leave me a little while," he said, unclasping his fingers from May's hand.
               "I fear that you feel very feeble, Mr. Stillinghast," said the doctor.
               "I feel it, sir, but I have a work to do, and the 'day is far spent.' Could you
                  ascertain, in any way, so that you could swear to it, that I am in my sane mind?"
                  he asked, eagerly.
               "The subject requires no investigation, sir. I have not the least doubt of your
                  sanity. Your mind has been quite—nay, uncommonly clear since your recovery,"
                  replied the doctor.
               "Gentlemen," he said, addressing the others, "I am perfectly and entirely in my
                  senses; I have not a single obscure or confused idea. All is clear and calm.
                  Fielding, I made a will a short time ago; I wish to change it—to make another.
                  Open that desk, and you will find
                  parchment, pens, and ink. Now, come sit near me—so. Begin and write the usual
                  preamble and formula."
               "It is done, sir," said Mr. Fielding, after writing rapidly some ten minutes.
               "I wish to devise to my, niece, May Brooke, two hundred thousand dollars in bank
                  and city stock, subject to her entire and free control, without condition; and
                  with the hope that she will accept and use it as a memorial of my gratitude for
                  the great and incalculable good she has done me. To Helen Stillinghast, I bequeath
                  the sum of fifty thousand dollars, the harp I purchased for her, and the house,
                  goods, and chattels I have devised to her elsewhere."
               "It is all written out, sir, in due legal form" said Mr. Fielding.
               "To my Irish porter, Michael Neal, who has served me faithfully these twenty
                  years, an annuity of two hundred dollars—to be settled on him for life. To a
                  certain tain wood-sawyer, introduced to me on the 25th by said Michael Neal, who
                  will identify the man, the sum of one hundred dollars, annually, while he lives,
                  as a small compensation for having conducted me, on that day, to a place where I
                  learned something of the first importance to me." Then followed a magnificent
                  bequest for the establishment and support of a Catholic asylum for boys; another
                  for a standing fund for the support of young men preparing for the priesthood, who
                  were destitute of means, and anxious to enter holy orders. The residue of his
                  princely fortune, he wished applied to furnishing capital for a bank for the poor,
                  where, by making small deposits in seasons of health and prosperity, they would be
                  entitled to loans, without interest, in ill-health, sickness, or hard times. To
                  Walter Jerrold, in the event of his marrying Helen Stillinghast, his warehouse,
                  then occupied by Stillinghast & Co., and whatever merchandise it contained. It was all put into legal
                  form by the attorney—no technicality was omitted that might endanger the prompt
                  execution of his wishes—not a letter or dot left out. Mr. Fielding read it
                  aloud.
               "Add a codicil, Fielding—a codicil. I wish my legacies to the church to be placed
                  in the hands, and under the control, and at the will of, the Archbishop of
                  Baltimore. For the rest, I name you sole executor. Have you finished? Let me sign
                  it; then ask those gentlemen," he said, pointing to Father Fabian and Dr. Burrell,
                  who had been engaged in a low-toned conversation at the window, "to witness
                  it."
               They came forward, saw him sign his name in full, clear characters, then appended
                  their own signatures; after which, Mr. Stillinghast fell back exhausted on his
                  pillow; and, while an expression of rest settled on his pale, time-worn features,
                  he exclaimed,
               "It is all right, now, Fielding. Now, my God, I am free; my burden, under which I
                  have toiled through misspent years, is cast away. I am free!"
               "Courage, my friend; you have done a good work—a work worthy of a dying Christian,
                  and may the blessing of Almighty God rest on it and you," said Father Fabian, who
                  made over him the sign of the cross, while he blessed him in the name of the Holy
                  Trinity.
               Mr. Fielding placed the will in a large white envelope, which he laid on the bed
                  beside Mr. Stillinghast, and took leave, hoping that when he saw him in the
                  morning he would be much better. The doctor prevailed on him to swallow a
                  restorative which he had brought; after which, he grew more composed, and gave the
                  will to May, and directed her to lay it on the shelf of a small, narrow closet, on the left side of the fire-place. As
                  she did so, she saw another envelope like it, marked "Will;" also a
                  number of packages—bonds, deeds, mortgages, and receipts, tied up in small,
                  compact bundles, packed in between the shelves. But she felt no interest there;
                  and quickly returning to her uncle's pillow, was glad to see that he had fallen
                  into a profound sleep. Helen, who had been hovering about the door, and around the
                  room, in and out, for the last half hour, came in again, and asked May if "she
                  should not relieve her by taking her post, while her uncle slept?"
               "No, dear Helen, he might awake and miss me; and he has requested me not to leave
                  him until death releases his soul. Do you attend to the affairs of the house—I
                  will watch here."
               "There's something going on," thought Helen. "She's a deep one, with all her quiet
                  piety; but she shall never stand between me and my aims. I have read one will—I
                  shall not sleep until I read the other." Then, turning to May, she spoke aloud.
                  "It will suit me better to be down stairs; I am so very nervous, that I am a poor
                  nurse;" and glad to be released from a scene too uncongenial to her nature and
                  feelings, she hastily withdrew.
               
                  
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               THE SECRET SIN.
               "THIS is shocking news, Walter!" said Mrs. Jerrold to her son, when he imparted to
                  her the news of Mr. Stillinghast's illness. "Do you know—has he—did he send—"
               "I don't know, indeed," said the young man, abstractedly.
               "I mean, has he altered his will?" said the lady, speaking out.
               "I do not know; Helen tells me that a lawyer has been with him, and a priest."
               "A priest!" shrieked the lady. "Order the carriage instantly, Walter; I must see
                  Helen."
               "I have not seen her since the morning," said the young man, after having
                  delivered the order, and returned to the sofa. "She looks harassed and ill, poor
                  girl."
               "I am sorry we have been so precipitate in this affair, Walter," said Mrs.
                  Jerrold, fuming. "After all, this eccentric old person may change his mind, and it
                  will be so awkward to break off the match, for you cannot afford to marry a poor
                  woman."
               "I do not apprehend any thing of the kind, mother. Helen's beauty and
                  accomplishments are dower enough," he replied, calmly.
               "Walter, I will never consent to this marriage if Helen is portionless," exclaimed
                  the lady.
               "My dear mother, you sometimes forget, do you not, that I have reached the mature
                  age of thirty-one? Really, where my happiness is concerned, I shall submit to no
                  control," he said, calmly.
               
               "Happiness!" repeated the lady, scornfully.
               "The carriage is at the door, madam," said a servant, at the door.
               "Very well. Tell Rachael to bring down my bonnet and wrappings."
               Soon accoutred for her drive, Mrs. Jerrold took her son's arm, and went down to
                  her carriage. He handed her in, and stepped in after her.
               "Why do you go, Walter?" she asked, looking annoyed.
               "I wish to inquire after Mr. Stillinghast's health," he said, quietly."
               A few minutes' drive brought them to Mr. Stillinghast's door. Helen heard the
                  carriage stop, and her toilette, as usual, being very becomingly and carefully
                  made—for Helen never forget her self-homage—she met them at the door.
                  Her countenance had assumed a sad and mournful expression, and in answer to their
                  inqui ries, she spoke in an agitated and subdued tone.
               "It is horrible. I did not hear a word of it until to-day. I was dreadfully
                  shocked," said Mrs. Jerrold, kissing her cheek.
               "How is Mr. Stillinghast now, dear Helen?" asked Walter Jerrold, folding her hand
                  closer in his own.
               "They fear he is sinking," said Helen, in the same tone of counterfeit
                  feeling.
               "How melancholy!" said Mrs. Jerrold, taking possession of the corner of the sofa,
                  almost dying with curiosity.
               "Has he inquired after me, do you know, Helen?"
               "I have not heard."
               "I thought, perhaps, he might wish to see me in relation to the firm, and its
                  concerns; though every thing has been conducted with such strict regularity, that
                  I do not suppose it is necessary."
               "Perhaps as May has been with him all the time, she can give you some
                     information tion," said Helen, with
                  one of her cold, haughty glances towards May, who just then came in.
               "I will not detain you one moment," said Mr. Jerrold, bowing to May. "I am anxious
                  to know particularly how Mr. Stillinghast is, and if he has inquired for me?"
               "But this moment, Mr. Jerrold, he awoke, and requested to see you. I thought you
                  were here, and ran down to see. He is very low indeed, sir, and I will just let
                  him know that you are waiting to see him."
               "It may not be important; but if he is not too ill, I should be glad to see him a
                  moment."
               "I will come down for you immediately. Excuse me, Mrs. Jerrold," said May, who
                  hurrying out, was met by Father Fabian. He spoke kindly to Helen, bowed
                  courteously to the strangers, and went up stairs.
               "Who is that, dear?" asked Mrs. Jerrold rold, whose attention had been arrested by
                  the dignified courtesy of Father Fabian's manner.
               "A Catholic clergyman," said Helen, blushing.
               "Your uncle is not a Catholic?"
               "He was not, but he is now."
               A look of ineffable scorn spread over Mrs. Jerrold's handsome face, while a low,
                  contemptuous laugh from her son, was the response.
               "Dear Helen," said Mrs. Jerrold, taking the weak girl's hand in her own, with a
                  caress, "excuse me, for no doubt you still feel some hankering after those
                  mysterious idolatries which you have wisely abandoned; but this is so
                  absurd. How came it about?"
               "I cannot imagine," she replied, in a faltering voice; for at that moment the
                  thorn-crowned head of Jesus Christ—his sorrowful face stained with drops of blood,
                  until its divinely beautiful lineaments were almost covered—was visioned in her soul with such
                  distinctness, that she almost shrieked; then it faded away, and she went on: "I
                  have seen very little of my uncle since his illness. He keeps my cousin May by his
                  side, and is uneasy if she leaves him an instant."
               "And she is a Catholic?" asked Mrs. Jerrold, anxiously.
               "Yes, a perfect devotee," replied Helen, bitterly.
               "An infatuation! He is weak; his nerves and senses are shattered by this attack.
                  He has been influenced by her and the priest. My dear Helen, I fear
                     your interests will suffer."
               "Do you really think so?" said Helen, growing pale.
               "Mr. Jerrold, you will please to come up for a moment. My uncle desires to see you
                  particularly," said May, appearing at the door.
               "That is a designing girl, depend on it," whispered Mrs. Jerrold, as her son left
                  the room; "and now, Helen, I must warn you. Be on your guard, and do not feel hurt
                  when I say, that if she should have succeeded in cozening your uncle to re voke
                  his will in her favor, my poor son's happiness will be wrecked for ever. He is not
                  rich, you know, and is too proud to marry a woman whom he cannot support in good
                  style; consequently, this marriage, which, under existing circumstances, gives us
                  so much pleasure, would then have to be broken off."
               "Mr. Fielding was with him, and I heard them talking about a will, but whether it
                  was the old, or a new one, I could not determine," said Helen, becoming very
                  white.
               "Hush! not another word; Walter is coming down. But remember what I tell you.
                  Well, dear Walter?"
               "I think Mr. Stillinghast is sinking, but he is perfectly himself," said the
                     young man, in a low tone, as he seated
                  himself. "He is much changed, and speaks in broken sentences.
               "He knew you?" asked Mrs. Jerrold.
               "Perfectly. He told me that our recent engagement was all secured, and begged me
                  to keep up the credit of the old house; spoke of our marriage, dear Helen, and
                  gave me some advice, which I could not understand, about faith and baptism, and
                  truth, and all that kind of thing, peculiar to old men who are dying," said the
                  young man, with a light smile.
               "Then he has not made another will?" asked Mrs. Jerrold.
               "No, I fancy not; merely a codicil, if any thing. But be careful of yourself,
                  Helen; don't sit up at night—it will hurt your eyes and good looks. May Brooke is
                  an indefatigable nurse," said the worldly man.
               "Farewell, sweet Helen," whispered Mrs. Jerrold, embracing her. "We shall soon
                  have you to ourselves. But be on the quivive;
                  there may be something, you know, under all this."
               "Another will!" thought Helen, after they went away; "if another
                  exists, different from the first—well—I see no reason why a whim should wreck my
                  happiness." Then, tempted and scheming, she sat motionless for hours. Alas! for
                  the soul, which, of its own free will, unmoors itself from the Rock of Ages, to
                  drift away on dark and uncertain seas; who, lured away by the sun-gilt mirage,
                  throws down the cross, scorns the thorny crown, and despises Calvary, to perish at
                  last miserably in the arid desert! Although Helen had never been a pious Catholic,
                  she had always declared herself one, and resisted every open attack on her faith;
                  but now, insidious scorn, worldly interests, and human love had entered her soul,
                  and poisoned it, and for a season they would triumph.
               
               "Uncle Stillinghast wants you, dear Helen," said May, tapping her on the
                  shoulder.
               "Me!" she exclaimed, starting up like a quilty thing.
               "Yes, dear. He will receive the Holy Viaticum soon, and he wishes to speak with
                  you before," said May, winding her arm around Helen's waist, and wishing, in the
                  charity that filled her soul, that she could as easily lead her back, weeping and
                  penitent, to the foot of the cross.
               "Come hither, child," said the old man, turning his feeble eyes towards her. "I
                  fear—I have—assisted—encouraged you—to forsake your faith.
                  God—forgive me—for my ignorance and sin. But hear me. I am dying—hear me testify
                  to the saving and divine truths of that faith—and repent you—repent ere—it is—too
                  late for ever. It is an awful thing—girl—to live away—from—the—true fold of Jesus
                  Christ;—but how horrible—is it—to forsake it Father Fabian—come
                  closer," he said, feebly, while he placed Helen's hand in that of the clergyman,
                  "bring back this wanderer—watch her—guide her, until she is saved."
               "My poor child! you will not forsake your religion; you dare not peril your
                  salvation by severing, with sacrilegious hand, the ties which unite you to JESUS
                  CHRIST, as a member of His glorious body?" asked the priest, in a tone of blended
                  pity and authority.
               "Oh, no, no!" sobbed Helen, quite overcome by the scene. "I am very young, and
                  love the world. I have never intended to forsake my religion entirely. I intend,
                  at some early day, to go to confession. I have only procrastinated."
               "Of course, my dear child, you will return to your duty," said Father Fabian; "you
                  cannot do otherwise, unless you wish to seal deliberately your eternal
                  perdition."
               "You will marry—marry Jerrold," gasped
                  Mr. Stillinghast; "but do—not—forget—that your prevarications—may
                  ruin his soul—with your own. Are—you willing—to assume the responsibility?"
               "Oh, sir, this is horrible!" exclaimed Helen, falling on her knees beside the
                  bed.
               "But true," added Father Fabian, at a sign from Mr. Stillinghast, who leaned back
                  exhausted. "It is perilous thing, under the most favorable circumstances, for a
                  Catholic to wed with a Protestant. If the Catholic has not the patience of a
                  saint, and the constancy of a martyr, seandal must come. Concessions must be
                  made—vital principles too often yielded, until at last the unbeliever triumphs—not
                  over the mere human will, and the weak nature of his victim, but over religion—and
                  exultingly thinks, 'how frail are the defences of this faith, which is called
                  divine.' Then, confirmed in his errors by your betrayal, his whole
                  life is a scoff at Eternal Truth; while you, bringing forth children, who, instead
                  of becoming heirs of Christ, become aliens from His fold, while your
                     sin—your treachery—your apostasy will, like an onward
                  billow, roll through future generations, until it dashes itself, with its black
                  abominations, at the feet of the Eternal Judge. But, my dear child, through the
                  mercy of God, and your own example, you may win this wandering soul to embrace the
                  truth; at any rate, you may, by your pious constancy, plant the seeds of a better
                  life in his soul, which may bear the fruits of salvation."
               "It was—my act. I would undo it—but—it is too late—too late. Helen—for give
                  me."
               "Dear uncle, do not say so—I have nothing to forgive," she sobbed.
               "Time will come, I fear—when—you will not think so. Go, now—I—have provided—for
                  you—see—that you provide—for the eternal future," he said, with difficulty.
               
               Helen kissed the hand already shadowed by the approach of death, and left the room
                  weeping.
               "It is horrible!" she exclaimed, almost shrieking, as she threw herself on her
                  bed, after she reached her apartment. "I hope he will not send for me again. I
                  never loved this harsh, bitter old man, nor do I intend to risk my happiness by
                  promising impossibilities. I'll go to confession, and all that, when I am ready,
                  and not before. Walter detests Catholics; and if he thought I was still one, he'd
                  never wed me. But it cannot last long—I shall soon be free; and once Jerrold's
                  wife, I can practise my religion if I choose. At any rate, I shall die a
                     Catholic!"
               It was midnight. All was silent in the death-chamber. The night-taper was placed
                  behind a screen; and the fire-light flickered with a tremulous motion on the
                  richly-carved, antique furniture, black and polished by age, and creeping upwards,
                  threw long, wavering shadows on the wall. Amidst this solemn twilight, a table
                  spread with white, which supported a crucifix, wax lights, and flowers, stood near
                  the sick man's bed. A guest was expected ere long—a divine and honored guest was
                  coming into that shadowy room where death held his awful presence, to strengthen
                  and console that penitent spirit on its passage to eternity, when, like Elias,
                  after his miraculous repast, strengthened and courageous, it would walk with
                  humble, but sure steps, towards its eternal Horeb!
               May knelt by her uncle's side, with his hand clasped in hers, praying, and
                  whispering sweet words of cheer. A footstep sounded on the pavement; it ascended
                  the steps, and Father Fabian, accompanied by Helen and Doctor Burrell, who had
                  been waiting in the parlor below, came in bearing with him the Lord of Life. May
                  lit the candles on the temporary altar, and retired with the rest for a few
                     moments, while Father Fabian held a
                  brief conversation with the penitent old man, touching the affairs of his
                  conscience; then he summoned them in; and while they knelt, he arranged himself in
                  surplice and stole, and in a solemn, impressive manner, began the sacramental
                  rite. "'Behold him—behold the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the
                     world,'" he said, holding up the sacred host. "'He that eateth my
                     flesh, and drinketh my blood,' says the Redeemer, 'hath
                     everlasting life, and I will raise him up on the last day.' The day of
                  life was almost spent, when you came to him; night was coming on, but He, in the
                  plenitude of His divine compassion, turned you not away, but gives you a princely
                  reward—even Himself. Like the Prodigal, destitute and naked, you return, and
                  receiving you, He spreads a mystic feast, in which He gives you heavenly food; and
                  while the shadow of death falls around you, lo! He comes to go with you towards
                  those dismal portals, and admit you to a region of probation and everlasting hope.
                  Humbly confiding, and strong in faith, receive Him, not as a representation or
                  mere memorial of the Son of God, but Jesus Christ himself. 'Corpus Domini nostri
                  Jesu;'" and, as Father Fabian pronounced the words, he administered the bread of
                  Eternal Life to the dying man. What could have changed that dark, repulsive face
                  so entirely, that it looked an image of humility? Was it death? Was it memory? Or
                  was it the effect of new and divine influences? It was surely nothing mortal. He
                  lifted his eyes to Father Fabian's face—then turned them in search of May. She was
                  by his side in a moment.
               "Unworthy—unworthy," he whispered; then they saw his lips moving in silent and
                  earnest prayer. Dr. Burrell had regarded the whole scene with interest and awe.
                  The whole scene preached to his inmost
                  soul. Doctrinal arguments and learned polemics, he could have tilted with, word
                  for word; but here were facts, and realities, and influences, which disarmed and
                  defied all that was skeptical in his nature. The dying man—the priest of God—that
                  young and fragile girl, illustrated by their acts a faith which, though mysterious
                  to him, could be nothing less than divine; but Father Fabian, ignorant of the
                  thoughts which were passing, like ripples of light, through his mind, approached,
                  and asked him, in a low voice, "how long he supposed Mr. Stillinghast might
                  linger?"
               "He may live until noon to-morrow," said the doctor.
               "He may," said Father Fabian, "but I fear not: however, God's holy will be
                  done!"
               During the night, Mr. Stillinghast's mind wandered. May, overcome by fatigue, had
                  leaned her head on the bed-side, and fallen into a profound sleep. Helen, timid,
                  and starting at every sound, sat near him, fearing to move, lest it should rouse
                  him.—Her guilty, selfish thoughts, terrified and haunted her like phantoms.
               "There are—some papers,"murmured the old man, without turning his head, and
                  thinking he spoke to May, "papers which I wish burnt."
               "Shall I get them, sir?" whispered Helen, while every bad, avaricious, and selfish
                  instinct in her nature, started to sudden life; "where shall I find them?"
               "On the second shelf—of the closet—where the wills are. They are
                  records—of sorrows—and bitterness; but be careful, child—those two wills—the last
                  one, which concerns you—is in—a white—envelope; the old one—in a brown wrapper. On
                  the—second shelf; mind—the wills."
               "Yes, sir!" whispered Helen, while her heart throbbed almost to bursting, and a
                  wild gleam of triumph shot across her
                  visage, giving it the fearful beauty of a demon. She would throw the new will
                  amongst the condemned papers—it would be consumed with them; he would
                  be silent and cold when it was missed, and could tell nothing; but then, might not
                     she be suspected? No! she would not burn it—she would secrete it,
                  and only destroy it in case she was disinherited. These thoughts rushed through
                  her mind with strange velocity, while she went towards the closet; and, just as
                  she laid her hand on a package of papers, Mr. Stillinghast, suddenly turning,
                  discovered his mistake.
               "Come away—come away," he cried, with strange energy, "how dare you
                  go there? Come away."
               It was the work of an instant to snatch up the new will, thrust it into her bosom,
                  and return, pale, trembling, and almost fainting, to his side.
               "I thought you were May; call her here, Helen, then go away," he said, gently.
               "Uncle Stillinghast wants you, May," said Helen, stooping over, and touching
                  her.
               "What can I do for you, uncle?" she said, instantly roused.
               "I wish—you to burn—some papers—quick—quick—child. On the second shelf—there—in
                  the small closet—where the wills are. Is she gone?"
               "Helen? yes, sir; shall I bring all the papers—or are those you wish me to burn,
                  numbered?" asked May, taking the candle with her.
               "Yes, yes; numbered—1, 2, 3—1796—1799—1800."
               "Here they are, sir."
               "Lay them there—under the blaze—so—so—so—perish—so blot out—so farewell the past.
                  Forgive me the sins of my pride—of my ignorance—of my avarice—through the bitter
                  passion of Jesus Christ —forgive me—as I
                  forgive—all," he murmured, as he watched the rapid destruction of these records of
                  his life.
               "Take a spoonful of this," said May, holding some brandy to his lips. He drank it,
                  and cast a long, earnest, loving look on her, drew her face towards his, and
                  kissed her forehead.
               "The blessing of Almighty God abide with you, little one; hand me
                     that, now," he said, looking towards the crucifix, "lay it
                  here—where my eyes can rest on it—so." He never spoke again; but, with the image
                  of the CRUCIFIED in view, his failing eyes gradually and softly closed. May
                  thought he slept. So he did, but he slept the sleep of death.
               Helen had fled up to her room, locked he door, and, with a white, pallid face, and
                  trembling fingers, took the will from her bosom and opened it.
               "To My—to May—to May—beloved niece—I new it; but May shall never have
                  it," she said, through her set teeth, as her eye ran rapidly over it. "They will
                  think she burned it with those papers. I am saved—I shall marry
                  Jerrold!" A mouse gnawing in the wainscot near her, caused her to start up and
                  look round; and there, looking down from the cross, where the sins of
                  the world had hung Him, was the image of His divine and woeful face. In the
                  flickering light, the drops of blood appeared to flow from those cruel wounds, and
                  the thorn-crowned head seemed to droop towards her. With a shuddering cry, she
                  fell heavily to the floor. But the paroxysm passed away—she remembered her crime,
                  and, fearful of detection—for already had conscience begun to scourge
                  her—she flew to her trunk, and touching a spring in the side, a secret compartment
                  slid back, revealing a narrow interstice between the body of the trunk and the
                  exterior. Into this she dropped the will, and fastened it securely.
                  What and who instigated her to evil? Shall any dare say
                  it was religion? She was a Catholic by birthright—but an alien from the practices
                  of her holy faith by choice, and through human pride and worldliness—did its
                  spirit lead her into crime? Judge of its effects by May's humble and earnest life.
                     She was true and practical in her character, and acted out the
                  precepts of her faith. Judge it, by the wonderful change it effected in the harsh
                  and bitter nature of that hoary man, whom it excited to acts of perfect Christian
                  virtue, and who, full of humble hope, had just breathed his last.
               Who would measure the patriotism and purity of Washington, by the treason of
                  Arnold? Dare not, then, be guilty of the manifest injustice of judging the Church
                  by the conduct of those, who, although bearing her sign on their foreheads, become
                  traitors to her holy precepts, and scandalize her in their lives.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE DISCOVERY.
               THE old man was far down in the shadow of the mountain; the day was well nigh
                  spent, when, by the grace of God, he fled into the fold of Faith for safety; and
                  now, when all was over, the Church, like a loving mother, more tender of the
                  repentant prodigal, who had fallen at her feet, and died, than of those who had
                  never sullied, or torn their robes, and squandered their substance in the world's
                  wild wilderness, poured out the riches of its solemnities around the altar, where
                  the Divine Sacrifice was offered, with touching prayers, for his eternal
                  repose.
               
               Father Fabian officiated, and spoke eloquently of the nothingness of the world,
                  the uncertainty of life, and the emptiness of riches. The cathedral was crowded by
                  persons whom the news of Mr. Stilling-hast's conversion had brought together, and
                  who, regarding it as an extraordinary event, were desirous of witnessing the
                  funeral ceremonies, and at the same time testify their respect for his memory. The
                  most influential and wealthy of the class to which he belonged were present, and
                  habituated as they were to look at every thing in a commercial point of view,
                  their general opinion was that their old companion in trade had made a good
                  bargain. "He was stern and harsh," they said, "but honest and upright; and too
                  shrewd altogether to make a bad speculation in the end, and doubtless he had
                  sought only his best interests in the step he had taken."
               But in all that crowd there was only one heart which felt an emotion of grief, or
                  had a single tear to drop on his coffin-lid. After a long life of toil, and
                  solitude, and unlovingness, only one. May felt this while she wept, and wished she
                  had been more patient and persevering in her love while he lived; but such regrets
                  were useless now, except to kindle charity. She could do nothing which would be
                  available to make up the deficiencies of the past, but incessantly beseech Jesus
                  Christ, through his bitter passion and death, and the Immaculate Mother, by the
                  union which she bore, body and soul, in the unspeakable agonies of the CROSS, to
                  grant him a speedy release from suffering probation, to eternal refreshment, and
                  light, and peace.
               It was late when the funeral cortege returned to
                  the city, and Mr. Fielding, perceiving that May was much overcome, and looked it,
                  declined going in, or attending to business that evening.
               "I will be here at ten o'clock to-morrow
                  morning. I know that my deceased client's affairs are all in such order, that
                  there will be no delay in carrying out his wishes."
               "Just as you think best, Mr. Fielding," replied May, wearily.
               "What say you, Miss Stillinghast?" he said, addressing Helen.
               "To-morrow will be quite time enough, sir," replied Helen, in a low tone.
               Time enough, indeed! Well might she feel a sense of relief at its being deferred,
                  when she knew that from the moment it was discovered that the will was missing,
                  the temptations which had led her so deeply into sin would become demons of
                  vengeance to torture and disturb her. As she went up with a heavy step to her
                  room, an angel whisper suggested that there was time enough yet to undo the wrong
                  she had committed. It startled and agitated her. "Can I bear these chains?" was
                  the question. Weak, but never hardened dened in wickedness, she trembled, and was
                  afraid of the penalties of her offence; and when she looked up, and saw by the
                  flickering candlelight the image of the CRUCIFIED, and the sorrowful face of his
                  Virgin Mother, both bending on her looks of tenderness and woe, which said, as
                  plain as looks could say, "Child of my passion! soul, ransomed by my death! why
                  wound me so deeply?" With a low cry, she threw herself on her pillow. "I shall
                  never know peace again," her heart whispered; "I already feel the anguish of
                  guilt; I begin to taste on earth the pangs of everlasting woe. This sin, with the
                  human shame it will bring, will be an abyss between me and the Sacraments of the
                  Church. Where shall I turn for peace? I can never bear this burden; it will madden
                  me. I feel even now so guilty that I dare not lift my eyes to Walter's, for whose
                  sake I do it. I feel an awe and dread steal over me when May comes near me, as if she had Ithuriel's spear with which
                  to touch me. I will do it," she said, with sudden resolution, and got up, and
                  opened her trunk with the almost determined purpose of restoring the will to the
                  place from which she had taken it. But oh, human frailty! the light falling on an
                  open case of rare jewels, and some costly articles of her bridal trousseau, met
                  her eye; then followed visions of splendor—of such power as wealth gives—of
                  equipages and luxury, which swept away, like ocean-tides, the thoughts which her
                  angel-guardian had written on her conscience. Hesitating no longer, a smile of
                  triumph lit her face, and crowning the spectre with roses, and wrapping a drapery
                  of pale illusions around it, she offered herself to a martyrdom of sin, to secure
                  her worldly advancement.
               "I suppose," said Mr. Fielding, the next morning, to May, "that I shall find the
                  will in that little closet, where your uncle kept his most important papers?"
               "I presume so, sir. I placed it there at his request, in the place he designated,
                  after you went away, the day it was written," replied May.
               "That closet could tell strange things," said the lawyer, "if it could speak; but
                  I believe I have come a half hour before the time appointed, as the others are not
                  here."
               "They are coming now. I see Mr. Jerrold and Father Fabian walking this way, and I
                  think that is Dr. Burrell's carriage down the street," said May, looking out.
               "All right. May, suppose you had Aladdin's lamp?" said the lawyer, rubbing his
                  hands.
               "I wouldn't have such a thing, sir," said May, quietly.
               "Why, young lady?"
               "I should be afraid of the monster it might evoke. Poor Aladdin had a miserable
                  time of it from the beginning, in my opinion," said May.
               
               "Riches have their cares," said Mr. Fielding.
               "Cares without much peace," replied May.
               Just then Mr. Jerrold, Dr. Burrell. and Father Fabian came in; and after
                  exchanging the compliments of the day with the ladies and Mr. Fielding, prepared
                  to execute the business which had brought them together. Mr. Fielding, accompanied
                  by Mr. Jerrold, went up to get the will. He had long held the most intimate
                  business relations with Mr. Stillinghast, and was the only man living who had ever
                  been in his confidence. He knew the contents of every parcel and package of
                  writing in the old desk and bureau, and could tell just where to lay his hand on
                  any particular document. But he was at fault now. There was only one will to be
                  found, and that was the one which the deceased had declared should be null and
                  void. The group below who were conversing on some interesting topic, were soon
                  amazed to hear Mr. Fielding's voice in loud and excited tones at the head of the
                  staircase. Clearing two or three steps at a time, he bounded into the room,
                  followed by Mr. Jerrold, who was pale and silent. He was usually a grave and quiet
                  person, and so governed by system, that the very hairs on his head might have been
                  said to be arranged numerically.
               "Here's a pretty thing come to pass!" he exclaimed, throwing a bundle of papers on
                  the table; "a most beautiful kettle of fish. The last will and testament of the
                  deceased is missing. Yes, sirs! can't be found. May, who was in your uncle's room
                  the last night he lived? I say then, because the closet in which the
                  will was placed was locked then, and the key has been in my pocket ever since? Who
                  was there?"
               
                  I was there, sir," said May, astonished at the uproar.
               
               "Who else?"
               "Helen was there for a little while."
               "Who else?"
               "The doctor came at eleven o'clock."
               "The doctor didn't steal the will. Are you sure no one else came in
                  afterwards?"
               "Father Fabian administered the Holy Viaticum to my uncle. After that, no one
                  except Helen and myself were there."
               "Were you awake all the time?"
               "I think not, sir. I believe I slept about ten minutes."
               "Why didn't you sleep ten years, May?" exclaimed the irritated lawyer. "And you,
                  Miss Stillinghast, please to state what occurred while your cousin slept. I
                  suppose you kept awake, as you had heavy interests at stake?"
               "Mr. Fielding, this lady is my affianced wife; oblige me by assuming a more gentle
                  tone," said Walter Jerrold, taking his stand beside Helen.
               "If she was your grandmother, sir, this matter must be sifted; and let me tell
                  you, not only sifted here, but in open court, whither I shall carry it, unless the
                  will is forthcoming. What occurred, Miss Stillinghast, during the ten minutes that
                  little fool slept?"
               "Only this, sir," said Helen, who felt supported by Mr. Jerrold's protection; "my
                  uncle roused himself a little, and told me to take some packages of paper out of
                  the closet, and put them under the grate. He said 'they were records of the past
                  which he wished to perish with him.'"
               "So—so!" said the lawyer, significantly.
               "But," continued Helen, speaking in a clearer, and more assured tone, "I had just
                  laid my hand on the knob to open the door, when he discovered that it was not May
                  to whom he had been speaking, and in harsh tones he ordered me back, and commanded
                  me to awaken May, and leave the room, which I did, for his terrible looks alarmed
                  me so dreadfully that I could not remain."
               
               "And you, May?"
               "I got out the papers, sir, as my uncle directed, and burnt them, as he desired.
                  Helen is right," replied May.
               "And what did you burn?"
               "Papers. Some in packages, and some in large envelopes, like that you hold in your
                  hand," replied May, calmly.
               "Why the deuce, then, didn't you put your head under the grate, and burn that too?
                  You have burnt the will, that's clear; the will which would have made you the
                  richest woman in Maryland. With those 'records of the past,' which my old friend
                  Stillinghast ought to have eaten up years ago, you have burnt up
                  legacies to orphans, benefactions to widows, and many noble charities with
                     it—if it was burnt," added Mr. Fielding.
               "Mr. Fielding," said May, lifting her hand, with an earnest gesture, "if I thought
                  I had through a careless, or heedless act, injured the interests of any living
                  being, I should be truly miserable. I cannot comprehend the charges, or the cause
                  of your unusual and ungentle excitement.
               "You miserably innocent child! You poor, unworldly infant! I will endeavor to beat
                  it into your comprehension if you will listen. Your deceased uncle made two
                     wills; one a few months ago, leaving the bulk of his fortune to his
                  niece, Miss Helen Stillinghast, and to his other niece, May Brooke, the splendid
                  life annuity of one hundred and fifty dollars. But on Thursday last, having felt,
                  by the judgment and grace of God, that so unequal a division was unjust, and being
                  convinced that the said May Brooke would squander his gains precisely as he wished
                  at that moment he had been doing all his life, viz., amongst the poor, destitute,
                  and afflicted, he made another will, in which he devised the handsome
                  sum of fifty thousand dollars, and some real estate, to Helen Stillinghast and to
                  May Brooke, his well-beloved niece and
                  heiress, two hundred thousand dollars, this house, lot, and furniture, and other
                  properties. But this will is missing—burnt up, it is supposed; and the first one
                  is good in law, and I will read it, although I protest against its being executed
                  until a thorough investigation is made, and I am well assured that there has been
                  no foul play in the case," said the lawyer, impressively.
               "Mr. Fielding," said Walter Jerrold, speaking out from the most honorable motives,
                  "I feel as you do; and before reading the will, let us make a more patient and
                  thorough search. We may have overlooked it. Neither Helen, nor myself, could ever
                  feel satisfied, or happy, in the possession of property which, in the sight of
                  Heaven, belongs to another."
               "Sir, your sentiments do you honor. I accept of your suggestion," said Mr.
                  Fielding, fixing a penetrating gaze on Walter Jerrold's countenance. "Come, May,
                  you go with us, and help us to search high and low through that closet and
                  bureau."
               Father Fabian, who had come at the request of Mr. Fielding, had been a silent, but
                  not unconcerned witness of this strange and unexpected scene, and looked for its
                  issue with the deepest interest. Dr. Burrell exploded every now and then in
                  opinions, which contained more feeling than legal reasoning, and consequently were
                  of no importance. Helen's presence restrained all conversation on the subject
                  while the others were absent from the room, and Father Fabian, having no time to
                  drift idly on a single moment of his life, took a seat in one of the deep
                  embrasures of the windows, and read portions of his "office" from the well-worn
                  Breviary, which he drew from his pocket.
               But the search for the lost will was in vain. Assisted zealously by Walter Jerrold
                  and May, Mr. Fielding left no corner of the room unexplored. The bed and mattress—the tester and curtains, were
                  turned, shaken, and unfolded. Every drawer and nook was inspected. The shelves of
                  the little closet were removed, and the panel at the back and sides pried off, but
                  in vain; and Mr. Fielding sat down quite exhausted, and folding his hands,
                  exclaimed, or rather growled, "I congratulate you, May. It has all turned out
                  precisely as your humility hoped it would, no doubt."
               "Sir," said May, gently, "I am no worse off now than I was yesterday. I should
                  have felt much encumbered by so large a fortune. I'm afraid it would have made me
                  dizzy and foolish; indeed sir, I feel quite unequal to the responsibility of such
                  a stewardship. I feel deeply grateful to my poor uncle, and also to you, for your
                  kind wishes in my regard, but, believe me, I am quite content for matters to stand
                  just as they are, so far as I am concerned." Then breaking down, May
                  broke out into a regular womanly fit of crying.
               "May," said the lawyer, more gently, "when you took those papers out of that
                  infer—that closet there, did you see those two wills lying together?"
               "I saw nothing, sir, except the papers I went to get."
               "And which you burned?"
               "Which I burned up to the last scrap."
               "Very well. You burned up the will too. You have been purified by fire with a
                  vengeance. Do you still believe in guardian angels?"
               "Just as firmly as ever, sir," she replied, fixing her clear eyes on him.
               "Where was yours, pray, while you was doing just what the devil would
                  have you?"
               "Guarding me from evils to come, I trust. Oh, sir, it is very perilous to one's
                  soul to be rich!" she exclaimed, with one of her sunlit expressions.
               
               "Very well, again! 'Gad, how Plato would have loved you! But see here, you most
                  uncommon of little bodies! I want just such a daughter as you are. My hearth is
                  desolate. All that I loved have passed away! Will you—will you come and keep house
                  for me, like you did for old Stillinghast? Come—come, tell me at once; I am old
                  and tottering," said the lawyer, trying to twinkle away a tear from his large gray
                  eyes.
               "Oh, dear me! dear, kind Mr. Fielding!" cried May, weeping on Mr. Fielding's
                  shoulder; "I hope Heavenly Father will bless you for your kind intentions to a
                  friendless orphan; but, indeed, sir, I cannot say—I don't think it would suit me
                  to be dependent."
               "Who wants you to be dependent?" roared out Mr. Fielding; "I'll hire
                  you, if that will suit you better, to keep house, mend my stockings, and make tea
                  for me;that will board you, and your splendid annuity will clothe
                  you."
               "I will tell you in a few days, sir. I have not quite decided what I shall do. I
                  am so tossed and worried now I can think of nothing clearly," sobbed May.
               "Let us go down, sir, and go on with the business which brought us here," said Mr.
                  Fielding, while he lifted May's head gently up from his shoulder. "Whatever you
                  decide on, May Brooke, remember that I am your protector, defender,
                  and friend."
               And so May was blamed for the loss of the will. Grieving more for the solid
                  benefits which were lost to the poor and destitute,—for the alms which would have
                  sent up incense to heaven in behalf of the soul of the giver,—May thought not of
                  herself, only so far as to vow her energies, her labors, her life, to the good of
                  those who, through her heedlessness, had been injured. She was not clear that she
                     did not burn the will; she
                     thought she had not done so; but she would not, for the world,
                  have taken an oath to that effect. It is not to be supposed, however, that so
                  shrewd a man as Mr. Fielding, and a man so experienced in all the devious and
                  sinuous windings of the human heart as Father Fabian, were without their
                  suspicions; but the one through policy, and the other through charity, forbore to
                  express in words what they were not prepared to prove by legal facts.
               May kept her plans to herself, and in her matter-of-fact way set the house in
                  order, and arranged, day after day, every article in its particular place; and was
                  scrupulously exact that not a scrap of old lumber, cracked china, broken spoons,
                  or half-worn linen, should be missing on the day of the sale. Helen, quite
                  unconcerned about such homely matters, dashed about in Mrs. Jerrold's carriage
                  from morning until night, making splendid purchases, and indulged in all those
                  expensive tastes which her natural love for the beautiful, and her undisciplined
                  will, made so necessary to her happiness. Happiness! Could she in whose soul the
                  poison of a hidden sin was already doing its work of restless fever, and unceasing
                  torture, be happy? Alas! no; she felt that henceforth she was to know
                  not rest on earth—beyond, she dared not look.
               One evening—the eve of her bridal, she and May were together, once more, in the
                  antique parlor. Helen, flushed, and splendidly beautiful;—May, calm, and pleasant,
                  her cheeks and brow a little pale, but very lovely from the inner light reflected
                  on them.
               "May, are you still determined not to witness my marriage?" asked Helen,
                  abruptly.
               "Yes, Helen. The same barrier to my being present exists, I presume?"
               "If my being married by a Protestant
                  minister, is the apology for your absence, it does," replied Helen, with a decided
                  air.
               "Do not say apology, Helen; I do not pretend to offer one. It is your privilege to
                  make your marriage, as far as you are concerned, sacramental; as a Catholic, it is
                     your duty to do so. By acting otherwise, you disobey the Church,
                  and place yourself in a position of great danger; and I do not choose to be
                  implicated, by being present at the ceremonial."
               "You are a most obstinate person;—but just as you please. What are your plans, if
                  I may ask?" said Helen, feeling ill at ease.
               "Very plain and honest ones, Helen," said May, measuring out the tea.
               "I should not suspect you, May, of any other," said Helen, with a
                  sarcastic manner; "but let us hear them, if you are not ashamed of them!"
               "I am ashamed of nothing, Helen, but the guilt of sin. As to my plans, I do not
                  know that you feel any genuine interest in them; and, as we shall not meet often,
                  I suppose, it is scarcely necessary to unfold them."
               "I have a motive in asking you, May—a good one, too. I wish to assist you," said
                  Helen.
               "I thank you, dear Helen, but I really do not require the least assistance. The
                  sum my uncle left me, added to what I shall earn, will support me nicely," she
                  replied.
               "Earn! how? Shall you take in sewing?" screamed Helen.
               "No. I have rented a nice room from my old friend Mrs. Tabb, who keeps the
                  trimming store, and she has engaged to sell all the fancy knitting I can do. I am
                  very well provided for; you perceive."
               "I perceive nothing of the kind. It is positively ridiculous and disgraceful. What
                  will the world say?" exclaimed Helen.
               "The world, dear Helen! What business
                  ness has the world with me? I owe it nothing but its just tribute of good
                  citizenship. Oh, Helen! the world can soothe no pang when sorrow comes;—it can
                  bring us no peace when death touches our hearts with his inexorable hand. No, no;
                  there are no interests in common between the world and me."
               "Gracious! what a fanatic!" said Helen, keeping down the wrestling and struggling
                  of her heart; and, with a careless air, throwing back the long, bright curls, from
                  her faultless face. "But listen to reason, May. You have been unfairly dealt with.
                  I cannot reconcile the thing to either my pride or conscience. Walter feels as I
                  do; and I can tell you, we are extremely anxious to have you become an inmate of
                  our family—to be in it, like myself, and feel free to act, and think, as you
                  please. I can assure you, Walter has a prodigiously high opinion of you."
               "Helen," said May, fixing those clear, luminous eyes on the shifting countenance
                  of her cousin, "your offer is, no doubt, kindly meant—but I cannot accept it. I
                     would not, Helen, if you offered me half your fortune, live in a
                  house so unblessed, as I fear—as I fear yours will be."
               "And why such predictions?" asked Helen, haughtily.
               "Can one who defies the spirit of God by disobedience—and—yes, I must say
                     it—apostasy, expect blessings? And could I, who daily implore
                  Heavenly Father to save me from temptation, thrust myself under its influence? Oh,
                  no! no, Helen. Enjoy life after your fashion—whirl through its giddy circles, if
                  such is your choice—but leave me in obscurity, to follow out the path which leads
                  to something beyond the grave. But, dear Helen, let us part in peace—my prayers
                  shall follow you; and I do beseech you, by the memory of the bitter passion and
                  death of Jesus Christ, and the Dolors of His Immaculate Mother, to reflect, sometimes, on what should
                  be the aims of an immortal soul!"
               "You are a strange creature, May," said Helen, with a quivering lip, and a
                  momentary impulse to throw herself at May's feet, and confess her guilt, which,
                  flitted away. "You will visit me sometimes, May?"
               "If you are sick, or sorrowful, or repentant, send for me."
               "But you will come and see how very happy I am—Just once?"
               "I cannot promise, Helen. Events will determine me," replied May, in a gentle
                  tone.
               "I have a favor to ask, May, which you cannot refuse!" said Helen, with a degree
                  of timidity unusual to her; "will you grant it?"
               "I hope so, Helen. What is it?"
               "There is a picture in our room—a valuable old painting of the Mater Dolorosa. I always fancied there was a look of
                  my mother, particularly about the eyes, in the countenance. I should like to have
                  it copied by some first-rate artist, to hang up in my chamber."
               "Certainly, dear Helen. I would offer you the picture as a keep-sake, only it was
                  highly prized by my father; and there are so many associations connected with it,
                  which makes it very precious to me. Whenever you wish it, let me know, and I will
                  go with it myself to the artist."
               The next day they parted. Helen, arrayed in costly silks, laces, and jewelry, went
                  forth a bride, and pronounced irrevocable vows, which made her the wife of a man,
                  who, highly honorable in a worldly sense, was the professed enemy of the creed she
                  professed.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               THE DEATH DREAM.
               WHILE the splendid festivities which succeeded Helen's marriage afforded a topic
                  of conversation for the bon ton of three cities,
                  May was quietly preparing to leave the old house, beneath whose roof she had
                  learned so many lessons of self-denial, patience, and constancy; while she found
                  time, each day, to pay her accustomed visit to old Mabel, who was approaching
                  nearer and nearer her eternal rest. In serving her, May felt richly rewarded by
                  the edification she derived from her simple piety, and the perfect resignation and
                  joyful submission she evinced to the Divine Will. She was frequently astonished at
                  the untaught eloquence of her expressions, and the beautiful humility of her
                  language, when she spoke of the mercy of Almighty God, and lifted up her heart in
                  joyful aspirations and effusions of love, to JESUS and MARY. The sacred and
                  crucified Humanity of ONE, and the suffering and anguish of the Humanity of the
                  OTHER, seemed to condescend so entirely to her low estate, that the divinity of
                  JESUS, and the measureless love of MARY, His Mother, were folded like a garment
                  around her, and strengthened, and consoled, and brightened her path, as she
                  approached the shadow through which she was to pass. And while May's inmost heart
                  united its pure emotions in harmony with the mysteries of faith and grace, the
                  words of an old English poet rippled through her mind in sweet accord with
                     them.
                  
                     
                        "If bliss had lay in art or strength,
                        None but the wise or strong had gained it;
                        Where now, by faith, all arms are of a length,
                        One size doth all conditions fit.
                        A peasant may believe as much
                        As a great clerk, and reach the highest stature;
                        Thus dost Thou make proud knowledge bend and crouch,
                        
                           While grace fills up uneven nature."*
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Herbert
               
               When May had proposed to Mrs. Tabb to live, or, rather, lodge with her, nothing of
                  its kind could exceed the enthusiastic reception she met. She poured out a torrent
                  of exclamations and superlatives, which set all the rules of grammar at defiance.
                  Then she broke out in vociferous indignation at "the old miser's meanness," and
                  last, and more outrageous than all, were her reflections on "upstartish misses,
                  who drop from the clouds when no one expects them, and get all and every thing
                  that them ought to had, who had been waiting, and bearing with people's meanness
                  ness and ill-humor from their cradles up." And if, at that moment, she had not
                  tilted her snuff-box, which was filled with Scotch snuff, over, under May's nose,
                  whereupon both were seized with a paroxysm of sneezing, which was an effectual
                  interruption to her tirade, she would have been silenced by a few charitable
                  explanations.
               When May returned home, she found Mr. Jerrold waiting in the parlor. He offered
                  his hand; and there was such an air of sincerity in his manner, that it dispelled
                  all May's reserve.
               "I have brought Helen's love," he said, while he uncovered a magnificent bouquet,
                  "and these roses and violets. They are the first of the season."
               "These are very, very beautiful and fragrant, and I thank you most
                  heartily for them. How is Helen?"
               "She is looking well, but she falls occasionally into fits of despondency, which
                  is either the result of too much fatigue
                  and excitement, or some cause which she does not wish to explain. I wish you would
                  come and live with us. Helen needs a sister," said the young man.
               "Dear Mr. Jerrold," said old-fashioned May, "I have tried to find my
                  way to Helen's heart, but, to be frank with you, our ways lie too differently.
                  Helen will have none of my friendship on those terms on which alone I can give it.
                  But you do not understand it all.—You are a Protestant, and wish to see Helen one;
                  therefore, I should be a discord in your house, because, if there,
                     my duty would not allow me to hold my peace."
               "Helen is too young and beautiful to mope about religion," he said, carelessly.
                  "When she gets older, and is more tied down by domestic cares, it will be
                  necessary and respectable for her to be religious; and then, egad, if she wishes
                  it, I'd as lief she'd be a Catholic as any thing else."
               "Helen will be ill-prepared, I fear, for a life of pious example, if she devotes
                  all of her energies now to the world. Grace, you know,
                  sir, is not a human thing which can be bought with money, or worldly eloquence,"
                  replied May, earnestly.
               "Helen has no truer friend, I believe, on my honor, May, than yourself; but,
                  really, she must enjoy life a little longer; then I will turn her over to you and
                  her father confessor;—but I came for a purpose, today."
               "A friendly one, I am sure!" said May.
               "Yes. I saw Mr. Fielding this morning, and consulted him about the expediency of
                  your remaining here, as you wont live with us. We wish the place
                  kept;up;—it is a curioso in its way—an antique with all its appurtenances; and I do not know
                  any one more in keeping with it, than cousin May."
               May laughed. "You think that, as we harmonize so exactly, we should be a mutual
                  protection to each other?"
               
               "Precisely. Will you remain?"
               "No. It would be pleasant on some accounts, but would not be at all suitable on
                  others. A residence here would very materially interrupt the objects and aims of
                  my life, in which pursuit I can alone be happy."
               "Dodona's Cave! How oracular!" said Mr. Jerrold, laughing outright. "Explain, dear
                  Sopho, your argument!"
               "Will you understand? But how can you, a Protestant, understand the
                  motive power of a Catholic heart?" said May.
               "Proceed. I will give you oracle for oracle. I am a Protestant in principle, but
                  not in fact," was the light reply.
               "I have always felt that while I ate no idle bread I was of some use on earth. I
                  have always been accustomed to an active life. Labor gives one an opportunity of
                  learning many virtues;—patience amongst them, and not the least,
                  humility. I should have nothing to do, here. Thenecessity for
                  exertion would be gone; and, really, I am too much afraid of my self,
                  to trust to exigencies. No, no! I must have an aim which will require the exercise
                  of my most active energies. Dependence will not suit me."
               "That is it," broke in Mr. Jerrold. "Pride is at the bottom of the whole argument.
                  May! this moment you are as proud as the devil!"
               "Oh, sir! pray, do not think that. I really feel extremely grateful for your kind
                  intentions," said May, looking distressed. "I have other reasons, which I cannot
                  very well explain, for choosing the way of life that I have. Only please to
                  understand this, that I should be very miserable, if I were placed,
                     now, in a situation which would leave me without
                  responsibility."
               "You are a paradox. You ought to be ten feet high, May, with such a will as yours.
                  You won't live with us, because we are so wicked that you'd have to preach to us about our sins; and you won't live
                  here, because you're afraid you'll get as bad as we are. Well, well! be happy your
                  own way, and come and see Helen when you can," said Mr. Jerrold, laughing, as he
                  got up to leave.
               "I feel your kindness deeply, Mr. Jerrold. I hope you are not hurt or
                  offended?"
               "Not in the least. I think you are bearing your wrongs like a saint; and I wish I
                  was only half as good,"replied Mr. Jerrold, shaking hands with her.
               "Tell Helen that I am thankful for the flowers, and will offer them this evening,
                  with a prayer for her conversion, to OUR MOTHER," said May.
               "I thought her mother was dead and buried!" thought Mr. Jerrold, as he walked down
                  the street. "What a curious little soul she is!"
               After dinner, May went to inform Father Fabian that she had declined Mr.
                  Fielding's offer, and would remove to Mrs. Tabb's in the course of a day or two.
                  But she saw him in the garden walk in the rear of the house, walking to and fro,
                  reading his office, and went into the church, where she offered the rich bouquet
                  Helen had sent her, on the shrine of our Lady, the
                     refuge; after which, she said, with great devotion, a decade of
                  the rosary, for her conversion. Father Fabian was standing in the door when she
                  returned, and watched her, as she approached, with a grave, but quizzical,
                  expression of countenance.
               "I am glad to see you, my child, in your long dresses yet," he said, holding out
                  his hand, kindly.
               "Sir," said May, looking perplexed.
               "I did not feel sure but that you had adopted the new school so much in favor with
                  your sex, judging from all that I have heard," he replied, laughing.
               "What new school? What have you heard, Father?" she asked, anxiously.
               "The strong-minded women's school!"
               
               "I see that you have some jest at my expense, and I must be patient until it is
                  explained," said May, sitting down.
               "Yes, yes; be patient."
               "Will you not tell me, Father, what I have done?"
               "May, do you believe that you burned up that will the night your uncle lay dying?"
                  asked Father Fabian, abruptly.
               "I do not think I did. I may, however, have done so."
               "Mr. Fielding intends to endeavor to set aside the will which was found. He has
                  good legal reasons to expect that he can secure you an equal share of your uncle's
                  estate with your cousin."
               "I hope he will do no such thing, sir. I am quite satisfied."
               "But he and the witnesses to the other will are not, because there
                  are very important public and religious interests involved in its loss."
               "If that is the case, I can only object so far as I am individually concerned,"
                  said May; "but I hope most earnestly that Mr. Fielding will let the matter rest a
                  short time longer—a few months, for I am sure the longer I think of it that I did
                  not burn the will, and I feel a presentiment that it will come to light," said
                  May, earnestly.
               "And you will not give your consent, as one of the heirs, to go to law?"
               "Not yet—not yet, Father. Let us wait a little. If it is mislaid, it may be found;
                  if any one has wronged me by secreting it, they may repent."
               "Was there ever such a wild goose on earth?" said Father Fabian, laughing. "You
                  know as much about the world now, May, as you did eighteen years ago,
                  when you were just two months old."
               "But, Father, you have always taught me to have great faith in God, and told me in
                  all difficulties to have recourse to him and the Blessed Virgin. If it is for his
                     glory, and the good of his creatures,
                  the lost will will be found," she said, earnestly.
               "You are right, my child. God's holy will be done," said Father Fabian, lifting
                  his bounet-carre from his brow. "But, having
                  turned a theological point against me, can you explain your most obstinate refusal
                  to accept of Mr. Fielding's and Mr. Jerrold's kind offers of a home, where ease,
                  luxury, and elegance would attend you? You seem determined to take a stand against
                  your interests in every way. What rational objection can you oppose to their
                  offers?"
               "Dear Father, are you displeased with your poor child?" asked May, with
                  humility.
               "To be frank, my dear child, I consider your conduct a little unusual," said
                  Father Fabian, looking down to conceal the smile that brightened his eyes. "How
                  could you act so?"
               "Simply and frankly because I wished to be free."
               "Woman's rights! As I suspected, woman's rights!" exclaimed Father Fabian, lifting
                  his hands with horror.
               "Soul's rights, Father! Soul's rights!" said May, in an
                  impassioned manner. "I could not live with Helen in peace without spiritual
                  bondage. Her way of life would leave me no neutral ground to stand on. She has
                  forsaken her religion; every act of hers is therefore open rebellion against God,
                  and I must have raised my voice in one incessant clamor had I lived with her. Had
                  I gone to dear, kind Mr. Fielding, he might have made demands on time which I have
                  devoted to religion, which my gratitude might have disposed me to yield to. But I
                  am grateful to them all for their kind intentions, and I am sure, if their
                  friendship is real, they will be happier to know that I am happy in my own
                  way."
               "Is this all, May?" asked Father Fabian, who suspected her of entertaining other
                  reasons still.
               
               "I had hoped to keep it secretly, but I have another reason. You know that I am
                  blamed for the loss of that will, which made noble bequests to the poor and
                  destitute. I may be guilty; I cannot pretend to say that I am not, therefore, as a
                  sort of reparation to those afflicted ones, who would have been relieved by my
                  uncle's bounty, of which I, perhaps, by an act of carelessness have deprived them,
                  I have made a vow to dedicate my life, my energies, and will, to the service of
                  the poor in active and laborious works," said May, with a grave and humble
                  manner.
               "Your motives are good, my child; only let us be careful not to seek our own
                  gratification too much, either temporal or spiritual, in our works. I certainly
                  acquit you of all modern chivalry. I will see Mr. Fielding about that
                  affair this evening, and request him to postpone it."
               "If you please, Father," said May, over whose countenance a shadow had fallen.
               "What is the trouble now, little one?" asked Father Fabian.
               "Have I been presumptuous, Father? Have I been lifting up my hands to heaven like
                  the Pharisee, and thanking God that I am not like others? Oh, Father, I think I
                  should rather die than be self-righteous!"
               "I think not, my child. Only we must not rely too much upon our intentions, which
                  may be, morally speaking, good, but spiritually bad, if they are not united with
                  great humility. I should be false to your soul's interests if I dealt not plainly
                  with you. But go now to your old pensioner. I administered to her this morning the
                  last rites of the Church, and think it more than possible that before another
                  sunrise she will have passed away from this life of mourning and gloom."
               "I thought yesterday evening, when I was there, that her sufferings were nearly at
                  an end," said May, wiping off a tear.
               "Her dispositions are perfect," continued Father Fabian. "Oh, in the last hour, if the soul is right before God, how vain
                  appears all human learning! how little the wisdom of ages! how less than nothing
                  the splendor and grandeur of riches! Soon—very soon, that ignorant and
                  poverty-stricken old negro, who, like Lazarus, has been lying at the door of the
                  rich, great world, humbly thankful for the crumbs she has received, will be
                  endowed with knowledge and wisdom; she will have read and solved mysteries which
                  the greatest sages of antiquity, and the profoundest philosophers of modern times,
                  have shrunk from, overwhelmed with the vastness of their conception. She will have
                  looked on the face of Him who suffered for her, and be, through his divine mercy,
                  and the merits of his bitter passion, admitted into eternal rest. Oh faith,
                  mistress of learning! Oh humility, without which the learned shall not enter
                  heaven! Possess our hearts—reign in our souls for ever. But go now; tell her I
                  will see her in the morning, unless she is beyond my reach."
               It was a clear, soft evening. The sky, as the sun declined, was filled as with the
                  brightness of flashing wings, while the golden light broke in ripples around the
                  isles of cloud that hung over the deep. The flute-like whistle of the blue-bird,
                  and the odor of violets, and young budding leaves, were in the air together—music,
                  light, and fragrance, like harmonies from the spirit-land, blending softly
                  together. The earth was clothed in its new garment, for spring had risen from the
                  grave, and its resurrection was glorious. Over the ways of the city, and in the
                  suburban lanes; in the glens and dells of the forest, and the distant slopes of
                  the blue hills; over the mounds of the silent dead, where the germs of infinite
                  life are planted,—where, like pearls, lying beneath the earth-billows, they will
                  sleep in their sealed shells until, from the eastern gates of heaven, springs the eternal dawn, which shall gather
                  them in, clothed with new light, to be set amongst the crown-jewels of God,—the
                  sweet clover, the tender grass, and wild flowers were springing together. In
                  flowed all this sweetness down to the depths of May's soul, as she walked along,
                  and led her feelings sweetly up to that clime of which the fairest and purest of
                  earth-born things are only the gray shadows; and rejoicing in nature and high
                  hope, she came in sight of Mabel's cottage. She saw the child who lived with her,
                  and called her grandmother, playing about the door, and beckoning to her, inquired
                  "how she was?"
               "I'se right well, missy. Granny's asleep."
               "How is she?" again asked May.
               "She's heap better, missy; she bin sleep dis ever so long."
               "Very well. You can play out here a little longer; but don't go away, and I will
                  go in and wait until Aunt Mabel wakes," said May, giving her some gingerbread she
                  had bought for her. The child, glad of its freedom, remained watching the birds
                  and clouds.
               May opened the door, and entered softly. She went towards the bed, and saw that
                  the mysterious and awful change, which tells that the inexorable decree is gone
                  forth, and the "arrow fastened," was fast settling on old Mabel's features. Yet
                  there was nothing uncouth or grotesque in that shrivelled and swarthy face,
                  because FAITH, which leads death captive, had shed over them a supernatural calm,
                  which ennobled them with a solemn sweetness. Her poor old hand, so long withered
                  and helpless, drooped beside her; the other, around which her rosary was wrapped,
                  lay on her breast. May took off her bonnet and scarf, and knelt down to say the
                  dolorous mysteries of the rosary. "Remember, oh most loving Mother, by these, thy
                  own dolors, the soul of thy poor servant, who will soon be engaged in her last earthly conflict. Rescue, oh
                  Mother of Sorrows, through thy intercession, and the bitter passion and death of
                  thy Divine Son, from the foes who lie in wait for her soul, and conduct her under
                  thy safeguard to eternal light and peace." Thus prayed the Christian maiden by the
                  dying slave; caste, race, and fetters were falling
                  together into the deep abyss of death. She would soon know the glorious freedom of
                  one of the heirs of Christ.
               "Oh, lady! oh, beautiful missis! this is a mean place for your crowned head and
                  shining robes to come into. And who are those beside you, glorious and fair?"
                  murmured the old woman, suddenly stretching out both arms towards the
                  door, and looking earnestly beyond May at something unseen.
               "Queen of Heaven! how is it that you come to me? I am not worthy to lift my eyes
                  to yours, yet you are here," she continued tinued, while an awe, unspeakable and
                  sweet, fell on May, who did not move.
               "To deliver my soul, and conduct me to the feet of your Divine Son?" she said,
                  after a short pause, as if some one had answered her, and she repeated the
                  words.
               "Oh grace! oh splendor! oh sweetness! oh clemency! oh hope!" she exclaimed. "If I
                  could, I would be worthy of such love—I would spread gold and precious things at
                  your feet; but I am only a poor old negro, covered with patches and shreds. But
                  fill my heart with all the love it can hold, and take that—it's all I've got to
                  offer." Again, as if listening, she paused, then, with a smile of rapture, cried
                  out, "Love Jesus! love Mary! Oh, Jesus! oh, Mary! my soul is filled with Jesus and
                  Mary!" Then her eyes closed, her hands sunk down, and she seemed to sleep
                  again.
               "Was it a vision? Was it a dream?" thought May; "or had she been in the presence
                  of MARY and the angels of heaven ven?
                  Had they surrounded her, as she watched and prayed by the side of the dying woman?
                  She could not tell, but she felt that the air had been stirred by
                  heavenly visitants. Ere long old Mabel awoke, and looked wildly and eagerly around
                  her; then her eyes settled on May's countenance.
               "How do you feel, Aunt Mabel, now?" she asked, in a low voice.
               "Honey, I've had a dream! Such a glorious dream! I thought the door opened, and
                  the Blessed Virgin, surrounded by bright spirits, came in, and stood around me;
                  and it seemed to me that I was so full of joy, that I lifted up my old shrivelled
                  arm to welcome her. Oh, my dear missy! I never see so much brightness and beauty
                  together before, and never heard such joyful sounds. It seemed like music talking.
                  And, honey, what is stranger than all, I saw you there, and I thought the Blessed
                  Virgin took a white lily out of her bosom, and laid it on your head, and smiled.
                  Oh, missy, wasn't it comforting to have such a dream?"
               "It was a glorious dream, Aunt Mabel!" said May, while the blood, with rapturous
                  motion, bounded through her veins, and filled her face with a glowing hue. "You
                  seemed to see it all. Your eyes were open, and your lame arm was
                  really stretched out towards the door, as if to welcome some bright company. Oh
                  may that white flower, which you saw laid on my head, go down, and take deep root
                  in my heart."
               "It will, honey. Let me kiss your hand, and lay mine on your head, little missy.
                  You've been my earthly helper, and your Heavenly Father will be yours. My blessing
                  aint of no account, but I give it to you with all my feeble powers. May you be
                  blessed in every thing in this world and the next. It's growing mighty dark now,
                  honey; hold my hand, till it grows light again." With a last effort, she lifted May's hand to her lips, and kissed it:
                  then a deep lethargy stole over her. May said the prayers for the departing soul,
                  and recommended the dying one to the tender care of the Immaculate Mother of
                  Jesus. A ray from the setting sun, stealing through the trees without, flowed into
                  the shaded room, and rested on her pillow in flickering radiance; and ere it
                  passed away, her spirit had sped from its tenement of clay to undergo the judgment
                  which, after death, every soul must stand. It was a sweet falling asleep with her,
                  so gently had death released her from the bonds of flesh. An hour passed by, and
                  still May knelt, absorbed in prayer, and earnest intercession for the departed. It
                  was growing dark, and rising up, she straightened and composed old Mabel's limbs;
                  and covering her face, went out and called the child, and bid her go for one of
                  the neighboring women to come in, and prepare the body for interment ment. She
                  looked in the chest for the grave-clothes which the old woman had kept and guarded
                  as her only treasure for years and years; and finding every thing needful in the
                  parcel, gave it to the women, with strict injunctions to arrange every thing with
                  the greatest decency, and watch by her through the night. Promising to be there
                  early in the morning, to pay and relieve her, she hurried to Father Fabian, to
                  leave word with him, and request him to make the necessary arrangements for the
                  interment—the expenses of which she wished to defray herself. It was quite dark
                  when she got home, and feeling wearied and overcome, she retired early, filled
                  with gratitude for the privilege she had enjoyed, of seeing one so good and humble
                  as old Mabel die. Death had assumed to her a benign and holy aspect; she almost
                  felt 
                     
                        "There is no Death. What seems so is Transition.
                        
                        This life of mortal breath
                        
                        Is but the suburbs of that Life Elysian,
                        
                           Whose portals we call Death."*
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Longfellow.
               
               The next day Father Fabian, in the presence of a few poor neighbors, performed the
                  last touching rites of the Church over the inanimate body of old Mabel—that body
                  which, "sown in dishonor, would be raised in honor" to eternal life. May walked
                  beside the coffin as it was borne to the grave, nor left the spot until the last
                  clod of earth was thrown on it; then, when it was deserted by all else, as
                  constant in death as she had been in life, she kneeled down beside it, and offered
                  up fervent prayers for her eternal repose.
               
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               REMORSE.
               IT was near day-dawn. A splendid carriage, drawn by a span of thorough-paced
                  horses, whose black coats shone in the moonlight like jet, while they champed
                  their silver bits, and blew the white froth with the breath of their proud
                  nostrils out like spray over the rich trappings of their harness, rolled with a
                  rapid, but almost noiseless motion, through one of the broad streets of a
                  fashionable quarter of the city. The light which flickered down from the silver
                  coach-lamps revealed magnificent hangings of brocade and velvet,, looped back with
                  twisted cords of silk and silver
                  thread. The driver and footman were clad in lively which corresponded with the
                  elegant style of the equipage. They turned into a broad, aristocratic-looking
                  square, and drew up in front of a handsome and spacious mansion. The officious
                  footman sprung to the pavement, swung back the carriage-door, and held out his
                  gloved hand to assist a lady, who was within, to get out.
               "No need, sirrah," she said, haughtily, as she stepped lightly out, and ran up the
                  broad marble steps of the mansion, where, heedless of her stainless and delicate
                  gloves, she seized the bell-knob, and rung violently. During the few moments that
                  she waited for admission, her foot, clad in white satin, beat the threshold with a
                  light, but restless motion. Her brocade-robe, about which costly laces hung in
                  gossamer clouds, rustled down in rich folds to the marble floor of the vestibule,
                  while with every pulsation of her heart, and movement of her body, gems flashed
                  out in the moonlight. Long, shining curls, slightly tossed by the night breeze,
                  floated down over her cheeks and bosom, half concealing the rare beauty of her
                  face. It was Helen! The door was at length opened, and attended by her drowsy
                  maid, she hurried up to her chamber. It was a lofty, and beautifully proportioned
                  room, filled with every thing the most luxurious fancy could desire, and arranged
                  with fastidious taste and elegance. Flowers were heaped up in Eastern vases, near
                  the open windows, and deep-cushioned chairs, and softly pillowed lounges, covered
                  with pale, saffron-colored silk, were arranged here and there throughout the
                  gorgeous room. The low, and exquisitely carved French bedstead was half hidden by
                  a flowing drapery of embroidered lace, which, depending from a small hoop of
                  mother-of-pearl in the ceiling, hung like a tent over it. The toilette-table was
                  elaborately furnished. Between its
                  twisted rosewood pillars, which were inlaid with pearl, in graceful device, swung
                  an immense oval mirror, set in a frame of the same materials. Near it stood a
                  small marble table, supporting an alabaster Psyche, around which were strewn
                  perfumes, jewel-cases, and various costly articles for toilette uses. On each side
                  of the mirror projected gas-burners in the form of clusters of lilies—the flowers
                  being of the purest porcelain, and the rest highly gilt and embossed. Helen threw
                  herself down wearily in a large chair, while her maid turned up the light, which
                  was burning dimly, to a brighter flame, which revealed more minutely the splendors
                  of the room. Over the toilette-glass hung a picture—there were no others on the
                  frescoed walls; it was set far back in a superb oval frame of ivory and gold, and
                  as the brilliant glare of light shot upwards, an exquisite painting of the
                     Mater Dolorosa could be distinctly seen—a
                  strange companion, or presiding siding genius, or ornament for the shrine of pride
                  and vanity.
               "You can go now, Elise," said Helen, languidly.
               "Shall I not undress madame's hair, and put her jewels away?" inquired the French
                  woman with an air of amazement.
               "No—leave me at once," she replied, impatiently.
               "Deshabillez-vous," muttered the woman. "To tell me go! I who was fille-de-chambre to une Grande Duchesse! Mon dieu! la
                  chaleur est tres-incommode! Ingrat—parvenu!
                  Un—deux—trois! II est temps de se coucher. "Helen had just touched her
                  repeater, and with its soft, silvery chime, it struck three. Elise hurried away
                  from the door, where she had lingered, in hopes of being recalled, to comfort
                  herself with a glass of eau-de-sucre, ere she
                  returned to her pillow. Helen got up and locked her door, and began to walk to and
                  fro. By and by the past, mingling with
                  the present, made such a torrent of bitter memories seethe and sweep through her
                  desolate soul, that she wrung her hands, and rushed backwards and forwards like
                  one mad. In her wild mood, she saw the glitter of her jewels, as she swept by the
                  large mirror of her toilette. She paused, gazed at herself a moment, then, with a
                  frantic gesture, tore the diamonds from her hair and neck, and with a bitter laugh
                  dashed them from her. Her beautiful face, as white as the alabaster Psyche near
                  her, was full of wild and demoniac expressions, which chased each other with the
                  velocity of clouds over her countenance. Remorse, anguish, and despair settled
                  like a brooding tempest on her forehead; then wringing her hands, she again
                  commenced her walk.
               "A lie, she muttered, "a splendid, living lie! Widows and orphans wronged—the poor
                  defrauded—the church wounded and robbed by thee, Helen! A husband who trusts
                  me—who believes me—honorable and true himself—confiding in a nature
                     utterly false—and leaning on a heart rotten to the core! Oh,
                  Helen! eternal loss will surely be thine—so it is better to die ere
                  madness comes, and divulges the dark secret. Walter is away; he will be here at
                  sunrise. Better for him to find thee, Helen, calm and cold in the beauty of which
                  he is so proud, than live to know that thou art all a lie—which he
                  would tear away from his honest heart, and throw to the very dogs!"
               While these dark thoughts swept through the heart of the tempted and despairing
                  one, she unlocked a secret drawer in her jewel-case, and took from it a small
                  silver casket, which she opened. It contained a crystal flacon, filled with a liquid, transparent, and of a pale rose-color.
                  "One drop of it," she whispered, "one single drop, and without a pang, this unrest
                  and anguish will be over. That which is
                  beyond cannot be worse!" Just then a strong current of air rushed in
                  through the open window, and blew the jet of gas, in a stream of brilliance, up
                  towards the picture of the Mater Dolorosa. The
                  sudden glare arrested the attention of the wretched, sin-stained one. She looked
                  up, and her eyes, glaring with the frenzy of evil, met the ineffably tender and
                  sorrowful face of MARY; which, with its tears, and expression of submissive and
                  sublime woe, its folded hands, its meek brow, seemed bowed towards her. She
                  paused, while, with the distinctness of a whisper, these thoughts passed through
                  her soul. "Wretched one, forbear! Wound not again my Divine Son, whose body is
                  already covered with stripes and bruises for thee. Open not my heart again, which
                  is already pierced for thy salvation! Hope! It was for such as thee
                  that my Son, Jesus, suffered on the cross; for such as thee, that I immolated my
                  soul, my nature, my maternal love, on that bloody altar with Him."
               "Was it the wind? No! the sweetest winds on earth could not have drawn such
                  language from the corrupt and frenzied chords of my spirit. No demon whispered
                  it!" exclaimed Helen, still gazing upwards. "Was it a heavenly warning for
                     me, the most miserable outcast on the wide earth?" The mad tempest was
                  dispersed; it rolled back its sullen clouds from her soul; and, with a trembling
                  cry for mercy, she staggered towards a large chair, into which she fell, fainting
                  and exhausted.
               As the sun was rising, Walter Jerrold, who had travelled all night from New York,
                  whither he had been on business of importance, opened his house-door with a
                  private key, and entered, without disturbing the servants. He ran up to Helen's
                  door, and finding it locked, opened his dressing-room, which adjoined hers, with
                  the same key, and pushing back the silk
                  draperies which hung between them, went in, and, to his alarm and amazement, saw
                  her, still arrayed in her festal robes, sleeping in the chair, into which she had
                  fallen. Her face was as white as the drooping roses on her bosom, and her
                  countenance wore an expression of pain.
               "Helen!" he whispered, as he leaned over and kissed her cheek. "Helen, are you
                  ill?"
               "Will! It was burnt. Will!" she cried, starting up, and looking wildly around her.
                  "Oh, Walter! I am so glad you are here at last. I have had a frightful dream."
               "Helen, you are ill, I fear. What means this unwonted confusion;—have you been
                  out, and just come in? What is the meaning of it all—and what is
                     this?" he said, while he stooped down to pick up the crystal flacon
                  which had dropped out of its case on the floor.
               "Dear Walter—don't open it, for the world! It is a cosmetic. I am too white,
                  sometimes, and touch my cheeks with it," exclaimed Helen, starting up; "do give it
                  to me."
               "No, Helen; my wife must be real in all things. I do not
                  approve of artificial coloring; so, to save you from temptation, I shall put it
                  out of your reach!" replied her husband, throwing the flacon out into the street. A lean, hungry dog, prowling about in
                  search of food, rushed to the spot—hoping, no doubt, that it was a morsel from the
                  rich man's table—but no sooner had his nose touched the spot, than, uttering a low
                  howl, he fell dead.
               "Helen! explain this mystery!" he exclaimed, grasping her hand, and drawing her to
                  the window. "Are your cosmetics all poisons as deadly as that?"
               "Walter! this is horrible! Poison? Why, Walter, it might have killed me!" she
                  gasped, hiding her pallid face in his bosom.
               
               "Helen, answer me, by the love and trust I bear you, did you know that the
                  contents of that flacon were poisonous? Look up,
                  dear Helen, and answer me, yes, or no."
               "No, Walter—on my honor, no. You have sayed me from a horrible death," she
                  replied, raising her head, and looking, with a strong effort, into his eyes.
               Thus was Helen driven, with scourges, by her task-master, the great tempter of
                  souls, into slough after slough, from which there was but one escape, and that lay
                  through a rugged way, called REPENTANCE. But repentance, to her vision, was like a
                  shoreless ocean, or a fierce deity, to whose exacting nature she must sacrifice
                  all that she held dear on earth, or perish. But her husband's love and esteem—her
                  ill-gotten riches—her position—her luxuries! Could she live without them? If
                     she could repent without making restitution, she would. But she
                  well knew that such repentance would be fruitless. And thus, while, to the world,
                  she moved calmly in her proud beauty, and was envied by the miserable, for the
                  apparent happiness and splendor of her lot, a fierce beast was tugging at her
                  heart-strings, more savage than that which tore the vitals of the boy of
                  Lace-dæmon. It was remorse.
               "Helen!" said Walter Jerrold, calmly, "have you any grief or mystery hidden from
                  me, my wife? I am like a helpless child, now in your hands; you may deceive me,
                  and triumph in your concealment—but do not—do not, Helen, for God's sake, do it.
                  Open your whole heart to me. I love you well enough to lift the burden, if there
                  be one, from it, to my strong shoulders; and if—if—if—you have ever erred, let me
                  hear it from no lips but your own."
               Helen would have cast herself at his feet and told him all, but she feared he
                  would spurn her—she longed to deserve the love of his manly and honest heart, but too weak, too much a coward, she
                  shrunk from the agony and peril of a confession of her guilt. And Jerrold! was he
                  not mad to expect to find a true and loving spouse in one who had cast off her
                  allegiance to God?"
               "You are mistaken, Walter. Really, you have made quite a scene! I fear that you
                  are romantic! For, really, except when my nervous moods come over me, I am not
                  aware that there is any thing unusual in my conduct. I am excessively nervous and
                  excitable. I was dancing all night. I went with your mother to Mrs. Woodland's
                  ball, which was a most brilliant affair. It was after two o'clock when I came
                  home. You may be sure I was tired. Then I concluded to give you a little surprise
                  by waiting up for you; and, as I looked very haggard, took out that precious
                  cosmetic to tint my cheeks—all, dear Walter, to welcome you; but I was too much
                  fagged, and went off into a sound, vulgar sleep!" said Helen, going to her
                  toilette-table to adjust her hair, while she laughed as if the whole thing had
                  been an amusing adventure. "It will learn you to run off again," she
                  continued.
               "Well, well—perhaps I am exacting; but understand one thing, Helle, about me,"
                  said Walter Jerrold, gravely, "I can bear with, and forgive
                  errors—but deception, never."
               "Walter!" said Helen, reproachfully, while tears suffused her fine eyes.
               "Forgive me, Helle, if my words grate on your feelings. It is best for married
                  folk to understand each others peculiarities as early as possible. Shall I ring
                  for Elise, for you are tangling and tearing your hair to pieces?"
               "If you please. I will soon join you, if you will tell me where to find you," she
                  replied, with assumed composure.
               "At the breakfast table, I trust," he said, pleasantly; "I am thirsting for a cup of mocha,
                  after my long journey."
               "I suspect you will find it ready. I ordered them to have it ready early;—but see,
                  Walter! have you any special engagement this forenoon?"
               "Nothing very particular after ten, Helen. Why?"
               "Why, you know that Matinées are all the rage
                  now. I hold my first one to-day.—All the world have promised to come!"
               "You don't want me, then?" he said laughing.
               "Of course I do. It will look proper for you to be present at the
                     first. People can't be ill-natured then. I've heard a great many
                  queer stories about the Matinées."
               "It is well to be prudent in these fashionable follies, Helle—touch some of them
                  with gloves on. I do not like this new style of thing, but if it's the fashion, we
                  must fall in. I'll come, provided there is no scandal and high play," he said,
                  laughing.
               As the hour for the Matinée approached, Helen's
                  drawing-rooms presented a coup dœil of splendor
                  and elegance. Daylight was carefully excluded; and alabaster lamps threw a soft,
                  moon-lit radiance, through flowers and garlands, over the scene. The costly
                  mirrors, the magnificent furniture, of the time of Louis
                     le Grand, the lofty, frescoed ceiling, the exquisite statuary, and
                  rare paintings, were all in fine keeping with each other, and gave, what an artist
                  would call, tone and harmony to the scene. Attired in white crape and pearls,
                  Helen had never looked more lovely; and of all who crowded with compliments around
                  her, there was not one to rival her. Group after group of the beau monde made their way to the head of the room,
                  where she, with her high-bred worldly air, received them with a smile and pleasant
                  passing words.
               
               "Your Matinée is the most brilliant of the
                  season, Mrs. Jerrold," said a fashion able old lady, with a dowager air—such a one
                  as we meet with constantly in society, who, tangled up in laces, false hair, and a
                  modish style of dress, look like old fairies at a christening, and who impress the
                  young and inexperienced by their affected zest that the fleeting pleasures of life
                  are immortal. "Your matinée is really splendid!
                  Such a fashionable company—so much beauty—really, it reminds me of old times. But,
                  my dear creature, did you know there is the greatest sensation in town now about
                  religion?"
               "How?" asked Helen, smiling.
               "The Romanists are holding something they call a mission at the
                  cathedral, and really, I am told, that the performances are very impressive. It is
                  quite the fashion to go for an hour."
               "It is never considered outre to go to the
                  cathedral, as the very élite of our society are
                  Catholic, and attend there; but entre nous,
                  shall you go, Mrs. Jerrold?" observed a lady near them.
               "Yes," continued the dowager, with a spiteful air; "and very few parvenues amongst
                  them. Most of them sprung from something better than low trades-people."
               "Granted. No doubt they enjoy their pedigree as much as I do the substantial
                  fortune my grandfather acquired by trade," said the lady, pleasantly. "But, Mrs.
                  Jerrold, the music is fine, the preacher superbly eloquent, and every body goes
                  now, instead of attending the opera!"
               This grated on Helen's ears. Classing the Church with the opera! But what right
                  had she, who trampled it under foot, to complain?
               "Really, I have heard nothing of this mission before!" she said, with an
                  indifferent air. "What is it?"
               "I really cannot tell exactly. Thousands go, and thousands come away because they can't be accommodated with seats.
                  Altogether, with the music, the eloquent preaching, and the crowd, it is quite a
                     spectacle."
               "Yes," put in the dowager; "and that is all. It is a spectacle."
               "Judge Craven's wife and Major Boyd are amongst the converts; and the Rev. Allan
                  Baily," said the lady, with a wink at Helen.
               "Oh, my God!" exclaimed the dowager; "Mr. Baily! It must be a lie—I declare it
                  must!"
               "Will you have my sal-volatile, madam?" said the
                  malicious lady, enjoying the scene, while she offered her vinaigrette.
               "I won't believe it. Who told you, Mrs. Grayson?"
               "Himself," replied Mrs. Grayson, calmly.
               "He's crazy! He's been flighty these two years, with his long coats, and fast
                  days, and confession," cried the dowager, fanning herself violently, and snuffing
                  the sal-volatile, until she grew purple in the
                  face. "As to the others, they are doting. I'll go this moment, if you'll excuse
                  me, Mrs. Jerrold, and make my coachman drive me there; and if he has done so, I'll
                  rouse him, as sure as I have a tongue in my head. I knew him when he was a boy,
                  and I protest against it," she said, screaming like an angry macaw, as she
                  fluttered out.
               "The town's crazy about Mr. Baily's conversion. I am not surprised at Mrs.
                  Fanshaw's excitement. But let us make up a party, and go to-night, Mrs. Jerrold.
                  The gentleman who conducts this thing, and pulls the wires, is a man of
                  irresistible eloquence. He was one of us a few years ago."
               "It would be dangerous to verture, I should think," said Helen, with a dim smile;
                  "but if Mr. Jerrold has no other engagement—"
               
               "Is it of the famous 'Mission' you are speaking, Helen?" interrupted her
                  mother-in-law, rustling in silk and jewels. "Yes; of course we must go. We shall
                  be quite out of the fashion, if we do not. The most distingué persons in town are to be there this evening."
               "I fear the opera and assembly will have but a slim attendance," said Walter
                  Jerrold in his pleasant, sarcastic way.
               "Oh, we shall get away in time for the assembly, which, by the by, is the last of
                  the season," replied Mrs. Jerrold. "Helen, you look charmingly this morning. I
                  declare you are the happiest couple I know in the world."
               Cards, scandal, chocolate, and ices, filled up the routine of the Matinée; then the guests rolled away in their
                  carriages to dress for dinner, or leave cards at the doors of people, who they
                  knew were out. It is the way of the world.
               "I should prefer not to go, Walter," said Helen that evening at tea.
               "Nonsense. I have greater faith in you, Helen, than to think that one
                  evening will put you in peril. Come, don't be a coward. I wish you to hear this
                  eloquent, half-crazy enthusiast preach; then we can drop into the opera, or
                  assembly, whichever you wish."
               "In my hat and white pegnoir—how ridiculous!"
                  said Helen, with a faint smile.
               "No; come back and dress, if you choose. It will look ill for us to stay away when
                  the others expect us; and to be frank with you, Helle, I want to convince the
                  world that my wife is not a Romanist."
               "Is any one so foolish as to suspect it now, Walter?" she said, bitterly.
               "Of course they do. And they'll be disappointed when they see that you neither bow
                  down, nor cross yourself." It was not
                  meant, but every word her husband said told down, like drops of fire, into Helen's
                  heart. Come, shall we go?"
               "Yes," replied the sin enslaved Helen.
               When the gay company arrived at the cathedral doors, although it was early, they
                  could scarcely make their way through the dense crowds which thronged the aisles;
                  but by patiently and gradually moving up towards the transept of the church, they
                  were at last successful in finding seats, which commanded a view of the altars and
                  pulpit. Lights in massive candelabra, and masses of flowers, of rare and rich
                  dyes, covered the high altar. The tabernacle, which stood amidst this marble
                  throne, was draped with cloth of gold, and surrounded by clusters of tube-roses
                  and lilies. Above all, the object which arrested every wandering eye, was the
                  carved image of the MAN OF SORROWS—the suffering Son of God! But it was not
                  towards these that every Catholic soul was drawn. They were only signs, which
                  designated the spot where the real presence of Jesus lay; where, enshrined in the
                  fairest of earth's offerings, he invited their adoration. On each side the altar
                  of the Madonna and the "Good Shepherd" were gorgeously decorated with lights and
                  flowers.
               
                  Helen did not kneel. She did not cross herself. She merely sat down,
                  and looked with a haughty, tired air, around her. She did not observe the priest
                  as he came from the sanctuary, and ascended the pulpit, until she saw the
                  attention of others directed towards him; then she lifted her glasses, gazed a few
                  moments at him, thought him rather a distinguished looking person, and piqued by
                  her husband's observation, turned away to watch the movements of a party who were
                  compelled to resort to walking over the backs of the pews to get to their seats.
                  But while her eyes roved around her in search of novel and amusing sights—while
                  she nodded to one acquaintance, and
                  smiled at another—what words are those which ring down into her soul? Why pale her
                  cheeks, and why tremble the gem-checked fingers of her fair hand? Why do
                     tears—tears—strange visitants to that haughty visage, roll over
                  her cheeks? "And there stood by the cross of Jesus, Mary, his
                  mother!" Again the clear sonorous voice of the speaker, filled with a
                  tender cadence and solemn sweetness, enunciated the words. Why does Helen think of
                  her picture at home—of the pitying glance it cast on her the night she committed
                  that crime, which had almost wrecked her soul? Why does she think of her
                  interposition that very morning which saved her from self-murder? It was from no
                  voluntary will of her own; but these visions came, subduing and touching the rind
                  of her weary heart, until it heaved with the throes of a new birth. She listens
                  now. She cannot do otherwise, for the powerful voice of the preacher rings out
                  clear, distinct, and impressive. His eloquence enchains every heart; in burning
                  words, he assails every soul. Unbelievers, heretics infidels, and lukewarm
                  Catholics, hang on every sentence; nor disdain the tears which flow, while he
                  tells of the dolors of Mary. Almost fainting, Helen leaned forward, and shaded her
                  face; there was a pent-up agony in her heart; her brain ached, and the throbbing
                  of her pulses almost suffocated her; and when the preacher ceased, she leaned back
                  with a sign of relief. But it was not over yet. The organ in deep-toned thunders,
                  and notes of liquid music, wailed forth the dolorous harmony of the Stabat Mater,
                  while voices of surpassing sweetness sung the words.
               "I am ill, Walter—take me home," gasped Helen. "I am overcome by the heat and
                  crowd."
               "We must wait a little, Helen. The throng is so great that we cannot move. Dry your face, and let me fan you.
                  Every body is crying, I believe—don't let that trouble you. See, Helle, even I
                  have dropped a tear to the memory of those stupendous sorrows," said Walter
                  Jerrold, half playfully, and half in earnest.
               Then Helen leaned her face on her hands, while torrents of tears dripped over the
                  diamonds and rubies that decked her fingers.
               
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               REPENTANCE.
               MAY was sitting in her neat little parlor, knitting and singing, when there came a
                  curt, sharp rap on the door.
               "Come in," she said, looking up; and Mr. Fielding walked in, heated and flurried.
                  "I am very glad to see you, sir. Give me your hat, and let me fetch you a drink of
                  cool water."
               "No, ma'am; I am not in a sufficiently pleasant mood with you to accept of your
                  hospitalities. "I came on legal business," he said, pursing up his mouth, and
                  looking around.
               
               "I am sorry that you are offended with me, sir. What shall I do to obtain your
                  forgiveness?" replied May, with a grave smile.
               "Do? What shall you do?" he said, mimicking her. "Do as you always do, and that is
                  just what suits you, ma'am."
               "No; I'll do better. I will beg your pardon, and tell you that I am
                     really sorry to have grieved so kind a friend. And begging pardons
                     don't suit me, Mr. Fielding, for you must know I am very
                  proud."
               "No doubt of it. You look proud here—living like a Parisian grisette in a garret,
                  and delving from morning until night for your daily bread," he said, testily.
               "Dear sir, I do not think I am like a grisette,
                  and this is not a garret. Look around, and see if I am not very nice here. What
                  can be purer and cleaner than this matting, which still smells of the sweet groves
                  of Ceylon. See my chairs and sofa—did you ever see such imcomparable chintz? the
                  white ground covered with roses and blue-bells! Here are my books, there my
                  flowers, and this—you know this, do you not?" said May, leading him
                  up to her little oratory.
               "No; I only know that the commandments order us not to worship graven images," he
                  said, gruffly.
               "You only say that, sir, for I am well assured that you believe no such monstrous
                  thing. Oh no! no more than we worship the stars, which, in their sparkling beauty,
                  lead our thoughts to God. In these sacred delineations we are reminded of our
                  great examples, Jesus and Mary; they tell us better than books can do—better than
                  our unfaithful hearts can, whenever our eyes rest on them, that for us the Divine
                  Son and Immaculate Mother assumed the sinoffering of the world. These white
                  hyacinths and violets are emblems of her purity and humility; and carved crucifix,
                  the image of incarnate patience and undying ing love. Oh, dear Mr. Fielding, I should be worse
                  than a pagan, if I did not keep these memorials of Jesus and Mary ever before me;
                  if I did not let a shadow of my poor love for their infinite clemency and love
                  express itself in veneration for those images which remind me continually of
                  them.
               "I didn't come here to talk polemics," said Mr. Fielding, turning away abruptly,
                  and sitting down.
               "And will you please, most grave sir, to open the business which has procured me
                  the honor of this visit?" said May, seating herself primly in a chair opposite to
                  him, and folding her little hands together with an air of dignity. Mr. Fielding
                  coughed, to hide a laugh.
               "Where is Dr. Burrell?" he inquired.
               "Attending to his patients, I presume," she replied, while her face flushed
                  up.
               "So. When did your ladyship see him last?"
               "I am not aware that it concerns you especially to know," she said, confused.
               "Yes, it does. I have a right to know every thing about you per fas et nefas. Any one who will burn up a
                     will, which would have secured to her a half million in funds and real
                  estate, or, in case she did not burn the will, won't consent to set one aside,
                  which the testator declared on his death-bed was null and void; who refused to
                  come and keep house for a childless old man, who would have treated her in every
                  respect as an honored guest; who flew off like a fussy little wren, when her
                  affluent cousin offered to provide for her; and who, last of all, rejects one of
                  nature's noblemen—the best match in the city—the deuce knows for what;
                     I consider non compos mentis, and quite unable to take care of
                  herself."
               May's countenance was a study while Mr. Fielding poured out this vial of wrath on
                  her head. Smiles, and tears, and
                  blushes flitted in bright tides over it, making it very radiant and beautiful; but
                  when he summed up the evidence, and the true cause of his ire burst on her, she
                  laughed outright, with such a clear, merry peal, that Mr. Fielding was obliged to
                  yield to its influence.
               "You are an incorrigible little wretch, May! But tell me, soberly,
                     why you rejected Dr. Burrell?"
               "Simply, sir, because I have not the remotest idea of marrying; and if I had, I do
                  not think I should find those sympathies, affinities, and qualities in Dr. Burrell
                  which would secure my happiness."
               "Whew! whew!" exclaimed Mr. Fielding, waving his hat around his head; "Ne quid nimis!"
               "Don't abuse me, sir, in an unknown tongue," said May, seriously.
               "Child, do you expect to find so much excellence in one character on earth, as you
                  desire?" said the old lawyer, putting his hat down.
               "I fear not, sir; but until I do, I shall remain single."
               "Well, you deserve to. If any one ever deserved the fate of an old maid, you
                     do. But I want you to understand one thing. I have not given up my point
                  about that will. According to your express commands, I have made no movement in
                  the affair, but nem. con. I shall present the
                  case at the present term of the Orphan's Court as a fraud. I have
                  waited long enough for your prayers and novenas, or whatever it is you call them.
                  It is very clear to me that the powers on high do not intend to trouble themselves
                  about courts and questions of equity, and all that."
               "You won't dare do so yet, sir. I shall protest against it so far as I am
                  concerned. I have faith in prayer, and shall wait," exclaimed May.
                  "It is because every thing is draped in materialism that we do not receive more aid from the heavenly powers."
               The door opened suddenly, and Walter Jerrold came in, looking pale and haggard. He
                  grasped May's hand, and bowed to Mr. Fielding, who, muttering and angry, made his
                  exit.
               "What is the matter, Mr. Jerrold?" inquired May, kindly.
               "Helen seems ill, and I have brought the carriage for you, May. She asks
                  continually for you, and fears you will not come."
               "I will go with you instantly," she said, and ran into her dressing closet to put
                  on her hat and scart. "What ails Helen?"
               "That is more than I can tell you. She has feverish nights, and is silent and
                  depressed. We made up a party last week to go to the cathedral, during the
                  'Mission,' to hear a celebrated preacher. Helen went very unwillingly, and since
                  then she has been moping and starting, and altogether gether in a strange mood,
                  for one who ought to be happy," replied Mr. Jerrold, with a gloomy
                  air. By this time they had got down stairs, and May was seated in the splendid
                  carriage, on her way to Uppertonsquare.
               "Poor Helen! I hope it may be in my power to save her. What does her physician
                  say?"
               "That is the most singular part of the thing. She positively refuses to see one.
                  Indeed, May, to be frank with you, I fear there is something dreadful preying on
                  Helen's mind. She sees no company; and although she had prepared to go to Newport
                  with my mother, she declined going: in fact, it's all a mist, and I am puzzled to
                  death to find out the end of it."
               "Mr. Jerrold," said straightforward May, "these are all the signs of a troubled
                  conscience. Did you know that Helen was once a Catholic, and in virtually
                  abandoning her religion, she is only suffering the pangs of a soul which cannot be at rest in its
                  apostasy?"
               "Do you really believe this, May?" he asked, eagerly.
               "I really do. Religion is a vital Principle. It cannot be torn from
                  the soul without inflicting the most incurable wounds," she replied, while her
                  eyes filled up with tears; "and these wounds give birth to anguish, which is the
                  prelude of eternal woe!"
               "Why did she do it, May? I did not require it. It is
                  true I was better pleased to have her a Protestant, but I thought she was
                  exercising her own free will in the matter. Do you know it would grieve me
                  sincerely if I thought I had influenced her? It would not a month ago, but
                  now—hang it all!" said Mr. Jerrold, taking off his hat, and running his fingers
                  through his hair.
               "And why now, and not then?" inquired May, with
                  interest.
               "Why, you see, May, I was so delighted with the eloquence of the preacher the
                  night we went to the 'MISSION,' that I stepped in several times afterwards, and
                  was consider ably enlightened on some points; in fact, a great deal of prejudice
                  and ignorance were removed by the clear, close, cogent arguments I heard. It would
                  be a terrible thing, May—a devilish thing, to be guilty of
                     soul-murder!"
               "Terrible, indeed! I cannot believe now that you would on any account oppose Helen
                  in the practice of her faith?"
               "No, unless it keeps her gloomy and moping. But here we are, do you run up to her
                  room. I will drive down to the post-office, and be back in a quarter of an hour,"
                  said Mr. Jerrold, handing May out, and opening the hall-door for her.
               May ran through the gorgeous hall, and up the marble staircase, with its statues
                  and vases; but so intent was she on her errand of charity that she noticed
                     nothing of the rich splendors around
                  her. She encountered Elise at the head of the staircase.
               "Ou allez-vous, mademoiselle?" she said, with an
                  elegant courtesy.
               "I am Mrs. Jerrold's cousin, and have come to see her. Show me her room," said
                  May, with an air of dignity.
               "Je vous demande pardon. Madame Jerrold est un peu
                     indisposée. Entrez?" said Elise, throwing open Helen's door, without,
                  however, making the least noise. And there, amidst her almost oriental luxuries,
                  she reclined; her heaped-up silken cushions—her ormolu tables—her Eastern vases, filled with spices and rose-leaves,
                  until the air was heavy with fragrance—her rich and grotesque furniture—her
                  rose-colored draperies, through which the light flowed in softly and radiantly—her
                  jewels—her costly attire; amidst it all she reclined—faded, conscience-stricken,
                  and trembling. There was a wild, feverish light in her eyes, and her white lips
                  quivered incessantly.
               "Helen—dear Helen!" said May, holding out her hands.
               "'If you are sick, or sorrowful, or repentant, send for me. You said
                  this to me some time ago, May. The promise is claimed," she said, feebly.
               "And I am here, dear Helen. How can I aid you?"
               "First go and close that door. I have a most inconveniently zealous French
                  waiting-maid, who pretends not to understand English, that she may gather as much
                  information about one's private affairs as possible."
               "I encountered her on the stairs," said May, closing the door carefully.
               "Now, lay off your things, little woman. Sit here where I can see you, and tell me
                  if you are not dazzled by all this splendor, and if you do not think I ought to be
                  the happiest woman on earth?"
               
               "No, dear Helen; it is very rich and beautiful, but it does not dazzle me. And so
                  far from thinking you ought to be the happiest woman on earth, I think you ought
                  to be the most miserable, until contrition and repentance lead you back, humble
                  and weeping, to the sacraments you have deserted," said May, bravely.
               "Just the same ridiculous little thing!" said Helen, with a faint smile. "But,
                  May, suppose even that I felt those dispositions, do you know what it
                  would cost me to practise them?"
               "A few worldly pleasures, perhaps, which are so fleeting that they are not worth a
                  thought—a few vain triumphs, full of envy—heart-burnings and aspirations, which,
                  while they waste the energies of an immortal soul, rise no higher than your head,
                  and fall like black, misshapen lava at your feet."
               "Think you this is all, May Brooke? If it were, I could fling them from me as I do
                  these leaves;" said Helen, tearing to pieces a rich japonica, which she snatched
                  from a vase near her, and scattering the soft, pure petals around her. "No, May,
                  these would be trifles. I should have to tear up my heart with a burning
                  ploughshare—put it under foot to be spurned and crushed! The storm it would raise
                  would rage so wildly that I should become like a piece of drift-wood, at the mercy
                  of wind and waves."
               "If your eternal interests are at stake, let the burning ploughshare go over it,
                  Helen, for it is better to suffer here than where the fire of wrath is
                  everlasting; but, indeed, dear Helen, all this sounds exagge rated and impassioned
                  to me! These obstacles which you dread must be temptations to deter you from the
                  holiest duties. If you anticipate any difficulties from Mr. Jerrold's opposition,
                  make your heart easy. He is quite miserable about you, and declares clares that he has not the least objection to your
                  practising your Faith."
               "Did he say that, May?"
               "He did, indeed. I suggested that your happiness might be involved in these
                  momentous questions, when he expressed not only his willingness, but his anxiety
                  for you to do whatever your conscience demanded."
               "Oh, May! Oh, little woman! simple—good soul!" cried Helen, bursting into tears.
                  "I cannot tell you all. You do not understand. There is a terrible
                  mystery, which, like an incubus, is brooding day and night in my soul, and drives
                  back all good angels who would enter. I am its slave, May."
               "What is it, Helen?" asked May, while the color faded from her cheeks, and she
                  looked with mingled sorrow and dread on the miserable one.
               "Hush! there is Walter's footsteps!" she exclaimed, starting. "Oh, May, I could
                  not bear to lose my husband's affection—to be spurned by him."
               "How are you now, Helle? Better, I hope, now that May is with you?" said her
                  husband, coming in. "And ready to pardon me for my insensibility to your
                  happiness?"
               "Oh, Walter!" said Helen, covering her face with her hands.
               "I had hoped that these clouds would all be dispelled by the time I returned home.
                  May and I were talking about you as we came along, and if she has not succeeded in
                  making you believe that I wish you to be happy your own way, let this be a
                     gage between us," said Mr. Jerrold, unfolding
                  a small parcel he held in his hand, and handing her a Catholic prayer-book. It was
                  bound in ivory, with an exquisite miniature painting of "Ecce Homo" on one back, and "Mater
                     Dolorosa" on the other. The paintings were covered with crystals, and
                  set with a rim of gold and pearls. The
                  edges and clasps were of the same exquisite finish. "If you will only promise to
                  be happy, dear Helen, I will buy a pew in the cathedral for you, and escort you
                  thither whenever you wish to go."
               "Dear Walter, why bring me so costly a gift?" said Helen, looking at the sorrowful
                  and sacred faces on the covers of the book, with a shudder. "Indeed, I am not
                  worthy of such tender and restless affection."
               "Look up, Helen—look up, my love! I am prouder of you this day than any king could
                  be of his crown, but if religion is going to make you abject and tame, and
                  mistrustful, I will have none of it," said the worldly man, in an impatient
                  tone.
               "Religion gives birth to nothing gloomy. Even in her penitential tears, there are
                  rainbows," cried May. "She is the mother of all that is lovely, cheerful, amiable,
                  and perfect. Even our tribulations must be borne with joy, because the divine hope
                  which sanctifies them leads the soul up to God its Father!"
               "That seems right—it sounds right. I know positively nothing about it, and wish I
                  did. If I could only get Helen out once more, I should be the happiest fellow on
                  earth," said Mr. Jerrold, with a sad and puzzled expression on his fine face. "I
                  suspected all along that perhaps some religious crank had got into Helle's head,
                  from the circumstance of her allowing no picture but that Mater Dolorosa to come into her room. It was a queer fancy in one so
                  devoted to paintings as she is. I have been wishing ever since she got it to buy a
                     pendant for it. I found a splendid
                     'Niobe in Tears'—paid an exorbitant price for it—brought it
                  home, thinking Helen would be charmed, but she banished it to the library. Then I
                  purchased a 'Hecate'—a wonderfully beautiful thing, but that was also condemned,
                     and sent into banishment. Was it not
                  so, Helen?"
               "Dear Walter—dear May!" said Helen, lifting her white face up from the pillows,
                  "the struggle is over. I must now, or never, yield to these impulses and warnings.
                  Oh, Mother—oh, Mother!" she exclaimed, turning a look of agony towards the
                  picture; "aid me in this mortal struggle! I can bear this no longer—this mystery
                  and burden—this mantle of hypocrisy must be torn off, if it costs me your love,
                  Walter, and my life! I must be free. I thought I was strong; I
                  thought I could walk steadily along the way I have hewn out, but I have been
                  haunted by a remorse which is inexorable, and that—that sacred, sorrowful face
                  over which my sins forced so many bitter torrents. It has never left me day or
                  night. In my revels and world-liness—in my dreams—in my solitude, it has followed
                  me. I believe if my heart were opened, it would be found graven there," she gasped
                  out.
               "Oh, dear Helen, respond at once to that tender love which has so patiently
                  pursued you. Remember that no one was ever lost who had recourse to her. She has
                  placed herself between you and divine justice, by adopting—taking possession, as
                  it were, of your heart; and uniting her dolors with those of her Divine Son, has
                  given you no rest, until you seek it at the foot of the cross!" broke out May,
                  with ardor. "Oh, Mother of Sorrows! pity this, thy poor child, who flies wounded
                  and weeping to thy bosom."
               Helen wept convulsively. A dark cloud had gathered on her husband's face. Her
                  words had fallen like cold drops of lead into his heart. He knew not to what she
                  alluded, and imagined strange and horrible things.
               "Helen," he said, at last, "your words have a dark meaning! your language is strange for a wife, who has been so
                  loved and trusted, to use!"
               "There is the sting, Walter. I have been loved and trusted without deserving it;
                  and what breaks down my proud nature most of all, is, to think that Heaven, who
                  knows all my guilt, still bears with me," she said, while every feature worked
                  with the agony this trial was causing her.
               "You will set me mad, woman! Let me hear what this guilt is, of which you so often
                  accuse yourself. By Heaven! all the wealth of India shall never cloak dishonor! I
                  will tear it away, and throw it—with one who has dared to bring a stain on my
                  name—off, as I would a soiled garment. Do you understand me?" he said, in a
                  fury.
               Helen started up, the red blood rushing in crimson tides to her cheeks and bosom,
                  dyeing her arms down to the very tips of her fingers, at the imputation. "It is
                  not that, Walter, thank God!" she said, in a firmer voice. "But there
                  is no true repentance without restitution. In a few moments you shall know
                     all my sin." She went into her dressing-closet; when she came
                  back, she held a small package in her hand, which she laid on May's knee. "Take
                  it, May—it is yours. I stole it from the closet the night Uncle Stillinghast was
                  dying, while you slept."
               "Helen, what is it?" said May, almost overcome, while she took the package up, and
                  looked at it.
               "It is the lost will, May, which it was supposed you had burnt.
                     This is my guilt, Walter," she said, turning to her husband; "this
                  is the barrier which has lifted itself, like a wall of lead, between my soul and
                  Heaven. Now spurn me, my husband—despise me, May; then, perhaps, loaded with
                  disgrace, and forsaken and desolate, my Father in heaven may receive me once
                  more."
               
               "Base woman!" exclaimed her husband, turning from her.
               "Sir," said May, grasping his hand; "Helen, whatever her faults may have been, is
                  worthy of you now. As to the will, except certain bequests, legacies, and
                  annuities to the poor, over which I have no control, I want none of it. Only
                  promise to deal kindly with her in this her hour of genuine humility and
                  repentance. But, see—she is falling."
               "Unworthy, dishonorable Helen, how dare you wed me with this wicked act on your
                  conscience?" said the outraged man, looking coldly down on the pale and prostrate
                  form at his feet. "I will leave her with you, May."
               "Where are you going, sir?" said May, kneeling down, and lifting Helen's burning
                  head to her breast.
               "To destruction!" he replied, in a low, bitter tone.
               "Do not dare leave us, sir," said May, in a commanding tone. "Help me to lift this
                  penitent woman—so deserving now of your tende support—to the bed, and go for a
                  physician and Father Fabian. Bring both immediately, for I believe a brain fever
                  is coming on."
               "Would that she had died before! Would that she had died ere my trust and love
                  were so cruelly shaken!" he exclaimed wildly, as he raised her lifeless form from
                  the floor, and laid it on the bed.
               "Oh, Walter Jerrold! are you mad? To wish she had died without repentance—without
                  proving that her nature, by rising through grace above the guilt of sin, is worthy
                  of your highest esteem and love? Go, sir, unless you wish your servants to become
                  acquainted with the whole affair, and to-morrow hear it recited at the corners of
                  the streets by every newsboy in the city. I shall have to ring for
                  assistance."
               "Give me that will," he said, moodily.
               
               "For what?"
               "To place it in Mr. Fielding's hands, and tell him the disgraceful story, lest he
                  afterwards think I have been an accessory to Helen's guilt," he replied.
               "No, sir. It is entirely my affair, and I wish no interference. I will arrange it
                  all myself, and be more tender of you and yours than you, in your savage mood,
                  could be," replied May, holding the will firmly to her bosom.
               When the physician came, he, after a careful examination, pronounced the case to
                  be a violent attack of brain-fever. Helen was at times in a raving delirium; then
                  she would lie for hours without sense or motion. Sometimes she implored in moving
                  terms her husband's forgiveness; then, when the violence of the paroxysm was
                  passing away, she would whisper, "Lead me, Mother! Lead me through this howling
                  wilderness. Oh, save—save me! I am pursued. Hold me, my Mother—my sorrowful
                  Mother!"
               May could only follow implicitly the doctor's directions, and weep and pray.
                  Father Fabian came—heard the story of her repentance, and desire to return to God;
                  then returned to wrestle in earnest prayer at the altar that she—the penitent
                  one—might be restored long enough to be purified and consoled by the Sacraments of
                  the Church. For long weary days and nights her life was despaired of. Her husband,
                  the shadow of his former self, never left her bedside. He had loved her well. with
                  all his worldliness and pride. But now the crisis of the disease came on. Her life
                  hung upon the most attenuated thread. The doctor gave them no hope of a favorable
                  change.
               It was past midnight. May, with Father Fabian, who had staid, hoping that a short
                  interval of reason would occur before her agony came on—for they thought she
                     was sinking—knelt, praying and
                  imploring the mercy of heaven for her helpless soul. Mr. Jerrold, unmanned, and
                  filled with bitter anguish, had gone out into the balcony, which overhung the
                  garden, where, bowed down, he wept like a child.
               A low moan escaped Helen's white lips, a quivering motion convulsed her limbs. Her
                  long golden hair was thrown back in dishevelled curls from her marble face. She
                  gasped for breath.
               "Her agony is coming on!" whispered Father Fabian.
               But suddenly there was a calm; the struggle ceased, and like one exhausted, she
                  whispered, "Thanks, oh, my Mother!" and her large eyes, from which the film passed
                  away, closed in a sweet and refreshing slumber.
               "She will live," said Father Fabian; "but be silent—shade the light, and let in
                  more air."
               May wanted to kneel, and sing the glories ries of MARY; she would like to have
                  declared to all the earth the power and tenderness of that Immaculate Heart, which
                  pursues with importunity and tears those who fly from her Divine Son. Loving him,
                  she cannot bear that those for whom he suffered should be recreant to their high
                  destiny; but May could only commune with the unseen guardians of her soul, and
                  through them declare her rapture, which ebbed and flowed in sweet numbers, like a
                  life-tide through her soul.
               Father Fabian followed Mr. Jerrold out on the balcony, and laying his hand on his
                  shoulder, said, "Let us give thanks to God; your wife will live. Nay, sir, do not
                  go in; the slightest agitation, before the equilibrium of nature is restored,
                  might destroy her. Come with me into another room, and follow the advice which I
                  shall give you, which is to lie down and sleep." Subdued and humble, the proud man
                  was led like a child into another apartment, where, throwing himself on a lounge, exhausted with
                  long and anxious watching, he fell into a profound sleep.
               When Helen awoke the next day, she looked around her with a bewildered air—then
                  gradually remembered all; and though a feeling of deep tribulation came over her,
                  she felt a peace within herself that she had never known before. She breathed a
                  prayer to JESUS and MARY for strength and patience in her desolation, for she
                  thought that she was forsaken by all earthly love—but not friendship, because she
                  saw May kneeling a little way off saying her rosary.
               "A drop of water, dear May," she said.
               May started as the clear, liquid tones of that voice, so long silent, fell upon
                  her ear, and hastened to give her wine-and-water, which the doctor had
                  ordered.
               "How kind in you May, to forgive me so entirely," she said, gently.
               "Hush, dearest Helen! Do not speak. We are so anxious for your recovery, that we
                  do not wish to hear the sound of your voice," said May, leaning over to kiss her
                  forehead.
               "We, May! Who?"
               "We!" said May, pointing to Jerrold, who at that moment had entered
                  the room, stepping so softly, that he was almost beside her before she saw him.
                  Neither of them spoke; but after a long, earnest look into Helen's eyes, which
                  were now lifted with a clear and unclouded, but humble expression to his, he
                  stooped over and kissed her, while he murmured comforting words of forgiveness,
                  and regret for his harshness.
               "No more secrets, Walter," she said, in a calm, low voice.
               "No, Helen. Together we will seek the Kingdom of Heaven—that kingdom of which I
                  heard strange truths at the 'Mission.' We will be united from henceforth in soul,
                  body, and estate."
               
               "Come away now," said May, wiping away the fast falling tears; "she must not be
                  agitated."
               "And you, most determined little woman," said Mr. Jerrold, going away
                  from the bedside, "have left me no rest. You have preached to me in actions of
                  Faith, Hope, and Charity, ever since I first knew you. Doctrinal arguments I
                  should have regarded as mere priestly sophisms if I had never known you—our good
                  genius."
               "Oh, Mr. Jerrold," said May, deeply wounded in her humility, "the grace of our
                  powerful God needed no such poor instrument as I. His ways and designs are
                  wonderful, and the operations of his divine mercy past all human comprehension.
                  Give him the glory for evermore!"
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               CONCLUSION.
               MR FIELDING was alone in his office. Perched on a high stool, with spectacles on
                  his nose, poring over Blackstone's views on certain questions of equity, sat the
                  lawyer at his desk, with a look of wisdom supernal. The door opened, but it did
                  not disturb him.
               "Good morning, Mr. Fielding!" said a small voice, somewhere below him.
               "I am engaged!" he growled.
               "But I have come on legal business," persisted the voice.
               "Who in the world are you—a kobold—or—or—May Brooke! What on earth brought you here?" he exclaimed, pushing back his
                  glasses.
               "I have come about that will of my uncle's, sir," said May, demurely.
               "Come to your senses at last," said the lawyer, chuckling with triumph.
               "I wish to take the most decided measures to set aside my uncle's first will,
                  having in my possession the most decided proof that I did not burn the last one,"
                  she said, in her quiet way.
               "Proof, eh! I wonder if your proof will stand the test of the law?"
               "I should think so. But I can impart nothing more on the subject until you promise
                  me, on your word of honor, to ask me no questions. I will promise you, on the
                  other hand, to tell you all that is necessary on the subject," said May,
                  earnestly.
               "Heaven save us, when women begin with law! My dear little foolish child,
                     I am not the Law; I am only its minister, and am bound, under
                  oath, to perform its functions faithfully," said Mr. Fielding, opening his eyes
                  wide with astonishment at May's strange proposition.
               "All of which I am perfectly aware; but as your honor, or the honor of the law
                  will not be in the least involved in this affair, I must persevere in my
                  request."
               "You'll have your way there's not the slightest doubt—if you can get it. But can't
                  you trust to my discretion—my judgment—my—my ahem! friendship for you, pendente lite."
               "No, sir; I can trust to nothing but a promise such as I require from you; a
                  promise which, if you knew all, you would voluntarily, from the best and most
                  generous impulses of your heart, offer," said May, standing up on a chair, that
                  she might converse more at her ease, by bringing her face to a level with his.
               "I will promise this, and no more," he replied, after thinking some minutes.
                     "If, on producing your proof, I find
                  it irrefragable, and can proceed in this matter without carrying it to court, or
                  bringing in additional counsel—that is, if I can manage it all myself, which I
                  doubt, I will be silent. Men—even lawyers, are not apt to die of ungratified
                  curiosity. Will that answer, ma'am?"
               "I think so," said May, after some deliberation.
               "Now produce your proof?"
               "Here it is, sir. Here is my uncle's will, which has been so long mislaid. I
                  presume this is proof sufficient," said May, spreading out the lost will before
                  him. But such was his surprise, and so great his eagerness to take it to the
                  window to examine it, that he upset his desk, and losing his balance, plunged head
                  foremost after it, and lay amidst the ruins covered with books, ink, and
                  papers.
               "Indeed, sir, I hope you are not hurt, and beg of you to excuse me," said May,
                  trying to raise him up, while she laughed until tears ran down her cheeks. "There,
                  sir, sit in the arm-chair, and let me wipe the ink from your face."
               "Let the ink be, May. Only tell me now this will has been so unexpectedly
                  recovered, for it is, I am willing to swear on the Holy Evangely, the identical
                  one I drew up the day your uncle died," he said, quite unruffled by the accident,
                  and examining the document with a close, scrutinizing look.
               "Are you perfectly satisfied?" asked May, gravely.
               "Perfectly," he replied.
               "Then I can only tell you that it is a case of conscience which I am not at
                  liberty to reveal; indeed, I would rather tear that will into fragments than
                  reveal its history. Heaven has interposed in answer to prayer in this matter; an
                  immortal soul has been led back to God. Justice is satisfied. The widow, the orphan, the destitute will be
                  comforted—"
               "And you will be as rich as Crœsus!" said Mr. Fielding, with a delighted look.
               "Oh, sir! Oh, Mr. Fielding, what shall I do?" exclaimed May, bursting into a fit
                  of crying.
               "What is the matter? What in the world are you crying about?"
               "I don't want to be rich, sir; indeed, I never thought of myself. Oh, dear! I
                  shall be so trammelled, so tempted with all this. I don't want it, sir.
               "You are a fool. What do you want, boy?" said Mr. Fielding angrily to a boy, who
                  was standing at the door, laughing immoderately, though in a suppressed
                  manner.
               "I have a note from Father Fabian, sir," said the urchin, who gave him the note,
                  and rushed out of the office, while his laughter, unsuppressed, made the street
                  echo with its mirthful sound.
               Mr. Fielding tore open the note, and read:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "DEAR SIR: I find that it will be impossible for me to see you, as I
                              wished to do, to-day. Ere this you have been informed, no doubt, by
                              May Brooke of the recovery of the lost will. I can only say, with the
                              permission of the penitent, who, through the fear of the judgments of
                              Almighty God, and a sincere desire for salvation, restored it; that it
                              is the same which you drew up the day Mr. Stillinghast was taken ill;
                              which declaration has been made to me under an oath of the most solemn
                              character. You may, therefore, feel quite safe in making such business
                              arrangements in connection with it as your discretion may suggest.
                           
                              "Very sincerely yours,
                              "STEPHEN FABIAN."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Of course," said the lawyer, looking
                  hurt, "it must be a most delicate case where such secrecy is observed. But one
                  cannot control his suspicions."
               Just then Mr. Jerrold came in. He looked so little like a man who was going to
                  lose the bulk of a princely fortune, that Mr. Fielding was amazed—so amazed, that
                  he could not imagine the cause of Mr. Jerrold's laughter, who, although highly
                  diverted at the grave lawyer's blackened visage, endeavored in the most polite
                  manner to suppress it.
               "He doesn't know the will is found," thought Mr. Fielding.
               "I have called, Mr. Fielding, to say that I am ready to give an account of the
                  stewardship of Mr. Stillinghast's property, which I have managed for the last nine
                  months. My wife and myself are perfectly satisfied that the will now in your hand
                  is genuine, and are too happy to see every thing restored to its equilibrium, to
                  wish an hour's delay in resigning all right and title to every thing except what
                  is legally and honestly ours."
               "Give me your hand, Mr. Jerrold. I honor your sentiments, and the prompt and
                  honorable manner with which you meet this emergency," said honest Mr. Fielding.
                  "Take May home, and comfort her between you all, for the poor child is breaking
                  her heart because she is rich."
               And so it was settled. After receiving with true humility the Sacraments of the
                  Church, Helen, so altered and changed in all her views of life and eternity,
                  accompanied her husband to Europe. They spent the winter in Rome, where, among
                  other converts, who made their abjuration of error and first communion at the
                     "Gesu," was an American gentleman named
                  Jerrold. We may easily imagine who this Jerrold was.
               As to May, with the advice of Father Fabian and Mr. Fielding to aid her in the distribution of her wealth, she became
                  gradually reconciled to the idea of being rich, because it afforded her an
                  unfailing source of happiness in the reflection that she could now, in an extended
                  view, become the benefactor of her kind. And from that day to this she has been
                  the busiest—the most untiring—the most loving friend of the poor and afflicted.
                  Decorating the sanctuary—visiting the widow and orphan—relieving distresses, not
                  only by alms, but by words of cheer—raising up the fallen, and soothing the
                  broken-hearted, was the business of her life; a business sweetened by such ample
                  consolations, that she sometimes dreaded lest she should seek more her own comfort
                  than the kingdom of heaven. And then she often paused, and wondered and feared,
                  because no wild torrents swept across her way, and no ruggedness wounded her feet
                  in life's pathway. But she need not. The love of God—a perfect charity, smoothed
                  and brightened all. Where others would have made gloom, she made sunshine; where
                  others found the waters of life bitter, she sweetened them by her perfect union
                  with the divine will.
               And better than all, her practical works of charity were continually adding
                  members to the Church of Christ. But we must bid her adieu. She is growing old,
                  but her step is light, and her cheeks still tinted with the hue of health; and,
                  perchance, in some future sketch of life, we may meet her again in her ceaseless
                  round of charity. Helen was one of her consolations. A truly Christian wife and
                  mother; though timid and humble in her spiritual life, her unobtrusive piety,
                  amidst temptation and worldly associations, made her an example and edification to
                  all who knew her. Mr. Fielding, always devoted to May, and admiring the
                  indomitable and cheerful energy of her character, was at last persuaded that, as
                  there is but one God, so there was but
                  ONE FAITH, and ONE BAPTISM, the fruits of which he sought with great humility and
                  steadfastness. We regret to add, that the benevolent and warm-hearted Mrs. Tabb
                  was so profuse in her charitable belief of the right of all to be
                  saved, that she easily fell in with the 'New Light of the day—Spiritualism; and
                  got her head so filled with "circles," and "progression" and "manifestations,"
                  that not recognizing the demoniac origin of it all, she became hopelessly insane.
                  Mrs. Jerrold, enraged at the loss of Mr. Stillinghast's fortune, and the
                  conversion of her son and Helen, retired to the "Cedars," where between "whist"
                  and opium she drags out a lengthened and miserable existence—refusing all
                  spiritual aid, and denouncing May in no measured terms, as the cause and prime
                  mover of all her reverses. We should like to have told all this in our own way,
                  but limits, already transgressed, warn us to silence, while the night-lamp,
                  burning low in its socket, and the watch ticking faintly, like the last pulses of
                  the dying, tell us, in emphatic language, that the "good-night" hour
                  is come.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
         

            PUBLICATIONS OF P. J. KENEDY,
            Excelsior Catholic Publishing House,
            5 BARCLAY ST., NEAR BROADWAY, NEW YORK,
            Opposite the Astor House
            
               Adventures of Michael Dwyer. $1 00
               Adelmar the Templar. A Tale 40
               Ballads, Poems, and Songs of William Collins. 1 00
               Blanche. A Tale from the French 40
               Battle of Ventry Harbor 20
               Bibles, from $2 50 to 15 00
               Brooks and Hughes Controversy 75
               Butler's Feasts and Fasts 1 25
               Blind Agnese. A Tale 50
               Butler's Catechism. 8
               Butler's Catechism. with Mass Prayers 30
               Bible History. Challoner 50
               Christian Virtues. By St. Liguori 1 00
               Christian's Rule of Life. By St. Liguori 30
               Christmas Night's Entertainments 60
               Conversion of Ratisbonne 50
               Clifton Tracts. 4 Vols 3 00
               Catholic Offering. By Bishop Walsh 1 50
               Christian Perfection. Rodriguez. 3 Vols. Only complete edition 4 00
               Catholic Church in the United States. By J. G. Shea. Illustrated. 2 00
               Catholic Missions among the Indians 2 50
               Chateau Lescure. A Tale 50
               Conscience; or, May Brooke. A Tale 1 00
               Catholic Hymn-Book 15
               Christian Brothers' 1st Book 13
               Catholic Prayer-Books, 25c., 50c., up to 12 00
            
            Any of above, books sent free by mail on receipt of price. Agents wanted everywhere
               to sell above books, to whom liberal terms will be given. Address
            P. J. KENEDY, Excelsior Catholic Publishing House,
            5 Barclay Street, New York.
            
            
               Christian Brothers' 2d Book $0 25
               Christian Brothers' 3d Book 63
               Christian Brothers' 4th Book 88
               Catholic Primer 6
               Catholic School-Book 25
               Cannon's Practical Speller 25
               Carpenter's Speller 25
               Dick Massey An Irish Story 100
               Doctrinc of Miracles Explained 100
               Doctrinal Catechism 50
               Douay Catechism 25
               Diploma of Children of Mary 20
               Erin go Bragh. (Sentimental Songster.) 25
               El Nuevo Testamento. (Spanish.) 150
               Elevation of the Soul to God 75
               Epistles and Gospels. (Goffine.) 200
               Eucharistica; or, Holy Eucharist 100
               End of Controversy. (Milner.) 75
               El Nuevo Catecismo. (Spanish.) 15
               El Catecismo de la Doctrina Christiana (Spanish Catechism) 15
               El Catecismo Ripalda. (Spanish) 12
               Furniss' Tracts for Spiritual Reading 100
               Faugh a Ballagh Comic Songster 25
               Fifty Reasons 25
               Following of Christ 50
               Fashion. A Tale. 35 Illustrations 50
               Faith and Fancy. Poems. Savage 75
               Glories of Mary. (St. Liguori.) 125
               Golden Book of Confraternities 50
               Grounds of Catholic Doctrine 25
               Grace's Outlines of History 50
               Holy Eucharist 100
               Hours before the Altar. Red edges 50
               History of Ireland. Moore. 2 vols 500
               History of Ireland. O'Mahoney's Keating 400
               Hay on Miracles 100
               Hamiltons. A Tale 50
               History of Modern Europe. Shea 125
               Hours with the Sacred Heart 50
               Irish National Songster 100
               Imitation of Christ 40
            
            Catholic Prayer-Books, 25c., 50c., up to 12 00
            Any of above books sent free by mail on receipt of price. Agents wanted everywhere to
               sell above books, to whom liberal terms will be given Address
            P. J. KENEDY, Excelsior Catholic Publishing House,
            5 Barclay Street, New York.
            
               Irish Fireside Stories, Tales, and Legends.
               (Magnificent new book just out.) About 400 pages large 12mo, containing about
                  40 humorous and pathetic sketches. 12 fine full-page Illustrations.
               Sold only by subscription. Only $1 00
               Keeper of the Lazaretto. A Tale 40
               Kirwan Unmasked. By Archbishop Hughes 12
               King's Daughters. An Allegory 75
               Life and Legends of St. Patrick 100
               Life of St. Mary of Egypt 60
               Life of St. Winefride 60
               Life of St. Louis 40
               Life of St. Alphonsus M. Liguori 75
               Life of St. Ignatius Loyola. 2 vols 300
               Life of Blessed Virgin 75
               Life of Madame de la Peltrie 50
               Lily of Israel. 22 Engravings 75
               Life Stories of Dying Penitents 75
               Love of Mary 50
               Love of Christ 50
               Life of Pope Pius IX 100
               Lenten Manual 50
               Lizzie Maitland. A Tale 75
               Little Frank. A Tale 50
               Little Catholic Hymn-Book 10
               Lyra Catholica (large Hymn-Book) 75
               Mission and Duties of Young Women 60
               Maltese Cross. A Tale 40
               Manual of Children of Mary 50
               Mater Admirabilis 150
               Mysteries of the Incarnation. (St. Liguori.) 75
               Month of November 40
               Month of Sacred Heart of Jesus 50
               Month of Mary 50
               Manual of Controversy 75
               Michael Dwyer. An Irish Story of 1798 100
               Milner's End of Controversy 75
               May Brooke; or, Conscience. A Tale 100
               New Testament 50
               Oramaika. An Indian Story 75
               Old Andrew the Weaver 50
               Preparation for Death. St. Liguori 75
            
            Catholic Prayer-Books, 25c., 50c., up to 12 00
            Any of above books sent free by mail on receipt of price. Agents wanted everywhere to
               sell above books, to whom liberal terms will be given. Address
            P. J. KENEDY, Excelsior Catholic Publishing House,
            5 Barclay Street, New York.
            
            
               Prayer. By St. Liguori. $0 50
               Papist Misrepresented. 25
               Poor Man's Catechism. 75
               Rosary Book. 15 Illustrations. 10
               Rome: Its Churches, Charities, and Schools. By Rev. Wm. H. Neligan, LL. D. 1
                  00
               Rodriguez's Christian Perfection. 3 vols. Only complete edition. 4 00
               Rule of Life. St. Liguori. 40
               Sure Way; or, Father and Son. 25
               Scapular Book. 10
               Spirit of St. Liguori. 75
               Stations of the Cross. 14 Illustrations. 10
               Spiritual Maxims. (St. Vincent de Paul) 40
               Saintly Characters. By Rev. Wm. H. Neligan, LL. D. 1 00
               Seraphic Staff. 25
               Seraphic Manual, 75 cts. to. 3 00
               Sermons of Father Burke, plain. 2 00
               Sermons of Father Burke, gilt edges. 3 00
               Schmid's Exquisite Tales. 6 vols. 3 00
               Shipwreck. A Tale. 50
               Savage's Poems. 2 00
               Sybil: A Drama. By John Savage. 75
               Treatise on Sixteen Names of Ireland. By Rev. J. O'Leary, D. D. 50
               Two Cottages. By Lady Fullerton. 50
               Think Well On't. Large type. 40
               Thornberry Abbey. A Tale. 50
               Three Eleanors. A Tale. 75
               Trip to France. Rev. J. Donelan. 1 00
               Three Kings of Cologne. 30
               Universal Reader. 50
               Vision of Old Andrew the Weaver. 50
               Visits to the Blessed Sacrament. 40
               Willy Reilly. Paper cover. 50
               Way of the Cross. 14 Illustrations. 5
               Western Missions and Missionaries. 2 00
               Walker's Dictionary. 75
               Young Captives. A Tale. 50
               Youth's Director. 50
               Young Crusaders. A Tale. 50
            
            Catholic Prayer-Books, 25c., 50c., up to. 12 00
            Any of above books sent free by mail on receipt of price. Agents wanted everywhere to
               sell above books, to whom liberal terms will be gives. Address
            P. J. KENEDY. Excelsior Catholic Publishing House,
            5 Barclay Street, New York.
         
      
   
