
    ----CITATION----
        Chanter, Washington.. The Nautch Girl .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6013
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 1. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  
                      
                   
                  CHAPTER I.-PUTTERRUM. 
                  In the harbor of a certain small city in the Indian Seas (the capital of a petty fifteenth-rate Asiatic power, which I shall call the port of Putterrum, for the reason, that the incidents which are herein narrated are of such recent occurrence that to give the real name would be to incur the danger of consular investigation,) lay at anchor a small whaling bark of something-above three hundred tons burthen. 
                  She was of the class known to the whaling fraternity as a "plum-puddener," i.e. a vessel cruising on a short voyage for sperm whales, though they do not stand on it as a specialty, but will "lower" for anything of the cetaceous species, from a "right whale" to a grampus. These vessels cruise in the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, and the one mentioned had just arrived from the vicinity of the Seychelles, stopping into Bourbon Island on her way down to the present port. Here she was to sell a little oil for port expenses, and then shape her course for another whaling ground. 
                  She had a number of men among her crew who had "shipped by the run" as it is called, to this port, and who were told at the time of shipping that the vessel was going "right down to Putterrum without delay." That, however, did not at all prove to be the case; but, on the contrary the captain cruised about for whales, and made the "run" by so doing six months from Cape Town to Putterrum-a passage that should not have taken, under ordinary circumstances, longer than several weeks. This course had caused a deal of mutinous conduct upon the part of the men thus misled; and it reached its climax when the mate announced that they would remain only twenty-four hours in port and then go down the coast, and that no one of the crew was to be permitted to go on shore while at Putterrum. There was some specious reason given, in connection with the quarantine regulations, but the real object was to keep the Cape Town man as they were called, for another cruise. If they had been old sailors, such a course would not have been attempted, as it would have caused a general fight; but these were green hands, just out from New Bedford, and had been left in the hospital at Cape Town sick with scarlet fever, which had broken out on board of the outward-bound whaleman on which they originally shipped. These men, eleven in all, were thus rid of the onerous prospect of going on with the ship just at the time when they were most thoroughly homesick. They were all, with one or two exceptions, of a respectable class of their kind, rough young men or boys, with half-learned trades, and a proclivity for roving and adventure. 
                  After the bark had been properly moored and everything made snug, the mate called out: 
                  "Come aft here, all of you beach comers;" to which the steward, a sort of privileged darkey, added in a lower tone: 
                  "Gladiators, killers and Canton-wreckers." 
                  The men came aft as far as the waist, when the mate, taking the main hatch for a rostrum, delivered a specimen of salt-water oratory, thus: 
                  "Now, then, you fellers expects to git your discharge here; but you've hearn me say that it's agin the quarantine laws. The quarantine laws is mighty strict here-mighty strict. It's also agin the laws of the islant for men to be discharged here without a permit. Now, how's you fellows gwine to git a permit? And then if you got a permit, they'd pick you up agin after sixty days. You ain't passengers, you ain't citizens, you ain't nothin' but jist men aboard a ship; and I don't see anything you can do but just stop where you are till we git to some port where a white man's a white man." 
                  This produced a very audible growl, and the mate proceeded: 
                  "Now, the cap'n's willin' to do the square thing by you fellers, and is willin', if all come up and sign to go the voyage round to Singapore, he'll discharge you there, and you'll git the one-hundredth lay, and he won't charge agin you what you've had from the slop-chist; and that's the best chance that men over did have, fixed as you fellers is fixed." 
                  "We don't sign no more dockerments." 
                  "Now look here men"- 
                  "We wan't our discharge; and we'll have it in some fashion or other." 
                  "Now hear to reasonable talk," continued the mate. "If you fellers will jist sign as I told ye, and make up your minds to go with the ship, it will all come right; and the cap'n's willin' to give all-all hands-every other day ashore for a week. He'll keep the ship on expense of port charges here for a week, to give you all liberty. If you don't do that, you won't git a site to put your foot ashore at all, none of ye; we'll go to sea to-morrer." 
                  The remainder of the crew, thus made interested in the issue which was thus artfully contrived, urged the refractory ones to sign as the mate offered; but all stoutly refused, and amid the various noises of an angry disputation the mate proceeded with his harangue. 
                  "What do you fellers want to stop ashore in this rotten little town fur? I'd like to know; I raly should. There's nothin' here but yaller-fever, thieves and scoundrels of all sorts. Why, the most respectable business men here is mostly all busted-up merchants from England and the States, and swindlers of one sort and another." 
                  "Old Jinks, you needn't blow any more, we aint going to stay another day," shouted one. 
                  "Well, go your way, go your way, I've done all I can do;" said the orator tor, waving his hand, which was of the general form of a boxing glove. "Go your way, I've done all I can do; but you'll have to stop aboard this ship; and you mout as well be cheerful about it;" concluded Mr. Jinks, walking aft. 
                  In about an hour afterward there was an attempt to seize the bow boat, which ended in a fight and the defeat of the Cape Town men, as they were outnumbered greatly. I came on deck, and saw them driven back, and taking refuge in the forecastle, where they remained till I left the ship. I had taken passage in the vessel at Bourbon; and during the short stay on board had become somewhat acquainted with the American men; the others, being a hard set of various nationalities, I had no speech with whatever. 
                  My baggage being light, a straw valise with one change of outer clothes, four shirts, a meerschaum pipe, a revolver and lorgnette, I had nothing to do but get into a boat and go on shore, as soon as the captain returned from the custom house with the permit, which the mate seemed to think, or rather to make those inexperienced green hands think, was almost as hard to obtain as an appointment to West Point. 
                  I made a pretext to go forward as the boat came alongside, and said in a low voice to those in the forecastle: 
                  "I'll see that you get ashore; don't attempt any high-handed measures." 
                  I was soon on the beach. The great capital of one of the trumpery seven by-nine principalities which abound in the lost corners of the Oriental world, though it glistened white and picturesquely from the anchorage, was a very dilapidated, or, as the mate termed it, "rotten," collection of stucco huts, with narrow streets choked up with fruit stands, bullock carts, thieves, desperadoes and abandoned women of all hues-a very whited sepulchre indeed. The few establishments of anything like a commercial character lined the beach at the extreme end of the town; and were merely a solemn cordon of low, broad tile or thatched-roof ware-houses; holding in some remote corner a matted space, screened with mats from the interior merchandise, and containing a desk or two, a safe, and a punkah swinging overhead to circulate the air at midday. There were a few bazarrs of a civilized appearance, containing a very rich display of laces, European and Indian, with other costly fabrics that so interest and gladden the ladies of Christendom, but the most of them contained merely a jumbled collection of red and striped silks, bandanas, turbans, pistols, carbines, cimitars, krisses, daggers, and such murderous cutlery, chiefly of Chinese manufacture. Back and above the town rose the dingy walls of the palace, a great rambling building, containing the government office in the basement story; also the audience halls and court rooms. A mosque in the centre of the town raised its light-house looking minarets above the sea of dilapidated roofs; and from these the muezzens drawled out several times a day a very lugubrious invitation to the inhabitants to perform their devotions. I wandered about in search of the American consular agent-the post not being of sufficient importance for a full consul-and after some trouble found him living in a rookery of a building in the vicinity of the "palace." 
                  After obtaining money on a letter of credit, I investigated the subject of the detention of the Cape Town men, and ascertained that there would be no difficulty in the way of their release, provided they had American protections (a document furnished all seamen on leaving the United States). These they had, though the papers were in possession of the captain. After some further conversation the agent said he would have them released forthwith, though as the mate had stated, they would have to ship again in sixty days, or be taken in charge by the Aga of the port, unless they obtained a citizen's permit. 
                  The end of the matter was, that they were on shore the next day, wandering about, with no settled purpose other than to make a 'raise,' as they termed it, in some way, and then ship on board a vessel bound for the "States" if one could be found. They were exceedingly grateful to me for my interference in their behalf, and were ready to follow any lead I might decide upon if they were wanted so to do. 
                  "We'll stick to you, Doc,' through fire and smoke," was the general sentiment, and at first I was rather afraid that they were terribly in earnest in this and similar remarks, as there was very little money in the party, and that little likely to go fast; and then I should have the alternative of turning my back upon fellow-countrymen, needy and in a strange land, or furnishing them with means from day to day. However, they established themselves with an old native woman, who let out sleeping mats for a few "cash" per night, and traversed the city in a body, eating here and there at the market stalls during the day, which routine they called "seeing the place." 
                  My object in visiting this port was to find a vessel bound to Hong Kong; whence I desired to take passage to the United States, being thoroughly tired of roving. I had been moderately successful in a voyage of trade with a small "dhow," and was returning in ballast to Singapore, when one moonlight night, lying becalmed in the Straits of Balli, the dhow was boarded by a small prahu from the mainland, containing forty or fifty saffron-colored miscreants, who, after clashing their creeses about me, and striving in various ways to extort from me what I did not have, to wit, gold, ordered myself and crew into our small boat, and took possession of the vessel. Finding her of little account, for she was an old scow which I had found stranded at Amboyna and bought cheap, they set fire to her, after taking what stores and other plunder there was on board and made off toward the land again with their sweeps, very little the richer for that night's expedition. The old box blazed up beautifully on that moonlight sea; and, together with the long, low, snake-like prahu stealing away into the darkness, made a very pretty moonlight picture. The light of the burning vessel brought down, in a few hours, a French brig, the Beranger, bound to Bourbon Island, which took us thither. My crew, all Javanese but one, went in a small coasting boat to Mauritius. 
                  I remained for a few weeks, waiting for the spirit to move me, for I was undetermined upon any course. My funds were safe with a business house at Point de Galle, Ceylon, whose letter of credit and some forty rupees I saved from the greedy hands of the Balli thieves by thrusting them, on the first noise of their approach, into the lead line tub.-There was no vessel bound to Hong Kong, nor to any other place that I would have given a rupee to go to The choice lay between a "gay diang" to Macassar or a Chinese Junk to Singapore. I did not like to face the prospect of a passage in one of the Celestial floating barns, with the almost certainty of lying wind-bound in the straits for fifteen or twenty days, and therefore concluded to wait till something should turn up. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II.-IN WHICH SOMETHING TURNS UP. 
                  Something did turn up. I was contemplating a light transaction in areca nuts, and strolled with that in view down among the warehouses of Putterrum. As I entered one, I heard a voice apparently proceeding from the counting room at the opposite end of the shed, giving some person a recapitulation of his shortcomings; a sort of lecture built upon the famous models of Mrs. Caudle. 
                  The loud voice was that of an elderly man, and the responses came in from time to time low and deprecatory. 
                  I walked slowly toward the office, seeing no one but a few native porters, who had laid themselves out upon the sacks of merchandise for the midday nap common to the highest and lowest in the tropics. 
                  "You went down to Bole's, and you had two bottles there; now don't tell me you didn't, for I paid him for them. Then you had wine and brandy at the 'Jolly Mariner.'" 
                  Second voice-"Mr. Creighton, I'll swear to you"- 
                  First voice-"Now Jeffers, don't swear to anything; you can't tell me; don't I know you well enough? You get worse and worse; you've not been in condition to do business in three days; and just now at a time when you could be of a great deal of use to me, Jeffers." 
                  Second voice-"Mr. Creighton, I haven't taken"- 
                  First voice-"Now don't tell me you haven't taken. Didn't you go down to Grimshaw's last night and drink four or five bottles with Capt. Stott? Yes you did; you know you did. Then you went up to Chesney's, had three bottles there; and you told him that I 'would come around and pay it'-that I 'did not pay you enough-and that you intended to leave me in the lurch,' if I did not 'mind'-and such stuff as that. And just at this time, Jeffers, when I want, that is, we both want, to-to be very careful. Now what must I think? I don't sleep any. I can't sleep when I see what course you are pursuing, right at a time when, if you had an iota of gratitude in you, you would try to act differently. You know, Jeffers, that I picked you out of the gutter. You were hungry and penniless; you hadn't eaten anything but bananas for four days. And now, all this time, whenever you've been getting drunk and sotting about three days and four days at a time, I've put up with it because you were so penitent and promised to do better. I didn't want to see you starve. I knew you would, or have to ship in a whaleship before the mast." 
                  Second voice-"I didn't drink a drop at Chesney's yesterday." 
                  First voice-"No; but you did the day before. What does it signify? You went down to the Sicundar Bagh and had two bottles there, and then you went down to an 'opium hell' and laid there all day in an opium trance." 
                  Second voice-"I just laid down there"- 
                  First voice-"Don't tell me that you didn't; you know that it will be a falsehood if you do. Why your countenance tells it plainly. Your hands tremble now. I've not been on this beach for eight years, not to know what I see. When you're sober there's not a better beach clerk in the port, or sharper business man; but from the first day I took you up, now seven years ago, you have never been perfectly, sober over two or three months at a time. You haven't intended to do it neither, that's where the trouble is. Then you went up to the palace and had four bottles there in that row, sotting with palkee men and the lowest riffraff about there." 
                  "Quite a little spree," I thought to myself, and quite a reliable clerk. 
                   
                  I had approached the office near enough for the occupants to see me; but no notice was taken of me by either party, so I sat down upon a rattan settee just without, until the homilies were concluded. I could see both individuals without turning my head, and moralized upon the scene at my leisure. 
                  The proprietor, for such was the first speaker, was a tall, thin man, with the peculiar color of Europeans long residents in the tropics, and a most severe money-making cast of features, though with a trace of geniality which had apparently been partly ploughed out from his nature by the long-continued pursuit of gold gathering. 
                  "Young man, what do you want," said he, at length. 
                  "I came to look up a little investment for the Singapore or Hong Kong markets," said I, without noticing his brusque manner; "but as you seem to be in somewhat of a bilious humor I will call again if I conclude to buy." 
                  "Nothing shipping to Hong Kong or Singapore either; the Dutch Company have monopolized all the freights. Unless you own a vessel, there's nothing to be made." 
                  "He has made money enough," thought I, and walked out. But after a little prospecting I found that though his words were not delivered in the most suave manner, they had the merit of being true. 
                  The silence of night had fallen upon the town; all business having given way to the noontide nap, taking a palankeen, for the heat was getting oppressive, I was carried at a languid trot back to the "Sicundar Bagh," a large cement structure with wide, open arches, whitewashed and cool. This was the only decent hotel in the town, and was kept by a ci devant Chinese comprador, a half European and half Chinese Boniface, who certainly had a very good menage, though his sleeping accommodations consisted of ratan or bamboo cots, caged off in bamboo compartments with matting screens, odorous with perfumes of Araby the blest. 
                  I took a siesta, and afterwards a bath and tiffin. Then thought to while away the time with a game of billiards, in the long wing attached to the hotel, which contained a dozen good American tables. Here the first person that came in my view was the clerk of the beach warehouse, the one whose sins of omission and commission I had heard that morning somewhat feelingly dilated upon. His bearing was considerably different from when he was undergoing the 'recapitulation,' and I saw that he was now enjoying the revivifying effect of about three glasses of "smooth brandy." He was not at all the sullen, crouching, browbeaten clerk of the counting-room scene, shaky and pale, and anxious to deny every accusation. As he stood carelessly pushing the balls about with his cue, waiting for a player, he struck me forcibly as being a good specimen of a man utterly wrecked. He was above the ordinary stature, with a slim and well-set figure; but his face, which apparently had been once frank and open, bore now the impress of debauchery, the hard sinister lines of profligacy. As I moved towards the table he turned his large, hollow but piercing black eyes upon me with a glance of recognition, and said, "Do you wish to play, sir?" 
                  "I don't mind playing a few games, but not for a stake." 
                  "I never gamble," he said, placing the balls. 
                  "That is one redeeming trait," I thought, "if it's true," and answered: 
                  "It is a custom that I deprecate. There would be no enjoyment in billiards to me if I were compelled to loose or win by the game. 
                   
                  We played a few shots, when he said rather abruptly: 
                  "Old Creight was rather stringent this morning; he eats too much currie at tiffin. You heard his rigmarole," he continued; "do you think a man could drink as much brandy as he told off on me for a three days jaunt, and live, in a climate like this?" 
                  "I should think not, without help," I replied. 
                  "No sir. After you left he took a palkee and went to his bungalow up the hill, and I hope there'll be no more of him for a day or two; he has a deal to trouble him at home just now, and that should be sufficient to keep him there." 
                  "What is the nature of his domestic troubles?" I asked. 
                  "Well, he has a daughter, a saucy little witch; the prettiest woman that was ever on this beach, though, and the old Rajah wants her." 
                  "The King?" I asked. 
                  "Well, yes, he calls himself a King or Sultan; he's nothing but a Rajah, though, and a small one at that; and," he continued; "he will have his title of Rajah knocked from under him if he isn't careful how he meddles with the Dutch Company." 
                  "Well, where lies the trouble you allude to?" 
                  "Why, he is a hundred and fifty years old." 
                  "The Rajah?" 
                  "More or less," he added. 
                  "And the girl is greatly frightened, I suppose," I said. 
                  "Well, no, I rather fancy she likes the idea of being a 'queen.'" 
                  "You think so?" 
                  "I gather that, and the old yellow devil is bent upon having her." 
                  "I should suppose that he would not insist, against the will of her father?" 
                  "As matters are supposed to stand, he can insist. Old Creight and he have been together in the spice trade for years; and nobody knows what devilments they have been up to. Creighton has got to be a nabob; and the Rajah is the greatest old gold hoarder in the East Indies; that is for a king of his calibre." 
                  "Do you mean that Mr. Creighton could not send his daughter away without being in jeopardy from the king?" I asked. 
                  "Exactly so," proceeded the clerk. "He could not leave himself or send her away. He would not be permitted to make the first move, before Old 'Sequins' would be down on him." 
                  "He could at any rate take her on board the first English cruiser that stops in here, or send for one through the consul, if need be." 
                  "Well," he said pausing, "why doesn't he do it?" 
                  "Does he care anything for her?" 
                  "She's the apple of his eye." 
                  "It is rather singular." 
                  "Well, it is somewhat singular to an outsider, but when you've been knocking about this country six or eight years, you'll wonder at nothing.' 
                  "I must now look after old Creight's matters on the beach. If you are here when I return I will talk with you again. Perhaps I can put you in a way of making something snug." 
                  He turned, after a few steps toward the door, and said: 
                  "From what you said you have traded among the groups lately." 
                  "Yes." 
                  "In your own vessel?" 
                  "Yes, an old dhow. She's gone glimmering, now, though." 
                  "That's immaterial, you can navigate, I suppose?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Are you used to these small craft out here? Can you handle a lateen rig-a three-masted felucca, for example?" 
                  "Well enough." 
                  "Humph. So far, good. I'll talk with you again this evening." 
                   
                  "As you please," I answered. 
                  "My name is Jeffers. I am quite glad to have made your acquaintance." 
                  I gave him mine and he withdrew. 
                  It occurred to me that there was some more important relation subsisting between the clerk and his employer than that apparent upon the first view. For what business man would retain in his employ, or even at all, a person who was addicted to drunkenness and profligacy, as was this person. From the little that I had heard in the morning, and the manner of the man who had just left me, as much as what he had said, I felt assured that there was a sphere of usefulness to the merchant that he had grown into and filled, which enabled him to lead a life of frequent dissipation with immunity from discharge. 
                  After a little consideration, I determined to enter into the spirit of anything that he might suggest, cautiously observing, however, the limit of prudence. 
                  With nothing specially in view, I walked out into the town, and upon reaching the mosque, sauntered into that edifice, but was invited to abstain from coming any further than the entrance by what might have been the grand mutti for all I knew. Standing by the door, I saw a portion of the interior, however, and thought it was tolerably gorgeous for barbarians. Taking the palace terrace, I then strolled out upon the road that winds along the hill and commands a view of the town and harbor. Along this broad graded avenue, which is supported by a continuous revetment of coral rock, are scattered the bungalows of the foreign merchants, consuls, and wealthy native residents. These buildings were for the most part built after the same general model, and were large, single storied rectangular structures, with high open windows, screened with muslin, flat-roofed, and surmounted with one or two greenish domes. They were plastered on the outside with white, yellow or lead-colored stucco, and more or less modeled after the Indian style of architecture. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III.-"OLD CREIGHT'S 
                        DAUHGTER
                        DAUGHTER
                     ." 
                  While viewing the beauties observable in the landscape, a small troop of various-colored horses came trotting down the road, with their olive hued grooms, laughing and calling to each other. It was the Rajah's stud, out for their evening course. I noticed some magnificent limbed steeds among them as they came by, all of pure Arabian blood, and several of them snow-white, and without a spot. 
                  "The old satrap keeps good horses," I thought, as their clattering hoofs receded, leaving a slight mist of dust buoyant on the evening breeze. I noticed a commotion among them, and heard an increased confusion of voices, now rendered indistinct by the distance, while at the same moment the cavalcade parted right and left, and a young girl, mounted on a superb lithe-limbed Arabian mare, came bounding along the road. She was simply radiantly beautiful. I might have had a better view of her in passing, had she not, with a sauciness that somewhat exceeded, as I thought, the bounds of propriety, brushed a long garland of crimson wild flowers in my face as she galloped past me. 
                  "On the Di. Vernon order," was my astonished ejaculation, and I stooped to pick up one of the large crimson bells that had fallen from the twig. 
                  "That is, without doubt, old Creighton's daughter," said I, "and a very fine girl she is, but-" 
                   
                  Women are not afraid of doing some very impudent things at times, especially if they are not compelled to remain and face what might follow. "I'll warrant she is demure enough in a drawing room," I reflected as I proceeded on my ramble. 
                  My walk brought me to a bridge, and thence I took a street leading down to the town. On my way thither I met my friends of the bark, a little elevated with toddy, and singing very loudly the chorus: 
                         
                           "Do you belong to Gideon's band? 
                           Here's my heart, and here's my hand; 
                           Do you belong to Gideon's band? 
                           We're searching for a home." 
                        
                     
                   
                  "And how does the search come on," I asked. "If you can't find a home, I suppose you'd take up with a chance to ship on a homeward-bound ship?" 
                  "Hello, Doc! Where do you keep yourself?" asked one. 
                  They had started the title of "Doc" on board the vessel, from my performing two operations in minor surgery on the passing down-bandaging the cooper's arm, and stitching up a gash in a boat-steerer's cheek, both wounds received in the capture of a humpback whale. 
                  With them were some additions to their band in the 
                        personanes
                        personages
                      of three men-of-war's men, deserters, probably; and all had patronized some of the bazaars, for they now sported red sashes and kreeses; and were apparently anxious for an opportunity to make use of them upon the "copper-colored scorpions" about the port. They reiterated their expressions of interest for my welfare, and assured me that if I wanted them for any little "cruise among the islands," I might consider myself captain of "Gideon's Band." 
                  That evening, while looking over the columns of the latest Scindian, Mr. Jeffers came in, called for a carston of brandy, and commenced conversation on the subject he had introduced last, in a very guarded non-committal manner. After some half hour's talk in this style, he suddenly changed and said, off-hand: 
                  "Well, it's just such a person as yourself that is wanted; and if you'd like a chance to make some money by a short cruise and a little risk. you can have it." 
                  "But of course I should want to know the business that the vessel is bound on before I took charge of her," said I. 
                  "You can know that just as you are going on board, and then if you see anything you dislike about it you need not, of course, move a stop. The reason of that course is simply this: the parties for whom I act don't care to have their secret rattling about in the head of any one too long before its time to act. It might produce-well its impolitic. 
                  "I see; very good. I'll take the vessel into the track of the homeward-bound East Indiamen. What then? board and capture one?" 
                  He laughed. "Not quite, but perhaps a few packages of luggage may be put on board, and passengers accompany it." 
                  "Ah; defaulters, criminals, or anything of the sort!" 
                  "No sir. No chance for compromising you in any way. You'll understand all about it before you go on board." 
                  "I don't mind consenting to perform, especially with the reserved right to refuse at the last moment." 
                  "That's good enough; I've been on the watch for the right person for three weeks, and now that so much is done, let's play a game or two and then go out for a 'slam round.' I can show you some little mysteries in this town that dont appear to the naked eye." 
                  I declined politely the "mysteries" feeling satisfied that the gambling hells of Putterrum could afford me no interest or edification, but accepted the billiards. 
                  During the game he asked: 
                  "Who were those fellows you were with?" 
                  "When?" 
                  "Yesterday." 
                  "You saw me, then, did you?" 
                  "Si Senor," said he, making a shot. 
                  "They were men shipped by the run in the bark that I came here in." 
                  "You know them somewhat, then?" 
                  "Yes, somewhat." 
                  "Whaling sailors?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "What are they looking for, a ship?" 
                  "Well, yes, a ship bound home, or a short cruise in anything but a whaler." 
                  "They've got enough of whaling?" 
                  "I judge so from their talk." 
                  "Could you get them to go with you?" 
                  "I might." 
                  "Well that would be a good move," he said, turning from the game, "only say nothing about it to them for the present." 
                  "I saw your employer's daughter to-day," said I, after the conversation had changed. 
                  "Fannie Creighton? On horseback, wasn't she?" 
                  "Yes, on the hill road." 
                  "She's a typhoon. Always on horseback; if 'Old Sequins,' up there on the hill, don't get her, she'll lead some man a devil of a life." 
                  "Is she high tempered?" 
                  "Well, I don't know as she is; in fact, I know but very little about her, but she doesn't fear anything to speak of, and would be apt to do entirely as she pleased, and her husband would have his time fully employed if he undertook to control her with a curb but the Rajah is crazy after her since she's been back, and I suppose he will get her." 
                  "She don't stay here, then, generally?" I said. 
                   
                  "Oh no she's been brought up principally at Cape Town, the Isle of France and Singapore. Old Creight is a widower, and Fannie was a little snip of a girl when he came out here. The old man failed in Liverpool and came out here to get on his legs again. An old French lady at Mauritius has had charge of her. Fannie comes out here every four months or so. You wouldn't see a girl with a complexion like her's, raised on this island." 
                  I inquired of the necessity of her father's sacrificing her to the old Rajah; but he did not seem to be as communicative on that subject as before. I supposed, therefore, that was merely said for an object. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IV.-THE NAUTCH GIRL. 
                  I saw Jeffers the next day on the beach, and he pointed out the vessel I was to take out into the track of the homeward-bound East Indiamen, and receive for my trouble the vessel and a little ready cash. It was a low lead-colored felucca or prehu very long and with exceedingly fine lines. She had belonged to a party of young men, many of them cashiered officers from the Indian Navy and Army, who were cruising about in her, for what purpose no one exactly knew. She was named the "Nautch Girl," and came into the hands of the present owner at a sacrifice. In fact she was mortgaged for means to enable the party to fit themselves for some venture in Australia. 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED.) 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. By stitching each number before cutting the leaves, and preserving them, you will have a "New Story" at no expense. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  The Medical value of Tar. 
                  Tar has, long been known as a valuable medicine; yet, how to prepare it to contain all its active and medicinal properties, to the exclusion of the bitter empyreumatic principles-always disagreeable to a sick palate-has been a problem only solved in "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar." 
                  The great merits of Tar are again coming to the attention of the Physicians of France, and several trials were made in fifteen hospitals with the best results. Hundreds of Physicians in the United States prescribe 'Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar' because they find it the best preparation in the market. See that every bottle has the name of "Oliver Crook & Co." on the wrapper. All others are imitations without merit. 
                
                
                  A New York paper thinks Gen. Grant cannot be a politician, because he paid promptly for an overcoat he bought in that city. 
                
                
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane, and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                
                
                  Spriggins is a little forgetful sometimes. He counted his brood the other night, but could only make fourteen. "How is this?" he asked his wife. "I thought there were fifteen of them at the last census?" 
                  "So there were," answered the wife; "but little Sammy was drowned since then." 
                  "Indeed!" said Spriggins meditatively; "why it seems to me I heard of that at the time." 
                
                
                  Nervous affections are all cured by invigoration, and as "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a prompt restorer of all the vital energies of the system, all suffering from Nervous Complaints will find the Tonic to have the desired effect. 
                
                
                  Why is a clever school-boy like a detective? Because he's quick at apprehension. 
                
                
                   
                  Delicate Females who have no appetite, are languid, always suffering, devoid of energy, and never feeling well, will find "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" to give tone and vigor to the whole system, strengthen the appetite, purify the blood, beautify the complexion, and make them strong and healthy. Try it. 
                
                
                  A Connecticut editor fell on an icy sidewalk last week. He did not use "unparliamentary language," as some would have done, but bit his lips, rubbed down the bruises, and while a benevolent smile radiated his countenance, remarked; "We don't cherish any ill will; but for light and entertaining reading matter, recommend to us the obituary of the man who owns this sidewalk." 
                
                
                  Debility, resulting from any cause, is removed by "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar," which is unexcelled as a Tonic. It rejuvenates the entire system. Its stimulating, rejuvenating and tonic properties gives a vigorous vitality to all the organs, which is the best defense against all diseases. 
                
                
                  A Paris landlady requested a Christmas party on the third floor to cease dancing, as a man below was dying. The guests acquiesced. Returning an hour later, "My dear children," she exclaimed, with the most benevolent smile, "you may begin again, he's dead." 
                
                
                  Dyspeptics will find "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" to impart a vigor to their digestive organs, cause their food to be relished, the stomach to promptly digest, the blood to be purified, and their health to return. 
                
                
                  A Christmas tree in Dayton, Ohio, was gaily decorated with reflectors, tiny bags of Candies, Toys, Presents, and also strings of Pop Corn stretched from branch to branch, beautiful in appearance, and making a great impression on a boy of almost three winters who witnessed a Christmas Tree for the first time. During the night there was a slight sprinkle of snow. The next day, visiting an Aunt of his in whose yard were several cedar and pine trees sprinkled with snow, he exclaimed, "Can't fool me, 'taint no pop corn on 'em trees." 
                
                
                  A fellow out west put strychnine in the well bucket. His mother-in-law lived with him. 
                
                
                   
                  John Paul calls bootblacks "those little sons who shine for all," and answers the query, "What are the wild waves saying?" with "Let us spray." 
                
                
                  Do not neglect a cough because it troubles you but little now; now is the time it is easiest cured, and none would suffer if they know how easily they could be cured by "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar." 
                
                
                  A Stratford, Connecticut, dame, who keeps pet hens, had one of them fly into her arms, recently, and peek out one of her false teeth for a kernel of corn. The mistaken bird was straightway executed, and the tooth rescued. 
                
                
                  Buy only the genuine. The success of "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar," and the remarkable merit it possesses, has caused parties to imitate it. Buy only the 
                        geuuine
                        genuine
                     . See that it contains the name of Oliver Crook & Co. Only such have merit. 
                
                
                  A Boston Trader has outdone his competitors by displaying in his window a large placard saying: "Selling out at cost and more too." 
                
                
                  "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar stimulates the system-its influence being felt upon the secreting organs-more especially on the mucous membranes and the Kidneys, on which latter it acts as a diuretic. It succeeds in reproducing the urinary secretions when other powerful diuretics have failed. 
                
                
                  A Hartford lady fainted in consequence of her Grecian bend being too many horse power. 
                
                
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is noted for its healthy action upon the stomach and bowels, regulating them and removing costiveness or diarrhoea. 
                
                
                  When the ladies of Sweden had finished hugging and kissing Admiral Farrigut, they all exclaimed, "farry goot." 
                
                
                  Sufferers from chronic Coughs will find that by taking "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" they are taking a fine expectorant, which removes all phlegm, soothes all irritation, and cures. 
                
                
                   
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no labor of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                
                
                  A Yankee preacher, discoursing in regard to Daniel in the lion's den, said: "And there he sat all night long, looking at the show for nothing, and it didn't cost him a cent." 
                
                
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or a bottle of nice Perfumery, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Stationery, 
                     Or to fill your can with Pure Honey, 
                     Or to purchase a new Knife or Pocket Book, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  Francis Ambler, Weymouth, Mass. 
                
                
                  A copy of the Nautch Girl will be given away every week to all who call and put their name down for it. 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 2. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  CHAPTER IV.-THE NAUTCH GIRL. 
                  (Continued.) 
                  
                      
                   
                  My new acquaintance seemed to have time enough at his disposal, and suggested a sail down the bay to see her. 
                  We were soon on the water in a little deep-built pink-sterned boat, with a sprit-sail, and as the breeze was steady, slipped briskly along past the congregated proas, "gay-diangs," "cougnars," junks and other vessels of outlandish build. Soon rounding the stern of a lumbering "country ship," which lay at anchor a cable's length from the "Nautch Girl," we stood across the bows and luffed alongside the latter vessel. We did not go on board, but I saw that she was plainly but well built, upon a very fine model and was heavily sparred. Her long lateen yards were beautiful symmetrical sticks, and with the short raking masts which supported them, were of a white shining species of timber not common to mere drogers or cheaply built craft. Her sails were being bent and were new. There were workmen engaged, apparently, upon the repair of her cabin. We passed under the stern and read the name "Nautch Girl." "Singapore," the letters of which were carved and gilt-the only ornamental work observable. Her decks were clear fore and aft, excepting a caboose and a heavy teak boat between the foremost and mainmast. The rail was low, and the deck plank narrow. From the flatness of her decks and some other points, I judged that she was designed by some one of sound nautical taste and experience. 
                  A serang and his lascars were bending her sails. The white duck hung picturesquely from the lofty yards, and the native riggers looked like lizzards crawling up and along the smooth spars, which glistened in the sunshine and were without a blemish. She was worth making any sort of a trial for. The clerk noticed my look of admiration, and said: "It's a very little thing you have to do to get her; but the person for whom I act will have no use for the vessel after her mission is over; and so if you are the lucky one, you'll get her." 
                  I answered more decidedly than before, that I would undertake the performance of the trip and provide the men. 
                  "Very good. I thought you would, and now there comes to be considered a point or two requiring some little address and-ah-false appearances." A person, not the real owner, now has the vessel in charge, and is fitting her up for sea. There she will lie, with a shipkeeper on board, until the next move is taken. I will point the person out to you and you can get more information from him." 
                  With that the boat was laid along side the low boat wharf, and we jumped out. Handing the man a rupee for his boat, we walked about the lower part of the town until, after looking around in all sorts of places, junk sheds, opium hells, bird fanciers', monkey emporiums; drinking shanties, and various dingy holes, swarming with a mongrel population of Malays, Lascars, Chinese, women, thieves and desperadoes, he at last pointed out a short, stout, Portuguese-looking man, with gold ear-rings and snaky black eyes set obliquely in a flat, villainous, sensual Mongolian countenance. 
                  "That's 'Macao Joe;' he's spotted, so I must not speak with him here; but you must introduce the conversation by saying that 'Jeffers told you that the "Nautch Girl" was for sale.' He will understand you then." 
                  "Who is he?" I asked. 
                  "He has been an interpreter on Coolie ships sailing out of Macao. He's out of that now, and picks up crews for country ships, furnishes working gangs, gambles, and fits up vessels occasionally. He has mohurs in abundance though, and keeps a palkee." "There," he continued, "he just told that woman that he was going up to the 'Iron Pot.' That will be a good place to see him. We'll take a palkee up to that end of town, for it's getting hot. I've been drinking rather stoutly of late, and can't stand the sun." 
                  On our way up there, as the palkee bearers trotted slowly along side by side, Jeffers furnished some more meagre information, in his hidden ambiguous way, which completely mystified me regarding the real nature of the business I was about to engage in. I had imagined that some persons, state criminals, perhaps, and these are numerous around small oriental potentates, were secreted here, and were to be conveyed away. This did not seem likely from subsequent remarks which he let fall. "Perhaps Jeffers himself." No, he was but a go-between. So was Macao Joe. Perhaps it had something to do with the "Heavenly Three," a sort of fraternity widely extended among the lowest classes of that mixed population which infests the ports of China and the Indies, called generally by Europeans the "Triad Society." 
                  It was some of the "Heavenly Three" that boarded me in the straits of Balli. I suppose. I rejected all these suppositions as improbable, and concluded that, be it what it might, it was certainly an affair that would be quickly prevented if discovered, and that my suitability and value for the part that was offered me consisted in the fact that I was a total stranger. An attempt to get a master for the vessel among the sailors of the port would induce suspicion and investigation; and I recollected that Jeffers had asked-almost the first question-whether I spoke the native language. I did a little, but so indifferently that, not considering it worth an affirmative reply, I answered negatively. Nevertheless, I understood him when he told a native official of some kind in Hindostanee that I was "a missionary." I felt that I could spring a mine on Mr. Jeffers and his sub rosa employers, whoever they were, by simply taking an interpreter and asking any two or three of the population at random, "what it was that Mr. Jeffers wanted me to take a felucca a few hundred miles to sea for?" 
                  I had asked if Mr. Creighton was aware of this project in any way, and was cautioned by the clerk not to speak of it in the remotest manner, if by chance or in 
                        busines
                        business
                      I met that gentleman. It had the appearance of an elopement; but who were the parties? Any one who could afford to give away a vessel need not have to elope in this apparently dangerous way, unless it was with a princess of the blood, and I believe there were none of those in the market at all. The more I reflected on it, the more bewildered I became; but I determined not to distress myself about it, but to earn that staunch, fast-sailing felucca out in the bay, though, if it was taking too much risk, in the last hour I could throw up the business and go back quietly to the Sicendar Bagh, and wait for a ship to Hong Kong. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER V.-MACAO JOE. 
                  We arrived at the extremity of the city, where Putterrum ends and the taro patches and jungle begin. A point of land ran out into the bay, at the extremity of which was an old castle or fort, containing some very good French guns. The houses were fewer, and scattered off toward the point; and, among the taro-patches, close to the water, was a long tile-roofed house, with a dozen canoe-like boats on the beach at the door. Jeffers had turned his palkee off among the taro-patches. I pointed to the house and said: 
                  "Iron Pot?" 
                  "Yes, Shahib," said the bearer, and on reaching it I gave the palkee men "drink money," and bid them wait. We had given Macao Joe time to get ahead of us; his palkee passed us lower down by the beach; he was looking over a man's shoulder while the latter read aloud a letter written in French. Macao Joe could not read. It was something like a love-letter. 
                  I took a glass of brandy and water at the bar, and after the letter was concluded accosted him: 
                  "You are 
                        Macoa
                        Macao
                      Joe, I believe!" 
                  "Dey call me dat." 
                  "You pick up crews for vessels?" 
                  "Well, I finds dem some time," looking very inquiringly at me with his snaky eyes and a slight scowl withal. 
                  There was no one near, so I said in a low tone: 
                  "Mr. Jeffers told me that the "Nautch Girl is for sale." 
                  His eyes changed their expression at the word "Jeffers. And when I had finished the sentence, he took rapid scrutiny of me from head to foot, saying: 
                  "You tink you buy?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "How much you geev?' 
                  "How much do you want?" 
                  He answered this question like some of my own countrymen, by asking another. 
                  "Ken you sail a ship, take de sun an' all dat?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "How much year you navigate?" 
                  "Oh, off and on a long time." 
                  "You know all bout crenometer?" 
                  "Yes," said I, bluntly, not liking to stand one of "Lloyd's" examinations from such as he. He noticed the tone, and his eyes gave the faintest possible scintillation; but he answered: 
                  "Den I give you dat boat, if you get crew and take her out to sea." 
                  "When?" 
                  "I tell you day after to-morrow. Den I know. Do not now." 
                  "Well, Mr. Macao Joe," said I to myself, "I am getting tolerably well disgusted with Mr. Jeffers' and your hoodwinking and fol de rol. If you want me to get a crew and take the vessel out to sea, or wherever she is to go, I must know something more than I now do, or it will not be long before I conclude to have nothing to do with it." 
                  "Den you no like go; you no go, eh?" As he spoke this, a most diabolical expression flitted over and settled upon his Asiatic countenance. 
                  "Yes, I'd like to do the job and get the vessel, but I insist upon knowing when I am to be ready, and what is the risk, if there be risk, that I take, either now or afterward; or in case the project should get wind and be prevented, who wants to prevent it, and who don't? That is about the extent of my thirst for knowledge at this stage of the proceedings." 
                  "Well, den, I tell you. Mr. Jeffers no tell you?" 
                  "Yes, he told me some things, and said that you would explain more fully, and it was for that object I sought you." 
                  "Dere are some peoples what want to get away from Putterrum; and the king he no like hab 'em go, he make too much out'en dem. So de king hab plenty spies to watch. Eberybody be spy to get de money, dey know dey git money, dey fraid to go in any ship cause dey know it at de Custom House, and ship no get her papers till been search, den if dey on board it be bad ting I tink, king he do what he please." 
                  "Well, now then, what would be the result if we got caught before we got outside?" 
                  Macao Joe reflected, and said: 
                  "Well den, I tink somebody stick knife in you, and wid dem odder man's what go I spec he do more'n dat." 
                  "Oh, that's it. Stick a knife in me in some dark corner," I said: 
                  "You see when de king want white mans out de way he no kill 'em and cut ears off now like he use'd de. De Dutch Com'ny make big row 'bout dat, so when he wants mans killed somebody stick knife in 'em, dat's a fight. Dutch Com'ny no care 'bout dat. Den you see some black debbil drunk for long time." 
                  "And if we get out all right, how then?" 
                  "Den you hab a fine vessel, but neber come back to Putterrum." 
                  That word grated on me, somehow. The last thing that Jeffers said as his palkee was diverging from mine had been: "Of course, Putterrum will be a sealed book to you afterwards." 
                  What should I care about Putterrum, the dirty miserable hole? The last place in the world to live in or sojourn at. But somehow or other, I could not get over it, and at last admitted to myself that there would have been no reason for liking the town, if I had not taken that stroll up on the hill road. The idea was foolish, and I dismissed it. 
                  After some more conversation with Macao Joe, I took the palkee back to the Sicundar Bagh, for the noonday sun was scorching out the vital element of the atmosphere, and the lassitude, which the most hardy constitution cannot repel in those latitudes, was creeping over me. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI.-MISS CREIGHTON. 
                  I awoke from my sleep and sat up on the side of the ratan cot at the Sicundar Bagh, and reflected. I washed my face in a brazen basin, lit a cigar and lounged back in the cot again, reflecting on the enterprise of Jeffers & Co. It did not seem like the golden opportunity that it had appeared early in the morning. I set a sort of balance, thus: The "Nautch Girl" and the ready gold in one scale, and-Putterrum a sealed book in the other. Then there were a few make-weights in the way of knives, bow-strings, poison and the like, that did not entirely tirely sooth the troubled mind. I went to tiffin and partook of some mysterious but savory dishes, and a small bottle of cool champagne, and felt better. If I was to leave the town for good I would take a farewell view of it from the hill road. 
                  Taking some little pains with my simple toilet I left the hotel for the walk. My first care was to call at the rendezvous of Gideon's band, and taking one of the most prudent of them aside, hinted that I was getting up an enterprise that would afford an improvement on life at Putterrum, to say the least. He expressed himself for all, eagerly, and hinted that funds were getting low with some of them already. I immediately told him to say that I would come back again and provide for board for the entire party for a while at least. That was balm for "Gideon's Band," if not in Gilead, and I left them more eager than ever to bestow upon me the leadership of the party, which had now been augmented by three other whalemen and five American man-of-wars men, all deserters, perhaps, but united in one body politic for mutual benefit-nineteen, all told-and quite ready for any adventure that I might propose. Here was the crew for the "Nautch Girl," at a word. 
                  It was but a passing glance that I had had of the radiant young equestrienne on the preceding day, yet, transient and momentary as it was, it left an indescribable emotion in my breast that passed with me at the time for admiration merely. But now I wended my way toward the hill road, undecided and miserable. Here was love at first sight with a vengeance. "Pshaw," I muttered, "what have I, a homeless wanderer, to do with the entertainment of such emotions?" Nevertheless, I strode along the gentle ascent leading to the Palace road with no other object in view than to obtain, if possible, one more glance at the merchant's daughter. 
                  I fully appreciated the absurdity and apparent hopelessness of this sudden passion, and had my attention been required in any channel, I should not have suffered it to take such immediate possession of my whole being. The alternative of giving up the proffered opportunity of being owner and master of such a vessel, or turning the city that she made bright with her presence into a lurking place for assassins, waiting specialiy for me, was well pondered upon as I sauntered along, without, however, arriving at any definite determination of what was my proper-course of procedure. To decline the clerk's offer would simply enable me to remain in the port-nothing more. There was a long road, presenting many difficulties, even to obtaining an introduction. And what then? I had the usual amount of confidence in my good looks and winning ways that is common to young men generally; but the only daughter of a wealthy Englishman of aristocratic prejudices would be about the last person whom a stranger and comparatively moneyless adventurer might hope to win. Not that my career had been such as would of necessity excluded me from the pale of society; nor was I without respectable and even wealthy friends and acquaintances in this part of the globe; but an adventurer is almost invariably considered as nothing but an adventurer by all respectable people, and particularly by John Bull. 
                  I had walked a mile, perhaps, with these and other similar reflections uppermost in my mind, and had left the vicinity of her father's residence. I stopped to light a cigar and lean a few moments upon the stone ballustrade of a bridge that spanned a deep irregular ravine, at the bottom of which a brook hurried along on its way to the sea. As the fragrant cheroot asserted its calming and humanizing influence upon my mind, a plainer and more practical view of the case prevailed. I was ashamed of my romantic and foolish waverings. The whole aspect of the subject impressed me as extremely nonsensical; and I forthwith determined with a single impulse, to tell Jeffers that evening that I had learned of the nature of the trip and the risks attendant from Macao Joe, but that I had the men ready and waited only for the word. Out upon the placid surface of the bay rode the felucca swinging lightly at her coir cable. Her sails were now all bent, and there were several boats alongside, bringing evidently the stores for the trip. With my pocket-glass I could see that they were hoisting in barrels with a whip. From the number of barrels and boxes that were on her deck in the waist, it seemed that she was being victualled either for a large number or a long voyage. My eyes dwelt with a seaman's admiration upon her beautiful model and general graceful taunt exterior. 
                  Far out into the small bay stretched the sandy point, with its thin, straggling jungle, and at the extremity stood the gray castle, with a small fleet of war proas at anchor around it, the navy of the Rajah. Farther out from the fort two small steamers, also in the same service, were at anchor, one of which was the flagship, and had on board a brass band. They were then playing, and the music floated with a soft, mellow cadence along through the uncouth shipping, over the sea of roots below and up to the cool terrace where I stood. The music was "Lochaber no more." 
                  "The leaven of civilization is working in these remote regions," I thought." "A fleet of proas, with a brass band among them: How long is it since this benign Rajah sent his navy out to skulk about islets and the straits in search of junks and native traders? Not a great many years. The monsoons brought his revenue to him then, and it comes in now with more show of red tape and papering, but not much honester, I am afraid. Putterrum, city of the blest, I shall bid you farewell in a few days- 
                        "And if forever, then forever fare the well."
                     
                   
                  I heard the approach of horses. It was only the Rajah's body guard, patrol, or something of the sort. Their bridles and accoutrements jingled orientally as they passed along Their uniform was a barbaric imitation of French chasseurs, and their commanding officer was unmistakably a moustached fierce-looking Frenchmen. When they had passed I turned seaward again, and mingling reveries and cigar smoke, I thought of my past turbulent life, of my old home on the Susquehanna, of the burning dhow, the bark, the restless spirits composing "Gideon's Band" waiting my orders, Jeffers and his mysterious outlawed employers, and then I thought of the sweet English face that was fixed like an instantaneous photograph upon my soul. 
                  "Stranger!" 
                  Hearing this backwoods salutation of my own country, I wheeled as briskly as a French sergeant at dress parade. A clear and bell-like voice spoke the word, and turning I beheld the tall, lithe form of the subject of my reverie, looking steadfastly at me. A smile, gentle and modest, illumined her now half-bashful face, but her eyes had a certain unconventional fearlessness of expression, a sort of "clear lookout afar" that lent a double splendor to their deep liquid azure. 
                  "I wish to ask your pardon," she said, as I turned, "for my rudeness yesterday." 
                   
                  Some half-gallant reply was on my lips, for if my self-possession is greater at one time more than another it is in a moment of extreme danger, or in the presence of a handsome woman. But she continued: 
                  "I mistook you, then, for a person whom I know and dislike, and did not discover the mistake until I had committed the rude act. It was not very proper, I suppose, in either case, but," she proceeded, "I dislike him, and in a thoughtless moment intended to tell him so in that manner." 
                  "And who, may I ask, is the person that so resembles me, and is so fortunate as to have even the displeasure of so glorious a being?" 
                  A startled and somewhat arch expression flitted over her features as she hastened to interrupt me with: 
                  "I have said so much to properly explain the rudeness, but," gathering up the reins of her bay Arabian, "there can be nothing further 
                        revelant
                        relevant
                      to the apology." 
                  "Then will you be kind enough to accept my thanks for that thoughtless impulse which has procured me the pleasure of a moment's speech with a very charming young lady?" 
                  I said this with a feeling of reckless gallantry, for I had made up my mind to leave in the "Nautch Girl," and felt in the mood for bandying gallant speeches, careless how Hibernian they might be as regarded directness. 
                  She smiled and frowned at the same time, her face wearing the expression of a handsome woman trying to be displeased with a compliment, and replied: 
                  "And I in turn thank you for the readiness with which you pardon my act of yesterday. Good afternoon, sir." 
                  She was about to gallop away, when I said quickly, to protract the interview a little longer: 
                  "Pardon the detention, if you please; but I desire very much to know how you succeeded in approaching me so noiselessly, on horseback. I was not asleep, and was as much as anything else listening for the sound of your horse's feet." 
                  "You were waiting for me?" 
                  "With much respect, yes." 
                  "Why did you think you would meet me?" 
                  "You ride morning and evening." 
                  "Are you a stranger in this port?" 
                  "I was, but since seeing you"- 
                  "No more of that." 
                  "An' thou lovest me," said I, making out a quotation. 
                  "This is what one gets by indirectness," she said in a low tone; "but you have not answered me. Are you a stranger?" 
                  "I arrived three days ago." 
                  "Then having seen me but once, how did you know it was my custom to ride on this road daily?" 
                  "I might say that I guessed it from the grace with which you rode yesterday. Such dash and elegance united come only from daily practice." 
                  "Well, do you then say that you arrived at the conclusion from reasoning thus upon the subject?" 
                  "No, I was told it." 
                  "By the person to whom you communicated my unladylike act?" 
                  "No, I breathed that to no one." 
                  "The information was volunteered?" 
                  "Yes, partly:" 
                  "You know my name, then?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "What's your's?" she asked in a softer tone. 
                  I gave her the fictitious name I had assumed for the present, in view of the 
                        busines
                        business
                      contemplated, though my real name was known at the consul's office. 
                  She paused a moment: "Excuse my catechising you thus. I have not answered your question. This animal can creep like a pointer dog. It was trained in those stealthy movements by a young Sikh chief, who gave it to me at Benares." 
                  "Have you been much at Benares?" 
                  "Only one season." 
                  "How do you like it?" 
                  "Not at all?" 
                  "Oh, why not, if I may ask?" 
                  "Oh, I don't like large cities, at least in India, but I should like them in England, I know." 
                  "And do you expect soon to go there?" 
                  She appeared a little pained at some thought the question suggested, and answered, looking to the ground: 
                  "Not for the present, if ever," and then continued, "you have not told who was the person who spake to you of me." 
                  "You did not ask." 
                  "Well, I do now." 
                  "I have said so much to properly explain." 
                  "There, dont hand me back my own words, it is not in keeping with your previous gallantry, she returned quickly, with a smile. 
                  "But perhaps it might cause some trouble." 
                  "You need not mind, I already know." 
                  "Then perhaps you can tell me." 
                  "It was a person named Jeffers." 
                  "True enough; but it now occurs to me that there is something not apparent that you wish to approach." 
                  "Do you think so?" with a little surprise. 
                  "I think so; and if you will not consider it impertinent. I would like to know how Mr. Jeffers came to speak of me to you?" 
                  She paused again as if to reflect, and answered: "He spoke of you in my hearing." 
                  "It was necessary that I should know something more, so I asked: "In what connection? if the question is not trespassing too much upon so short an acquaintance. 
                  "In connection with an enterprise projected by himself and some others," she answered, looking steadily at me. 
                  "You know all about it then?" 
                  "Not all, but something." 
                  "Well, then, Miss Creighton, I will ask you one more question. No idle one, I assure you," I said, assuming a serious tone, "but a question of advice and direction. Mr. Jeffers has made a proposition to me which I have accepted with a reservation to reconsider at the last moment if I choose, when the business is fully explained, but how am I to be certain that it will be fully explained then, or that I will be able, if it is, to judge of the extent and consequences of my complicity in the matter? Moreover, by refusing at the lass moment, I may place others in greater jeopardy than they are now. Therefore, as you seem to know, and from what you have said it is evident that you do know, the general nature of the undertaking; and as that is for some cogent reason kept from me at present, I will ask you and be governed by your reply, whether I in accepting the duty that has been offered me, have involved myself in any criminal or dishonorable connection?" 
                  "What causes you to think that you have?" she asked. 
                  "The persons with whom I have been brought in contact in the preliminary steps, the extraordinary secresy, the extreme reticence of Mr. Jeffers, and the secresy observed toward myself." 
                  "And what if I am compelled to answer that you have involved yourself?" 
                  "Then I should abandon the adventure forthwith, when it is not too late for the success of the parties concerned, leaving them to find some more suitable person." 
                   
                  "Are afraid of the risk?" 
                  "Not in a good cause; but I have risked my life too many times amidst honorable dangers, to now jeopardise it in any infamous undertaking." 
                  "And what leads you to suppose that I would be cognizant of any infamous undertakings?" she asked with a certain tone and manner. 
                  This was rather a poser; but between ourselves, reader, I thought that she was just the girl to be mixed up with the intrigues around small Indian potentates. I had seen such things in my experiences, and her style of dialogue strengthened the impression. 
                  "I hardly know how to answer that," I replied slowly, taking time, "but as you have said that you knew something of the affair, and as the whole proceedings have a strong smack of Oriental politics, suggesting assassination, forgery, plundered exchequers and flight, is it strange that I should be willing to think that you might be privy, at least partially, to something of the kind, especially when I consider our first meeting, and our rather unusual introduction and conversation?" 
                  The crimson mounted to her cheeks and forehead, and then in her eyes came a wild, strange expression, a faint trace of which had lurked there several times during the whole conversation. She controlled the emotion that appeared struggling for utterance; then, in a lower, and, it seemed, a triumphant tone, said: 
                  "But you have trusted me with your complicity already, and would further be quieted by my advice." 
                  "That is strange to you, perhaps, and it is so to me in a measure; but nevertheless, I should be guided implicitly by your advice in whatever course you may suggest." 
                  "What if I should be an intriguante 
                     guante in the 'Oriental politics' to which you allude? You have committed yourself to me completely, be on what side I may. It is easy to see what would be the course consistent with the spirit of such desperate deeds as far as regards yourself." 
                  "What?" I asked, a little at a loss to understand her, 
                  "There's a variety, though not an option." 
                  "I do not comprehend yet exactly." 
                  "You are neither for nor against, and have enough of the secret to be dangerous." 
                  "I think I understand now," I replied, "but go on." 
                  She leaned forward in the saddle and said, with a wicked look in her blue eyes: 
                  "The bow-string, poison or the knife. Don't you think I've got you?" 
                  I was thunderstruck; she struck me at the moment as exceedingly dangerous muslin for a man in my circumstances to dally with. 
                  She was right. Whichever side of the miserable business she was interested in or connected with-and it was plain now that she was not indifferent about it, she held my life in her hands. I began to feel quite uncomfortable. She leaned forward again and said: 
                  "Since you have trusted me so far, an admission more or less makes but little difference; tell me what was to be your reward?" 
                  "Was to be?" Those words sound-like a death knell. After a keen scrutiny of her beautiful face, I answered: 
                  "The vessel and a hundred mohurs." 
                  "And to what use did you intend putting the vessel?" 
                  "Well, that's something," thought I, "that I am sure you don't know, so I will not tell you," and said: 
                   
                  "Oh, there is use enough in these waters for a fast sailing felucca." 
                  She gave me a penetrating glance at this reply, and said: 
                  "Well, it is unimportant-perhaps." 
                  "Since you have my information in addition to your own, let me ask when it was that Mr. Jeffers spoke of me in your presence, as you have said?" 
                  "I beg pardon, I said in my hearing." 
                  "Whoa, Cheetah," she continued carelessly, to the bay mare, patting the animal, which ceased its restiveness at the sound of her voice. 
                  Here was another revelation which did not tend to reassure me, but feeling that I was to be mixed up in some affair that was going to raise the "devil's delight," as sailors express it, and whether I would or not, I merely said: 
                  "Well, Miss Creighton, I am new ready for your advice." 
                  "You are sure you will follow it?" she responded. 
                  "Yes," I said, "positively sure. Your connection with this infernal business is incomprehensible, and not pleasant to contemplate; but if there is one thing that I am sure of more than another, it is that I shall follow your advice to the letter now." 
                  Her manner changed, and with a smiling expression, which was slightly roguish, coming back to her lovely features, she replied: 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED.) 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. By stitching each number before cutting the leaves, and preserving them, you will have a "New Story" at no expense. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  The Medical value of Tar. 
                  Tar has long been known as a valuable medicine; yet, how to prepare it to contain all its active and medicinal properties, to the exclusion of the bitter empyreumatic principles-always disagreeable to a sick palate-has been a problem only solved in "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar." 
                  The great merits of Tar are again coming to the attention of the Physicians of France, and several trials were made in fifteen hospitals with the best results. Hundreds of Physicians in the United States prescribe 'Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar' because they find it the best preparation in the market. See that every bottle has the name of "Oliver Crook & Co." on the wrapper. All others are imitations without merit. 
                
                
                  A new and enterprising paper advertises thus: "Run Away.-A laboring man, named John; his nose turned up five feet eight inches high, and had on a pair of corduroy trowsers, much worn." How that nose must have looked, dressed up in corduroy trowsers. 
                
                
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane, and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                
                
                  A married man should never buy his cigars on credit, for by so doing he becomes a weed-ower. 
                
                
                  L. P. Knoedler & Co. of Augusta, Ky. write: "In every instance satisfaction of the highest order has been obtained in Coughs, Asthma, Bronchitis, &c. by using Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. In one case particularly, it produced a decidedly salutary effect on a Cough that had long since been pronounced by eminent physicians as hopeless and incurable. 
                
                
                  Why do cats see best in the dark? They eat lights. 
                
                
                   
                  Mr. D. L. Pickerel of Gilson, Ills. had disease of the Kidneys for two years. He tried several eminent physicians, but they never succeeded in effecting a cure. A friend advised him to try Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and before he had used the second bottle he was as hearty as he had been for years. He says, "I cannot recommend is too highly, for I know it has done me more good than anything else I ever tried." 
                
                
                  Said a stingy man to a friend, when the contribution-box was coming round, "I can give five shillings to this cause, and not feel it." "Then, if I were you, I'd give ten and feel it," said the friend. 
                
                
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no work of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                
                
                  "How came you to go to the bad so horribly?" asked a fop of a brother snob, whom he found in destitute circumstances. "The truth is," replied the snob, "I bought so many superfluities that I at last had to sell my necessaries." 
                
                
                  Mrs. Estella Banks, of West Cornwall, Conn. writes: "I desire to make it known that I consider Dr. Crooks Wine of Tar the best Medicine in use. I had, previous to last May, a very dyspeptic stomach and a strong irritation of the Bronchial tubes. Several physicians prescribed for me but failed to cure. Mr. Wheaton of this city advised me to use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and it has cured me. I shall always keep it in the house as a great family medicine." 
                
                
                  A teacher, in trying to explain passive verbs to a class, said to one of the boys, "Now, observe, if I say, 'John is beaten,' what is John's relation to the verb?"-"John gets licked." answered the boy. "No, no, you blockhead, what does John do?" "I dunno, unless be hollers." 
                
                
                  Buy only the genuine. Ask your Druggist for Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                
                
                   
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard. writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him to try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  A fool is not always ashamed of his own offspring, although he invariably laughs at his own jokes. 
                
                
                  Do not neglect a cough because it trouble you but little now; now is the time it is easiest cured, and none would suffer if they knew how easily they could be cured by "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar." 
                
                
                  One of the military orders by a veteran officer of a Highland regiment, was "Go doubles by two as long as ye lasht, and then singles by ones the rest of yez." 
                
                
                  S. F. Scott of Farmington, Iowa, writes: "I have sold all of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar purchased of you, and find it to be just what you represent it." 
                
                
                  Craven & Co. of Gordonsville, Va. write "that they have enquired particularly of their customers concerning Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and that in every instance it gave the best of satisfaction, and proved to be as represented." 
                
                
                  "Do you recover umberills (umbrellas,) here?" asked an old lady of an umbrella mender. "Yes ma'm." "Then I'd like to have you recover the one I lost last Sunday. 
                
                
                  Sufferers from chronic Coughs will find that by taking "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" they are taking a fine expectorant, which removes all phlegm, soothes all irritation, and cures. 
                
                
                  "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar stimulates the system-its influence being felt upon the secreting organs-more especially on the mucous membranes and the Kidneys, on which latter it acts as a diuretic. It succeeds in reproducing the urinary secretions when other powerful diuretics have failed. 
                
                
                   
                  THE DAYTON Safety Bridle Bit! 
                  
                      
                   
                  Patented Aug. 6, 1867. 
                  It combines the principle of all Patent Check Reins and other Safety Bits, in a very simple Bit without any complicated arrangements. A boy can drive any horse at any speed, and pull him up whenever he desires-having a pulley purchase and more advantage than he need 
                        amploy
                        employ
                     . 
                  Imparts the best possible style to every Horse. Completely governs a Horse. It is the best Bit for breaking or training a Horse. It is 
                        apapted
                        adapted
                      to both hard and tender mouthed Horses. 
                  It prevents pulling on one rein. It is not a severe Bit. It can not break. It can be put on any bridle. A safe horse can be made perfectly, secure by it, should he become suddenly frightened, or carriage or harness break. 
                  The Prices are as follows: 
                  Bits sent by express, on receipt of the money 
                   
                     Japanned Bit and Straps, $1.00 
                     C Plate Bit and Straps, 1.25 
                     Silver Plated Bit and Straps, 2.00 
                   
                  Saddlers supplied at low rates. 
                  County Rights sold very cheap. Address 
                  OLIVER CROOK & CO. DAYTON, O. 
                
                
                   
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no labor of any land. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                
                
                  A Yankee preacher, discoursing in regard to Daniel in the lion's den, said: "And there he sat all night long, looking at the show for nothing, and it didn't cost him a cent." 
                
                
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or a bottle of nice Perfumery, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Stationery, 
                     Or to all your can with Pure Honey, 
                     Or to purchase a new Knife or Pocket Book, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  Francis Ambler, Weymouth, Mass. 
                
                
                  A copy of the Nautch Girl will be given away every week to all who call and put their name down for it, 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 3. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  (CHAPTER VI.-CONTINUED.) 
                  "Well, young man, if you will take the risk-for there is risk of life in case of failure-go on as you had decided. The purpose is honorable, blameless and just. The end you will assist to achieve is one the accomplishment of which will wrong none, but bring happiness and tranquility to the hearts of some to whom it has long been a stranger. I must now say good bye. Come here to 
                        meet meet
                        meet
                      me no more. Remember that. It is a measure of prudence which you will understand by-and-by; and as it may be, and probably is, the last time that you and I will meet-here at least-we will shake hands like old friends." 
                  She drew off her little gauntlet, and held out the softest white hand imaginable. I had a strong inclination to press it to my lips, but refrained, merely giving it a slight squeeze. 
                  "Hie away, Cheetah," she called to her mare, and was soon gone. 
                  My reflections as I went down to the Sicundar Bagh were various. Nor was I without some grave misgiving of that same young person I had just left. After a night's rest on it, these unpleasant doubts were not abated; but I was in for it and determined to "face the music." 
                  The next day Jeffers was drunk beyond all reason and decency; likewise the next and the next. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VII.-THE CONSUL. 
                  The time for vacillation and indecision was now past. From a remark that escaped Macao Joe at our first meeting, and which I forgot to mention in its proper sequence, I was led to suspect that, once fully complicated in the business of clandestinely conveying the unknown persons away from the port, there would be serious difficulties in the way to defeat and utterly prevent me from washing my hands of the matter at a word. The more I reflected upon his words, and some subsequent precautions of Jeffers, the more I became convinced of the justness of this conclusion. 
                  The day following my interview with Miss Creighton upon the Hillwood bridge was employed in bringing my part of the preparations to completeness. The vessel was conveyed to me by sale, the instrument specifying that the payment of the remainder of the purchase money, two-thirds of the whole, was to be made at Singapore, whither Macao Joe was to accompany me in the felucca to receive it. This was only a nominal transaction, to give a plausibility to the succeeding steps. The vessel was furnished with no charts, chronometer or navigating instruments of any kind, and the afternoon was employed in selecting and purchasing suitable ones from the small assortment afforded in the town. These were bought with funds furnished by Macao Joe, who suggested that I should chaffer and beat down after the manner of the trading masters of the port, though in reality the best should be purchased without regard to cost. 
                  In dealing with the subject before the Cape Town men and their associates, I took the precaution to speak of the voyage as contingent entirely upon my success in finding certain friends at Singapore willing to advance the money for concluding the bargain, but named a sum offered to each for the run thither. These preliminaries despatched, I had nothing more to do but wait till Jeffers recovered from his drunkenness sufficiently to say what should be the next move on the card. While this last named individual was incapacitated from his duties as "master of ceremonies," I was left entirely alone, as Macao Joe informed me it would be more prudent for him also not to be seen too much in my company. Said he: 
                  "I no see you no more now much; dis small town not like big city. Ebbry body watch odder mans, and talk, talk, all de time he too much talkee. Peeples tink now you buy de ship; den dey say 'Macao Joe he guine fool dat young man outen money.' But if you an' me guine knock about togedder much, dey say 'dat young man no fool, he an' Macao Joe up to some big debbilment.' Den come some de king's officer, an' watch and spy all de time." 
                  This sounded highly plausible, and I hastened to assure him that I did not yearn to be seen in his company a moment more than was necessary, even in such an undiscriminating community as that in Putterum. 
                  I did not consider it advisable to tell the men the nature of the expedition in the light in which I viewed it. Nor was it necessary as a matter of justice toward them, for there was no probability of their being held in any way accountable by the "powers that be" in case of failure; and, further, I knew that there was nothing more suitable to their present inclinations and circumstances than a trip like the one now projected. There was no other deception, for the (to them) important part of the agreement was the passage to Singapore, which I 
                        intened
                        intended
                      to make as soon as the vessel became my own. 
                  They had become thoroughly tired of their sojourn in the port, and went on board the next day in a body, the repairs being completed, and took up quarters in the forecastle, or rather under the awning forward. I appointed one of the man-of-war's men, an old seaman, second mate, and one of the number took his place pro tem. in the galley as cook. Fresh meat and vegetables were sent on board, and little more remained to be done. I noticed the cabin was fitted up luxuriously, and a bulkhead had been put up in the large cabin, thus dividing it in two compartments. These general alterations suggested the conclusion that my passengers were persons of wealth and refinement, and moreover meant to remain in strict seclusion. 
                  On returning from the felucca after this visit, I found a note from the consul waiting for me at the hotel. I proceeded to the consulate forthwith. After salutations, he said: 
                  "I am requested to make some inquiries about you-from a high quarter at that; no less a personage than the Vizier, and, of course, this is the result of something you have been doing. What is it?" 
                  "I've done nothing that should excite any such idle curiosity." 
                  "They are not much given to idle curiosity up there on the hill; but as every man who is not a common sailor in appearance-or in fact any stranger who appears to have means and no 
                        busines
                        business
                      object-is at once subjected to scrutiny, you, of course, come in for the same, as that is about your status here. They know full well that Putterrum is not a resort for tourists and invalids, nor has it many claims to the attention of the traveling public in point of convenience, curiosities, beauty of scenery, or matters of local interest, historical or otherwise. Consequently when a decently-dressed person arrives and gives evidence of having ready money at his command, and the object of his appearance here does not become shortly evident, it is a practice of the Vizier to 
                        acertain
                        ascertain
                     , through the consul of his country, who he is and what he wants. The present, and I might say the usual condition of our political relations renders this course imperatively necessary; and therefore it should be met with reciprocal frankness on the part of those who are unconnected with any sinister purpose." 
                  He made these remarks reclining backward in a large cane chair, keeping me under a steady glance during them. I had become satisfied long ere he concluded that he suspected me of being employed as I was. 
                  "If the condition of affairs here renders such vigilance requisite," I answered, "I am frank to say that I shall get out of the port as soon as my arrangements are completed." 
                  "May I ask if you have any objections to answer a few interrogations?" 
                  "None in the least. I will answer them with pleasure; if it will relieve me from the suspicion of the government, which strikes me as being at once extremely absurd and somewhat dangerous to me." 
                  "It is perhaps amusing, and also, as you say, dangerous, in some degree, viewing the utter want of a systematic and equitable method of adjusting matters of this nature; but I think it is in my power to relieve you at once of this state of things, if you answer a few questions freely and frankly." 
                  "I will do that," I replied. 
                  "What are the arrangements of which you mean to hasten the completion?" said the consul, taking snuff from a gold snuff-box of native manufacture. 
                  "The fitting up of a vessel which I have agreed to take off the hands of the present owner on or before my arrival at Singapore, a small portion of the purchase money being paid down to bind the bargain." 
                  "Who is the person selling?" 
                  "A person called Macao Joe." 
                  "Ah! And the vessel?" 
                  "The Nautch Girl." 
                  "Ah! Have you had any applications from persons wishing to take passage by the vessel?" 
                  "No, not yet." 
                  "Do you expect to-take any should they apply?" 
                  "I would do so, if it were necessary, or very much desired." 
                  There was a silence. I saw that he was revolving something important in his mind. I had thrown dust in his eyes so far. He looked steadily at a paper in his hand and said: 
                  "You intend, I presume, to take out certain papers for the vessel here?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Well, I have but one suggestion to make, and as you heed or disregard it will you escape or encounter difficulties in clearing the vessel from this port-difficulties that are not easily surmounted, and that involve great expense and delay. I do not presume that the few passengers that you could accomodate would repay you for the risk of such contingencies, even though they paid ten times the usual passage money. The suggestion I make is this, that you immediately notify me if there be any applications for the cabin of the Nautch Girl. I advise you to take none at all, but particularly to advise me forthwith if any one should apply. This is merely a proceeding of mine to prevent a great deal of possible mischief; but a matter that you, of course, can take no interest in, nor even need understand. That is about all." 
                  I rose to depart just as his clerk and a sort of confidential adviser came in. 
                  "I understand enough to take care that I do not entangle myself in any of these matters. If any person does apply for passage I will let you know." Thus assuring him, I walked out of his office. 
                  "Very 
                        grod
                        good
                     , there will be no trouble with you, I think." 
                  On passing out he said to the clerk, audibly enough for me to hear, though it was not so meant: 
                  "It's nothing but one of Macao Joe's transactions, and not likely to be anything else." 
                  I had learned that this consular agent had demanded the discharge of the bark's men, alluded to in the beginning merely, only to gratify a 
                        litte
                        little
                      personal pique, which resulted from the captain's refusing to tender a sufficient bribe. On our arrival the captain of the bark consulted the agent as to how he should keep the men, who were not regularly shipped for the voyage. The agent's reply was: "It will cost you something." Whereupon the captain answered that it "was too small a matter to cost much, and that he would keep them anyhow." But for this occurrence, they might have been kept on board until a more serious mutiny involved them criminally. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VIII.-OFF. 
                  The next day Jeffers stood before me a sober man. He said he had been a "little unwell," and had kept his house. Everything was new in readiness. A cook had been shipped, and the men's names were all upon the felucca's papers. 
                  "To-night," said Jeffers, "you will drop down on the first of the ebb till you get abreast of that thick clump of jungle below the Iron Pot, when you will let go a kedge in about four fathoms water-that is, some two or three hundred yards from the beach. When you are hailed, 'Is that the Santa Anna?' that will be the parties who want your service. You can answer, of course, 'No, this is the Nautch 
                        Giel
                        Girl
                     . The Santa Anna lies further out.' This is for the edification of the patrol bangkongs, if any be about. The party will leave the Iron Pot first. The Santa Anna is a whale ship and is to be condemned. Her men are ashore every night. This is all. I have made all arrangements. Macao Joe will go as mate. Did you ship a cook I sent you?" 
                  "Yes, a Mauritius negro." 
                  "He is a good cook, and can prepare very superior dishes; in fact, he has been mostly on steamers and big ships. He will go as cook and steward for the cabin. A cook for the men will be sent off before night," 
                  "I have nothing to do now," said I but to take the chronometer on board and am committed to the enterprise beyond withdrawal. You can safely confide in me those particulars that have till now been withheld, for I shall not waver or attempt to back out, you may depend upon it." 
                  He looked at me fixedly for a moment, and shook his head. 
                  "Not yet, you had better not know; it can be shown, in case of failure, that you did not know." 
                  "It will be difficult to escape death even then, for you and I and the others, at least some of them." 
                  He paused again and an expression of mingled pain and disappointment, I thought, passed over his handsome but haggard-looking features tures. His eyes wandered about the room, then glared out of the window upon the bay, which glittered brightly in the morning sun. 
                  In this narration I have gone over the first and even all portions of my intercourse with Jeffers very briefly, more so than was in reality the manner and character of it. I had met him at the Sicundar Bagh and elsewhere in our short acquaintance on occasions other than those mentioned here; but those interviews containing nothing specially 
                        revelant
                        relevant
                      to these incidents, have not been introduced in this tale. Throughout the whole, however, I did not fail to perceive that under his off-hand, careless, man about-town demeanor there lurked a painful remembrance of something past, and at times his eyes held an expression, a sort of shadow of what was yet to come. At first I ascribed it to that ever-present phantom which calls out, ever and anon, through the waking hours, "It might have been." But, as subsequent meetings gave me a nearer view of his character, I felt that he was one trying to awake to the realization of a long-cherished delusion, and dreading the approach of an event which till now seemed remote or improbable. What this phantom of misery might be I could not conjecture from so limited an acquaintance with him. Nor did I seek further than to speculate upon its connection with the coming departure. With no knowledge of his antecedent career, however, I could in no way connect them satisfactorily. 
                  He continued looking out upon the water with an absent manner, though the muscles of his mouth twitched nervously. It might have been merely an unstrung condition of the nerves from his late debauch, or it might have been the mental torture of a man who was drawing near to a future that shadowed forth nothing but unrest. I thought it was the latter. 
                  Turning from the window at length he said: 
                  "The Consul sent for you yesterday, didn't he?" 
                  "Yes." I then narrated what had passed there. 
                  "He is a blister," he said at the conclusion, "and wishes to become of great importance in the port.-Bah!" 
                  "Any trouble to be apprehended from him?" I asked. 
                  "None whatever. He hasn't brains enough to be formidable, and besides you have put him to sleep." 
                  "There is nothing more to talk of now, is there, connected with the business?" I said, after another silence, in which he had turned to the window. 
                  "Nothing more. I have prepared all things that can be touched now. The play is ready for the stage, and at about an hour before midnight the curtain will rise on the first performance." 
                  "There is a long hiatus, till then, to be filled up," I said: 
                  "I am going to sleep," he replied, and turned to leave; "If" he said, turning in the doorway, "if there should be a noise on the beach and a pistol fired twice out of the window of the 'Iron Pot,' you can do what you think best, abandon the vessel, or try to run out with her, anything you please, for the fort will probably begin to fire on you." And he departed. 
                  Left alone I turned to the window, and mused upon the incidents of the past few days. I wanted to go on board and remain; for the town had become almost intolerable to me; yet I hesitated to leave the beach, to relinquish my hold upon the land that held the only woman I had ever loved, and one that I loved with a passion as intense and tumultuous as it was novel. What would I not have given for one more interview with her, or even another rapid, fleeting glance at that bold, beautiful face! It was the face of a woman possessing all the elements of heroism, made bold by the circumstances and events of an uncongenial life, yet with all the brightness and softness of her sweet youth yearning for a calmer life of love. 
                  I ran over in my mind each word of our strange interview, and recalled her rapidly changing expression, saw again before me those deep azure eyes beaming with fire, or melting with the all-pervading love of maidenhood-waiting to be drawn toward and poured out lavishly upon the object of his souls devotion. Had I trod upon the confines of that glorious realization? I felt that I was nearer to the possession of that heart's wealth than reason dared to acknowledge. But it was gone. I was acting in the present mysterious affair solely upon her bidding. I had favored the proposition first from motives of gain alone; but now, but for her earnest injunction to go forward with my part of the agreement, all the Nautch Girls, animate or inanimate, all that ever floated on the blue buoyant billow or floated in the voluptuous measures of their own peculiar dance in palace halls, would not have tempted me to sunder myself, forever from the island that was her home, from the sweet hope of meeting and knowing her again, however fruitless the meeting might be. 
                  Another thought hung like a pall of darkness over what few feeble hopes strove still to rise. The Rajah-to him she would be 
                        saarificed
                        sacrificed
                     . I scouted at the clerks expressed belief that she would go a willing sacrifice to the arms of that old barbarian sensualist. That remark irritated me every time I recalled it. But what was the alternative of refusing a father's life, a father's honor and pride of affluence? It was the old story. 
                  I would have gone to the hill road once more, but for her last injunction to the contrary. She knew that I would come again, and bade me not. She knew that I loved her. All the savor of life was gone; the beauty and loveliness had passed away from the future. I went on board like one going to spend his life in a wilderness. It was a strange thing for one of my temperament to do; but I went, and hoped to forget her. 
                  Before I went on board I wrote a few lines to Miss Creighton, and sent the note by the smallest boy that I could pick up in the street. That there might be no risk of its being intercepted, I saw him enter the house, and rewarded him with a rupee for giving it into her own hands, on his return. It was a very non-committal love-letter, indeed. It merely expressed, guardedly, my distaste at the idea of leaving Putterrum in the mysterious manner contemplated, and hinted at the possibility of my speedy return. It formally expressed a hope that she was not connected in any way with the affair, for I had grave 
                        migivings
                        misgivings
                      of its being as honorable an enterprise as she had thought, and feared that she had been misled in regard to it herself. But in case of failure she might rely implicitly upon my secresy respecting her cognizance of it. This was all. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER IX.-NIGHT FALLS. 
                  I was just the man for the expedition. I was anxious that the affair should be successful in its termination, but cared really as little for any risk that I might be taking upon myself as I cared for the political future of the principality of Putterrum. In truth, a disastrous termination of the night's work before fore me would, I felt, have been borne with a small grain of satisfaction, as it would give me the hope of seeing her once more. I laid down upon a sofa in the forward cabin, after leaving orders with the second mate to call me when the tide turned to ebb. I tried to sleep away the few hours remaining, knowing that I must be on deck all that night and possibly the next but chiefly to escape from the glamour of despondency that was on me. 
                  I dreamed of Fannie Creighton. In fact, sleep did not come with its healing oblivion until my thoughts settled upon a hopeful tissue of fancies woven in with her bright face. My dream was singularly distinct. I shall never forget it. It was divided into three fleeting visions.-First I saw her on board the Nautch Girl, sitting a few feet from me in a corner of the little after-cabin. Her face was hid in her hands, and her bosom heaved; she was weeping. I was awakened suddenly by the steward placing coffee upon the table. He apologised for waking me, and asked if I would have supper; not wishing anything, I slept again. Then came a vision of confusion, and fighting; it seemed that we had been boarded and swarthy foes were all around me with kreeses. Somewhere in the scene was Jeffers, with his features horribly distorted with fury and excitement. It appeared that he was arrayed against me, for I met him, he pointed a pistol at me, but it missed fire. I felt myself wounded. It was the most perfect semblance of reality that car be imagined, and had all the sensation and pain of the real act. Then I felt heavy, as if loaded with chains. This period seemed much longer than the others. Then I saw her again, arrayed in bridal robes, her deep blue eyes brighter and deeper than the diamonds and sapphires she wore. 
                   
                  "It's the fast of the ebb, now, sir." 
                  I awoke, and there came upon me a presentiment strong and sufficient that disaster and failure would threaten me. It carried with it, however, the certain solace that I should see her again. 
                  "How's the wind, Kitler?" I said, springing up. 
                  "Right after us, sir, what little there is, but it will freshen a bit before morning, I think." 
                  I went on deck with very unusual sensations. The lights glimmered about on the water, and the town was seen only as an irregular string of lights. Dull and redly at the lower extremity of it glimmered the beacon light in the vicinity of the Iron Pot. 
                  "Loose the foresail and mainsail; loose the jib one hand, and stand by, the rest of you, to pick up the anchor." 
                  We were riding to a heavy kedge, the anchor that had been down previously having been got on the bows at sundown; and the coir hawser then holding her was bitted and extending aft, with a few turns around the capstan. Nothing was to do but man the capstan, and walk her up to it. Round went the men in silence, and save the scuffling tramp of their feet, all was still. 
                  "Are you hove short yet?" I asked. 
                  "Yes, sir, right up and down, now." 
                  "Down foresail, then. Run up the jib, two of you. Starboard your wheel, there." 
                  "Hard a starboard, sir." 
                  The kedge, broken from its hold, was run swiftly up to the bows. 
                  A light fanning breeze that scarce sufficed to ruffle the great triangular lateen foresail, looming through the night like a spectral glazier, wafted us silently down past the shipping of the port. Going out with the tide," I thought. "Whither?" Aye, in this life are we not always going out with the tide, that tide that has no flow? Will tomorrow find us on the deck of this gallant little vessel, springing over the blue billows, or will the setting sun find me in the Rajah's fort out on the point, with a black, lank-haired sentry looking in at my cell-grating occasionally?" 
                  We drifted on, close aboard a huge country ship, just arrived from Goree with cattle. The lowing and struggling of the poor brutes in their confined places, mingled with the jabbering of her numerous Lascar crew, fell curiously on the ear at that time. Then came a few low native vessels, prahus, cougnars, and gay diangs. Then came a large, homely-looking junk, looming up grandly over the surrounding craft; and all heavily manned, for mankind is cheap and plentiful in these waters, such mankind as it is. We passed on our way. The bark I came in was still in port, and appeared and vanished in turn with the others. Another whaleship loomed past as, but not a sound was audible on board. It was not unlikely that all hands, the anchor-
                        wotch
                        watch
                      included, were asleep. It was the Santa Anna. 
                  "The grand panorama of Putterrum," I thought bitterly, "to conclude with an exciting naval combat, Greek fire, slow music, and lights half down, and grand tableaux, after which the entire troupe will go through the interesting calisthenic exercises of hackleing coir in the fort-yard, and perhaps perform some high tragedy far more entertaining to the spectators than the performers." I felt an inclination to loosen my cravat fancying that I felt a bowstring lying lightly thereabouts. 
                  The cruisers, belonging to the Dutch Company then came into view. Bluff-bowed and lumberingly built, they lay on the water like huge hearses, with deck and gangway lanterns sending out a solemn glimmer; and their officers on the quarter-deck talking of Amsterdam and Rotterdam, in all probability. 
                  Away off to the 
                        starboark
                        starboard
                      lay a Yankee trading schooner, Her light, and that of the beacon, would make the line on which I decided to come to anchor; thus bringing the felucca about off the beginning of the uninhabited part of the beach, as Jeffers directed. A few straggling lights could be seen, trending away toward the beacon, while a dark strip intervening, indicated the point whence would come the boat. The helm was put a little to port, as we came closer in to shore. 
                  "Heave the lead there, one of you." 
                  "And a quarter, six," called out the leadsman. 
                  "Haul up foresail, Another cast. Keep it a-going." 
                  "By the mark-six." 
                  "That will do the foresail; stand by to let go that kedge." 
                  "Quarter less six." 
                  "Let her come up more," to the helmsman. 
                  "And a half-five." 
                  "Let go." 
                  And without any clatter or noise the kedge sank to the bottom, for it had not been lifted above the surface, and the coir hawser slipped out noiselessly through the hawse-pipe. 
                  "Now," thought I, we shall see what we shall see, shortly." 
                  The channel beacon-light was now but a short distance off, glimmering like a dull red moon over the water It was of no consequence as a landmark to get in or out of the port by for small vessels; none but the deeply laden bullock droghers requiring to take any thought of the channel or the bar. 
                  There was a cheeping of ropes and rattling of matting sails, mingled with voices slightly audible, and growing nearer. It came, how over, not from the darkened line of beach, but from the direction of the bar. It was a prahu coming in. She passed along within easy hail, and it was a wonder they did not hail us to enquire the state of the markets. Then again all was silent, save the rustling of the felucca's sails hanging loosely in the buntlines. We listened attentively, but nothing was heard but the low plash of the waves, sullenly and slowly falling away from the beach as the tide ran out. 
                  Some minutes had now elapsed since the kedge was let go, and no indication of any boat from shore. 
                  The sound of oars at length was heard, and as it drew nearer it proved likewise from the wrong direction, for it came from the shipping above. Suddenly a light flashed over the waves, and we were in the rays of a powerful lantern. Then suddenly all was dark again, and the beams reached out into the bay in the opposite direction. It was the patrol boat. It too passed by, and disappeared on its rounds of tomfoolery, for harbor thieves and pirates were as plentiful as though such a force as the harbor-guard never had existence; and very little did such gentry care for that same boat and its partner, if an opportunity offered for pillaging a vessel. 
                  Again the sound of oars, and from the beach this time. Sweeps rather, for a rumbling like to a small lighter was the nature of the noise, plain and unmistakable. There came a shadow in the beacon's red ray, and a hail, low but distinct, and a voice that I well knew. It was Jeffers. 
                  "Ahoy, there." 
                  "Aye, aye." 
                  "Where's the patrol boat?" 
                  "Just passed down the bay toward the fort," I answered in a low voice. 
                  "All right. Ship in your oars." 
                  A small lighter, such as was chiefly ly used in discharging coastwise freight, now came alongside. There was some little awkward clashing of the sweeps, which brought forth from Macao Joe a few turgid oaths in a low tone. 
                  Some one handed a light over the side. 
                  "Take that infernal lantern inboard again," said Jeffers, "do you want the patrol boat down here again?" 
                  By its light I saw a small barge full of the hardest-looking scoundrels that it had ever been my lot to behold. They seemed, in my brief glance, to have been selected exclusively with reference to their hideous and diabolical aspect. Rascality was stamped in every line of their faces. 
                  In the stern sat Jeffers and his factotum, with a few bundles of luggage behind them. The natives, gathering their bags and wallets of clothing, clambered over the rail without more ado; and a general fire of native jabbering followed, as they cast about for accommodations down below and about the head and forward part of the vessel. 
                  Jeffers and Macao Joe threw on board their luggage, and followed it when the lighter was cast adrift. I had looked in vain for the unknown refugees, and said: 
                  "Where are the political refugees, or is that small shoal of the devil's kinsfolk, the one for whom you have made all these preparations?" 
                  "Scarcely," he answered, without looking from the direction of the shore. I did not like nor understand this new addition to the felucca's crew, for the men that I had supplied were sufficient to work her, and no more could be necessary, as I understood the object of the cruise. 
                  "What new phase of the proceedings has rendered it requisite to ship any more men?" I asked. 
                  "Oh, it's all right; this is a part of the programme," he answered. 
                   
                  "I am surprised, however," I replied, "that you did not mention it." 
                  "There may be use for a large crew, and if there is not no harm will be done. You are the first master of a vessel I ever saw who objected to a numerous crew who cost nothing." 
                  "They will not mess with your men," he added, "but keep aloof, that they may not loose caste." 
                  There was a grin on his features as he made this allusion to the peculiarity of certain of the castes but it was transient, and the old rocky expression settled back again instantly. 
                  "They are coming at last," I said, as the cheep of oars was heard. 
                  "Dat so! I give de kedge up den;" and Macao Joe moved forward among his crew with the necessary orders. 
                  A small shore boat or gig slipped alongside and shipped in the oars noiselessly. I had but time to discern four figures in the stern sheets, when a hail from the opposite direction fell sharply on all ears, and considerably startled Jeffers and myself. What effect it had upon these in the boat I did not remark but jumped upon the rail to answer it. 
                  "On board that felucca, there," said a gruff voice. 
                  "Aye, aye; what's wanting?" I answered sharply. 
                  "Can you take my line till the tide turns? I've lost both anchors outside, and cant fetch up to the town with this light breeze and the tide agin me." 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED.) 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. By stitching each number before cutting the leaves, and preserving them, you will have a "New Story" at no expense. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  GENUINE BOTTLES OF Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  
                      
                   
                
                
                   
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                  Is put up in square 16 OR. bottles, and the pictures in this paper show each side of the bottle. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is blown on every bottle. 
                  BEWARE of COUNTERFEITS 
                  GET THE GENUINE. 
                  Purchase bottles only like the pictures in this paper, and permit no other Tar preparation to be palmed off on you instead, for none other has the same medicinal value. 
                  Sold by Druggists Everywhere 
                  Tar has been used immemorially in Medicine, and its merit is beyond dispute. Many preparations are in the market, but only partly containing the right properties, have not the desired effect. By our careful method of preparation we obtain ALL the Medicinal properties of the Pine Tree in the highest degree, and as the Medicine in color and clearness resembles Wine, we have selected "Wine of Tar" for its name and "trade mark." 
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                  Is Alterative, Sedative, Tonic and Expectorant. It is a wonderful curative in all Throat and Lung diseases-allaying all irritation and removing phlegm and other morbid secretions from the Throat and air passages, giving health and vitality to the Lungs themselves, and enabling them to more thoroughly remove from the blood the diseased and impure particles which, if retained, render life one of misery, and lay the foundation for incurable consumption. 
                  It cures all Bronchial Affections 
                  In addition to the complaints enumerated on the bottle, "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" should also be used for 
                  Spitting of Blood, Night Sweats, Weakness, Difficulty of Breathing. Influenza and kindred diseases, Flatulence, Acidity of the Stomach, Nausea, Dimness of Vision, Dots or Webs before the Sight, Dull pain in the head, yellowness of the skin and eyes, Burning in the flesh, constant imaginings of Evil, and great depression of spirits. 
                  TRY ONE BOTTLE. 
                
                
                   
                  What Druggists say about Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                   
                     Collins & Thurston, Newark, O. "This Medicine gives better satisfaction, and the demand increases faster than any article of Medicine we have ever offered in the last 20 years." 
                     Dr. Weirich, Martins Ferry, O. "I have been prescribing is in my practice." 
                     Price & Briggs, Almont, Mich. "It goes fast; last four dozen almost gone." 
                     D. E. Soper, Newaygo, Mich. "Of the many similar preparations, Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar gives the best satisfaction. It is all it is claimed to be." 
                     E. A. Johnson, Galesburg, Ills. "I am entirely out of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, having sold two lots from Chicago, besides what I ordered direct from you." 
                     Green & Co. Worcester, Mass. "We have sold the six dozen, and it gives such satisfaction we want twelve dozen more." 
                     Harris & Stone, East Union, O. "We bought one dozen of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and it gives such satisfaction that our customers insist on our getting more." 
                     Wm. Schmalhausen, Mier P. O. Ills. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is giving such good satisfaction I can't do without it, for my customers will have it." 
                     S. F. Scott, Farmington, Iowa. "I have sold all of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar you sent, and find it is be just what you represent it." 
                     R. H. Campbell, Broomington, Iowa. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar sells right straight along. It can't help but sell for it gives satisfaction." 
                     C. L. Sherwood, Dowagiac, Mich. "Sold two dozen Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar last week. The best sale of any one Patent Medicine" 
                     J. W. Cochran & Co. Rossville, Ind. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is a staple article with us." 
                     Lindsay, Woodward & Metts, Louisville, Miss. The four dozen Wine of Tar on the way is all promised. Send six dozen more. It gives satisfaction." 
                     Gray & West, Hamersville, O. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar outsells any other Medicine we keep." 
                     F. M. Baldwin, Blanchester, O. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cured a great many vases here of various kinds that were stubborn and did not seem to yield to other Medicine" 
                     G. W. Wheaton & Co. West Cornwall, Conn. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has cured a case of Bronchitis here which our best Physicians pronounced Incurable. It has also cured many cases of Dyspepsia and many say they will not be without it." 
                   
                
                
                   
                  More Testimony from Druggists 
                   
                     W. E. Jamieson, Dover, Ark. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has got to be a staple article here, and I don't think I ever sold a Medicine that gave such satisfaction." 
                     J. R. Squire, Ashland, O. "Please send me more of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. It has made some wonderful cures here." 
                     Jones Bros. Danville, Ills. "Our sales for Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar are constantly increasing, and we have no hesitation in recommending the Medicine on its merits; our patrons invariably continuing its use after trying it" 
                     George B. Ames, Belvidere, Ills. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is the best selling remedy I keep-invariably giving satisfaction." 
                     O. K. Hogle, Cordova, Minnesota. "Please send me more of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar as soon as possible; people come fifteen miles for it." 
                     J. F. Gowey, Woodstock, O. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is the best Medicine of the kind I know of; it is giving satisfaction wherever tried." 
                     L. P. Knoedler & Co. Augusts, Ky. "In every instance satisfaction of the highest order has been obtained in Coughs, Asthma, Bronchitis, &s. In one case, particularly, it produced a decidedly salutary effect on a Cough that had long since been pronounced by eminent physicians as hopeless and incurable." 
                     Craven & Co. Gordonsville, Va. "We have enquired particularly of our customers concerning Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and find that in every instance it gave the best of satisfaction, and proved to be as represented. 
                     C. H. Sunderman, Amanda, O. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has given satisfaction to all we have sold to, and the demand is for more." 
                     Rowland & McDaniel, Arkadelphia, Ark. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar gives satisfaction in all cases, and in a few days we sold the entire lot. Send six dozen more." 
                     W. W. Redmon, Ashland, Ills. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has made many wonderful cures here, and people come miles after it. It is all it is represented to be. 
                     J. G. Parker, Kasota, Minn. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has cured cases of Asthma here where all other remedies have failed." 
                     J. Pickerel, Gilson, Ills. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has successfully cured cases of Dyspepsia and diseases of Kidneys here. which other remedies did not have the least affect on. 
                     W. L. Ford & Co. Owensboro, Ky. "The demand for Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar increases so very rapidly that we must have six doz. more at once. It gives satisfaction in every instance where we have sold it" 
                   
                
                
                   
                  "A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no labor of any Kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                
                
                  A Yankee preacher, discoursing in regard to Daniel in the lion's den, said: "And there he set all night long, looking at the show for nothing and it didn't cost him a cent." 
                
                
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or a bottle of nice Perfumery, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Stationery, 
                     Or to all your can with Pure Honey, 
                     Or to purchase a new Knife or Pocket Book, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  Francis, Ambler, Weymouth, Mass. 
                
                
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. By stitching each number before cutting the leaves, and preserving them, you will have a "New Story" at no expense. 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 4. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  (CHAPTER IX.-CONTINUED.) 
                  "No, I'm hove short, bound out now; but you can run a line ashore in at the beacon there; keep your helm aport, and the current will throw you off in three fathoms water easy enough." 
                  "All right; I couldn't get a bloody pilot outside or inside the blarsted port. Is her Majesty's frigate the 'Eurydice' in here, or any gunboat?" 
                  "No." 
                  A large full-rigged brig drew slowly by, her ropes cheeping in the blocks as the yards swung slowly round for another tack. She hung in stays some little time, her sails aback and the reefpoints rattling against them as they lifted and shivered in the faint breeze, but filled away at last, and disappeared in the darkness. 
                  "A lime-juicer," said Macao Joe, (a nickname among seamen for an English vessel.) 
                  "What did he say about her Majesty's frigate?" said Jeffers. 
                  "He wanted to know if she was in here. The 'Eurydice," I replied. 
                  "He's got into a hobble somewhere. I'll bet that's what he wants with one of 'John Bull's bellowing calves of the ocean." 
                  "Some debbilment been kick up outside, certain," said Macao Joe in a knowing tone of voice. 
                  "Down foresail," was the order. as the kedge again broke ground. "Down mainsail-square in the yards-loose the driver." And we were off at last, sweeping along with the tide and a mild steady breeze. The boat which brought the last-comers was not cast adrift. but dropped astern. After replying to the query from the English brig I came to the companion-way to see the all-important people in whose employ I was. The last of the four was just descending. He was a wiry-faced native, about fifty years old or thereabouts, and was very neatly but plainly dressed in the costume of a Parsee. 
                  I glanced down into the after-cabin through the skylight. One of the three was a European. His back was turned to me, but the other two were plainly in view. They appeared to be a couple of young native bucks of the wealthy class, and were attired in the latest English fashions from Singapore.-Their small, useless hands were bedizzened with jewelled rings, which sparkled in the light of the cabin lamps, as they raised them to remove occasionally their cigarettes. Both wore fine slouched hats, which shaded and partly concealed their faces from my view, though I could see that they wanted but a few shades of being as dark as negroes. The features of both, though good of a certain kind, had a cruel, unpleasant expression, to say no more. They were jabbering together in the native tongue, but I did not hear distinctly, not did I wish to play eavesdropper. The only thing that impressed me favorably toward them was the singularly clear and melodious voices which both had-one in a marked degree. The steward was handing coffee and refreshments with great unction, knowing and appreciating their high caste and consequence more than I did.-For him it was well enough, but I viewed them as a brace of undersized, effeminate unprincipled young knaves, wealthy beyond all reason, and in danger now through their own profligacy; and nothing else. I am writing this precisely as I felt at the time, the better to picture the incidents as they existed, and the current of emotions properly belonging to each. 
                  The European of the party poured out a glass of brandy from a decanter that swung in a rack overhead. In turning to replace it he turned his face full in the light. It was the merchant, the father of Fanny Creighton. Everything dawned upon me at once. The daughter had been sold to purchase the father's departure home with his wealth. Then the query suggested itself, "why does he leave so secretly?" Perhaps it was inexpedient to remove her now. Then what folly was manifest in leaving her to the rapacity of a despotic barbarian ruler, who owned the very lives of his subjects, and to whom consuls and official residents bowed and pandered that they might not be hindered in their gold getting! 
                  She was gone. I had no hope to build a hope on, but nevertheless I felt indignant that the one solitary person in this world, or this part of the world, to whom she could appeal, with the sanction of law and custom, was now stealing away in company with his companions in crime, his dissipated clerk, his riff-raff crew, and she left behind alone. I had a strong impulse to run the felucca into the Rajah's small fleet-we were then passing it-and denounce all hands, myself included, to the first one within hail. This feeling was in part dispelled, however, as I remembered her last words on the hillroad bridge. Hoping that all might prove in time to be for the best, I turned away to attend to the vessel, satisfied, however, on one point, that Miss Creighton was in great danger. Whatever was the cause of her being left, I hoped it was better than it appeared on the surface just then, and walked to the binnacle to note the bearing of the port light, as a point of departure. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER X.-MR. CREIGHTON. 
                  Macao Joe was getting the anchors secured, and everything made snug forward. Jeffers was walking up and down the quarter deck. He went to the companion way as though called thither; and a conversation between himself and one of the younger passengers, as I knew by the nearly inaudible voice, took place. 
                  "More dark lantern business," I thought. The talk was short, and terminated by Jeffers' habitual, "Very good." As he turned away and came to where I was. I asked: 
                  "Who are your 'other friends,' Mr. Jeffers?" 
                  "For the present it is thought expedient that they remain incog.-Recollect that we're not out of the wilderness yet, therefore they choose not to be known by any one who might recognize them again." He said this with a matter-of-fact manner that carried plausibility with every word, though it proved to be a mere excuse for his refusal. 
                  "Jeffers," said an authoritative voice. I turned, and saw Mr. Creighton standing with his head out of the after-companion way.-Jeffers approached without answering, and the former continued:-"Are you getting the guns out and ready?" 
                  "No sir, not yet; Macao Joe is forward with the men, at work there." 
                  "My goodness, man, how long will it take to get those guns ready?" 
                  "Not long; there's no sea, and won't be for hours yet; this bank runs out nearly forty miles, with only six to twelve fathoms of water on it; it will be smooth as a mill-pond till we get into deeper water," said Jeffers. 
                  "There is no time to waste. I want them ready now; our greatest danger is to come yet," he answered, peevishly. 
                  "The deuce it is," I thought, as Jeffers replied: 
                  "There's nothing to do but knock to pieces the water-tanks and clap on the tackles." 
                  The guns were in raise-deck tanks. That was a very clever arrangement. I had noticed the rather unusual size and height of these two tanks. They were bottomless, it appeared, and each was set over an American-made gun, of Dahlgreen's pattern, already mounted on its carriage. They were medium thirty-two pounders. 
                  The English merchant lowered his voice, and asked: "How does that young man take matters. Cool, eh?" 
                  "He's cool as need be about the business in hand, but he's worrying a little about something else, I think," replied Jeffers, promptly. 
                  "Humph. What do you think it is?" 
                  "I'm rather inclined to believe that he has lost all his money gambling in Putterrum." 
                  The merchant replied: 
                  "No, not at all, not at all. I know that well enough. Whatever it is, it has not, probably, anything to do with this matter; and, therefore, is none of our business, so he understands thoroughly what is before him, and is the man for the pinch." 
                  "Oh, when I spot a man, rest satisfied that he will answer for the work," said Mr. Jeffers, in rather a vain-glorious tone. 
                  "Well, let him get the guns ready, and have those American men to man them; they are the ones. And by the way, Jeffers, it seems to me that you've got a great gang of men there; more than was necessary." 
                  "Not if we make a running fight of it, and something is shot away." 
                  "Well, perhaps not." And Mr. Creighton disappeared down the companion-way again." 
                  This conversation was afterwards reported to me by one of my men who was at the helm. Jeffers spoke to me regarding the guns; and Macao Joe was at the work with his gang in a trice. In a few minutes they stood revealed in position, looking over either rail, with breechings and tackles complete. 
                  "Good evening, captain." 
                  I turned to the speaker; it was the merchant. He offered his hand, saying: 
                  "I call you captain, though we're all captains after a fashion; but I believe strongly in the truth of the proverb which says, 'When there are many captains the ship sinks,' and therefore, I now formally invest you with the command of the vessel, and there shall be no interference till you desire it. What I want of you is to put me on board of a homeward-bound English ship, and the lawful ownership of the vessel will then accrue to you by agreement. To do this you may have to fight a little at long range for a time; for no doubt one of the Rajah's steamers, if not the whole fleet, will put after us before daylight. I am exceedingly loth to fire a shot at them, but it will not do to be overhauled; and if they find that we are prepared to sprinkle a few balls in return at them, they will dog along without coming up, until they are justified in putting back for want of coal. You will find a successful termination of the trip much more profitable than a 'little investment for the Singapore markets,'" he concluded, quoting my words on the day of our first meeting. 
                  I told him that I would spare no exertions to make the escape safely, and that the men, those that I had shipped, would, I thought, like nothing better than a frolic with one of the Rajah's cruisers. I then gave orders to get ammunition and implements from below, and placed the second mate in charge of the battery. 
                  "It would have been rather an awkward business for us both, perhaps," continued the merchant, "if I had sold you any of the packages of merchandise that were piled up in my warehouse." 
                  "Why?" 
                  "They were mere rubbish, dummies, spice packages without, but chaff of one sort and another within. So you understand now why I was rather short with you that morning. I did not want so sharp a young fellow as you looked to be about the floor at all; at least it was prudent not to sell any small lots, as I had only a certain per centage of genuine packages, and kept those for an emergency." 
                  "They will be lost. I suppose?" 
                  "No, I've cut the Rajah out of those even, for I sold them yesterday afternoon, for cash; and there will be but dry pickings for that hungry shoal of adventurers around the palace." 
                  "Adventurers"-he said the word with all the hearty hatred of a wealthy Englishman toward that class of the world's children. No people as a nation, furnish such a large percentage of these rambling individuals as the British Isles, yet none exhibit so much unqualified intolerance of all who are not well known by "sombuddy at 'ome," as Mr. Bull. 
                  It occurred to me just then, that considering his present position, with the risks involved, and the antecedent doings, whatever they were, that out him off from British protection, thus necessitating this surreptitious exit from the city of Putterrum, the less he said disparagingly of adventurers the more consistent and proper it would appear to the casual mind. I had noticed that several men were employed in lifting out of his boat some weighty package, but was too much occupied at the time to give it further attention. It was carried into the cabin. I concluded that it was money. 
                  "You leave nothing of importance in Putterrum then?" I asked, with a view of leading him to a certain subject, to ascertain if he felt any twinges of conscience at what I considered the basest desertion. But the reply was in strict keeping with what had thus far been apparent, I was not greatly astonished when he answered: 
                  "Well, no; there were some sacrifices that were perhaps unpleasant, but imperative-utterly so. Twenty years ago I might have thought more of those sort of things, but at my time of life they go but for little." 
                  The miserable old gold-worshiping wretch! I turned away across the deck with a feeling of general contempt for every one on board the vessel, excepting the few heedless souls composing "Gideon's band," who were at that time collected in the waist, and speculating among themselves as to what "Doc and his crowd were up to." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XI.-WE PREPARE TO FIGHT. 
                  I saw, from the ambiguous style of the merchant's last reply, that he did not wish to continue the subject, and suggested that the men should be drilled a little at the guns. 
                  "A most excellent idea, indeed.-Should there be any occasion to use them-which God avert!-a little timely practice with the implements now will prevent a vast deal of confusion, and, perhaps, accident." 
                  I gave the necessary orders to Kitler, the oldest of the man-of-wars men. 
                  "Come, now, all of Gideon's Band, there's work for ye," said the latter, moving toward the group of white men; "I'm going to let you into the way of handlin' these champagne bottles." 
                  "Tom, you take the stabb'rd one; Charlie, you the port gun." 
                  "Stations were accorded, implements handed, and after some shoving about, explanations and exclamations characteristic of such a scene, they got at the work. It was something like the following: 
                   
                     No. 1 
                     -"Are they going to make a bloody pirate of her?" 
                   
                   
                     Gunner 
                     -"Come, belay there and hear to talk. You first and second train-tackle men, stand as I put ye." 
                   
                   
                     No. 3 
                     -"I'm to hand the balls along." 
                   
                   
                     No. 4 
                     -"No you ain't; give it here, I'm for that." 
                   
                   
                     Gunner 
                     -"Put them shot back in the tub, and wait, both of ye." 
                   
                   
                     No. 2,  
                     impatiently 
                     -"Well squirt yer dye juice, we're all ready, willin' and a waitin'." 
                   
                   
                     No. 1 
                     -"Come, men, let's go on with the show, and git through with it." 
                   
                   
                     Gunner,  
                     formally 
                     -"No 1 takes the rammer with the sponge endward, holding the right hand with the nails upward," etc. 
                   
                   
                     No. 1 
                     -"Oh, I can ram down a cartridge without all that over agin, and swipe her out, too, without the notes." 
                   
                   
                     Gunner,  
                     to a man on his right 
                     -"What did I tell you to do?" 
                   
                   
                     Man,  
                     not very attentive 
                     -"To hang on to this britchin'." 
                   
                   
                     Gunner,  
                     with scorn 
                     -"Then it would jerk yer bloody head off when she fired. Git back in your place." 
                   
                   
                     Gunner 
                     -"Now, then agin. 'Attention.' 'Cast loose and pervide.' 'Sponge!' Cartridge!' Keep your hands on the rammer, palms up!" 
                   
                   
                     No. 1 
                     -"What's the use of all them gyrations?" 
                   
                   
                     Gunner 
                     -With some asperity having great faith in and reverence for the routine and minuti to which he had been accustomed 
                     -"They was got up by the Board of Admiralty, and by men that knowed a deal more about it than you or me. Now then, agin, and if I git a word out of any of ye-why I'll know the reason why." 
                   
                  "Your men," said Mr. Creighton, "don't seem to be as good material for the guns as I thought they would." 
                  "Oh never fear for them when the pinch comes," I answered. "You will see them handy enough in an emergency. The drill must be modified somewhat for the occasion." 
                  "Yes, something should be done, though I don't pretend to suggest what it should be." 
                  "The regulation drill of the navy contemplates more time than we are allowed to acquire efficiency in." 
                  "I presume so." 
                  "I will simplify the exercises considerably without greatly impairing their suitability for what may be demanded on this occasion." 
                  "Do." 
                  I saw that he had lost confidence entirely in my man's capabilities, for serving the guns in any way; but I knew the man better than he did, and went to one of the guns. They had ceased practice, and were involved in a disputation in which some one was going to "bat" somebody else "right in the snoot." 
                   
                  "I'll take the gun awhile, Tom," said I. "Attention." 
                  The quarrel ceased after a word or two more. 
                  "When, you hear the command, 'Starboard guns' crew, stand by!' you will take your present positions; so remember them. Jim has the rammer till he is killed. At the command 'Load,' you" pointing to a man, "go to the booby hatch and get a cartridge from some one who will hand it up, and carry it to that man; he puts it in the gun, and Jim rams it home, giving it two smart taps, thus. Then you, Daley, get a shot from the tub, and stand by to hand it. And all get back to your places when you are not required out of them." 
                  A slight explanation like this, all the way through the exercise, from "clearing away the gun," to securing the piece again, was sufficient for them, now interested, and comprehending thoroughly what was wanted. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XII.-A COBRA. 
                  "They are doing well enough now, you see," I observed, as Creighton came up from below after a time. 
                  "Ah, yes; they seem to be going along smoothly enough now; but I protest I thought at first they would ruin everything. Won't you join me in a glass of most excellent brandy?" 
                  I thought I would if it was unusually good. 
                  "Ronak?" 
                  The Parsee was his servant. 
                  "Sahib," said the servant, emerging from below. 
                  "Bring my brandy and glasses." 
                  The tray was set upon the skylight-and we drank. The superintendence of the vessel called me away for a short time. On my return aft, one of the "bucks" before mentioned was walking up and down the lee side by himself. Jeffers was watching the drill, and the merchant had retired below. I took a scrutinizing glance at his face as he passed back and forth, through a broad ray from the skylight. It was a face that I had met, but where? It haunted me, as it were, for several minutes At last he crossed over the deck to where I was, and poured out a small glass of the merchant's brandy, and took, as it appeared to me, a very slight sip, then throwing his light military cloak off from one shoulder, held out his jeweled hand, with: 
                  "Good evening, captain; how far have we got from Putterrum? We are not off the bank yet, and the wind don't appear to freshen any." 
                  "The moon is rising now, though, and that much is satisfactory." 
                  "Hardly. I should like it better if it was darker." 
                  "Why?" 
                  "Because we're on dark business, and to be in keeping with the 'eternal fitness of things,' we should have a dark night." 
                  "Do you know it is dark business?" 
                  "No; but I should not call it the most open every day transaction in life." 
                  "The 'dark business' may have been already done." And I thought of poor Fanny and the life before her. 
                  "And we all succeed keeping you in the dark pretty; well as to those matters, oh? Is that what you would say if it came just right?" 
                  "No, I am content to know no more than I now do of who we all are and what we've all been doing." I answered moodily, for the voice of the speaker was low and musical as the bass, strings of an olian harp, and carried me back to the hill road interview, and the evident treachery of some kind toward that forsaken young girl. 
                  "Why, then, did you seek to know at first?" 
                   
                  "I was not aware that I did particularly. I felt a right." 
                  "I thought you did at one time." 
                  "Why, what do you know of me or my doings?" said I somewhat sharply. 
                  "Don't you suppose you were watched after you were seen with Miss Creighton? What a long talk you two did have then." 
                  "And is that a sufficient cause for spying, in your city-being seen in conversation with a young lady?" 
                  "It depends altogether who the lady is," said he. 
                  "What is the inference in this case?" 
                  "The inference is that there is something on the board," he replied, in the most careless manner imaginable, "that needs watching." 
                  "Am I to understand you as referring to her or myself?" 
                  "To her, of course, though you would be placed under espionage in consequence." 
                  I regarded him as closely as the bright moonlight would permit while uttering these words but saw nothing but an unreadable fixed expression on his dusky face. His words sent a melancholy thrill through my breast, though a feeling of anger was fast getting uppermost. 
                  "And what resulted from the espionage?" 
                  "Several things were noted." 
                  "Such as what?" 
                  "One thing was certain, that you did seek another." 
                  "Ah, are you sure of that?" 
                  "Sure." 
                  "And at whose instigation was I so closely watched?" 
                  "That's not an admissable question, at present but they were those, who, for their own benefit probably, were interested in your safety." 
                  "Safety?" 
                  "That's the word." 
                  "What else was revealed by that honorable mode of proceeding." 
                   
                  "My friend the end justifies the means." 
                  "That is not sound ethics in my view, but what else was noted?" 
                  "Secondly, that you entered with more earnestness of purpose into the business of getting the vessel ready, and completing the details incident thereto." 
                  "Who the devil can this be," I wondered. The voice was familiar, the accent foreign, and strange in a certain way that is impossible to indicate by letters; though his acquaintance with and command of English clearly indicated much culture for a barbarian. 
                  "Any other important discoveries?" I inquired, sarcastically. 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I should be glad to hear them all." 
                  "Very well; you were, notwithstanding all your activity, exceedingly loth to leave Putterrum." 
                  "This is the devil in disguise," I thought, now somewhat interested; but more startling revelations were to come. 
                  He lighted a cigarette, turning from me as he did so, evidently that I might not from the light of the match see his face plainly. 
                  "Never mind," I said to myself, "daylight will give us a chance to sum you up." 
                  "You mailed a letter to her, plainly revealing the extraordinary control which she possessed over you, though you endeavored to conceal it in the manner of the letter. With a woman of her subtlety there is no knowing what purpose she has designed you for; but one thing was evident-that you were hound on the same journey as the rest." 
                  "The rest?" I repeated. 
                  "That is if you return to Putterrum," he said, looking at me steadily in the moonlight, and his eyes, I fancied, glistened with a sort of mysterious triumph the while, as he continued: "And you know that you do intend to return, and have up to this moment." 
                  "And what if I return?" I said. 
                  "You would not think of going back there if we escape safely?" 
                  "I might. Never mind. Suppose I did," I answered in a stern voice; for without being able to see why just then, I was getting in a very hot temper. 
                  "You might escape, with great care, and many friends and much influence-you might, but it is a chance in a thousand-you might elude the bowstring or kreese, but you would go with the rest." 
                  "What rest?" 
                  "Those who sought her." 
                  "And where did they go?" I exclaimed in a sharp tone that was wrung from me by the pain his words caused. 
                  He looked at me steadily, threw away the cigarette, drew his light cloak upon his shoulder and said, slowly emphasizing each word, 
                  "They missed her." 
                  I took a turn up and down the quarter-deck and stopped in front of him. He was lounging with his back against the companion-way, gazing vacantly up at the moon. 
                  "Here's another sharp intriguer around the petty principalities," I thought. 
                  "And what is the object of telling me all these things?" I asked, confronting him. 
                  "No object, specially. I think they came out in the common course of conversation," he returned. 
                  "But you have admitted many things that are not creditable, to say the least." 
                  "Opening letters in cases like that is perfectly justifiable. You can set it down to the score of regard for yourself." 
                  "For me?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "Why?" 
                  "You are taking us safely out of Putterrum, you know!" 
                  "For which I am to be liberally rewarded, I suppose?" 
                  "And that is solely what prompts you to run the risk of putting your neck in a bow-string, is it?" 
                  "No; if that was all, you'd be skulking about Putterrum now, and Jeffers still on the scent for a smart fool in want of money." 
                  "Ah, then, it must be friendship for Jeffers." 
                  "Jeffers be hanged, and you, too. I can't exactly explain why it is, but I feel very certain of it, that you are in some way antagonistic to Miss Creighton; and her father being in your company, both of you hail follows together, just out of some devilment-the Lord knows what-it does appear that he too has an opinion of her similar to the one you express; or that you are putting yourself in a very awkward position by speaking as you do." 
                  "Why, my very excited friend and captain, without noticing your very coarse remark, let me just say to you that her father and myself between us know what she is. We speak of her occasionally. I make her wants known to him, and he supplies the money for them. I disburse the larger portion of it-that's enough, isn't it? So you now appreciate my disinterestedness, I hope; and don't let yourself be any more disturbed about a miserable intriguante at a petty Indian court. But, by Jove! you are hit hard. Fanny does play the deuce with a freshman. And so take the advice of one who has spent a life in the atmosphere of Indian treachery and intrigue, and one who has a growing esteem for you, and never think of going back to Putterrum." 
                  "My young blade," said I, with as much calmness as I could command, "I think you have been laying it on a little too stoutly, to use a homely but expressive phrase, and a few words will, I think, enable you to understand me clearly. How far you and her father, and that other imp down below, and others may be, have succeeded in involving a young innocent and affectionate girl in your networks of intrigue and mystery, I can't say. My acquaintance with her was casual, accidental, and unimportant, in connection with what I am going to state. But whatever motive you may have in trying to prejudice me against her, is entirely frustrated. She can't have many friends when her father has forsaken her. It isn't the way of this world; and as soon as you and the rest of the gang are out of this vessel, I am going to bout ship and go back to Putterrum to investigate this most mysterious, unnatural, and apparently despicable business; and, if she wants a friend, having none better than I am, I will take care of her to the last of my life. And furthermore, if you utter another word of implied aspersion of her character in any way, I give it as my opinion that I shall put you over the rail forthwith." 
                  He drew off from me while uttering these words, and said: 
                  "Good night, sir. We understand each other now, I think," and descended the companion stairs. 
                  I thought I heard a low laugh as he disappeared, but in my frame of mind I could not heed anything particularly. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIII.-A NIGHTMARE. 
                  I paced the deck a few minutes in no very pleasant mood, when the helmsman struck four bells and the wheel was relieved. The drilling at the guns had ceased, and the men were grouped about, some of them leaning listlessly over the bulwarks, talking in low tones as they watched the pale glimmering of the water peculiar in these seas. Others were lying about the decks in corners out of the moon's rays, sleeping. I descended to the forward cabin, examined the barometer, looked at the chart, and determined the vessel's position on it. I looked in at my stateroom door, and saw my straw valise, containing my scanty wardrobe, lying just where it had been thrown when I first came on board the day before. 
                  Everything in the cabin was luxurious and inviting. I had not slept for three days more than half dozen hours altogether. I was wretchedly tired, but knew that it was useless to think of sleeping. Sleep would not come to me then. Going on deck I beheld Jeffers, just awakened, in a low-toned earnest conversation with Macao Joe in the waist by themselves. Then it was that a presentiment took possession of my mind, from no apparent cause, that I was not to come into possession of the vessel regularly as per agreement, without trouble. It originated from no occurrence or change in the aspect of affairs that I could define, as exciting it, nor was I able in reflecting upon all the previous conversations and acts relative to the matter, to detect a single circumstance that would rationally justify such a conclusion. The secresy observed by all was perfectly consistent with the deportment to be expected in such a clandestine departure as was ours. There was nothing in the demeanor of Jeffers or Macao Joe, or their precautionary measures, but appeared demanded by the circumstances to secure the safety of all. The undertaking was hazardous, and required for the execution of it a person skilled in navigation and seamanship, one suitable to command the obedience of seamen; and lastly, one possessing enough of the sense of chivalry and decency to prevent him from seeking to trade on the confidence necessarily reposed in him. I was flattered by their discrimination in my favor. The price offered was large, but only in keeping with the importance of success to and the wealth of the persons paying it. 
                  I knew enough of the world to feel that there was but little reasonable cause for apprehending a want of good faith toward me. But in the face of these reflections came the presentiment that there would be in attaining my right of property in the felucca, difficulties to surmount, the nature of which I was totally unable to foresee. I had, without seeing the names in papers that conveyed the vessel to me, perfect assurance from a source which I relied upon, that all was regular and legitimate; the chain of title perfect, and the contract fulfilled the moment that the passengers named in the instrument placed their feet upon the dock of an English vessel, homeward bound. "Whatever overreaching Messrs. Creighton & Co. have been guilty of in a general way, they are far from attempting any small trickery with me. It isn't the way of this world, as I have learned it; let obstacles arise if they must; sufficient unto the night are the evils thereof." And with these thoughts I left the masts against which I had been leaning, and paced the deck. 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED.) 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. By stitching each number before cutting the leaves, and preserving them, you will have a "New Story" at no expense. 
                  Back numbers of the Story, can be obtained from your Druggist who sells Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  What to do in damp, changing weather. 
                  During the damp, cold and changable weather which we have in our climate in the winter and spring seasons, many and various pulmonary and bronchial diseases are developed-and very often prove fatal-when a bottle of Dr Crook's Wine of Tar would speedily remove or prevent all difficulty. It should be kept in every house, and when you feel chilly or get damp feet, or have a Cough or Cold, or Sore Throat, or Stiff-Neck, you will find it will give speedy relief and prevent a more severe illness. 
                
                
                  TAR. 
                  Every person knows the advantages of a Tar preparation. The difficulty has been, all the published formulas for the manufacture of it into a Medicine are entirely too feeble in the proper properties of Tar to possess the Medicinal value they should. 
                  How to prepare it to contain all its active and medicinal properties, to the exclusion of the bitter empyreumatic principles-always disagreeable to a sick palate-has been a problem only solved in "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar." 
                
                
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane, and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                
                
                   
                  Weak and delicate CHILDREN ARE MADE STRONG BY THE USE OF DR. CROOK'S WINE of TAR 
                  It can be taken with perfect safety at any time, containing nothing injurious, and cannot injure the most delicate child. 
                
                
                  Delicate Females Who have no Appetite, Are languid, always suffering, devoid of energy and never feeling well, will find Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar To give tone and vigor to the whole system, Strengthen the Appetite, PURIFY THE BLOOD, Beautify the Complexion, And make them strong and healthy. 
                
                
                   
                  DO NOT NEGLECT A COUGH, Because it troubles you but little now; now is the time it is easiest cured, and none would suffer if they knew how easily they could be cured by DR. CROOK'S Wine of Tar. 
                
                
                  SUFFERERS FROM CHRONIC COUGHS, Will find that by taking Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar they are taking a fine expectorant, which removes all phlegm, soothes all irritation, and cures. 
                
                
                  FOR THE KIDNEYS THE BEST DIURETIC. 
                  THE INFLUENCE OF DR. CROOK'S Wine of Tar Is felt on the secreting organs, more especially on the mucous membrane and the Kidneys, on which it acts as a diuretic. It succeeds in reproducing the urinary secretions when other powerful diuretics have failed. 
                
                
                   
                  Wine of Tar RENOVATES THE LIVER AND STOMACH, REMOVING DYSPEPSIA And Kindred Complaints. 
                  Dyspeptics will find "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" to impart a vigor to their digestive organs, cause their food to be relished, the stomach to promptly digest, the blood to be purified, and their health to return. 
                
                
                  Get the genuine. See that Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is blown on every bottle. Try one bottle. 
                
                
                  DEBILITY, Resulting from any cause whatever, is removed by DR. CROOK'S WINE OF TAR! 
                  WHICH IS Unexcelled as a Tonic. 
                  It rejuvenates the entire system. Its stimulating, regulating and Tonic properties gives a vigorous vitality to all the organs, which is the best defense against all diseases. 
                
                
                   
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane, and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no work of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him to try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Baking Powder, 
                     Or to fill your can with Coal Oil, 
                     Or to purchase a new Lamp, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  Francis Ambler, Weymouth, Mass 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 5. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  CHAPTER XIII.-(CONTINUED.) 
                  At one point in every passage each way by the skylight I could see down into the after-cabin, under the sash raised for ventilation. The lamp swung languidly in the gimballs, and cast a clear light upon the two occupants. One was Mr. Creighton sitting with his head and arm upon the table asleep. The other was sitting back against the bulkhead, gazing intently at nothing. His face wore the expression to me then of a man devising rascality. It was the purser. The thoughts that were then current in his mind might have been, and probably were, nothing more nefarious than reflections whether Miss Creighton had placed her father's nankeens in the first box or the third box, or if the linen jackets were convenient; for he did not have the packing of them. 
                  But the foreboding alluded to had so tempered my mind with fanciful suspicions that I dwelt, in spite of a disinclination to do so, upon the dismal prospect of coming short of complete possession of the felucca just at a time when it was the one thing needful for the purpose I had in view However much I may have coveted the swift bark that was under my feet, with a sailor's and a rover's appreciation of such things, in the opening of the events above related, the revelations of the last half hour had increased my desire for speedy possession a hundred fold. The lagging breeze chafed and irritated me. I was eager to have the vessel back again upon the spot where she then was, but with her bows cleaving the waves toward Putterrum. Impatient to be returning to steal away the poor abandoned girl, or at least to offer her the choice between a stout heart brim full of devotion, and a life wasted with hope wretchedly thrown away. It never once occurred to me that the girl might have remained of her own election; that the opportunity of tyrannizing over a superannuated love-smitten rajah, ruling him and his people with all the attendant homage and Oriental splendor, would be sufficient, of itself, to make almost any girl, not born to better things "consider on it," at least. My thoughts never so much as skirted along the margin of such a conception. 
                  These events occurred more rap idly than would appear from the relation of them, for when, after a few turns upon the deck, I noticed the clock in the cabin, it seemed a long time, though but a few minutes had elapsed since the conversation last recorded. 
                  The night was getting chilly, a slight mist had risen on the water, and the dew was heavy. I shut down the skylight frame and went forward, intending to look out for the "little headland," as it was time that it should begin to loom through the night. The look out was seated upon the pall-bitts, humming to himself some popular sentimental air. 
                  "Is that you, Prince?" 
                  "Yes, sir." 
                  "See anything that looks like land yet?" 
                  "I was wonderin' if that yonder was land or cloud bank, sir." 
                  "Yes, it's the little head,'" I said, gazing a moment. 
                  "I was just going to pass the word aft about it," he continued; "but I was watchin to make out if I saw a light. I thought I did-jest a minit it flashed up and then went right out agin. I thort it was sing'lar." 
                  "Keep a good lookout; it is probably a native craft out there somewhere. Where was it?" I asked. 
                  "Right ahead, jest a little on the starboard. It jest flashed right up, and went out agin, different from a common light aboard a ship." 
                  I looked, but it was dark enough then. I went aft. In passing the forward companion way my eye caught sight of a very small boot, and the leg belonging to it, of some one sitting at my table, where the chart was unrolled. I knelt down on the deck the better to see down into the cabin, and beheld the unknown person with whom I had spoken of Miss Creighton. He was sitting in the corner with his face buried in his hands, and I thought instantly of my dream. He was either laughing or weeping, I could not at that distance determine which; but the hands and head moved with the appearance of emotion. Slight though it was, it convinced me that he was in tears. It was nothing to me how much he wept, or what for, so I passed on. 
                  Kittler suggested that he should drill the men again for a short time. I consented. Drowsiness began at last to steal over me with a heaviness proportionate to my broken rest of the last few days. I laid down on the cabin trunk, with a block of cork for a pillow, not intending, however, to sleep. Jeffers was in the waist acquiring the drill from observation; and Macao Joe was in charge of the deck. The breeze had sprung up a very little, and the sails were still. 
                  The noise of the drilling grew more and more indistinct, as drowsiness stole over my senses, though for some time a cloudy consciousness enabled me to hear the clink clank of the rammer, and the commands, mingled with isolated words now and then. I felt something upon me; I was too near dreamland to investigate, but I felt a drowsy gratitude toward the considerate individual. It was a mantle or shawl thrown over me. 
                  The chilliness of the air was excluded, and I fell asleep. My dream was a curious mixture of previous and present impressions upon the mind. Somewhere before me I saw the Rajah, and heard him say, in a deep tone of voice, "Run in," then the consul somewhere in the picture replied; "Keep that britchin clear of the trucks, remember that." Fannie Creighton answered, in her silver voice, "Fire." Mr. Creighton then appeared with a rammer, and said "By Jove, men, let's shift off. You take it, Scotty, awhile." Old Jinks of the whaling bark wanted to know "if them 'mokes' wasn't going to take their 'tower' at these guns." Then Jeffers again appeared, and said, "That will do, boys, till next time. Secure the piece, haul taut the side tackles and kile every thing snug." 
                  Then I felt, or dreamed that I felt, the shawl turned down from my face, where it had been spread to keep off the distorting moon's rays, and Fannie Creighton, in company with the mysterious companion of the merchant, stood by my side, and looked steadily down at me. I was unable to move, though I attempted to take her hand. Suddenly and hurriedly she bent down and 
                        paessed
                        pressed
                      her warm lips upon my forehead. I struggled to cry out, and in fact did so, and then Fannie Creighton vanished, and the dark, mysterious companion hastily replaced the shawl, and departed into darkness. I struggled, awoke and sat up. Two of the men came up to me from the waist. 
                  "You was having a nightmare, sir. I he'erd you call out in a bitter manner and I came over; 'peared like you was excited like." 
                  "I never thought it was a good thing to sleep on deck in these latitudes at all, even if you kivered yourself up," said the other to the first who had spoken. 
                  "Has any one been around here just now?" I asked. 
                  "No, sir; leastways I hain't seed none; did you, Bill?" 
                  "No, there's been nobody around nearer to you than the man at the wheel, sir. Have you seed anybody skivin around, Tom?" continued the man to the helmsman, 
                  "No, I wouldn't 'av' seed 'em though, there in the shadder of the sail, the moon's got over the peak of the mainsail now. 
                  "There were persons here, for I am almost certain that I saw them;" I said. 
                  "Has you lost anything, sir?" asked the first who had spoken. 'It's a wery vagram lot of chums that has come aboard last." 
                  "No, I have lost nothing." 
                  "You must ha' been dreamin'. sir, I think," and they walked away. 
                  "Dreaming!" Yes, one part of the dream was clearly a dream, but I was getting awake toward the last. I thought, as I stretched myself out, to try and dream it again, if possible; while the men who had come to me were, with a group around them, in the waist, going all over it again, and making sage and ominous prognostications from the trifling incident. 
                  I examined the covering that had been thrown over me. 
                  It was a large India shawl. I did not wish to have any more investigations or I should have inquired about it then, though I guessed that it was some of Macao Joe's private property. As I was dropping to sleep again I heard the voice of Jeffers call out: 
                  "Joe, have those luggage boxes passed into the cabin." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIV.-THE BANGKONG. 
                  I had been asleep an hour, when I recovered consciousness, amid some confusion and tramping about the deck, and a jerk from Jeffers, who said as he jerked me: 
                  "Here's that infernal bangkong, right ahead." 
                  I was up in an instant, and found the felucca in the tail of a small comet apparently, for the light of her great lantern streamed out of the polished reflector in one long 
                        brilliaat
                        brilliant
                      train, making it almost day on our decks. It blazed out over the water like the awful eye of an enraged sea griff, but it wasn't, for it was the patrol boat that passed down by us a short time before. From the light of the lantern we could see her long banks of oars sticking out horizontally like a centipede, legs at rest. She lay a little out of our track, about one hundred and fifty yards ahead, her triangular sail gathered loosely in the trail, over the dusky shadow of a heavy crew. 
                  Near the forward companion way on our own deck stood the three men most interested, Creighton, Jeffers and Macao Joe. A perceptible palor overspread the features of them all, but the face of Jeffers wore the most terrified expression of the three. There was time enough to note that and wonder at 
                        it it
                        it
                     , but my eye glancing further back rested with amazement upon the head and shoulders of two women standing in the after companionway. It was Fannie Creighton and an Ayah. The luxuriant tresses of the former were thrown back, as if interrupted in the performance of her toilet, and her face exhibited a calm though interested expression that was, oh! how beautiful. My eyes met hers, their "clear look out afar" ahead vanished, and she bent her head away. The Ayah was jabbering all the while. 
                  I turned to the danger now menacing. 
                  "Let her come up a point! Aft sheets! Clear away that starboard gun and clap in a stand of grape!" I shouted. 
                  "No, no," said the merchant, "not by any means, if it can be avoided." 
                  I did not intend to risk the bangkong alongside, full of men as it was, and replied. 
                  "Very well, sir; but I am almost certain that they will attempt to board, if we dont come to." 
                  "Well, then I shall not hinder you." 
                  I was rather of the opinion that he would not either, for as I then felt I would have blown forty bangkongs into kingdom come, one after another, before anything should take us back to Putterrum. Never was any prospect more appalling to contemplate than that of returning to that hole. Nevertheless I felt buoyant as a cork, and cared no more for one bangkong, and the crew in it, than I did for their king. We ranged up to it with a light three-knot breeze; the men were called to stand by to repel boarders; cutlasses were brandished in a trice, and pistols were plentiful. 
                  Whence came these arms so suddenly? The men whom Jeffers and Macao Joe brought off were professional marauders; men of whom there is to be said only that they would take hard knocks and the chances of death for a little ready money. Such fellows, of course, carry their arms with them even as a piper his pipes, or a harper his harp, or an organ grinder his organ. Kreeses and cutlasses they then had, but the pistols were in a chest, loaded and ready at a word. This same chest I remembered to have looked into, and saw that it contained, on top, spunyarn, mallets, marlin-spikes and was in appearance a "second mate's ditty-box." 
                  I heard one of the man-of-war's men, probably a "sea-lawyer," reflectingly mutter over something about "being jestified in this 'ere business," but the majority of the crew prepared with alacrity for the prospective brush with the Rajah's bangkong, as a matter of course. "Gideon's Band" were particularly elated with the opportunity of a regular romantic combat after the style of the melodramas, or the yellow-covered sea-tales usually found on ship-board, caring little enough for the consequences. 
                  The felucca drew up within easy hail of the patrol boat, which was then on the starboard bow. Some one on board of her opened the lantern door to adjust it, seemingly, and the light for a moment fell upon the clump of officers in the high stern, revealing their drawn swords and unusually gaudy dress. 
                  Jeffers came up to me with a cutlass in his hand and a revolver in his belt, looking calm and determined. I asked him if "his men" would fight. 
                  "Of course they will," he answered. "Who of any of us wants to be taken alive?" 
                  "They know us on board the bangkong," I said. 
                  "Oh yes, they know all about it now, for we've all been standing in the blaze of her light." 
                   
                  "Is there any reply specially that you want me to make to his demand to 'come to?'" 
                  "No, you can say what you choose." 
                  "Ahoy, dere," came over the water 
                  I paid no attention to the hail, but motioned to the helmsman to raise his wheel, with a view to running her down, so that they would be employed in getting out of the way; and thus prevent their dashing along side to board. This manuvre was thoroughly successful, for by the time they had hailed again, the fellucca's prow was pointed squarely for the boat, and as she came up to the wind like a thistle-down, riding both air and water, they had much ado to get out of her way. As it was, the sharp prow of our vessel broke a half dozen or more of the sweeps, and gave the boat itself a grazing bump that made it writhe like an old basket. With a confusion of curses and orders they scrambled clear of the long gaunt sides of the vessel, and another hail was roared forth above the confusion. 
                  "Come to dere, or I kill all dam Ingleese.' 
                  They began to work their sweeps with a will, and had it not been for the number that was disabled, either by breaking the sweep itself, or the single pin in the gunwale to which it worked with a strap, they would have shot alongside, and might have got on board, some of them, after a short fight, for the bangkong was heavily manned, and her people were used to that kind of business, besides being no doubt stimulated both ways by hope of reward and by fear of failure. 
                  "Slack off dem sheets, or ebryting sall die," was now the order. 
                  No answer had as yet been vouchsafed; this perfectly candid statement was intended to have the effect of intimidating some portion or all of the crew into letting the sheets go, which would thus lose the vessel her headway, and enable them to get alongside before the trouble could be remedied. But they did not know with what care the felucca's invoice of Asiatic stabbers had been selected, by one thoroughly competent, from long experience in picking material for transactions out of the usual line, to wit, Macao Joe. He had in this case outdone himself, and exhausted his genius, for, from the general murderous aspect of these gentry, the inference might have been drawn that they were the morceaus carefully laid aside during a long professional career, as something rare and valuable. They seemed to understand the menace from the bangkong, and replied to it with a long drawn "Cha-hah-ah-ah" expressive of contempt. 
                  The patrol boat, however, kept on laboring at the oars, now assisted by the sail, and seemed to hold its own on the felucca's quarter. The half naked crew straining at the rumbling sweeps, which dashed up the pale flame-colored foam in broad, sparkling paths on either side, chanted a wild and weird war song that was common, no doubt, in bygone years, when the Rajah of Putterrum was in the zenith of piratical conquest. It was rather a startling composition, and would not have disgraced a chorus of fallen angels; in fact, it was a harmonic cadence of yells and howls, and could be likened to nothing but the shrieks of the damned, set to music. 
                  "Ruther brash singin'," said one of the crew to another. 
                  "I never expected to hear sich this side of the great breakin' up," returned the other. 
                  "I wonder if it helps 'em to pull any, hollerin' that way." 
                  "They think it does, the poor benighted balachang eaters." 
                  I feared that the slightest abatement of the breeze would enable them to get alongside, and therefore commanded: 
                  "Stand by, starboard gun's crew!" and noted the degree of routine we had acquired in such short time. 
                  The alacrity with which this order was obeyed showed that the bangkong's people were getting rather near the abode of the spirits of their wooden gods. No sooner was the matting thrown off from the "champagne bottles" than the bustle on board the felucca drew upon it again the light of a lantern, which had been sweeping around in other directions. The powerful illumination, from a locomotive head-light, which it was, showed them a thirty-two-pounder gun, looking at their boat with one man placing the percussion wafer and another holding the lock lanyard ready. This was a picture on the white background of the felucca's foresail which they little dreamed it was in the power of their lantern to display-a revelation which cut short the war chant, and startled them suddenly into one unanimous opinion which they immediately gave expression to actions speaking louder than words. They lay upon their oars, and dropped rapidly astern, giving utterance to a long drawn "Ah-hah-ah ha," that seemed literally pushed out of them by consternation, and vanished, for their lantern went out in a twinkling. 
                  I looked for the one uppermost in my thoughts, as soon as the incidents just related passed from the condition of things doing to that of things done, but she too had vanished below. I joined in the conversation with Mr. Creighton and Jeffers upon the escape, and was congratulated by the merchant for the fertility of expedients evinced. I listened to these praises with a quickened pulse and a generally comfortable frame of mind, the cause of which he little dreamed. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XV.-THE RAJAH'S PLOT. 
                  Ere long a vivid blue train mounted high into the air from the direction of the bangkong. It rose vertically to a great height and an intensely red glow kindled and hung a moment in the air. The patrol boat was signalling with rockets. 
                  "Blue and red," said Jeffers, "whatever that means." 
                  "It bodes us no good," answered the merchant. 
                  "We had better have rubbed out that bangkong, und done with it," I said. 
                  "No, it is vastly better to have frightened her off without committing ourselves to more than we have already. Once clear of these parts, there will be nothing to apprehend that I have not devised a remedy for, more or less sufficient." 
                  "What do you think brought the patrol boat down here?" I asked; "a suspicion of the purpose for which the 'Nautch Girl' was fitting for sea would have occasioned, I judge, a different mode of procedure." 
                  "It is not easy to conjecture precisely how far the suspicions of the Rajah were awakened, if at all; for the utmost precautions certainly were taken to arouse none. In this matter, however, which it is not expedient to explain fully, the Rajah himself was compelled by circumstances to proceed with caution; and would not, but for a certain determination that had taken possession of him, to the exclusion of all rational arguments, have cared to hinder my departure from Putterrum. 
                  Rather, however, than I should take my child and property out of his territory, he would proceed to extreme measures; though he is crafty enough not to take any such steps until I shall be taken indisputably in the act of departing clandestinely. Much was dependent on that and I am inclined to your opinion ion that the simple arrest of this vessel I would not have been entrusted to a bangkong sent down the coast for the purpose, if a suspicion of her errand out of Putterrum had been entertained. 
                  There is on the other hand, however, a bad look to the matter just now. From my thorough acquaintance with eastern trickery and turpitude, and no place fuller of it than Putterrum, I would not be at all surprised if the patrol-boat's presence out here was but the first part of some shrewd attempt on the part of the Rajah to kill two birds with the same stone. These orientals all of them are proverbial for the beauty, if such things can properly be called beautiful, of their plots, and the ingenious plausibility of projected, systematic murders. The strange behavior of the patrol-boat, and the significant fact that a single bangkong out of a number-the Rajah has thirty or thereabouts-was despatched down here, instead of one or both of his steamers which latter would be in every way more suitable and effective, convinces me that the Rajah is fearfully in earnest in preventing my departure; though what the plan of his operation is remains to be seen. 
                  He walked up and down the deck nervously, while uttering these reflections and at the conclusion stopped at the after companion-way and leaned over it in deep thought. Calling Jeffers to him, after some moments the two entered into a low earnest conversation, no part of which was audible. 
                  Leaving them to discuss their own matters, I crossed over to the opposite side of the deck, and amused myself by recurring to, the numerous and striking events that had been crowded into the last few days. The men on board the felucca were now on the alert, walking up and down in knots and couples forward and in the waist, all in earnest conversation. The low confused hum of their voices, on the otherwise stilly night, had a singularly impressive effect. It was the like the hum in the third parallel just before the line moves out for the assault. 
                  What of Fannie Creighton now? The reader of this narrative has no doubt traced the connection of different portions of it as the ambiguous phases are cleared up by succeeding events. Still thus for her connection with the preceding events and the causes which led to their recurrence was vague. The hints which had been given by Jeffers during the first day of our acquaintance had not afforded a very clear solution of the apparent mystery; and a better knowledge of that person's salient qualities of mind and character, following duly with increased intercourse, led me to 
                        scrutenize
                        scrutinize
                      his acts, and to weigh well his station cats before accepting them as worthy of their seeming interpretation. I was impressed with a belief that he was a part of a mystery within a mystery, and one that was not shared by the merchant. Whether Fannie Creighton was perfectly identified with this undercurrent was not easy to determine, but that she was in some measure connected with it was a conviction that I could not, from what had thus far occurred, shake off. 
                  While pondering these things Jeffers had resumed his walk, and after interchanging a few words connected immediately with the vessel, he said: 
                  "Did you notice the bangkong's crow were half naked and without turbans?" 
                  "Yes, I noticed that; the crew looked more like Sakavan pirates than the coast patrol." 
                  "And the officers were dressed differently from the Rajah's naval officers."
                   
                   
                  "Yes, I noticed that, in the few moments the lantern door was opened to adjust the light'" 
                  "Do you recollect the English brig's captain inquiring if any gunboats or a frigate were in port?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "And what would you conclude from these things?" 
                  "That the bangkong was a pirate?" I answered, inquiringly. 
                  "Do you think the prahu or bangkong gentry would have forgotten to bring the felucca to with a volley from their muskets and gingalls?" 
                  "Of course not; I expected they would fire into us, and for that reason had the starboard gun pointed, in readiness to blow them under the water if they did so." 
                  "This bangkong is not the same one that passed down the bay just before we came on board. The light of this one was more brilliant, and she was more heavily manned than that one. These two points are clear enough. Moreover, she was the one that had probably surprised the English brig at her anchors, outside on this bank, somewhere, and made her cut from them." 
                  All that looked plausible enough, for I knew that vessels bound across the bank often came to anchor in light, baffling winds, as a strong current was setting to the northward along there. And years ago, and even now, during the season of trade to Singapore, occasional instances of piracy were occurring, which had only the effect of bringing a gunboat or two down, to fire away at random into the jungle, or gladden with their presence, for a few days, the numerous bamboo-hutted villages in the vicinity. The brig may have left or lost one anchor elsewhere, and the other, for these vessels seldom have over two, was probably lying on this bank, where she slipped her cable, to get out of the way of some marauders, a few hours before. Stopping in at Putterrum to get another and report the circumstance to the British consul, was manifestly the next step. 
                  "But," he continued, "pirates dont throw up rockets after failing to get on board of a ship. It isn't an 
                        occasson
                        occasion
                      with them for fireworks and rejoicing." 
                  He paused, waiting to note the expression on my face, but whatever I thought I said nothing. 
                  "The conclusion that I have arrived at is this: The Rajah has sent out a bangkong with a picked crew, disguised as pirates, trying to disguise themselves as one of the coast patrol, by carrying a reflecting lantern. In this character the bangkong that we frightened off has been down here making feints and razzias. By way of establishing a reputation, then, they attempted to plunder the brig. That was a feint, but the last attempt, to board us and put every soul to death but Fannie Creighton, was anything but a feint. This would have been a fine method of rubbing out at once all troublesome persons, and, at the same time, gaining a claim on Fannie's good will by pretending to ransom her-or rescue her with an expedition of bangkongs and a steamer to back them. This very satisfactory consummation of his desires was to have been accomplished by another atrocity, as the Singapore journals would say, with a paragraph like this in the Singapore Times, after it was all over: 
                  
                     "Despatches by the steamer Fou-Chou-Fou furnish us with the leading particulars of another piratical razzia Putterrum bank, within thirty or forty miles of that port. The yacht Nautch Girl, the property of Ex-Consul Creighton, was boarded and captured by a large bangkong a few hours after leaving Putterrum, bound for Singapore. Mr. Creighton and his family, including his daughter, a young lady of seventeen, were on board on their way to England, by way of Singapore. All on board the vessel but the daughter are known a have been murdered, as the mutilated bodies were left on the deck of the vessel piled together in a heap. The young lady is still missing, and it is supposed that she was carried off by the miscreants, to endure sufferings worse then death.
                     "The yacht was plundered of everything valuable, even to her stores. She had on board (here his voice sank into a whisper) eleven thousand pounds in gold belonging to the owner of the yacht, the proceeds of the sale of his real estate at Putterrum. This of course has gone beyond recovery, but the vessel was found slightly damaged by an attempt to set her on fire in Chambuk river, whither the wretches had taken her. It has not yet been ascertained from what point the pirates came, but a strange bangkong had been seen on the coast a day or two previous to the capture of the Nautch Girl, simulating the appearance of the Putterrum patrol boats, by carrying a large reflecting lantern upon a short spar above the stern, thus deceiving the vessels trading thereabout. An attempt was made to board the brig Dusenbury Johnson the previous day, but it was frustrated by being seen in time to slip the cable and stand out. The pirates did not give chase for some reason unknown. The opinion of the master of the brig was that they were all more or less drunk, and quarrelled among themselves after their failure to surprise the Dusenbury Johnson, as yells and pistol shots were plainly heard by all on board the latter vessel."
                   
                  He paused, after giving so much of a very plausible newspaper article; and I supposed that, considering the occasion, he had been stimulating. There was, however, no other proof of it than a desire to hear himself talk, evident from the foregoing. 
                  "You have the regular newspaper twang," said I; "did you ever correspond for the press?" 
                  "Oh, yes. Would you like to hear the continuation of the account of our death?" 
                  "Yes, proceed by all means. It is interesting in the absence of any thing else." 
                  "Well, then, I'll bet that the article would wind up after this fashion." 
                  
                     From what has transpired in relation to this atrocity, it is conjectured and generally believed, that these pirates came to this point in expectation of the Nautch Girl, having no doubt obtained intelligence of her projected trip, and possibly particulars relating to the passengers, money, &c. A significant circumstance in this connection obtains that the master engaged to take her to Singapore was a total stranger to the port, and excepting a letter of credit for a small amount upon the American Consular agent there, was totally without credentials of any character. He, it is thought, obtained the confidence of Mr. Creighton's agent, (who had sole charge of getting the vessel ready for sea, procuring crew, officers, &c.) and this person, Mr. N. W. Jeffers, was the one through whom the berth was obtained. Mr. Jeffers was well known in the port as a shrewd, energetic managing man, but much given to intemperance and low associates. Knowing these facts, the engagement of an unknown adventurer to fill a post of more or less responsibility does not seem very difficult to account for. The master was an American, or claimed to be such, and was on the Nautch Girl's papers under an assumed name. He was, beyond doubt, either as emissary or a guiding spirit in the bloody enterprise, and came to Putterrum to ship on board the yacht in some capacity, or to furnish more intelligence concerning her, when accident placed him in command and control of many innocent lives, which were deliberately decoyed into a frightful death. This miscreant was known to have obtained men from a whaling bark calling in at Putterrum, and it is thought, included them to run away. It is known that be furnished them means while on shore, and engaged them as a part of the crew of the Nautch Girl, under the pretext that he was to find parties to buy the vessel on their arrival at Singapore."
                   
                  "That is exceedingly good," I replied, as he paused again, "but is deficient, of course, in the chief feature of interest, by the bangkong not being able to board. It is a pity that such a good thing should be lost." 
                  "Yes, but the 'ides of March are not gone' yet." 
                  "True enough; but do you suppose that they will try it again?" 
                  "You will see before daylight," he said. 
                  "Well, then, I must see very soon, for yonder is the sunrise shimmer on the horizon." 
                  "And yonder," he said pointing astern, "is the smoke of one of the Rajah's steamers coming to the signal of the red and blue rocket. She has, no doubt, followed us out, and kept at a convenient distance to allow part first of the Putterrum drama to be enacted. This failing, she is signalled, and now comes to overhaul, us in the regular way and bring us back by order of the Rajah. I knew it would be so and have waited for daylight to see the smoke that I know is there." 
                  I looked astern and saw something that might be taken for smoke, but it was yet too dark and misty to be able to speak decidedly about it. 
                  The breeze had sprung up and the Nautch Girl was slipping along thro' the water, noiselessly as yet, but not slowly by any means. I did not fear the steamer, if the breeze held, for the Rajah's steamers, both of them, were very clumsy boxes. One was converted from an old Hoogly river tow-boat, and, in her day, was a suitable craft enough for dragging a tow up that swift river, but her engines were worn out, and continually breaking down. The boilers were also pretty tender, causing the engineer to be very circumspect regarding the pressure in them. She had English engineers, a class of men who are tutored by the laws of England to entertain a professional horror of depressed crown sheets, and to keep such an engineering contre-temps afar off. The other was a "country ship" (that is, a native built vessel,) with a pair of old Swedish trunk engines and a screw placed in her. The engines were good yet. They had been taken out of a steamer cast away on the Rajah's dominion somewhere, having been bought cheap from the underwriters. This vessel was even slower than the first mentioned; but seven and 
                        r
                        a
                      half knots was the most that could-to use a professional phrase-be got out of either of them in a sea way, while the arrow-like felucca could reel off her ten knots easily, with the wind setting free into her great white wings. The only danger lay in the breeze failing us. I had gathered these particulars concerning the Putterrum cruisers during my leisure hours in the port and felt assured that with a fair wind and no favors our chiefest dangers were already over. In spite of everything indicating an increase of wind rather than a calm, I felt uneasy and apprehensive. 
                  Perhaps it was something in Jeffers' face a sort of glint in his black eyes, that seemed to say. "I know my power." He appeared to have no fears, from some reason of his own, of capture no, but during the struggle of the bangkong to get alongside, the muscles of his month twitched almost convulsively, and his pale face grew as white and bloodless as flesh and blood can grow. It was not from personal fear. There was a reason beyond that. I studied him. From the first he appeared to be studying me, and whenever he began a conversation with me I felt that he was only "taking my measure." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVI.-SOME REVELATIONS. 
                  To return to our conversation, where this digression interrupted it. I replied to his remark: 
                  "Let them come; 'those who dance must pay the piper.'" 
                  "'Then let the devil pipe to his own. Are we not all of us done with the things of the earth, earthy?" 
                  "All of us means Creighton & Co. I suppose?" 
                  "Exactly. You are one of the innocents,' found occasionally in bad company, and should such an improbable calamity occur as our being walked back to our old friend, the Rajah, it will be my pleasing office to shield you from the heaviest implication by confessing that you also were my dupe in this business." 
                  Also! He did not mean to let that word slip out. Who, then, were the others? I cast about for them, without much result. It could not be the Rajah? Perhaps it was; perhaps there was another phase that was yet to be illumined. 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED.) 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. By stitching each number before cutting the leaves, and preserving them, you will have a "New Story" at no expense. 
                  Back numbers of the Story, can be obtained from your Druggist who sells Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  THE DAYTON Safety Bridle Bit! 
                  
                      
                   
                  Patented Aug. 6, 1867. 
                  It combines the principle of all Patent Check Reins and other Safety Bits, in a very simple bit without any complicated arrangements. A boy can drive any horse at any speed, and pull him up whenever he desires-having a pulley purchase and more advantage than he need 
                        amploy
                        employ
                     . 
                  Imparts the best possible style to every Horse. Completely governs a Horse. It is the best Bit for breaking or training a Horse. It is 
                        apapted
                        adapted
                      to both hard and tender mouthed Horses. 
                  It prevents pulling on one rein. It is not a severe Bit. It can not break. It can be put on any bridle. A safe horse can be made perfectly secure by it, should he become suddenly frightened, or carriage or harness break. 
                  The Prices are as follows: 
                  Bits sent by express, on receipt of the money 
                   
                     Japanned Bit and Straps, $1.00 
                     O Plats Bit and Straps, 1.25 
                     Silver Plated Bit and Straps, 2.00 
                   
                  Saddlers supplied at low rates. 
                  County Rights sold very cheap. Address 
                  OLIVER CROOK & CO. DAYTON, O. 
                
                
                   
                  Wine of Tar 
                  RENOVATES THE LIVER AND STOMACH, REMOVING DYSPEPSIA And Kindred Complaints. 
                  Dyspeptics will find "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" to impart a vigor to their digestive organs, cause their food to be relished, the stomach to promptly digest, the blood to be purified, and their health to return. 
                  Get the genuine. See that Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is blown on every bottle. Try one bottle. 
                  DEBILITY, Resulting from any cause whatever, is removed by DR. CROOK'S WINE OF TAR! WHICH IS Unexcelled as a Tonic. 
                  It rejuvenates the entire system. Its stimulating, regulating and Tonic properties gives a vigorous vitality to all the organs, which is the best defense against all diseases. 
                
                
                   
                  Dr. CROOK'S WINE of TAR Is noted for its healthy action upon the Stomach and Bowels, regulating them and removing Costiveness or Diarrhoea! 
                  For Difficult Breathing! 
                  SORENESS OF BREAST, Pains in the Side, Breast or Back, USE Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar For Speedy Relief. 
                  Nervous Affections ARE ALL CURED BY INVIGORATION AND AS Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar Is a prompt restorer of the vital energies of the system, all suffering from Nervous Complaints will find this Tonic to have the desired effect. 
                
                
                  A Caution to Purchasers. 
                  Purchase Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar only. The wonderful cures and merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has caused unprincipled parties to substitute worthless preparations, and palm them off as genuine 
                
                
                   
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, R adder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get to relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do so work of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his ease beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him to try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Baking Powder, 
                     Or to all your can with Coal Oil, 
                     Or to purchase a new Lamp, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  Francis Ambler, Weymouth Mass 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 6. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  CHAPTER XVI.-(CONTINUED.) 
                  "I thank you for the intention," I answered. "Men are exceedingly apt to forget such things; and besides, 'misery loves company,' you know. If you are captured, it will then be idle for me to appear in the character of a dupe." 
                  "Why?" 
                  "There will be a warm sprinkling of shot before a cruiser gets up to us, and I shall order it." 
                  "Humph! I see." 
                  "And a hand-to-hand fight before they get on board," I continued; and I shall be there also." 
                  "You evince a keener interest in our escape than I expected. It seems to have grown on you. You know you did not take very kindly to my proposition at first." 
                  "Explanations of such a change naturally suggest themselves" I said. 
                  "Well, not to me. Say on." 
                  I knew what he expected I would betray; but I "put him to sleep," to use his own words. 
                  "Gallantry, a beautiful and interesting young lady, et cetera, romance, sentiment." 
                  I parried him with the object he sought to hit. He looked a little relieved, I thought, and said: 
                  "Never mind; you have good reasons. I suppose, for not wishing to tell. A vessel like this is a prize worth fighting for." 
                  Then smiling slightly, he asked: 
                  "When did you discover Miss Fannie's disguise?" 
                  "Not at all; she is a perfect actress. The deception was perfect." 
                  "Have you seen her since she doffed it?" 
                  "I saw her standing in the companion way when the bangkong was upon us. The paint was removed and her hair down." 
                  "What do you think of her?" This time he appeared lying in wait for my reply. 
                  "I think she is very fine looking. Why do you ask? It can't matter to you or her either what I think." 
                  "No, but she wished me not to tell you that she was on board." 
                  "Ah! I was upon the point of asking you why you were so close about it." 
                  "That was the reason. I thought that she intended making a conquest of you, and was going about it in her own strange way." 
                  "She is given to that sort of feminine sport, is she?" 
                  "I should say, rather." 
                  "Well, it's too late in the day, now," I said, truthfully, too, for the conquest was already made. The answer pleased Jeffers, I thought, for he laughed slightly and replied: 
                  "Well, Fannie don't please some men." 
                  "What would be her satisfaction in gathering in my affections, if I had any to give?" 
                  "To relieve the tedium of the cruise, I suppose, and furnish material terial for her diary. I should like to see that diary." He said these words in the most matter-of-fact tone conceivable. 
                  "There may be material-enough about daylight or an hour after; perhaps. Her object in remaining disguised after getting safely on board, though-do you see how that would help her to make a conquest? I think this a strange time to be considering such things." 
                  "I do not; and it was possible that such was not her object. She only said 'Don't mention to our captain or to any one else that he has any lady passengers.'" 
                  "Then it was merely prompted by motives of modesty, no doubt, it not being convenient to assume her proper dress." 
                  "But she added also, 'I want to bewilder him a little as soon as we get safely out, he looks so invitingly stupid,'" replied Jeffers, quietly lighting a cigar. 
                  "You are betraying confidence, then," I said. 
                  "Ah, I don't join her in every whim, she has too many," he replied. "If I did it would be requisite to open an office for the business, and give full attention to that and nothing else." 
                  "You have known her some time. I suppose?" 
                  "Yes, intimately for years. I used to live at the bungalow, and fetch her to and from Mauritius or Capetown." While he said this his voice was altered. It was the tone of one recalling pleasant memories of things forever gone. 
                  "She has a different look, somehow, from most English girls," I remarked. 
                  "Probably her mother was a Corsican lady. She has all the Italian fire that is requisite in any character," said Jeffers slowly, as if reflecting. 
                  "And the object of leaving Putterrum in this secret, hazardous manner is to save her from the necessity of marrying the Rajah?" 
                  "Yes, it is easily stated thus, 'Give me your daughter, or I'll throw you in prison, take your property and have her anyhow." 
                  "That was the Rajah's ultimatum, was it?" I said. 
                  "Yes, twelve months ago. He then set spies to watch Creighton, who affected to consent; but demanded time on his daughter's behalf. Fannie was sent for to reside permanently in Putterrum; and then the business of getting away his property from the East was cautiously commenced. To do this without being suspected was fine manvering, I assure you. I don't know how we should have got along without Fannie. It was at last accomplished, however, and the bulk of his fortune removed. The conversion of the real estate required shrewd management and just the right buyers; but the withdrawal of his capital from the local markets without discovery was a financial problem that considering all things, was the most difficult of solution. Intrigue and Asiatic double-dealing must be met and baffled; so we made Fannie into an intrigante, and, as your countrymen say, she was our best holt.' Her intellect was greatly in advance of her years-or sex, for that matter. She had great control over the Rajah, and managed many things that would have been impossible without her. She discovered and baffled an attempt set on foot to show up Creighton's movements, in a certain transaction, which would have proved ruinous to the whole proceeding that were thus far successful. 
                  A month ago 
                        everthing
                        everything
                      was ready but the vessel, crew and master. This vessel was bought by Creighton's money, through Macao Joe. Any attempt to own a yacht at this time would have been death to our hopes. Macao Joe was the best person that could be obtained for the business of fitting out the felucca, and getting a crew at the last moment. It was prudent, however, and necessary that we should have a hold on him, lest at the eleventh hour he might want to trade. Fannie's wit was equal to this also, and Macao Joe would not dare to turn traitor to the firm, be his inclination and temptation ever so strong. Macao Joe knows how he has laid himself open to capital punishment at the hands of the East India Company, and Fannie knows also. The secret is safe with her, as long as Macao Joe is faithful. 
                  "Three weeks ago, some transactions with the Dutch Company in regard to the sale of some securities by a certain person let in a little daylight into the Rajah's lulled mind and there was imminent danger of utter ruin. The next night an attempt was made to poison me with brandy, which caused me to look shy where and when I drank. The person I refer to as the one who sought to be troublesome was a cashiered subaltern from the Company's service; he is of Dutch and English parentage, and was employed-after being dismissed from the Indian navy at Colombo-in some of the offices at Batavia. He was dismissed 
                        irom
                        from
                      that again afterward for insolence to the Governor there. He is a member of the Triad Society, speaks four or five languages well, and as many more indifferently; has killed two men in duels; betrayed and ruined a young governess at Singapore, and, with these qualifications, came down to take service under the Rajah, in view of his threatened difficulties with the Dutch Company. 
                  To give himself a better introduction at Court, he makes use of some information obtained stealthily from the secret office of the Dutch Company. But Fannie was too quick for him, and created in the Rajah's mind an impression that he was a spy of the Dutch Company, after which he could do no more damage, though he had the whole transactions of Creighton with the Dutch company during the past year in his hands, and proof with it. The Rajah's suspicions were somewhat aroused nevertheless, and it was necessary to get away at once, as he had named the day of Fannie's doom. Fannie ascertained that the Rajah was endeavoring to settle up with the Dutch company the points of difference which grew out of his countenance given to a piratical expedition, or the next thing to it, which plundered several of their protectorate chiefs, and obtain the company's sanction to placing a short embargo upon his ports. He gave specious reasons enough for this measure; but the real one was to ascertain, as he could by that means, if Creighton's capital was really invested in trade, as heretofore, which he doubted. Other dangers threatened; and Creighton began to worry. A master for the Nautch Girl was now wanted. He would have nothing, though, but a new-comer, a young man who did not speak the language, to prevent trading on our confidence, and a total stranger, to take the vessel out. 'An English man preferred,' as the advertisements say; but you filled the bill near enough. There were several good 'catches' before you came, but they were not navigators. That, of course, was essential. A master obtained, little more was to be done." 
                  "What became of the person mentioned as endangering the prospect?" I asked; "the cashiered naval officer?" for I knew him before I ever saw Putterrum. 
                  "He is about there still, protected from assassination by the suspicion of being an agent of the Dutch Company, though it is rather a dangerous protection. He is lounging about the adjacent ports, and returns frequently to Putterrum, sometimes richly dressed and with plenty of money; at others dressed as a common sailor, or, again, as a naval officer of some sort. He is seen in the lowest hells of Putterrum, and has also the entree of the palace. He stayed for a while at the Sicundar Bagh, but afterwards took a small oremgaso on the hill. He has monthly a stipendium from some source, and gambles for the rest, or perhaps does worse. 
                  "What sort of a looking person is he?" Jeffers had obtained but a portion of his history. 
                  "He looks in form and feature exactly like you," he replied. 
                  "What is his name?" I thought of him when Miss Creighton explained her mistake on the hill road bridge. 
                  Jeffers laughed lightly and said: "It is getting light, do you see the smoke now?" and then answered, "Van Horn is his real name. He has a dozen besides." 
                  There was only a blue haze discernible yet in the mist. The wind was still blowing briskly, and there was nothing to be apprehended, for the present, at any rate. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVII-A DANGEROUS DIFFICULTY. 
                  I could discern the headland looming up blue right in the vessel's track. It looked like an ultramarine shadow, and was a long way off yet. When the vessel got up to it there would be the point to take a departure, and leave the land for deep water. 
                  So, thought I, Julius Frazee, alias Trainor, you have barely escaped giving me trouble again. Who would have expected to ran upon you at Putterrum? Or have you, like Dick Swiveller, "closed up" other more desirable placers? Then I thought that I, too, had "closed up" one small city against further visits, but it was small loss. 
                  "We are getting a little sea on now," said Jeffers. 
                  "Yes; you're not going to get seasick, are you?', 
                  "Not at all; I'm an old traveler on the water. Fannie and I have been many a mile on the salt water. She's a very good sailor, and knows as much about 'port and starboard' and those technicalities as many a swell yachtsman, at least." 
                  "Which is not saying much, however. The wind's hauling more abeam." "Aft sheets everybody," I hailed to the groups in the waist. By the time the sails were trimmed properly to suit the changed direction of the wind, the edge of the sun was pushing above the horizon line, like a brazen shield just from the polisher's hands. 
                  Right astern, plainly now, could be seen the smoke and hull of a steamer. It was well known to all on board by this time, and I heard various comments expressive of doubt and misgiving as to the criminality of resisting her, if we found the steamer overhauling us. This feeling was the result of "croaking" on the part of one of the old man of war's men. These have as a class, from long obedience to the authority of naval officers, a strong repugnance to firing into anything that flies governmental bunting, unless under the orders of a proper naval officer. There are, of course, numerous exceptions to the case, not so much now as formerly, for many American men-of-war have crews composed of all kinds of men and often a large percentage of a cruising frigate's complement is first-rate material for fillibustering expeditions, and the like. There were two old English matelots among our party, one of whom had previously, as before mentioned, expressed his doubts as to the felucca's right to carry arms, or use them. He and another old seaman now came to the quarter deck, and one, as spokeman, said: 
                  "Cap'n, we dislikes to do anything that 'pears like a disrespect of dooty but me and my chum wants to ax you if that steamer astarn is after us, and if so be she is, and them guns is to be used, there is not a man in the ship as would slat 'em around more willin'ly than me and my chum, if ther' was a chance to git out 'en it arterward; but if things goes wrong, and we gets took, and captured like, and there's a trial, an' a pow-wow, we of course would ax protection of the English counsel. And the fust thing he'd ax us would be 'What wus you doin' on that boat? Did you hear her commission read? Did you ship to man guns?' and sich like questions as would be orkard fur to answer." 
                  The old sea lawyer paused here, as if waiting for some remark from me that would lead the way to more investigation. 
                  "Well, what comes next?" I said, after a pause. 
                  "Well, we hain't hyerd no cummission read in this ship, and nothin' was said about guns when we shipped; and we don't see that she's appinted like a cruiser no ways; and things don't look to us like as if we'd like to have any handlin' of the guns, in case you intends to do it, and we tho't we'd jest speak of it now, when everything is cool, so that when the time comes, there wouldn't be any pow-wow like." 
                  I saw in a moment that this feeling would gain ground rapidly if not uprooted at once: Therefore I waited till they had finished and then answered: 
                  "Pshaw, what do you mean by such insubordinate talk. You shipped to obey orders, didn't you?-Well, that will stand between you and harm, any of you. I'm captain of this vessel, and she carries an armament to protect her from pirates and the like, and if a vessel chases us and I say that it is a pirate and fire into her, that takes you all clear. That will do." 
                  They walked away, taking a new view of it, and quite satisfied. I thought it best to put the matter in its proper light before the American seamen, they having no doubt become tinctured with doubts, which, at such a time are catching, I knew precisely what to say to them. Having all hands called to the waist, I came to the break of the low quarter-deck and delivered an harangue something like the following: 
                  "Men, when I shipped you, I did not expect to hear grumbling and jangling every time a little smoke arose on the horizon. Let me hear no more talk about 'being justified.' This vessel is to all intents and purposes mine, and you are the crew proper. The rest are working their passage as stowaways, I am an American, you are Americans, and therefore this vessel is an American vessel, and as such we are bound to see her out, and if we do, it won't set you back any, be assured. Now, if the wind should fail, and that Putterrum Pirate should overhaul us, I want to know right now if you are going to let those fellows wave 
                        ovet
                        over
                      free born Americans? The bloody skull-and-cross-bones a wa-a-a a-ving over the gorgeous banner, Liberty? What one of you could hold up his head like a man, and walk into a saloon in New York or New Orleans, or anywhere, after such a story got back there? How would you feel if you heard some one say, 'There's one of them bummers that let the stars and stripes be trampled on by a parcel of barbarian barian niggers.' Hear 'em say, 'Them men had plenty of arms and ammunition, two good guns and a 'bully boy with the auburn hair,' that wasn't afraid of blue blazes, to lead 'em, but they would'nt fight, because they was afraid they would not be 'justified.' Your liquor would not do you any good; it would'nt even 'scratch.' It would taste like gall and wormwood. 
                  There was a loud, tumultuous cheer, ending with a tiger, cutting short any more "spread-eagle talk," and that was the last of any qualms on the subject of firing into the Rajah's cruisers. I stepped back, feeling a little sheepish at my salt water oratory, and not a little astonished at the boisterous acclamations. I had expected that there would be some parley, questions and explanations necessary before they settled down into a willingness to resist, and was therefore taken by surprise at their ready shouts. 
                  I was not long at a loss for the key to it, for aft on the weather side of the quarter deck stood a very radiant incarnation of all that is lovely. Miss Creighton had come up, unperceived by me as I faced the men, and passed quietly to a good position to hear the orator. That was the key of the enthusiasm. Her father was just appearing as I concluded, and said with some slight surprise, though in a placid tone: 
                  "It looks as though we were having a sort of hustings on board." 
                  In a few words I explained the difficulty, and then showed him that the steamer had commenced to draw up to us quite rapidly. The breeze was lighter now, and everything looked favorable for a running fight. Jeffers came up from the forward cabin where he had been napping a little on the sofa, and said, after looking at the steamer: 
                  "Come on Mr. Kingsley, here we are." 
                  It was the side-wheeler that was astern, and no other sail or smoke was in sight in any direction. She was after us no doubt, with a reward to stimulate all on board. 
                  "What were you saying just now in that queer style," asked Jeffers; "what was the object of it?" 
                  "That's the custom in the States when occasion arises for making the fur fly," I replied. 
                  "Wouldn't your men come to time without all that sort of 'Hail Columbia?'" 
                  "Properly authorized, they would; but as this vessel is just now, in the eyes of maritime law, a pirate, and nothing less, it required a little explanation on my part to get up the proper degree of enthusiasm, and to drown out, so to speak, the bad look that matters were assuming in their eyes." 
                  "My men don't require any thing of the sort." 
                  "No, I judge not," I returned dryly; "but will they stand fire?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I doubt it somewhat." 
                  "Why not, as well as yours? They have all of them smelled gunpowder enough in their time, I'll warrant," he returned. 
                  "They look hard enough to have stood almost anything; but, ten to one, midnight surprises and fireworks is their style of fighting." 
                  He colored a very little through his white skin, and said quickly: 
                  "I'll bet they stand the racket cooler and better than your green hands there." 
                  "And I'll bet you twenty rupees that they scatter about the decks like ducks in a hailstorm, at every shell." 
                  "Done," he said, and raised the glass for a view at the vessel. 
                  Wondering at his extreme nonchalance, with the prospect of capture and something worse before him, I turned away to attend to the vessel, far from feeling so very tranquil, I am willing to confess. The loss of the Nautch Girl, and the chance of being killed or crippled by the cruiser's shot or shell, did not occupy my attention. The vision of a loathsome prison, consuls' letters, procrastination, delay, and perhaps death, passed in review before the mind's eye, without exciting other than a dogged stubbornness. But the contemplation of the probability of being cut off from hoping; and still more the imminent fate of one who had in a few short days beamed upon my miserable life, brightening it with hope of real happiness, factitious and unwarranted, but still hope, created a feeling in my breast that may have worn the outward semblance of fear. 
                  The merchant glanced at me with a certain expression, which I interpreted correctly. Jeffers said in a low tone to Miss Creighton, which, though not intended for my hearing, seemed to crash through my brain like the tones of a Chinese gong, "Our captain is beginning to show the white feather, Fannie." 
                  I was upon the point of springing toward him, and choking out a retraction of the words, when she replied, with a flushing cheek and kindling eye: 
                  "Hush, he will hear you; and then you may have cause to change your opinion, I'm not often mistaken, and his emotion is not that of personal fear, I know. Do avoid any cause for a disturbance now." 
                  My attention was called to the waist of the vessel by loud words in many languages, and some shoving and crowding among the men. This was no occasion for intestinal brawls. Not waiting to inquire into the merit of the disturbance I fired three shots from my revolver, in quick succession, over the belligerents, thus securing their attention; and directed Macao Joe to inform his friends-for the quarrel was among the native crew exclusively-that my next bullet would find its way into their midst instead of over head, if there were any more of such proceedings. This was done by that individual with some polyglot swearing and much gesticulation. The knives were put up, with the usual muttering, and an occasional sharp word at each other, after the manner of fish women. The presentiment of evil, out of mind for a short time, returned to me again. By this time there was but little breeze, and the chance of a running fight even died away with the wind. Nearer drew the steamer, her hull showing plainly now, and in the glass the white water at her bows was easily distinguishable. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XVIII-IMPROVING THE HOUR 
                  "Here comes the breeze again," said I, as a blur was apparent to an experienced eye on the water. "Let the men get breakfast, there's another lease of hope." The sails distended, and the felucca acknowledged the impulse, gliding off like a thistle down, or a dead leaf on the bosom of a rapid. The aroma of coffee mingled with a positive odor of onions, floated on the balmy morning air of the tropics, as the cook handed out from his galley the morning meal. The steward was slicing off steaks from a huge hind-quarter of beef that swung from the back of the galley, for the cabin meal, while the cabin boy, a young gentleman whom I had never the honor of laying eyes on before that moment; brought a tray of coffee and sugar cakes, and passed them. 
                  "Where did you spring from?" I asked. 
                  "No intiende, senor captain," he answered. 
                  "He came with our crowd," said, Jeffers, I forgot to send one aboard before. This muchacho I found wandering dering about Putterrum, with no money, no friends, nowhere to go, and nothing to do when he get there. He belongs to Manilla, he says. 
                  "How did he get adrift in Putterrum?" 
                  "Same old story; ran away from a vessel, a whaling brig, and ran away from home to get on her. Now, having seen enough of the world, he is making his way back to his mother, who no doubt wishes that he would remain abroad permanently." 
                  "Why, Mr. Jeffers, how can you speak so?" said Miss Creighton, a sort of tender, motherly expression stealing over her face, as she regarded the weary and worn-looking young wanderer. "His mother, if living, is yearning for his return, no matter who she is, or what kind of a boy he was. Though I suspect he has been something of 'a trial,' as the old ladies say," she continued, regarding the hunger-thinned, but handsome, manly face of the lad. 
                  "Pshaw! I know Manilla people of his class well enough. They rejoice when a brat falls into the river; there's one less to feed. But they don't fall in often; if they do they manage to get out again," he returned. I was thinking of my early drifting about, and watching the strange loveliness of Miss Creighton's face. It was a perfect blending of the Madonna and Lady Gay Spanker types, and sometimes one or the other predominated. Now there was a tenderness, a sort of yearning expression in her eyes and features, that showed her to be a true woman in soul, and that she emerged from the almost wanton life at the Putterrum court as uncorrupted as a young angel. 
                  "I shall make a protege of that poor lad, and see that he gets home again," said Miss Creighton, as the cabin boy went below with the things. 
                  "You had better get out of the hands of the Phillistines yourself, Fannie, before you look after others," answered her father from the other side of the deck. 
                  I had kept aloof from her thus far from a regard for her own feelings, together with a certain embarrassment that I felt in addressing her, after our second extraordinary interview; but after her father and Jeffers had gone below, to take a glass of brandy, probably, and confer together, she came to me, and extending her hand in a frank, girlish way, said: 
                  "It is rather late to say 'how do you do,' after being on deck so long, but you would not even give me a nod of recognition, so I shall make your acquaintance myself, as I did on the hill road." 
                  "I waited till you might be pleased to renew our singular acquaintance, and at last am rewarded for my patience." 
                  After a short conversation she asked, with some slight embarrassment: "What do you think of me, after last night?" 
                  "It can't be of consequence to you what a stranger like me thinks." 
                  "But it is of consequence. What could I have been thinking about! I felt so sorry afterward for the deception I had practised upon you." 
                  "And for drawing me out completely, I suppose," I answered. 
                  "I could not resist continuing the deception, you were so perfectly astray. My intention at first was only to try my disguise upon you, and then to leave you, still unsuspecting, till I could appear after changing the dress for my proper one; but the luggage boxes were not readily got at in the hold, for they were sent aboard as merchandise, and, by mistake, put away as such. The conversation took such a strange turn, that I thought to see what you thought of me, for you could not help but think something." 
                   
                  That is very likely. I thought a great deal that I am rejoiced to find was only an idle, unwarranted fear; and if anything that I spoke last night was unpleasant, you will know how to excuse it. How did you disguise your voice so perfectly? It seems that one ought never to forget it after once hearing it. It recalled you to me but still was disguised a great deal." 
                  "Oh, that was not difficult, for I had practised such things for amusements when a child. How completely bewildered you were." 
                  "Recollect that it was dark. No shade of brown paint could hide your features from my scrutiny in daylight," I replied. 
                  "But my expression was hidden too, or much altered. It was bold, perhaps, to take such a costume, but the circumstances required it. I could not have got through the town without being recognized. Ladies, you know, never come down into it at night, and to go with papa I must have male attire. It was managed very cleverly; for since a certain person tried to ruin papa by exciting the Rajah against him, the town has been full of spies who noted every movement of ours; but none recognised me. To leave the bungalo at night would have drawn upon me a watcher, so I went in the afternoon to ride, and did not return as usual. I had stopped in the meantime at the house of my ayah's mother, and there put on the disguise that had been sent thither previously. This house was three miles from the 
                        supurbs
                        suburbs
                      and remote from any other. I then came back home on foot, met papa at his usual place on the Verandah, and told him that his daughter's horse had lamed itself very badly, and that she was waiting for another to be sent to a certain house, naming it, and the servants all knew that it was where my ayah lived. 
                  So nothing was suspected when papa said, 'Jupenna you can ride out there and remain with your mother till to-morrow. The household is tired, so I will go myself for the ride.' The men servants had been purposely employed the whole day to make that plausible, otherwise it would have been wondered that he did not send a groom with a led horse; and anything that was out of the usual way would be forthwith reported, we knew. Papa left casually, telling the pipe-boy to have his favorite hookah tube carried out and mended against his return. When out of the vicinity of the hill residences the horses were hid in a thicket, and we crossed down toward the town and passed through it. 
                  My woman had, while in her apartment, disguised her face, and took with her the male attire which she put on in the thicket. On the way down we met the other servant by pre-arrangement, and papa pretendingly scolded him and sent him on an errand to the lower end of the town, where he joined us again unobserved. These were the only servants that we dared to trust with the secret of our flight, and these not till the last few days." 
                  "The men who came with the boat, how were they provided?" I asked. 
                  "Macao Joe sent them to a point to wait for him. They are his boat's crew, and it was his boat. On our arrival there papa told them that Macao Joe was on board of a vessel out in a bay waiting for him. That excited no suspicion with them.-The servant then took two of them and fetched a box from close by, where it had been hidden, and we shook off the dust from Putterrum. 
                  "Why did you not go to the house of some friend and put on the disguise?" I asked. 
                   
                  "No one who has to remain in Putterrum would desire to have the Rajah's displeasure; it is a serious matter. Besides the espionage of their servants would be as bad.-Neither did I wish to subject any friend of ours to the danger of the Rajah's rage, when he discovered our escape. His vindictive spirit would lead him to injure all who assisted in it. So here are all who were concerned; ready for disposal, if that steamer can get up with us," 
                  "Some of us will be safe beyond the reach of his vengeance before they capture you," I answered with some warmth. 
                  "It would be useless to fight the steamer's crew. It would be throwing your life away, and your mens. You and they can escape by the protection of your consul, perhaps, at least from open danger." 
                  "I can speak for them and myself, that you shall not be given up without a fight, hand to hand; and if the native crew that Jeffers brought with him on board will fight at all, we can hope to beat off the steamer's men. Her crew is not much larger than ours." 
                  "I am afraid it will be throwing your life away," she said, quietly. 
                  "Well, then, I'll throw it away. It will not be worth much after you-that is, after what I have already done to involve me in the fate of the rest." 
                  She looked at me with a sad expression, and said: "No; papa has left a letter to be handed to the commander, who is an Englishman, and who is indebted to papa for his position in the Rajah's service, besides other important assistance. The letter provides for a supply of means if he loses his position under the Rajah, by failing to capture us. If that does not answer the purpose there is no likelihood that shedding blood will succeed." 
                  "Well, we'll have a 'battle royal' with Kingsley's riffraff before we give up. I have great faith in hard knocks, in a case of this kind. If I had as many more lads on board like those forward, yonder, I should not value the steamer a rush, officers and crew, engineers and firemen, and the whole aggregated lot." I replied. 
                  "What class of men are those, they do not look quite like sailors?" she asked, looking in the direction of Gideon's band, who were seated apart by themselves, putting away a large quantity of Mr. Creighton's provisions, with much indifference to a prospective "scrimmage" with the Rajah's gunboat, apparently. 
                  They are a part of the brood of the American Eagle, genuine specimens of republican 'sovreigns,' and are a part of what the American constitution rests upon. Rough, uncultivated freemen, they drink whiskey, fight, play poker, and have besides a great many other sins of omission and commission. They probably never heard of the Shorter 
                        Chatecism
                        Catechism
                     , and their reading is confined to cheap blood-and-thunder romances, and the Police Gazette, but they could not be bribed to do a mean act, and would fight for you or any other woman in distress, till death." 
                  "You have described them very graphically," she said, with a smile. 
                  There was a pause, and she went to the companion way and looked down. 
                  "You spoke of a person who attempted to frustrate Mr. Creighton's plans for leaving Putterrum; what sort of a looking man was he?" 
                        I I
                        I
                      asked, more to commence a conversation than from a desire to know. 
                  "I used to think him very ill-looking, she said, but I suppose that I must ascribe that to prejudice, and think now that he must have been handsome," she replied, looking at me with the fairest twinkle in her blue eyes, little thinking that I knew whom the man resembled. 
                  "What was his name?" 
                  She paused again, and then replied: 
                  "Van Horn was one of his names. I think he was in the habit of changing it as occasion required." 
                  "That brings me to think of a question that I wanted to ask," said I. "Who was the person for whom you mistook me, on the hill road, when you switched me in the face with the festoon?" 
                  "What did you think when I committed that rudeness?" 
                  "But you are evading my question." 
                  "It was-somebody." 
                  "I presume so; but what his name?" 
                  "He called himself Trainor," she replied, with a slight blush. 
                  "That was one of his names; but wasn't he in the habit of changing it as occasion required?" 
                  "Jeffers has been telling you," blushing still more. 
                  "Certainly, Jeffers and you together; and now I'll tell you what I thought on that occasion." 
                  "I don't think I want to know now," she answered hesitatingly: "you have acted so-so-" 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED.) 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. By stitching each number before cutting the leaves, and preserving them, you will have a "New Story" at no expense. 
                  Back numbers of the Story, can be obtained from your Druggist who sells Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  GENUINE BOTTLES OF Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  
                      
                   
                
                
                   
                  The very best Testimony to be found. 
                   
                     E. C. Alverson, Marengo, Iowa: "I never sold a Medicine that gave better satisfaction than Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. It goes off like hot cakes. I have bought largely several times of wholesale dealers." 
                     Dr. J. W. Israel, Whitehall, Ills. "We have sold a dozen a month since our first order to you last season, and it has given satisfaction in every case." 
                     Niblack, Dodge & Co. Cambria Mills, Michigan: "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is the best selling Medicine we have, on account of its great merit." 
                     F. M. Baldwin, Blanchester, O: "It beats all Medicine to sell that I keep. I have no Medicine that sells and gives satisfaction as it does. Every one that uses it gives it the greatest praise. The reason is, because it cures the diseases for which it is taken." 
                     Wm. Krueger, Augusta, Ills: "I can honestly state to you that I have never handled a Medicine with more success, and a better reputation than Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. We have days that we sell from eight to ten bottles of it in a single day." 
                   
                
                
                   
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane, and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no work of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him to try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Baking Powder, 
                     Or to fill your can with Coal Oil, 
                     Or to purchase a new Lamp, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  Francis Ambler, Weymouth Mass 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 7. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  CHAPTER XVIII.-(CONTINUED.) 
                  "Hatefully, I suppose; that's often a lady's word to express a great deal or nothing," I replied, filling out the hiatus. 
                  "Not, perhaps, so bad as that; but you know what you think, and you may be mistaken." 
                  "Jeffers told me something more. Perhaps he considered it confidential, or that I would not be sufficiently intimate with you to speak of it again. At all events, as you both are well acquainted, I will do it. Such a small matter cannot impair the friendly relations of years." 
                  "Mr. Jeffers has always been very much attached to me ever since I knew him," she replied, with childish ingenuousness; "but he is not very discreet in some things, however deep his character may be for others. You may tell me without fear of creating ill-feeling between us, though I have a foreboding of what it is." 
                  "He said that you wanted to bewilder me, because I looked so invitingly stupid." 
                  The lovely carnation flush overspread her slightly dimpled cheeks, as she replied, a little embarrassed: 
                  "Is that all? I feared that with his usual penetration he had suspected my dearest secret; and I suppose that you felt vexed and uneasy, until you had confronted me with it." 
                  "I had hoped that it was a mistake of his, or that you could put a different look upon it, by explanation." 
                  "Perhaps it is true. Are you not a little stupid?" she asked, in a smiling, tantalizing way. 
                  "I don't think so," I replied. 
                  "Well, now, I think you are a little stupid not to understand a woman any better than that." And with a light laugh she descended to the cabin, saying as she went down the companion steps, with a certain winning, witching of manner, that was death to one's peace of mind: "I must not converse too long with you, it might look as if I wanted to 'bewilder you.' If that steamer does not catch us, I have something to tell you." 
                  "And if that steamer does catch us I have something to tell you," I said, more to myself than her. For if the dread hour should draw nigh, when the dismasted and sinking felucca, waited on the waters for the coming vessel that was to take her back to the Rajah's mercy, I felt that if I lived I should speak out like a man the all-pervading love that otherwise would have to be locked up in my own breast, perhaps for ever. But it would then be a relief to tell her all. 
                  She stopped, and looking back, it seemed with a more saddened expression, as she asked: 
                  "Was that intended for me?" 
                  "Yes, if you heard it," I answered. 
                   
                  "I already know it," she replied, and disappeared. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XIX-A RUNNING FIGHT. 
                  "I think we're leavin' the steamer now, sir," said Kittler, handing me the glass, "if we were only clear of that headland yonder, we'd have a spankin' breeze and could run that smoke house hull down astern, directly. 
                  I looked. She had evidently not gained on us, at least, but was, from the quantity of smoke issuing from her funnel, doing her best towards it. 
                  Soon after the steward announced breakfast. Contrary to all the precedents of orthodox lovers, and in defiance of my somewhat romantic situation, I went down and did ample justice to the meal, which fully justified all that Jeffers had spoken of the steward's ability. I had thought that perhaps I would have been honored with a place at the merchant's table in the after-cabin; but Jeffers himself sat down with us in the cuddy. The meal was devoured in the sullen silence peculiar to mariners, interrupted occasionally, by a brief remark upon our chances of getting clear of the steamer, or a demand for something from the steward. The deck had been left in charge of one of the old sailors whom I had appointed to the brevet dignity of third mate and boatswain, which entitled him to take the deck when occasion required it. His name was Speed. 
                  At intervals during the meal we could hear the clear silvery tones of Miss Creighton's voice speaking in Spanish to the cabin-boy who was serving them; and I thought how happily would a life glide away to the daily melody of such a voice for a tete-a-tete at meal times. These musings would be jarred away anon as Kitler would growl out, "Steward, more taters," or Macao Joe, desisting from his activity, expressed gutterally, in his broken style, an opinion on the weather. The meal was nearly concluded when a loud flap of the mainsail told us how suddenly and utterly the breeze had failed again. We all went on deck. 
                  There was no trace of a flaw from the windward, or what had been the windward. It was almost a dead calm. All came up. The sun shone brightly on the greenish waters that heaved sluggishly with the constant ground-swell on Putterrum bank. Ahead, now clearly defined, rugged and patched with green foliage and sporadic cultivation, arose Putterrum Head. It was but a few miles distant, and two hours more of the breeze would have opened the broad ocean sweep to fill our canvas and waft us away-away beyond the reach of the Rajah's cruiser, or the Rajah's rapacity and wrath.-But it was not to be. 
                  The felucca had barely steerageway now, and anxiety was apparent upon the stern features of the merchant. It seemed as if the dream which had sustained him through many years of toil and hazard, and which was now all but realized; was dissipated with the ominous shake of the felucca's broad wings. What emotions were teeming then in his despairing breast, as he gazed at the pale face of his child, were difficult for one not so placed to conceive.-She gazed at the approaching cruiser with a calm, steadfast expression of resignation. Underlying it, however, could be detected the repressed agony of mind at the contemplation of her own miserable future, and her father's heart-breaking grief that would ensue. 
                  The men moved restlessly about the decks, making little personal preparation for a change that foreboded evil. 
                  "Come, Scotty, pay me that three rupees now while I think of it. A man wants all his little money in his garments when things is goin' to cave in," said one. 
                  "What cheek you have about the money; didn't I say I'd pay at Singapore, and the money is mine till we get to Singapore? Besides, I ha'nt got it; I spent it for drinks and some terbacker; and you helped drink the liquor." 
                  Jeffers looked a little nervous now. He and Macao Joe conferred hurriedly together. The native crew were the least concerned, and stood gazing stolidly astern, uttering a few remarks among themselves.-There was no chance now for Kingsley, the English commander of the cruiser; to accede to the offer of the letter alluded to by Miss Creighton. There was no loophole to escape through, or mitigating circumstances to excuse or palliate his failure to capture the felucca now. Nothing short of an explosion of the steamer's boilers, or breaking down of her engines, would save him from the Rajah's "naked wrath." Aside from this, it was not certain that he would choose to take any risk whatever, as there was, no doubt, a reward for the capture of the felucca, that would be sufficiently remunerative. 
                  "Hear the drumming of her paddles!" said Speed. 
                  The red paddles of the coming vessel flashed in the sunlight, and their low muffled dash was faintly audible. 
                  "Here comes a puff," said Kitler, and the sails filled out once more. But it was almost too late now, the cruiser was within distant range of her guns, and would no doubt fire upon us as soon as it was noted that we were drawing ahead again. 
                  "That opens the ball," exclaimed Jeffers, as a white cloud swelled out lightly from her bows, and rolled along the surface. A few seconds of silence intervened ere the report boomed over the water upon our ears; then there came a hoarse, wicked scream, as the shot passed away to starboard, plunging with a dull bang, and a white feather of spray darting up, to mark its resting place. 
                  "Stand by, both guns' crews," I shouted. 
                  The men stepped out to their places with the air of veterans, like men to whom the business of fighting against recognized powers was a matter of course. The men in charge of each piece gave the order, "Load away, boys," and soon all was ready. I stepped to the merchant: 
                  "Mr. Creighton," I said, "I'm sailing this vessel under your orders in everything but resistance to yonder steamer. I will give you a chance to provide a defence in case we are taken, before the tribunal of your own nation. You can have witnesses to testify that you ordered me not to fire into the steamer, and that I set your orders at defiance." 
                  That I thought might avail him somewhat if we were taken. 
                  "Young man," he replied, "I would be glad not to be utterly cut off from such aid as money will obtain in this business. It is a feeble hope, for there are some difficulties in the way of direct application to English protection, or I should not have been hindered from leaving Putterrum at any time by the Rajah. These measures he has been loth to adopt, as he himself would become more or less involved; but I would be cut off from all hope, if the flag of Putterrum was fired on by my direction. Are you aware of the position you become placed in by such a course?" 
                  "Perfectly." 
                  He called the steward. 
                  "I tell you not to fire into yonder vessel; mark that, steward." 
                   
                  "Yes, sir," said the man, understanding it, as it seemed. 
                  "I shall not obey your orders, for I want this felucca, and if an active skirmish with round shot will save her, I shall try to beat the steamer off." 
                  "Very good, I wash my hands of it." 
                  "There she comes agin," shouted some one as the smoke rolled out from the steamer; and, as before, the shot flew wide, and went wandering away off the quarter, little jets of spray rising closer to each other, as the spent ball ricocheted over the green surface. There was a murmur among the native crew; slight, but I noted it. 
                  "He is loth to hit us," said Creighton; "but as the breeze has increased considerably, he will come nearer next time. There is a hope yet if the wind will stay with us." 
                  "His ball practice is rather poor," said Jeffers, with a show of his usual easy manner. 
                  "Look out! two! hull! three!" exclaimed several together, as the steamer, from the successive discharge of three guns, was now surrounded with smoke, and her three shot tore the air. Another succeeded after a short interval. Suddenly a white cloudlet in the air was followed by a report, and the hissing of shell splinters above and about us. 
                  The wind was still taking us blithely along Putterrum head drew nearer. Beyond that was safety. The next shot might cripple the felucca's spars, or a splinter from a shell might take her life. It was closing the gate to all hope for me if we were taken. With no gold to keep afar a loathsome dungeon, a lingering death in a tropical prison, I was taking a heavier risk than that in common with all on board; but I did not give it a thought then. I was only waiting to see if the commander was not making a mere show for his own benefit. A disclosure of our armament would be likely to increase the onerousness of his failure by laying him open to the accusation of cowardice. If the steamer's practice improved any, or another shell was thrown, there would be no further doubt, and nothing left for us but to reply as rapidly as possible, with the chance of disabling him, or at least injure the aim of his gunners. 
                  "We are all ready to bombard, why the blazes don't they let us bombard?" said one of the crew at the guns, impatiently. 
                  Again came the steamer's three guns in succession. The first shot passed through the mainsail, making a rent in it two feet from the mast, and two succeeding shells burst together, the splinters, many of them, driving down upon the vessel. 
                  "All ready there?" 
                  "Aye, aye, sir!" 
                  "Let her come up a point and a half," I ordered the helmsman.-Any time you're ready there, commence firing," I shouted. 
                  "We're all ready, sir, give the word." 
                  "Fire, then." 
                  The felucca trembled. The smoke enveloped her. Bang went a shell overhead. 
                  "Raise your wheel-keep her off-more yet-starboard gun now." And presently the little vessel shook with the second detonation. 
                  "Close shooting, old boy, we'll get you next time!" exclaimed Kitler, looking toward the steamer, as one of our shot dashed up the white water close to her port paddle. All around was smoke, for the breeze blew it back upon us, and various exclamations could be heard fore and aft from persons veiled in it. 
                  "Look out new men," said the chief of a gun, "take your time, take your time, you've the world before you. Stand shy," and a shell burst low down and the fragments blew shrilly around. 
                  "He's after us, boys, he means us," said one of the men. 
                  "Yes." 
                  "That's what I begin to think that I believe that I perceive," jocularly replied another. 
                  Deeming that we had got near enough to the Head to clear a sunken reef running out from it, I kept the felucca away till the steamer was off the quarter. The port gun was shifted over to the starboard, and its breeching and side tackles hooked into eyebolts in the plank-shear, conveniently forward of the other gun. This gave us the double advantage of avoiding any loss of headway by yawning, and of sooner getting clear of the head. The steamer, drawing more water, would be compelled to stand further out, while we crossed through a gap in the reef closer in to the head, which was a desirable advantage for the Nautch Girl. 
                  "Now hammer away at her," I shouted, as soon as all was ready, "and let that fellow find out that we are not dead." 
                  "We'll show him that there is a gun in the Nautch Girl this time," said the gunner of one, pointing the piece. "To the right a leetle more. Steady. Fire." The deck shook, and, as before, we were hid in our own smoke. A shell burst very near. There was a rush among the native crew; and loud exclamations, denoting demoralization. "Fire," came the order from out the sulphurous mist, and the other gun lumbered. 
                  Just then there was a crash, and about fifteen feet of the mainyard swung like a broken wing, hanging only by the head rope of the sail. The native crew had rushed together in a close group, gazing at something. 
                  "What's the matter there?" 
                  "A man killed, sir. Head smashed with a shell splinter." 
                  "Are you fellers goin' to stand and gawp at that dead nigger the balance of the fight? Get aft here to this mains'l," shouted Kitler. 
                  "Jeffers, did you see that letter. properly started?" exclaimed Mr. Creighton in a voice high above the confusion. 
                  Bang went another shell, and the splinters flew from the bulwarks. 
                  "Yes, sir, he has it surely; and that's the way he replies." 
                  "There's nothing meaner on God's green earth than a renegade Englishman," shouted Creighton in a frenzy of wrath and excitement, alluding to Kingsley. 
                  "Jump up there a light man, and clear that line foul of the end of the yard. Quick's your play now." 
                  Bang went a shell, and the fragments sung keenly and struck near. 
                  "Lay aloft there, you feller, and lash up that head rope to the yard, sabe!" said the boatswain Speed to a Chinese who stood near, in great terror, handing him at the same time a piece of ratline stuff. 
                  "No can do," was the response. "All same Pekin side no hab got." meaning that he had never done such a thing in his own country.-He did not want to go. 
                  "Jump up there, one of you black scorpions, and lash that head rope before the end drags off the whole sail," roared out Speed, making a rush at one, who nimbly bustled away. No one moved though, and he was about to go himself. 
                  "Me sabe," said a voice, and Speed turning beheld the cabin boy motioning to the crippled spar. "Me sabe," he repeated. 
                  "Here muchacho" giving him the ratline stuff, "you're worth a junk-load of them banana bolters." 
                  Up went the lad, though several shells burst over him while there, and secured the sail from impending damage. 
                  Smash went a shot through the tip of the caboose, tearing it off and scattering tip pans and other vessels about the deck. Crash! came another through Macao Joe's boat, that was hanging from the davits. Again our two bull-dogs replied, making all on board sensible of their presence. 
                  "Dam ole Kingsley," growled Macao Joe, looking at his boat; "I wish he been in dat boat right den." 
                  "They are warming our ears some," said Creighton. "Our shooting is scandalous. Can't we hit her as all?" he continued in rather a fidget. 
                  "Oh, yes; we've hit her three times, and she's stopped her wheels once. She'll stop them for good, I hope, very soon. There is more motion on this vessel, which is a disadvantage," I answered, as he paced up and down in excitement. 
                  "Aim carefully every time," I shouted to the gunners, "there's no time to waste." 
                  The men at the guns were stripped to the waist and begrimmed with dust and gunpowder, working like beavers, and squirting tobacco juice about in all directions, with true American abandon. 
                  "My child! go down below again" exclaimed Creighton, as Miss Fannie appeared in the smoke, and being a little startled at the al fresco appearance of the cannoniers, turned to me and said: 
                  "I want to see something of this horrid light. Are there any killed?" 
                  "One," I answered, feeling quite as uneasy as her father at her presence on deck. 
                  "Thank God, there are no more," she returned, fervently. 
                  "Fanniel" exclaimed her father, seizing her by the arm, "you must go down below." 
                  "She wants to see her American cousins at gineral quarters," said a sailor in an undertone to his neighbor. 
                  "Papa, I want to be with you, it is no more secure below than here." 
                  "It is a little more so, my daughter there, go down my dear." 
                  "That gal's got a good stout gizzard," said a sailor, in honest and respectful admiration. I thought Miss Fannie heard that remark, for she went below again forthwith. 
                  "We're one ahead of you yit, Dave," called out one gunner to the other. "You ain't nowhar, we're goin' to hit her agin this time." 
                  "Another man hit there?" I asked as there was a rush from the explosion of a shell. 
                  "Two more, sir." The score was running up against me. "How will this end?" I thought in an instant. Then came a sharp crash-crack-crack-crash-and the lofty lateen yard came down with a lumbering noise, all hands scattering from it as it fell. The main mast had been shot away about fourteen feet from the deck, and the long yard and fragment of the mast lay partly over the vessel's side, a tangled mass of hamper, which, dragging in the water, brought the felucca broadside to the steamer in spite of her helm, and nearly destroyed her headway. 
                  "It is all over," groaned the merchant, sinking down upon the cabin trunk and covering his face with his hands. "My poor child, my poor child." 
                  "Keep those guns agoing; what do you stop for? Slue them broadside to, and keep it up. We hav'nt but just commenced to fight yet," I shouted, with a reckless determination never to be taken alive pervading my whole being. "Get that yard clear, Speed; overboard with it. The wind is stiff enough now." 
                  We were drawing clear of the Head, and as was expected the breeze was strong and constant. 
                  "Git along here, you cussed batachong eating scoundrels, and help save the ship, or I'll massacre every bloody one of ye," yelled the boatswain. 
                  They cut it adrift, while our armament opened on the steamer again, and as the yard and the fragment of the mast were shoved overboard and dragged clear of the Nautch Girl's side, a cheer burst from the begrimmed members of "Gideon's Band." 
                  "That rumbled in his coal bunkers," said one. 
                  "We hit the ingine ourselves." 
                  "No you didn't. She stopped her paddles afore you fellers fired." While they were thus jangling for the honor of the lucky shot, the steamer began to blow off steam, a 
                        eign
                        sign
                      that there was no more for the engines to do at present. A loud, enthusiastic cheer from all hands rent the air again; and the felucca payed off with her foresail and sailed joyously out into the broad ocean under her remaining canvas. 
                  I have given the incidents of the fight as near as I can recall them. In the confusion incident to such a scene, it is of course difficult, if not impossible, to note particularly all that took place. Suffice it to say that the above is the best picture I can draw of the little transaction off Putterrum Head which has cost me a world of trouble since. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XX-A BURIAL AT SEA.-HEAD MONEY. 
                  I now proceed to relate the most unpleasant part of this little history, and in recalling the events previous to chronicling them, my mind is impressed with the melancholy connection, of the weakness of our poor natures, and the truth of the maxim that it is often opportunity and circumstances combined which make us villains; and that temptations and forces of a peculiar character might serve to draw aside and destroy many who are considered above temptation. 
                  I have not a doubt but that Jeffers was as innocent of any previously concerted arrangements, looking to the acts which are now to be recorded, as was the merchant's daughter herself; and that the circumstances surrounding the preparation and final departure of the felucca, which may have impressed the reader with a suspicion of his fidelity heretofore, were purely accidental. Subsequent opportunities for obtaining information on these points have led me to this conclusion. It is with me, therefore, a settled conclusion that he was, the night of his arrival on board the Nautch Girl, nothing different from the character of a faithful young man in the employ of Mr. Creighton, and, aside from his one vice of occasional dissipation, merited esteem and confidence. 
                  These habits of dissipation were, it is but fair to suppose, more the result of certain perturbed forces of his nature, greatly stimulated by the mental excitement inseparable from various difficult and even dangerous duties of the commercial intrigue at Putterrum, than any natural inclination to vicious courses. 
                  The later services, requiring as they did the constant tension of an active and subtle intelligence, and fraught with personal peril to himself as well as his employer, may have assisted, and probably did assist, greatly in increasing the partial or moderate dissipation resulting from the previous life of intrigue. 
                  The precise nature of the transactions with which he was thus identified I do not know; in fact, I have never sought to investigate the subject, and am, therefore; but little better informed in those respects than is the reader. 
                  The latter will, if he has perused the preceding pages with attention, perceive that the character of Jeffers was not very dissimilar to many met in the daily walk through life; and in addition thereto will have noted that he was apparently upon the eve of a change in the habits, hopes and plans for the future, that were fraught with no pleasant anticipations. 
                  I shall explain briefly, as they arise in their relation to the remainder of this tale, what events produced these despondent feelings, and what they eventuated in more in detail. After the engagement above described, the felucca, unpursued, passed on her way toward a certain strait leading into the Java Sea. Her departure was taken from Putterrum Head, and the course laid for this highway. But after leaving the land I was desirous of ascertaining if the chronometer had altered its rate, that is, deviated in any way from the true Greenwich time, as this sometimes occurs from much cannonading on board a small vessel. Precautions had been taken to prevent this, but I chose to be certain, and therefore made a run for a certain well known landmark, which was somewhat out of our course and in the vicinity of a chain of small groups of islands, which have served from time 
                        immemoriai
                        immemorial
                     , for the hiding places and nests of nefarious and predatory hordes. 
                  There was nothing to fear on our part from being in those waters, as our force was amply sufficient to defy any attempt to capture the vessel. But circumstances resulted from going thither which probably gave rise to the first conception of what took place while in those waters. 
                  After departing from the direct course to sight the landmark mentioned, I was influenced by the expressed impatience of the merchant to proceed directly through the groups, that no time might be lost in getting on, as would be the case by remaining on the original course. The vessel was put in as good trim as possible after the loss of her mainsail, and as the length of the passage, hardly justified the delay of putting in anywhere for repairs, we kept on the course. On the morning following that on which we escaped from the steamer the three dead men were properly prepared for burial, and the felucca hove to with the colors set at half mast. There was no man on board qualified by consistent Christian character to read the burial service, and it was about to be omitted, I not choosing to trifle with the sacred offices though it is often done by non-professing captains. 
                  The bodies were placed side by side upon planks, the ends of which rested on the rail and the starboard gun. Around them in a semi-circle were grouped the men in reverential silence. In the absence of any religious ceremonial I had ordered a salute of ten guns to be fired, and the men requisite for that duty were at their stations. 
                  "Stand by," I said to those who were to raise the planks, thus sliding the bodies into the deep. 
                  Miss Creighton's light touch turned me toward her. 
                  "You surely are not going to launch them overboard yet," she asked. 
                  "How else, what shall I do more?" 
                  Handing me her Bible, the only one on board, she said: "For the sake of their poor heathen comrades, show the remains a common Christian respect. All sea captains do so much." 
                  I took the small Bible, and failing to find a proper chapter after a protracted search among the leaves, during which some slight mirth was manifest among the men at my ignorance of the book, 1 gave it to her again, a little vexed. 
                  "I will read it," she said. 
                  "Very good." 
                  All gave profound attention, and listened to the soothing tones, breathing lowly and sweetly Immanuel's promise to the world.-After a selected chapter she recited the Episcopal burial service for the dead at sea. At the words, "we therefore commit these bodies to the deep," the corpses were launched overboard and sank from view. "Looking for the resurrection of their spirits when the sea shall give up its dead," she concluded solemnly, and then rejoined her father, who had been standing at the taffrail. 
                  The yards were braced forward, and the Nautch Girl once more started on her way. 
                  That day one of the crew, a rough untaught young man, whose leisure hours from childhood had been spent in rum-mills and engine houses, was heard pondering the words, "I have fought the good fight, I have kept the faith, I have finished my course," probably the first words of Holy Writ that had ever attained a lodgment in his mind. 
                  The men killed were natives, hardly known to their own comrades, and were soon forgotten. The watches were set, and even with the loss of her mainsail, the felucca went merrily along; the wind being from astern, its loss was not so much felt. 
                  A few hours after, while taking the sun at noon for latitude, there was a little commotion around the 
                        ferehatch
                        forehatch
                     , and shortly the crew, in a body, approached the quarter deck, bringing with them a strange native. He had been discovered in the forehold, stowed away, and refused to account to them for his presence there. After completing the observation I asked him who he was, but his reply was unintelligible. He was half naked, and wore on his head a close fitting skull cap of straw, and was variously tattoed on his chest and arms. Jeffers spoke a few words with him, and turning to me, said: 
                  "He says he can tell something it you will promise that he shall not be hurt." 
                  He was assured of protection, and Jeffers and the natives had a longer conference. Then, turning to me, the former said: 
                  "It is as I thought. This is one of that bangkong's crew; they were all from among the neighboring islands under their own chief, and were to have had ten thousand dollars for murdering every person on board this vessel but the 'white woman.' His story was, in substance, that he was thrown overboard by his own oar when the felucca ran into the bangkong, and was caught against the stem of the vessel, to which he clung till she shot past. Climbing inboard by the head rigging, he had taken advantage of the darkness and other favoring circumstances to secrete himself in the forehold, until his fellows should get on board." 
                  By their failure to do so he found himself at the mercy of those he had sought to kill, and shrewdly created the impression on our minds that he was a common stowaway from Putterrum, until he had received assurance of safety. He was hurt, and evidently in pain, for his side and arm were much swollen; but he bore it with stolid stoicism, and chewed his betel quid as he gazed around upon the faces of the Nautch Girl's crew with apparent nonchalance. The native claimed to have been ignorant of the object of the expedition when he left for Putterrum, and refused to give the name of his chief, or his haunts. 
                  He was a murderous-looking savage age, though I contemplated him with no resentful emotion, as he was but a more ignorant creature of the grand old scoundrel at Putterrum, and we were now free of him for good. 
                  The crew were directed to interfere with him in no manner, and none sought to do so, though some members of Gideon's Band expressed a desire to "mug him a little." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXI-ANOTHER PASSENGER 
                  We made the "land-fall" of the headland before alluded to, and I found the chronometer nothing out of the way whatever; but here our course was altered, and the wind being abeam, the felucca behaved so unsatisfactorily without the mainsail that, after a consultation with Macao Joe and my other officers, I determined to put in at a small island then in sight to get a spar for a jury mainmast and set the foresail upon it, putting the driver or after sail in its place. Mr. Creighton expressed some uneasiness at this delay, but it was unavoidable. A few hours brought us off the entrance to the river, and abreast of a small collection of huts supposed to be a town. Macao Joe went ashore, to look out a suitable spar. No sooner had the felucca's bows headed in toward the settlement than a number of boats came off, and as soon as the anchor was down most of them came alongside. One of them contained a Spanish-looking gentleman who, from his dress and appearance looked out of place in that unfrequented village. He came to seek a passage elsewhere, anywhere in fact, stating that he had been cast away on a neighboring island, and had removed hither with his crew as a port more likely to receive a visit from prahus and other native craft He gave his name as A. Mucia, and showed me papers for the brig Restorador, of which he was master, sailing out of the port of Manilla. He had fourteen men on shore whom he would bring on board, when we were ready to sail. Some of them came off in boats afterward, fraternizing with our crew. They were an ordinary lot of Philippine Islanders. We consented to take him and his men to Singapore, he urging that it was very sickly here, his mate having died during the two weeks that they had been in the place. The weather at that time, however, was very dry and salubrious for such a locality. When Macao Joe's boat arrived, towing the spar, all hands turned to, including the Spanish crew, who were on board, and the spar was lashed firmly to the stump of the other. A short time sufficed to rig it and shirt the heavy lateen yards. When all was in readiness, the wrecked crew being by that time all on board, the anchor was picked up again, and we stood out upon the voyage. Mucia seemed a very pleasant companion, and his crew were prompt, handy seamen. They were however quite superfluous, as the felucca's crew was more than sufficient without them, and the deck was very much crowded in consequence. 
                  Captain Mucia seemed very much "taken," to use the word, with Miss Creighton's appearance, and, having a guitar belonging to one of his own men, sang some Spanish, ballads or madrigals, for her benefit, no doubt, as they contained a great deal of Spanish love sentiment. He was a good-looking man, about thirty five, tall, pale, and with a thick, black mustache. He was the personification of a Spanish bandit of the stage, though with much less open hardihood than the simon pure article that the soldiers bring to the villages of Spain on ox-wains or mules from time to time. He showed his white teeth with a bland smile when Miss Creighton was on deck, and was apparently desirous to make her acquaintance, but she seemed to avoid him, and he never expressed a wish to know her, either to Jeffers or myself. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXII-SOMETHING WRONG. 
                  It was on the fourth day out from the island that I noticed that he and Jeffers were growing tolerably intimate, and were often exchanging low hurried words together. I had observed, also, something that gave me some little thought and perplexity. Miss Creighton had appeared to avoid my society, and, though the weather was fine, remained most of the time secluded in the privacy of her own cabin, Whenever she appeared on deck, when I was present, she bowed distantly, and avoided the vicinity where I stood. An unmistakable change had come over her in that regard, and, of course, a change likewise came o'er the spirit of my dream. With Mucia or myself she held no converse, though I observed her regarding me, when alone, with a certain expression the interpretation of which was beyond my penetration. Captain Mucia she seemed also to shun, and after a few days would return to the cabin when he appeared upon the quarter deck. Jeffers, likewise, had but little speech with me. 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED.) 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. It can be obtained from the Druggist of your city, or on receipt of 10 cents the publishers will mail a copy regularly to your address. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  DO NOT NEGLECT A COUGH, Because it troubles you but little now; now is the time it is easiest cured, and none would suffer if they knew how easily they could be cured by DR. CROOK'S Wine of Tar. 
                  SUFFERERS FROM CHRONIC COUGHS, Will find that by taking Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar they are taking a fine expectorant, which removes all phlegm, soothes all irritation, and cures. 
                  FOR THE KIDNEYS THE BEST DIURETIC. 
                  THE INFLUENCE OF DR. CROOK'S Wine of Tar Is felt on the secreting organs, more especially on the mucous membrane and the Kidneys, on which it acts as a diuretic. It succeeds in reproducing the urinary secretions when other powerful diuretics have failed. 
                
                
                   
                  DEBILITY, Resulting from any cause whatever, is removed by DR. CROOK'S WINE OF TAR! WHICH IS Unexcelled as a Tonic. 
                  It rejuvenates the entire system. Its stimulating, regulating and Tonic properties gives a vigorous vitality to all the organs, which is the best defense against all diseases. 
                  DR. CROOK'S Wine of Tar RENOVATES THE LIVER AND STOMACH, REMOVING DYSPEPSIA And Kindred Complaints. 
                  Dyspeptics will find "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" to impart a vigor to their digestive organs, cause their food to be relished, the stomach to promptly digest, the blood to be purified, and their health to return. 
                
                
                   
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane, and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no work of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him to try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Baking Powder, 
                     Or to fill your can with Coal Oil, 
                     Or to purchase a new Lamp, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  Francis Ambler, Weymouth, Mass 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 8. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  CHAPTER XXII.-(CONTINUED.) 
                  Mr. Creighton had always observed a distant demeanor; and I began to consider that my peculiar and perhaps valuable services being now nearly performed, the whole trio were en trenching themselves behind a "rocky" civility preparatory to repudiating me altogether. 
                  Finally, though it was of no consequence however, Captain Mucia declined to sit at board with the rest of the men, and took his meals afterward, making it satisfactory to the steward with a little gold. This arrangement I could, of course, have interfered with, but he ascribed as a reason for this very unusual procedure that he was accustomed to certain ours from long habit, and that any departure from them interfered with his digestion. 
                  I reflected upon the changed demeanor of these persons, and determined to seek a solution of it. With this in view, approaching Miss Creighton one evening at sundown, as she stood at the taffrail watching the immersion of the day-god in the blue ocean, which twinged, as it settled away for the night, the horizon clouds with a crimson halo, I said: 
                  "Miss Creighton, I have seen so little of you for the past few days that the time begins to hang very heavily." 
                  This was, perhaps, as awkward a remark as could have been found by searching, and was not what I probably meant to say, but at the first words that were spoken, a fixed expression of pity and sorrow was so apparent, as she turned her gaze upon me, that I proceeded mechanically, without thought, and uttered what was uppermost in my mind. 
                  She moved toward the companion way, and with somewhat of the air of a lady who has been accosted by an utter stranger without justifying circumstances, replied: 
                  "I am sorry that my society is so necessary to your comfort. I trust the ennui you experience will be only temporary," and moved to the companion way. She stopped half way down the steps, then turning as she had done once before, added hurriedly, "I must see you once more-alone-to-night in the midwatch I will be on deck," and descended. 
                  "There is a nigger in the wood pile somewhere," I said inwardly, with an expressive south-western phrase, and went down to supper. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER XXIII-SOUNDING. 
                  At the table Jeffers remarked: 
                  "Captain," (he had adopted this title within the last few days), "you will have a little trouble to get a tough, pliant spar like the one lost off the 'Head.'" 
                  "Yes, but I presume one can be got for the money at Singapore, where the vessel was built," was my reply. 
                  "Captain Mucia was remarking that you would be more likely to get repairs cheaper and sooner at R-s, and as that is a convenient port to make from the Straits, I would be highly pleased myself to look in there, for though it is a small port like Putterrum, it is a veritable multum in parvo, and the great rendezvous for the petty Malay chiefs, when concocting a short moneymaking war. There would be a chance for you to determine easily the best business to place the Nautch Girl in." 
                  "I know the place somewhat from report, and from rumors respecting it I should think it was a much worse hole than Putterrum, if that were possible. You speak as though you were not bound for England with Mr. Creighton. How is that? 
                  "No, I am not," he replied. 
                  "That is a late determination, is it not?" 
                  "No, not very. Fate seems to point out a different road, and I must follow it. 
                  "You believe in kismet then?" 
                  "Yes, but in a different way from the Mohammedan fatalists." 
                  "What is your schism in that respect?" 
                  "I prefer to think that it is the tendency of mankind to gravitate downward in this world, and that circumstances, may produce an opportunity to overcome this gravitation. It is destiny to embrace or neglect these chances." 
                  "That is a sort of Oriental adjunct to Shakspeare's 'tide in the affairs of men," &c. I said, feeling all this was but a prelude to something. 
                  "Precisely. A manifest train of circumstances seems to suggest a certain course to achieve happiness, and the contrary one offers nothing but misery." 
                  "And does the first clearly promise happiness?" I asked. 
                  He seemed to be reflecting, and answered slowly: 
                  "There might be some happiness come of it." 
                  "Well, Mr. Jeffers, if you choose to make a confidant of me, you can get my poor opinion upon it," I replied carelessly. 
                  "I want your opinion, and the outline of what has changed my prospect is briefly this: Mr. Creighton has informed me that a handsome quarterly allowance will be paid to me at Singapore or elsewhere, so fixed as to be subject to no alteration or reduction so long as I remain out here, or at least do not visit England. That act would cut off the stipendium. This, together with a comfortable bonus which he offers, I am at liberty to accept or refuse, and the condition is binding for his lifetime only. 
                  "All the world beside England, Ireland and Scotland is open to you, is it?" 
                  "Yes." 
                  "I should take it. There is a land toward which my heart yearns now, a land w where liberty and citizenship are open to all, and whose people proper claim kindred with their English cousins who choose its government as their adopted one. You can go there." 
                  "But still America is not England; and Englishmen, though they leave it for years, only leave it, in the hope to return and dwell more comfortably on its soil," he replied. 
                  "What means are to be furnished you even in case you decline the first offer?" 
                  "None. I have saved a portion of my salary, which was ample, and looked forward to continue in his employ in some way in England." 
                  I reflected, but never once dreamed of the subject he sought to approach. 
                  "Was this alternative offered before leaving Putterrum?" I asked. 
                  "It was. A year ago, nearly, he said in a conversation relating to his departure, 'Once clear of Putterrum and the Rajah's clutches, you will be provided 
                        for for
                        for
                      life, and it is to be hoped then that you will make it a useful and happy one for all concerned, and abstain totally from these occasionally frolics and dissipation, which are dangerous. Do you understand me?" These were about his words. I have utterly mistaken their meaning, and interpreted them far differently. I think now that he intended that I should construe them as I did. At all events, as nothing more was spoken in that connection, and nothing was noticed by me to suggest a different meaning to them, I remained buoyant with a fallacious hope-a hope that has been abruptly dispelled in a recent conversation which I had with him just before our last at Putterrum." 
                  I did not yet guess at the true nature of his disappointment. In fact, the manner in which he approached this confidential disclosure tended naturally to lead a listener away from the real cause of his despondency, which was, notwithstanding his affected commonplace demeanor, evidently very keen. 
                  "Do you feel," he asked, after a pause, "that you have been sufficiently rewarded for the risk you have taken, and the inconvenience and jeopardy to which that fight off Putterrum Head will subject you in the future?" 
                  This was a question that had some interest for me; and he proceeded to point out what future complications would arise out of the affair in various ways. When he paused again I replied: 
                  "This comes rather unexpectedly from you, at whose hands I undertook the business." 
                  "It may look strange," he replied "but the probabilities of such a fight as took place, and the bloodshed which may have resulted on the steamer as well as this vessel, were distant, and not at all to be apprehended. Provision was to be made to avoid anything more than the mere semblance of an attempt upon the felucca, as you have heard. This was a failure, and but for your determined resistance, Creighton and his daughter would now have been back to Putterrum, and the town all agog with excitement. It was worth a handsome sum in ready money, in addition to a dismasted felucca of this size, to have taken the consequences of such resistance, saying nothing of the immediate personal risk. Perhaps he will consider it in the settlement, speaking commercially," I answered willing to lead on to what was to follow. Jeffers continued: 
                  "I doubt it. To say the truth," I mentioned the 
                        subjsct
                        subject
                      to him. His reply was, as near as I can recall it: I have paid enough. The young man knows his price, and faced the consequences to earn the vessel and the money offered. I want to get away from this cursed country, and wash my hands forever of all adventurers roving up and down it." 
                  That remark stung me. In connection with the coolness of himself and daughter; and the attempt to view me now in the light of a common hireling, taking bowstring risks and hard knocks for money, I began to acknowledge to myself the unenviable position that circumstances had led me to assume. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXIV-MR. SPEED SUSPECTS FRAUD. 
                  Speed and Kitler now coming to the table, the subject was dropped, and Jeffers left the cuddy. Other conversation followed. Speed said: 
                  "Did you ever see our cabin boy before, sir?" 
                  "No, not that I remember," I answered. 
                  "He's seed you. I heard him tellin' one of them Spanish chaps something about your being in some place, I could not tell what exactly, but he has seed you somewhar in a tight place, from his gyrations and shootin' pistols like, and layin' it out generally, whilst he was tellin' of it." 
                  "Humph; he is mistaken, I presume, in the person. I don't think he ever laid his eyes on me before he came on board. Why, what does it signify, anyhow?" 
                  "Nothin', only I think he has done you some dammidge with-some folks." He stopped with a look that indicated more to tell. 
                  "Go ahead," I said. 
                  "Ye see the lad is a harmless boy, and was tellin' somethin' of you in great admiration like to the other Spanish boy what came with the other captain. I have a small smatterin of the lingo, but he talked so fast that I couldn't foller him. I was at the wheel takin' up the wheel ropes. Says he in Spanish, 'His wife came and got him out of the fort by a writing from the Guv'ner-Gineral,' and a hull string of devilments and rigs that you was up to with three or four other wimmin, ontill bimeby I looked across the deck and saw the young lady harbin to it all, and lookin' mighty sollum; and then arterwards she called him down aft. and the skylight bein up I could hear her askin him questions, and it 'peared like she was tryin to pump outen him all he knowed. If you haint got your bonus for this here voyage, you'd better stop up that young colt's mouth, or any rigs that would be much agin you might git to the old man, and he havin them sort o' things to go on, might try to waller outen payin you what he 'greed. I know this part of the world powerful well, powerful well." 
                  "Was there anything else that was unusual?" I asked, without noticing his sage deductions. 
                  "Well, agin I seed that Captain a askin him questions, and then, lastly, the old man, and the other one, Mr. Jeffers had him and was talkin to him-fust one, then the other-and the boy, he was tellin everything he ever seed and knowed, and lots, I reckon, what he just cunjered jered up. I couldn't hear what he said; but this I know, they are after gittin some hold on you, to git outen nayin us all our jest dues." 
                  I assured him that he need have no fears on that score; that I was responsible for their wages, and that they would be paid liberally on our arrival in port. Leaving them to discuss it with themselves, I went on deck. 
                  Macao Joe was in conversation with Mucia in the waist. Jeffers was at the taffrail smoking his cares away, and the merchant was pacing up and down the quarter deck. He cast a gleaming eye of distrust at me, and left the weather side of the deck, which by custom belongs to the captain of the vessel, though when the relations between him and his passengers are cordial, it is shared with them in promenading. This relation he chose to disclaim, by leaving the windward side. I went to look at the compass. The binnacle was just aft of the companion-way leading to his cabin. Miss Creighton stood near it. I looked in her face as I stood at the binnacle fronting her. It bore no expression of recognition. Her eyes met mine, and were averted instantly; but there was a sadness in them that at once raised my apprehensions that some mysterious mischief was upon me, and the dream flashed across my mind, and the presentiment before alluded to returned with redoubled force. I was upon the point of speaking to her, but, as if mistrusting my intention, she withdrew from the companion way. I turned away pondering upon the irritating and yet unapproachable status of affairs. Jeffers approached and said: 
                  "When the cabin is vacant I will converse with you there upon a subject that I think will interest you," and then moved to the waist, joining Mucia and Macao Joe there. 
                  "The mid-watch will tell the tale," I muttered, and went down to my stateroom to examine my chart, after calling to Macao Joe to have the deep-sea led hove every hour and pass the order to Kitler in his watch, and not to shoal less than twenty fathoms without calling me. While sitting at the chart I heard the merchant's voice, as if to some one, repeat my soliloquy: 
                  "The mid-watch will tell the tale." 
                  The responding voice was Mucia's and the words were: 
                  "Ha! So soon as that? Let us take care of him at once, then. He is known to be a desperate fellow, and must be surprised." 
                  My first impulse was to rush on deck, and demand an explanation; but prudence dictated another course I listened, and felt justified under the circumstances. 
                  "Take your own course, Captain Mucia; and be assured that you will have my hearty endorsement and co-operation. Your penetration and sagacity have confirmed my latent suspicions, and I am ready to authorize any step you may advise.-Why, he is the most accomplished scoundrel that ever existed, and this a specimon of the refinement of rascality. This part of the world is the great hive of his kind. He is certainly very young for such turpitude." 
                  "Well, Mr. Creighton, we will have his smooth, innocent countenance looking through a grating, before long," said Mucia. 
                  "Lord! was there ever such a villain? But I suspected him; I suspected him from a certain circumstance stance which is not important to mention now." 
                  "We had better wait till he commits himself to your business man, Mr. Jeffers, who intends to draw him out to-night with a promised co-operation." 
                  "Indeed, Mr. Jeffers, will you?" I thought. 
                  What in the name of mystery they were alluding to was beyond my powers to surmise. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXV-THE INTRIGUE SUCCEEDS, AND THE NAUTCH GIRL CHANGES HANDS. 
                  "What to do now," was the query uppermost in my mind, and as often as I recurred to the vexatious and threatening aspect of affairs surrounding me, did the foreboding arise of the consequence of a single rash or impolitic step. Conscious of my own rectitude and innocence of any premeditated villainy, I was utterly at a loss to conceive how it was in the remotest degree feasible for me to commit any act inimical to the welfare of Mr. Creighton or any person on board the vessel. Sitting down again as the conversation ceased, I leaned upon the table to collect my turbulent thoughts. A low voice sounded through the bulkhead air-port, which was left open for the circulation of air. It was Miss Creighton's voice, and I listened again, now free from all compunctions on that score. I even got up and placed my ear to the air port. She was at prayer. I heard the earnest words of supplication, "May this danger now threatening be averted without the shedding of blood. And may this poor misguided young man, upon whose soul rests the stain of many crimes, be led away from the dark, dangerous path which he has known, to the bright tranquility of a Christian life. Oh, God! let the prayerful entreaty of one-if but one there be-not fall unavailing in behalf of his lost soul." 
                  I waited to hear no more; the deep pathos of the voice, pouring out in anguish a supplication to the throne above in my behalf, thrilled every fibre of my body. With feelings easily imagined I rushed to the deck. Confronting Mr. Creighton, the first person in view, I said: 
                  "Sir, I have overheard a conversation between you and Captain Mucia, relating to me, that requires explanation, and I will have it now. I have no time to wait. Of what am I suspected, and what are the grounds?" 
                  "Talk to me, sir. I am in command here," and turning, I beheld Mucia. He continued: "Any attempt to get up a row, and you cast your life away." 
                  He held a revolver down at his side. The long steel barrel looked cold and bright in the light of the binnacle lamp. To die then, with the horrible unknown suspicion resting upon my memory, with her mind unenlightened, and the story in shreds and patches finding its way back to those in my own native town, was more repugnant and appalling than a score of common deaths. This dread was all that restrained me from springing upon Mucia with the strength that deep-seated hatred only can give, and tearing the acknowledgment of his villainy from his throat. 
                   
                  I comprehended then the whole position, and my thoughts, with the readiness of a mind accustomed to action in danger, settled at once upon the whole plot. We gazed at each other a short moment, and in that brief period I had read him through. He had blackleg and sharper stamped in every lineament. Low-lived and ambitious, just such men can be seen around the hells of New York; thimble riggers and other mustached pusillanimous thieves. This one was, also, an American. He had admitted to American birth and residence previously. But now the New York sharper was plainly to be seen. To be confronted and held in check on the quarter deck of my own vessel by such a person as was this Captain Mucia, was a humiliating thing, such as I hope will never be my lot to experience again. I never forgave him. That he longed for a pretext to take my life, safe from consequences by the impossibility of afterproof, and protected in the crime by the co-operation of the wealthy merchant, was clearly apparent. I was careful not to give him the chance he coveted. This desire was more strikingly evinced by his anxiety to create some confusion that would justify the murder. He cried in a loud tone: 
                  "Your jig is up, young gentleman, and now what do you think of your deep laid scheme?" at the same time rudely grasping my shoulder. To my ear, accustomed to the various accents of New York city, his whole character was so openly exhibited that a mingled feeling of pity, contempt and wonder swept through my mind at the gullibility of a man who had baffled the untiring watchfulness of an eastern despot and his host of spies, only to fall into this sharper's arms. 
                  The man, finding that he could not provoke a struggle by threats, gave me a slight jerk, saying: 
                  "Down you go into the hold; you can't play any tricks upon an old sea-captain like me; come along." In that last remark he gave me another clew to his character, which was the discovery that he was not a captain of anything. Then speedily fell into connection a chain of circumstances, trivial at the time, and till now out of mind, proofs strong and confirming the opinion. He attempted to drag me, but I remained immovable, repressing my emotions. I replied calmly: 
                  "Keep your hands away. I will obey you implicitly for a time." The man at the wheel, one of Gideon's Band, now commenced to beckon to those in the waist. 
                  "Look at that rascal. You rascal, what do you mean," exclaimed Creighton, excitedly. Then turning to me: "Now, sir, if you attempt to precipitate a disturbance, your life is not worth a baubee, not two pice, sir." Still more excitedly. "You infernal villain, after my exceedingly liberal treatment." 
                  "Oh, there's no use to talk to such as him, sir, in any style like that. He wants his head shaved and stripes on him; that's what he wants now," interrupted the ambitious Mucia, with a sort of policeman tone. 
                  The men had now gathered at the break of the quarter deck, and some commotion was threatening. 
                  "You're too late, you chaps," said Mucia, "the best thing you can do is to deny hav'n anything to do with it at all, and I do'no as you'll get off then. I intend to straighten this whole thing out before I'm done with it." Then to me, with a slight shake, "You're a purty man, you are, this gen'lman here with his daughter- 
                  "H-l, Doc, what's the matter with you?" roared out one of the Americans. "Are you dead, or shill I git there. Come, boys-" 
                  "The rascals," roared Creighton. "Get back, every one of you. Your devilish leader is at the end of his rope, and every one of you will see the inside of an English prison shortly." 
                  "Fellers-," said the sailor. 
                  "Silence!" shouted Mucia. 
                  Kitler and Speed now stepped up to the group, and Jeffers, I found, had been standing behind me with a cutlass. The helmsman was steering wild, and the rattle of the sails drew the attention of Mucia. 
                  "Keep your course there, there's nothin' to be excited about. Oh, you're one of his crowd, of course you're a little shaky. Relieve the wheel there-a good man, some man you know, sir (this last to Jeffers.) 
                  Speed, deeming that moment the proper one for him to speak, expressed himself in about these words: 
                  "There's some onaccountable mistake here, sir; or else you're tryin' to git around pay in us all what we've honestly earned a fightin for ye. I thought"- 
                  "Look a-here now, I'm captain of this boat now, and I want you to know it. Git back where you belong," exclaimed Mucia quickly; "we're fixed for you fellahs; you can't do anything with me. You are come to put in an oar too, are you?" (this to Kitler.) 
                  "Ef so be you'll hear me speak, sir," said Kitler to Creighton, not deigning to look at Mucia, "I mought." 
                  "Shut up your jaw now right off, right off," said Mucia, interrupting him. "Do you see that party?" pointing to his own men, armed with cutlasses and pistols, and a part of the native crew, armed likewise. 
                  Creighton looked about, "Where's Jeffers?" 
                  "Here I am, sir." 
                  "Jeffers, do remain right here at the companion stairs with Fannie; there's going to be an attempt at mutiny, I know it; they are-" 
                  "I'll see that no harm comes to your daughter, sir," broke in Mucia with an air. "That's what I'm goin to do. Stand by, our side. I'd better shoot this dog right off to begin with." 
                  In the waist were voices in all tones of disputation and wonderment. For example: 
                  "Here men, let's take and clean out this ranch at one swipe. We kin do it," cried Scotty. 
                  "What's that bloody thief there callin himself captain fur?" demanded Speed. Macao Joe, confronting Scotty, said: 
                  "You dam Merikan raskal, what fur you-" 
                  Gideon's Band: "Bust him, bust him." 
                  Scotty: "Do you take that sort of talk? Let me get there." 
                  And soon, as I feared, a row was the consequence, the very thing I hoped to avoid, and for which end I restrained my own raging wrath, having a definite result to attain by another and the only safe course. 
                   
                  "Shall I shoot him, shall I shoot him?" exclaimed Mucia, presenting the revolver within a few inches of my face. It was time for me to speak. Turning to him. I said: 
                  "Stand back, sir, if you want to prevent the shedding of blood." 
                  Then turning to the crew, I said: 
                  "Men, if you wish me to command this vessel, heed my orders now. Remain quiet; you can do so much for me. I am charged with some crime which I infer is an attempt to take this vessel. 
                  "That's about the size of it," interjected Mucia; "and the money," he added. 
                  "The absurdity of which will of itself speedily become apparent unless you are precipitated into a disturbance to give coloring to it, which can only result in defeat, as you are unarmed, and every one outside of 'Gideon's Band' is in league against you. If this were not so I would have sounded the battle-cry long ago." 
                  "Hooray for Doc." 
                  "His head's level." 
                  "Go ahead old fel," and similar responses. 
                  "Wonderful rascal, wonderful to the last degree. What consummate acting!" exclaimed Creighton. 
                  Oh yes, they are goin to try and git out of it now," then turning to me. "But it's no use, not a bit of use; you'd had better acknowledge the whole thing, and this gen'lman will-" 
                  "I promise no clemency; not at all. No sir, the law must take its usual course: Such dangerous men ought not to be at large," broke in Creighton, excitedly. 
                  "Well, we must put 'em all in irons now, at any rate," said the hero of the hour. "Have you any irons on board? I don't suppose you have. Well, we can get up something that will do as well. Fetch that small spar here, one of you," calling to his men. Then addressing the crew: "Now all of you fellers that has been up to this thing, if you want to get off light, make no resistance whatever, and it shall all be sifted fine, and the leadin' ones will have to stand it, and the rest will get off light. I advise you not to make any resistance, or you will not make anything by it, now I can tell you. Tie them fellers up! Go right along with it!" 
                  "Stop," I exclaimed. 
                  "What have you got to say; you've got to have a good lashin up, you have; I'll fix you myself, I've seen your kind before," returned the hero. 
                  "You can never succeed in getting those men tied up without a fight. Neither will I suffer myself to be bound by such as you, or any one else in this prahu. If you want to create a disturbance that may end seriously, and lend some feeble plausibility to your absurd charges, the whole object of which is to ingratiate yourself into the good opinion of Mr. Creighton and his daughter, with a view of obtaining money, and-" 
                  "Dry up right there!" he interrupted, giving me a jerk. 
                  "You dirty New York blackleg," I shouted, losing all control; and seizing him by the throat with the whole hatred of my body concentrated in my fingers, I threw him heavily upon the deck and hung at his throat. His pistol was discharged, wounding us both, but at the time I did not know I was touched. The men of Gideon's Band rushed to us; and per contra, the others feeling the security of their numbers and arms, assaulted them, dealing cutlass blows without mercy. 
                  It was a very boisterous, tumultuous little fight, and lasted some minutes, ending in the defeat of the American party, though not until they had dealt some ghastly wounds upon their assailants. One Lascar was stamped senseless, while a Chinese sailor and Macao Joe were both cut seriously in the face and head with the heavy brass belaying pins of our party. I did not let go my hold on Mucia's throat till compelled to do so to extricate myself from the crowd above me. Several pistol shots were fired, and one of the Americans was badly wounded. Many of them had cutlass wounds upon the head, and all hands of us were bloody and dirty. "Gideon's Band," disdaining to leave the field, remained on the quarter deck. It seemed that the cessation was only to get breath, as the combatants still remained panting in front of each other. The extreme odds against us gave no hope of success, we being at the time totally unarmed, which made it expedient to make use of a little strategy, which was suddenly conceived and put into execution with equal celerity. 
                  "A way to the forecastle," I shouted, and sprang forward, followed by our party. I did not, however, get many steps before the momentary paralysis occasioned by the wound in my leg caused me to stagger, and support myself by clutching the caboose lashing. At that instant Mucia, who had regained his feet, covered me with his revolver and fired twice; but his hand shook so violently with the excitement of the recent struggle that both bullets whizzed harmlessly by. He was cocking the weapon again when Miss Creighton darting forward wrenched it from hand and brought it to me, saying, as she did so, "You shall not be killed like a mad dog." She then returned to the companion way. 
                  "Here is certain death for three men. Who will go first?" I said, cocking the pistol and presenting it toward the group. 
                  "I am going to my stateroom," I continued, "who will prevent me?" Then turning toward Creighton, who stood apart, I remarked: "I resign the vessel to your charge, and shall make no more resistance, except to defend myself against violence. I am now as anxious for the courts as you can possibly be, and this night's work has wrought you no good." 
                  "Threatening me is idle sir. But as your followers are now safe, you can remain in your stateroom until I get out of the vessel, but any attempt to communicate with your infamous associates will be followed by immediate 
                        confinemeut
                        confinement
                     ." 
                  "My followers were not 'infamous' were they, when they fought the steamer to secure the safety of you and your daughter?" 
                  "I don't wish to bandy words with you, sir. If you know when you are well off, you will go quietly below. You have forfeited your right to expect this vessel, as you cannot fulfil your part of the agreement now. That must be entrusted to better, or at least more honest men. You may go below, sir." 
                  "I may go below. I will go of my own will, and death is the portion of any one who tries to stop me." I cared but little whether I killed Mr. Creighton himself or any man then on deck. 
                  As I came to the companion way the groups about it gave way, in wholesome respect to my pistol. Stooping to pick up a cutlass resting against it I descended, and locking the state-room door threw myself upon the berth, and lay "chewing the end of sweet and bitter fancies." The bright moonlight streamed in through the open air port, and the sullen dash of the spray against the felucca's side beat in solemn cadence to my own bitter despondent reflections. 
                  As soon as the Americans had gained the forecastle, a part of the others immediately surrounded the scuttle, and the Nautch Girl changed hands. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVI-THE NEW REGIME-THE MUCIA, JEFFERS AND MACAO JOE STOCK COMPANY, LIMITED. 
                  After a short hour of feverish reflection, I concluded to take the matter as philosophically as might be, and lit a cigar to assist in arriving at that beatific state which I once heard a Chinaman describe as being the usual mental condition of the officiating prelate of the "Josh House" where he performed his devotions. "He too muchee good padre; he tinkee, he smokee, he smokee, he tinkee. When ting he go somettime bad, he tink, belly well. When ting he go sommettime good, he tink belly well, all same. He no come makee too much mad, cause no care dam." 
                  It was not easy, however, to achieve that degree of stoicism with a bullet hole in one's thigh, and a positive conviction of evil drawing nigh to one who, whatever were her feelings toward me; was dear as life itself. For myself I had but little apprehension, notwithstanding the seeming difficulties that had sprung up around me in the last hour. I heard the tramp of the new firm of Jeffers & Co. as they paced the deck, devising the next steps in their plan of villainy. Creighton was in his cabin, for I could hear his voice occasionally, not yet modulated from the high pitch incident to the mental excitement of the recent scene. In the waist the scuffling noise of the crew's feet and their gutteral tones, as they talked over their individual exploits of valor in getting roughly handled by a few unarmed men; but above all, that tended to irritate and keep on fire my now fevered blood, were the tones of the New York blackleg hero, as he uttered his mandates with a sharp, self important inflection, and a decidedly nasal twang. 
                  After long hours of prospective and retrospective meditation, I fell asleep, and dreamed of the Susquehanna and my childhood. Being aroused by a knock at the stateroom door, and the steward's voice asking admittance, I reached from the berth and turned the bolt, not, however, before cocking the pistol that lay in the berth where I had thrown it a few hours before. The breeze was fresher; the vessel pitched somewhat, and occasional drops flew in at the open air port. 
                  "What is wanting, steward?" 
                  The negro thrust his head into the doorway and said: 
                  "I come for to tell you, sar, dat I has fixed you a hammock, sar; a swinging cot, sar; man-o'-war cot, sar, in de country. De Captin Mucia cia want dis state room, sar, whar de chronometer and tings is, sar." 
                  "Well, Mr. Mucia is welcome to this room if he wants it. Why can't I go into one of the other two berths opposite?" 
                  "De new officers has got dem, sar, de Spanish officers, sar." 
                  The place he had denoted as my new quarters was an open space between the bulkhead separating the after-cabin and the premises presided over by himself, namely, the store room and pantry. A narrow passage led between these two rooms into the forward cabin and cuddy. This space, which the steward had styled the "country") a man of-war term for the open space between the two steerages), was originally a washroom, but the late alterations in the cabin had cut it off to be used as a spare stateroom, if necessary. 
                  The others had eaten breakfast, and the steward placed some for me. After that I came on deck, and stood in the waist watching the foam fly past the gray sides of the felucca, surveying anon the new order of things around me. I learned from the cook, who came to the waist to empty his galley tub, that the Americans had announced their intention to remain quietly in the forecastle during the remainder of the passage, and if there was any attempt to smoke them out, or interfere with them in any way, they would "set fire to the bloody hooker." 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED. 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. It can be obtained from the Druggist of your city, or on receipt of 10 cents the publishers will mail a copy regularly to your address. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  TRY ONE BOTTLE OF DR. CROOK'S WINE OF TAR! AND BE CONVINCED IT HAS NO EQUAL! 
                
                
                   
                  Now is the season when Throat Diseases advance most rapidly into Bronchitis and Consumption, and when all diseases of the breathing organs are most aggravated. All who are thus afflicted should make immediate effort to recover before they have advanced to an incurable stage, and the most effective way is to take Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. Try one bottle. 
                
                
                   
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                  Not only promptly removes Coughs and Colds, but also cleanses the lungs of the substances which clog them up, and which rapidly destroy when suffered to remain. Try one bottle. 
                
                
                   
                  R. A. McChesney, U. S. Express Agent at Iowa City, Iowa, writes: "I hereby certify that I have used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and have found it the best Medicine I have ever used." 
                
                
                   
                  A. Packham, Prestonville, Ky writes as follows: "I can conscienciously recommend Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar as a perfect remedy for Asthma. My wife was afflicted for years, but has been entirely cured by taking it." 
                
                
                   
                  Dr. Crook' Wine of Tar 
                  Is Alterative, Sedative, Tonic and Expectorant. It is a wonderful curative in all Throat and Lung diseases-allaying all irritation and removing phlegm and other morbid secretions from the Throat and air passages, giving health and vitality to the Lungs themselves, and enabling them to more thoroughly remove from the blood the diseased and impure particles which, if retained, render life one of misery, and lay the foundation for incurable consumption. 
                  Cures all Bronchial Affections! 
                
                
                   
                  The great object of all persons whose avocations are unfavorable to health, or are subject to debilitating influences, should be to increase the vigor and activity of the life-sustaining organ, the Stomach. The Great Tonic which accomplishes this object rapidly and effectively is Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                
                
                   
                  The Stomachic and Invigorant which may be prescribed with safety at all times, and whose vast and continually increasing sales argues well for the common sense of the people, is Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. It is noted for its healthy action upon the Stomach, Liver and Bowels, invigorating them and removing all complaints. 
                
                
                   
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar should be used for all Lung Complaints tending towards Consumption; for exciting the appetite and promoting good digestion, as well as for all manifold diseases arising from a deranged and debilitated Stomach. 
                
                
                   
                  SUFFERERS FROM CHRONIC COUGHS, Will find that by taking Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar they are taking a fine expectorant, which removes all phlegm, soothes all irritation, and cures. 
                
                
                   
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar exerts a decided action on the skin, removing disease from it and enabling it to perform its natural functions in assisting to throw off much of the morbid matter which otherwise would be thrown on the Lungs and overburden and weaken them. 
                
                
                   
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane, and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named. Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no work of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him to try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Baking Powder, 
                     Or to fill your can with Coal Oil, 
                     Or to purchase a new Lamp, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  Francis Ambler, Weymouth, Mass 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 9. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  CHAPTER XXVI.-(CONTINUED.) 
                  They also stipulated that they should be served regularly with meals, and a few of their number permitted on deck at a time. Any molestation of these would meet with speedy retaliation in the manner threatened and in these words, "We'll all go to the bottom together." All now on board, from the merchant down, stood in fear of this threat being executed, and acceded to these demands. The Americans had, upon gaining the forecastle, armed themselves with their krisses, which had been, as personal property, hidden about in their berths and mattresses; but the pistols-supplied to them on the night of the adventure with the bangkong, and which I had permitted them to retain-were now nearly all missing. A few were produced, however, and with these they made a show at the scuttle of being fully armed. 
                  Shortly after Mucia proceeded to take the altitude of the sun, the forenoon observation, for ascertaining the time at the chip, 
                        and and
                        and
                      from it compute the longitude. 
                  I noted him keenly. He showed his lack of experience in using the instrument, simple as the operation is, and his hesitation and delay on reading off the altitude on the quadrant told me half his story. Jeffers was at the chronometer taking off the time, as he had done for me. At the conclusion of the observations Mucia went below. The "sights" evidently did not suit the new navigator, for he came up afterwards and repeated them. 
                  "This vessel is going to get ashore," was my inward remark. Whoever this fellow was, and by what means he became acknowledged as the accredited captain of a vessel, he was but a tyro in the science of navigation, and had never, I felt assured, had the responsibility of a vessel upon him before. I did not think him of the right material or proper qualification even for a second or third mate. 
                  The first step, as I then thought, was to show Jeffers that he was an imposter, then the refutation of his statements mitigating against me would easily follow. The uselessness of any such attempt will be seen in the following chapter. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVII-PART SECOND OF THE PLOT. 
                  At a little past noon the steward came to the door and said: You are wanted in the cabin sir." 
                  "Who wants me?" I asked, getting out of the cot where I had been endeavoring to read myself to sleep with a very Frenchy sensation novel. 
                  "Mr. Creighton and Captain Mucia, sar. Dey is gwine to do something wid you sar, I spect. You can take dis, sar; it's good for to have two some time, sar," he said in a lower tone, handing me a revolver loaded and capped. 
                  "It is a very unseasonable time for any one to experiment with me," I said, taking it. "I will go, however, for the want of something better to do." In truth, I was in fine tune for almost anything in the shooting line. 
                  I went on deck, and the steward led the way to the after-companion way, saying: 
                  "Walk down, sar." 
                  There in solemn conclave sat Mr. Creighton, Mucia and Macao Joe. The apartment was handsomely fitted up with a sort of compromise between the heavy upholstery of Europe and the light, open furniture suitable in the tropics. A canvas screen, ornamented with rich Chinese papering, divided this room from the stateroom belonging to Mr. Creighton and his family. Behind this screen was Miss Creighton, I felt positive. Macao Joe was seated uneasily upon the edge of the transom cushion. Jeffers was before a table with some papers, like a stage notary. The merchant was in an easy Manilla chair, with his back toward the screen; and the "coming man" reclined, swelling with importance, on a sofa, vis-a-vis to Creighton. As I came down he was speaking of his inability to sleep from the "execrating pain from my limb." 
                  "I deplore the accident truly, and trust it will prove only of short duration, and my servant, who is skilled in dressing wounds, shall attend to it regularly during my sojourn on board." 
                  "Well, sir," began Mucia, as I seated myself in the august presence of the Putterrum "king," "I have sent for you, at Mr. Creighton's suggestion, to take down your statements, and if they are suffish'ntly ac'rate, and there's no trying to lie out of this thing, we will, or he will allow you a little show for yourself, though I wouldn't give you-" 
                  "Did Mr. Creighton or you send for me," I interrupted him, sternly. 
                  "He sent for you, I didn't send for you." 
                  "Then let him talk to me." I replied with scorn. 
                  "Now, see here, young man, I aint quite done with you yet myself. It is only on account of Mr. Creighton that I-" 
                  "Enough of that now," I said; "proceed with your business." 
                  "Well, the first thing that I want you to do is to give up that pistol." 
                  "Yes; there is no occasion for you to retain fire arms," joined in the merchant. 
                  I handed him the one that had but three remaining charges, knowing that I could get another if I chose from the steward, though one was enough. 
                  "Now, sir," continued Creighton, "your antecedents are tolerably well known; and a fine story it is truly-a fine career, indeed. But it does not signify at present. I am going to make a report of this whole matter to the authorities at Singapore; and if you choose to sign an acknowledgment of your criminality in the matter, a full, unreserved avowal of your nefarious design upon my life and the lives of those men who refused to join in your scheme, including also your persistent ent opposition to my repeated commands, in firing into the Rajah's cruiser"-here he blinked slightly as his eyes met mine, but continued brazenly-"and, in short, if you choose to sign that document," placing his hand, upon a paper before Jeffers, we will take upon ourselves the risk attaching to your release, and put you and your miserable associates ashore at-er-ah-at some point whence you can in time make your way back to your friends, if you have any; and if this scrape prove a warning to you all to lead a better life, the way is open to you at least once more. I am, in doing this unheard act of clemency, yielding to er-ah-er influences which, though against my better judgment, I have given way to from feelings which er-ah, which are prompted by compassion for your extreme youth and outward evidences of better things; your coolness and determination on a certain occasion (though I know now what was the mainspring of it all), and the chance, the bare improbable chance-that you may, under Providence, try for a better life. You are young, of honest appearance, and with an intelligence that would make you a useful member of society if directed in any honorable channel, instead of skulking along the face of the universe, herding with vile adventurers, or seeking to entrap with your honest countenance and plausible forgeries the confidence of mankind. 
                  "You can go back to the woman you have married, or the one who is your lawful wife-I suppose you have a dozen, good and bad-(here there was a grin perceptible on Macao Joe's features, and a shrugging of Jeffers' shoulders, while Mucia looked sternly around with an expression that was meant to say, "There is nothing funny in the contemplation of such a character") "and try to make her some amends for the misery you have caused her thus far. Now, if you choose to sign this paper, which releases your show of title in the vessel, and this one which contains the admissions that I have mentioned, you can go, and joy go with you. I shan't sleep well till you are out of the ship." 
                  There was a pause. Mucia was preparing to speak. I motioned to him to stop, and he did so. The preposterousness of all, from first to last, that I had seen and heard, began now to assume the character of a grand, melancholy and dangerous joke. With a morbid and reckless indifference to the result, I determined to lead on the farce to its conclusion, feeling secure in the belief that such a 
                        mushroon
                        mushroom
                      growth of error and rascality combined could not long, even with my own silence, keep itself from toppling over. An inclination to appear as if entertaining the proposition prompted me to proceed in a very unnatural manner under the circumstances, and I replied to the above heavy and somewhat magisterial homily: 
                  "I would like to take a short time to consider upon this, as it involves much more than is apparent at the first glance. Let me read those papers." 
                  Jeffers handed them. The first was an acknowledgment of my inability to perform the agreement, ascribing as a reason an inability to maintain authority over the crew, and enforce obedience to my orders; and concluded with a resignation of the charge of the vessel on the high seas. The second was a carefully-written fully-written instrument, containing, in proper, comprehensive forms of expression, all that the merchant had specified, and ended with an acknowledgment that my name was Julius Frazee, and that I had been a midshipman in the Indian Navy. and was cashiered from that service for the committal of an act of extreme cruelty while in charge of a small prize. I now saw that Van Horn's Manilla career was to be imputed to me, as neither the merchant nor Jeffers was acquainted with that portion of his history, nor the above alias. 
                  "So my name is Julius Frazee, is it?" I answered slowly. "It is desirable always to know these little points, to avoid the danger of misapprehension at any time." 
                  The merchant looked somewhat surprised at my tone, and uttered the words, "Wonderful, wonderful." 
                  "There is a good deal involved in signing this paper." 
                  Creighton and Mucia exchanged glances, the latter saying, "Oh, he's keen enough, sir, I'll warrant you." 
                  "Who drafted this extraordinary document? I see the writing is Jeffers', but who was the author of this wonderful paper?" 
                  "I dictated it, sir, from ample and satisfactory information and data which I have," said the merchant. 
                  "You have not included the wives and false marriages. I would like that to go in, so as to feel assured that I am the right person, and not somebody else." 
                  "If you think this is an 
                        accasion
                        occasion
                      for trifling and sport, sir, you make a grand mistake, I assure you a grand mistake. A word more, sir, and I withdraw the opportunity offered." 
                  I knew that a positive refusal to sign would terminate the audience, thus depriving me of the opportunity of further investigation, in the course of which I hoped to arouse the merchant's suspicions to the nature of the trap he was falling into. Not that I cared anything for his own security now, after the utter mulishness and distrust of me evinced from the beginning; nor was the loss of the Nautch Girl the motive actuating me. I felt that after the engagement with the steamer I should be in somewhat the position of him who drew the elephant, with that vessel on my hands. 
                  "I must feel my way in this matter," I said, "Permit me to ask one question." 
                  "I am not here, sir, to waste time in answering idle questions only to prolong and seek some opportunity for-for-I don't know what; for you have nothing to hope from me whatever, if you decline to sign. It's time I was taking my nap," answered the merchant sharply. 
                  "One word. Admitting that I am Julius Frazee, that I have married a dozen women, more or less, and committed all sorts of enormities too various to mention, what evidence have you that I contemplated any violence whatever on board this vessel? What evidence other than the bare statement of an utter stranger to us all, and his miserable associates, together with your own terrified suspicions?" 
                  "Young man, there is no earthly use for you to attempt to turn fool in this way. It won't avail you a single point-not a single point. To show you now the uselessness of it, those men," pointing to Jeffers and Macao Joe, "have been throwing dust in your eyes ever since your first hint of the matter. They waited till you had fully committed yourself before a word was spoken to me." 
                  "And what do they depose?" 
                  "They depose all, the whole of your infernal plan to take my money. It's not much, it's true," he added parenthetically, with the craft of a deep old gentleman, "but it was enough to tempt the cupidity of your rascals, who, I think sometimes, concocted the thing and forced you into it. But I don't know, perhaps they are the most innocent themselves." 
                  "No, they did not force me into it." 
                  "They didn't, eh. You admit, then, that you was the getter up of the enterprise." 
                  No, I don't admit that. I only admit that they did not get it up." 
                  "You won't make anything by spending your breath with him, sir," struck in Mucia, beginning to grow, I thought, a little uneasy. 
                  "No, of course not; but he assures me positively, and if it was anything of less 
                        heniousness
                        heinousness
                      it would be quite funny," said Creighton. 
                  "I don't think that this will be at all funny by the time you get further into it," I replied, glancing sideways at Mucia, whose eyes trembled an instant, and then resumed their wonted composed expression. 
                  "Well, sir, what are you going to do? Say quick!" asked the merchant. 
                  "What is the alternative of refusing?" 
                  "You go in irons," said Mucia. 
                  "Mr. Jeffers," said I, turning to that individual, "you assert, I suppose, that I made overtures to you with a view of getting your co-operation to take the money? What else were we to do; of course there was something else planned?" 
                  "You and I were to cast lots for Miss Creighton." 
                  "The rascal!" exclaimed Creighton, with his teeth shut hard. 
                  "Go on." 
                  "And the Ayah was to be retained, but Mr. Creighton and his servant were to be put ashore on a small, uninhabited rock, with a supply of food, which was to be poisoned. The coffee was to be poisoned." 
                  "Drive ahead! it is interesting," I said. 
                  "You were to take the vessel down to Temple Island, where we would lie in wait for the traders, bound up on the 
                        moonsoons
                        monsoons
                     ." 
                  "Isn't that old story most worn out-taking a ship and turning her into a pirate? It is in every dogwatch yarn." I asked, cooly. 
                  "I think it is myself." he said. 
                  "Yes, indeed," I continued, "Why did you not have it that you would claim the girl, Mucia thinking to cut you out of her; and after selling the vessel and dividing the spoils, leave-he for New York and you for London, as you both think to do after you get me out of the way." 
                  "I don't know as we are called upon to listen to any more of his stuff," said Jeffers, this time to hide some little astonishment. 
                  I had hit then a central spot, and put a flea in the ear of Jeffers, in referring to the "cutting out by Mucia. 
                  "Enough of this, sir," broke in Mucia; "if you think, that we are not inclined to face you with the charges, I will show you. I first heard you mentioned among my men, they having seen you before. Then I heard the cabin boy of this vessel say he'd seen you at Manilla, and then, I found that I saw you at Manilla myself, in the chain gang. I know all about you; and my men know you, and the cabin-boy's mother lives next door to one of your wives, out toward the factories. All your doings are plain enough. When I overheard you speakin' to one of my men in a confidential sort of way, I thought something was up, and watched you; It is all known. You had been among my men, feelin' your way, and you had half of the Malays into it, but they got scared and came and blowed on the whole thing. So it's no use fifing any more." 
                  "Well, Mr. Macao Joe what do you say?" 
                  "I say you no fool, but you been fool dis time, dat what I say Yank-Yank-Yank." 
                  "Tell us your story. I want no one to come to me after I explode this thing, and pretend that they were working on my behalf secretly. I want you to commit yourself." 
                  There was a decided uneasiness evident in the trio, and some surprise-evident in the merchant's face. The first mentioned, however, felt so secure in their strength that they did not much fear anything I could say. 
                  "My story is all same as todder. You come talkee to me; way back yonna at de island. You say, Joe, what for you an' me live like dog for all time. You say, has you got narv for take money when it lay fur pick up! Den you work aroun' and work aroun', till you tink I all right, and then you want kill Misty Creighton, an you say he got box full gold, an he no pay nobody for fight wid de king steamer. You say enough if you bin guine do 'em. You break you neck, spose you git ketch in "English port. I fool you more den anybody, cause I make you tell what you gwine do wid de gal, Yank-Yank." 
                  "You have said enough; I have you on record," I said quietly. At this time a faint glimmer-the faintest glimmer imaginable-of common sense was beginning to dawn upon Mr. Creighton's mind. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXVIII-MR. CREIGHTON IS ENLIGHTENED. 
                  "I retract my clemency." said Mr. Creighton. "I am done with sentiment. To Singapore prison you go; and if money, the persistent and lavish expenditure of money will secure you a felon's doom, you shall have it. Some beings are born with crime and sin in their very soul, in every drop of blood; and you are such a one, and any mistaken temporizing with such a creature would be criminal in the sight of God and man. Now, sir, you can go to your stateroom, and if you show yourself while I or my daughter are on deck, you shall be bucked and gagged for the remainder of the passage." 
                  He breathed hard. The glimmer of wrath and execration showed plainly in his gray eyes as he glared at me. I returned it, I believe, without the quiver of a muscle, and seeing now that further opportunity for getting the slightest hold upon his confidence was over, I felt that my duty to him and his daughter could be performed, for the present ent, at least, after putting in operation an expedient that I had hit upon a little time before. Looking him calmly in the face, I said: 
                  "Give me some paper; I am going to make a clean breast of something." 
                  All eyes were immediately fastened upon me as I took a pencil from my pocket and wrote: 
                        "You are most miserably fooled. Notice the three. They are disappointed at the prospect of my still remaining on board. Jeffers loves your daughter, and baffled by your refusing to take him with you to England, has concocted this scheme to get me out of the way and secure what he desires. I love your daughter, and she loves me. This explains why I have thus far borne this much. I am not Julius Frazee, but know him well. He is my double, and was at Manilla, and it is him the cabin boy has seen. This is not the first time I have been taken for him. He has been with you at Putterrum. You and your daughter know him. His name is Van Horn: I am positive that Mucia is not the name of the person present. I will show you that presently. He never was a shipmaster in his life. He is a New York impostor. He is no navigator, but has only a smattering of the acquirement. He never was at Manilla. Now heed my last injunction, on it depends much. I am going to admit their lies. Mark how it will surprise them:"
                     
                   
                  Creighton read and re-read these hurriedly written sentences, and, after a scrutinizing glance at all present, his gaze rested on me again, his countenance clothed with alternate expressions of bewilderment and distrust. There was the most intense interest manifested on the part of the others, but none spoke. After a pause, during which he seemed intently reflecting upon something, he said in a somewhat changed tone: 
                  "Well, sir, we will hear your confession." 
                  I proceeded, looking at nothing, apparently. 
                  "I shall now confess the whole truth. I did attempt to tamper with Mr. Jeffers and Macao Joe, and thought they were going to join me in the murder of yourself and others. They affected to hate you and desired a portion of the money. I see I have been miserably deceived, and have no more to say." 
                  A rapid glance around showed the trio staring at each other.-Bewilderment was the dominant expression of all. Creighton leaning forward in his chair, with a slight stammer asked: 
                  "Who are you, any way?" 
                  "Julius Frazee," I returned. "You are misinformed; I never really married but two women, and one of them is since dead." 
                  I uttered this falsehood with the same intention that I did the previous one, but as I finished speaking I heard a movement behind the screen and a low sob. Instantly a stateroom door was softly shut, and the effect of my own words smote upon my heart with a sensation I never felt before. What would I not have given to have unsaid those words! My impatience to do something, not clearly knowing what, was so tormenting that I was upon the point of rushing to my quarters, and retracting my words thro' the bulkhead air port, when Mucia regaining his usual manner, said: 
                  "Hadn't we better tumble him ashore at the nearest island, and be done with him, sir?" 
                  That was a very unfortunate remark for him, and did more to fasten the new arisen suspicion in the merchant's mind than anything I could have said. He was now somewhat aware of the possibility only of what I had 
                        writen
                        written
                      being true, for he still was disposed to regard me as working with a subtle mind to gain command of the vessel for sinister purposes. Taking a piece of paper he wrote, saying as he did so to the others, to mislead them: 
                  "There are some things, gentlemen, that are sacred even to the lowest criminal." 
                  I shall always believe that the glance which Mucia and Jeffers exchanged at that remark, if truly interpreted, would have read: 
                  "We have made a mistake; we might have had him with us. It is not too late, yet." 
                  The merchant handed me what he had written. It was: 
                  "Prove to me that this man is an impostor." 
                  I was proceeding to write again, when Jeffers arose and said: 
                  "We will retire, and return at your pleasure." 
                  They were evidently anxious to confer upon what had occurred. As Jeffers passed me I looked hard into his eyes, and gave him a knowing fraternal wink, which he appeared to appreciate, though it surprised him slightly. After they had retired, I said: 
                  "It is a trifle, but is sufficient as far as it goes. He does not spell the name right, which is Murcia." 
                  "That does not prove anything. He may have adopted that change, or his father before him." 
                  "But the papers," I interrupted him, of the vessel contain the name spelled with an 'r.' He showed them to me as credentials, and though I glanced briefly at them the form of the name is still in my mind, but the discrepancy never occurred to me till the afternoon." 
                  "How will you establish it," he asked. 
                  "Get him to write his name several times, and then, to avoid suspicion, make some excuse to look at his papers. You only wish to convince yourself. You might casually call his attention to the mistake as a mistake, and watch his expression but be careful not to excite his fears that you mistrust him." 
                  It was one of those mistakes in the spelling of words familiar to all, but it probably never happens in a person's real name. My impression was this, that when the self styled Mucia first came in possession of the papers, or when he conceived the idea of palming himself off as the Captain Murcia denoted in them, he glanced at the name, and not being a man of much clerkly experience, probably he mistook the spelling of the rapid custom-house hand at first, and it remained fixed in his mind. 
                  The name occurred elsewhere more plainly written, but he had got the letters already fixed, and his attention never settling especially upon that point, it went uncorrected. The idea of a captain having his name misspelled all through his vessel's papers, is, to a person familiar with such things, absurd. 
                  He requested me to call the others down again after this point and others connected with the subject had been discussed. A great change had taken place in his view of the matter, though he was far from being convinced of my single mindedness even yet. Another subject upon which he was evidently pondering was my very candid avowal concerning his daughter, and the equally ly conceited claim to her reciprocation of my affections. Those statements were merely the impulsive expression of the relations that I believed existed, but were written to serve a definite purpose. In that short missive I grouped together the most striking facts relevant to the occasion, with the sole object of starting him out of his deep seated prejudice against me, and to prepare his mind for entertaining and acting upon the last injunction, relative to the confession. Had this failed, the opportunity of giving him the aid of myself and men in season to be of any avail would have been lost forever. 
                  When the conspirators came down again, I observed that they cast a friendly eye toward me as they seated themselves. 
                  "I have concluded," observed Creighton, "from what I have learned, to leave this person to the companionship of his own doings. He can do no more harm if kept under casual notice, and he can depart at Singapore without hindrance from me. It was my intention to have handed him over to the law, but upon reflection there can not be proved against him any crime which I now take special interest in having punished. A part of his confession you have heard, but some of the statements which he has made to me are such as will lead to the conviction of parties whom. I am exceedingly anxious to have punished, and certain circumstances suggest that the course that I have marked out will be perhaps the best upon the whole. But I want to have down one or two of his gang, and ascertain, if possible, from examination of them how far this person has deviated from the truth in certain of his revelations to me. You can go, sir." 
                  I departed, feeling now satisfied that the merchant was awake at last to the snare set for him, and now depended upon me and the men in the forecastle to extricate him. It was not a moment too soon, for with address and moderate luck, all might yet be well, but it was of the utmost importance that Jeffers and his associates remain utterly deceived regarding the merchant's discovery of their machinations. It was with this in view that he uttered the last well invented remarks. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXIX-WHAT THEY WANTED 
                  I went to my cot and, lighting my cigar, endeavored to arrange some practicable course of procedure, but nothing presented itself to my mind as at all feasible. We were now completely at the mercy of as unprincipled a set of wretches as ever drew a kreese, and without some successful stratagem I could not hope to recover the command of the felucca. To devise a suitable plan of action seemed utterly beyond my power. My usual fertility of expedients had apparently deserted me. It was not at all probable that the three villains entertained the thought of dividing the money, large though she sum might be, among the number of scoundrels whom they controlled. It was, therefore, safe to conclude that there was a plot within a plot. 
                  Again, I was morally certain that both Jeffers and Mucia each looked upon the possession of the merchant's daughter as an individual right, and my remark a short time since had caused them to consider, each for himself, that subject. Thus far, and no farther could I see the way out of the present almost hopeless entanglement. In reflecting upon the probable intentions of the two men-Jeffers and Mucia-I could arrive at but one conclusion, namely, that each sought to marry Miss Creighton. The course contemplated by them, however, it might strike the mind at first as being Quixotic and foolish, was nevertheless, upon closer scrutiny, evidently feasible and easy if pursued with a desperate persistance and determination. And either of them was capable of anything. 
                  A beautiful young woman alone in the midst of a horde of miscreants like those on board, and borne to some out of the way haunt, such as they would repair to, would find herself so entirely helpless that the necessity of the protection of some one of them would pave the way to consequences which she would be forced finally to accept. The present means which the large sum on board would afford, and the prospect of eventually reaching all or a portion of the remainder, through the usual way of heirship, together with the probability of sooner arriving at a settlement and reconciliation, by the strong ties of parental affection, formed doubtless the attractive prospect which presented it self to the mental vision of the two men, who sought to make use of each other in attaining this end. 
                  That Jeffers had long entertained an ardent affection for this young girl, and stood in the relation of a brother to her during her childhood, which relation grew at last to a deep rooted passion, was also plain from what had been revealed incidentally. 
                  The sum total of the other's motive of possession, aside from the mercenary one, was but the sensual longing of a vile, vulgar voluptuary. 
                  I had been below but a short time before I was again sent for by the merchant, who, without giving any satisfactory reason, obtained my promise not to acquaint his daughter with any facts relating to myself or to our situation, at least for the present. I was exceeding loth to grant such promise, but deferred to his wishes in that respect, knowing that the impending trouble would, all too soon, disclose itself to her. I also guessed at the shrewd motive that prompted him to bind me with this promise, and concluded that notwithstanding his sagacity in other matters he had a very limited conception of a woman's nature, and especially that of his own child. In conclusion, he requested that I would send the most trusty and prudent of my men, as all efforts to induce them to come into the cabin had been unavailing. 
                  I went to the scuttle, and called Kitler. A number of gratified faces met my view, in looking down into the forecastle. Anxious inquiries after my general health and future prospects were plentiful. I saw with regret and rising indignation, their bruised and cut features, which had been as yet uncared for. My own wound was still undressed, and pained me no little, but I determined to provide them with suitable dressings, and looked after them personally, if permitted. Permission was accorded after some delay, and the 
                     
                        medichine
                        medicine
                      chest placed at my disposal. While at the scuttle. I perceived, from their hearty, off-hand style, that they were still undaunted, and could be relied upon for another struggle. 
                  "Hillo, Doc," hailed one, "do they let you run about loose?" 
                  "I've heard you got a bullet bite; whereabouts was it?" said another. 
                  "Them fellers have been here to get some of us down in the cabin, but their games didn't go down with us chickens, you know." 
                  "What has pisened that old yellow sinner agin us all so allmighty suddent, after fightin' like roarin' ingens for him?" 
                  "Can't you git us down some of their pistols and cutlasses. We're keen to git even with them black scorpions." 
                  "I can jest take and everlastingly scoop out that crowd, if I jest had the tools to compare with 'em." 
                  "You heard my racket." 
                  "If we can git hold of the instruments, we're goin' to try her on agin. Be on yer qui vive, Doc." 
                  "Oh, he'll be around decks, never do you fear." 
                  "Did you git hit bad? Seely's hit bad. That's him a groanin'. Hear him. His leg is swelled bigger'n yer body. Can't you git a little stuff of some sort for him?" 
                  "Look a here Doc, I wan't you to tell me what was the first commencement of this bust up. I can't get no head nor tail to it. Dick Dailey sez he's seen that captain around New York with them Howard Street thieves, and after that he was one of the jewelry swindlin' fellers with envelopes and numbers in 'em. They just take a feller in and take his pile. It's wuss than picken pockets." 
                  "Where is Dailey?" I asked. 
                  "He's asleep there. Sam wake him up; this ain't no time to sleep, with the inimy around us. He sat up with Seeley all night," said the speaker, addressing me. 
                  "Hillo, Doc, I thought you was dead, I did, by smoke! I seed you sorter gin out and look desolate like, and I knowed you was hit. I felt like I ort to a stopped, then I seed that wouldn't do," said Dailey, as he came under the scuttle. 
                  "Dailey," I asked, "do you know this fellow, calling himself Mucia?" 
                  "Mucia! That ain't his name. I knowed him when he was a roperin, a capper for a thimble rig concern. I knowed him when I fust seed him come aboard. Didn't I say so, Jake?" 
                  "What is his name?" I inquired. 
                  "He is know'd mostly in York by the name of Tit, Jack Tit. You ask him if he knows Bill Peterson." 
                  "Well, never mind, now, I only wanted to know his name." 
                  "He hove a stove plate at him, and cut his ear. I'll bet you'll see a scar now on his ear, one car. I'll bet you the drinks for all hands, and I havn't saw his ear in my life." 
                  "Kitler," I said, "Mr. Creighton wants to see you; you can go in the cabin without fear of trouble or detention." 
                  "What's up, capting?" he asked. 
                  "He wants to ask you some questions," I said, and walked away. 
                  After providing them with a few articles from the medicine chest, and attending to the most serious of the wounds, I left them in readiness for an opportunity to inflict a heavy-handed retaliation upon the native crew and the rest for 
                        the the
                        the
                      cowardly use of their cutlasses upon unarmed men. I did not ask.
                   
                
             
             
                
                   
                  Why do the masses approve of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar? 
                  Simply because they have not been too much the slaves of senseless prejudice, and have found when all other Expectorants and Tonics failed, that it produced the desired result. 
                  Try one Bottle and you will also recommend it. 
                
                
                   
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                  Cleanses the Stomach, relaxes the Liver and puts them to work. The appetite then becomes good, the food digests and makes good blood, the patient begins to grow in health, the diseased matter is thrown from the Lungs, the patient has rest, and the Lungs begin to heal. 
                
                
                   
                  Sore Throat, Coughs, Colds, 
                  And similar troubles if suffered to progress result in serious pulmonary affections. Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar reaches directly the seat of disease and gives relief. It has been thoroughly tested and is recommended by all who try it. 
                
                
                   
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  Don't turn 
                        frhm
                        from
                      the suggestion with a sneer and say you have no faith in "patent medicine." There is such a thing as bigoted unbelief. It cures says the man with a cold. It invigorates says the lady of delicate health. It gives the best of satisfaction say all Druggists. It is all it is recommended to be say its many friends who were not too skeptical to try it and find relief. 
                
                
                   
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                  Should also be used for Spitting of Blood, Night Sweats, Weakness, Difficulty of Breathing. Influenza and kindred diseases, Flatulence, Acidity of the Stomach, Nausea, Dimness of Vision, Dots or Webs before the Sight, Dull pain in the head, yellowness of the skin and eyes, Burning in the flesh, constant imaginings of Evil, and great depression of spirits. 
                
                
                   
                  IS IT PROPER TO ADVERTISE DR. CROOK'S WINE OF TAR. 
                  Some persons insist that a remedy can not with dignity be advertised, Very strange, indeed. We have a medicine prepared under the direction of a regular physician of extensive practice. It is a want in the community-benefits and blessings following its use. Shall it be placed to the disposal of the public-or its good effects confined to a few? 
                  We know some persons have advertised worthless medicines, but a practical test causes all such to soon disappear from the public notice, while those with merit increase in demand. Of this latter class Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, through its great merit, and the performing of many remarkable cures, has been for the past few years growing fast in favor and demand, and stands to day, in the estimation of the public, as a remedy which can be relied on. All who have used it speak highly of it, and the hundreds of Druggists who sell it, write that it gives the best of satisfaction. 
                  We prepare the remedy with great care, and inform the suffering where to find relief. Whoever refuses to test the properties of a medicine approved by the people at large, deserves to suffer. 
                
                
                   
                  Delicate Females 
                  Who have no Appetite, Are languid, always suffering, devoid of energy and never feeling well, will find Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar To give tone and vigor to the whole system, 
                
                
                   
                  For Difficult Breathing! 
                  SORENESS OF BREAST, Pains in the Side, Breast or Back USE Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar For Speedy Relief. 
                
                
                   
                  A Caution to Purchasers. 
                  Purchase "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" only. The wonderful cures and merit of "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has 
                        causedu nprincipled
                        caused unprincipled
                      parties to substitute worthless 
                        prepara rations
                        preparations
                     , and palm them off as the genuine. 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 10. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  CHAPTER XXIX.-(CONTINUED.) 
                  If he had feared any further outbreak, resulting from my visits to the forecastle, why did he not direct some of his men to attend me? The truth was that both he and Jeffers felt assured of my co-operation, and they intended to make use of me in the furtherance of their villainy. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXX-THE COUNTERPLOT BEGINS. 
                  A few hours later, Jeffers, taking the opportunity when I stood apart from any one, approached and said: 
                  "If we had known that you were all right there would have been no trouble. I intended to sound you, and did commence, but you remember we was interrupted. I intended to see you again, on deck, but Mucia brought things to a head sooner than I expected." 
                  "It was a shabby trick, I thought," I answered moodily. 
                  "He could not believe," continued Jeffers, "that you would come in, and was opposed to my running any risk about it; but I think he did not want to divide the money among too many. Now for my part, I think that the bullion will divide handsomely among four, and we can easily bamboozle the men as to the amount; a small amount will go a great ways with those poor devils, who can live on a few pice a day. They think now that the sum is only a tenth of what it is; so that is all provided for." 
                  Mucia's dog instincts, it seemed, had taught him that I was not of the right material for the business.-Again my prescience had proved correct in relation to the division of the gold. One thing more was to be ascertained, for I now began to see my way out of the dangers that drew nigh. There was, notwithstanding the valiant eagerness of "Gideon's Band," but slight hope of overcoming the fearful odds arrayed against us. The achievement of brilliant victories in the face of vastly superior numbers is all entertaining and proper enough in the melodramas and romances, and not unfrequently is actually exemplified in military operations. But those familiar with hand-to-hand combats on shipboard will perceive that the likelihood of succeeding against Mucia and Jeffers in a square pitched battle was indeed a very forlorn hope, under all the circumstances. With the outlines of a plan of action which would afford a reasonable probability of success in my mind, I proceeded to lead on Jeffers. 
                  "All that is very well, but there is one obstacle which I don't see how to remove practicably." 
                   
                  "What is that?" asked Jeffers. 
                  "The daughter," I replied. "I don't know why it is, but I don't like to have any hand in putting her out of the way; I don't want to know even when it is going on. Now, as for old Creighton, I shall deal with him myself. I shall claim it as a right, but the girl must be got rid of somehow, that is evident, for she would be a dangerous person to be adrift, smart as she is." 
                  Jeffers did not disguise the satisfaction that he felt at the exhibition of so much moral turpitude as my words betrayed, and hastened to reply. 
                  "Oh there is no danger of that. She will be taken care of. You need not fear. We want to manage this little affair without the loss of a single life of any importance. We want to do it without violence, except what may possibly occur at the dispersion. You see the plan is to so proceed that if at any time afterward the thing should be brought up in court, there would be a good chance, with plenty of money, to strain it around into a common row on shipboard, all hands drunk and the money stolen. Don't you see but for that we might go ahead right now, and tell old Creighton that we wanted his money, and put him ashore and go down to a certain place and get all hands drunk on shore, and with just enough to man the vessel, put away for elsewhere?" 
                  "And Miss Creighton?" I said inquiringly. 
                  "I'll take charge of her. She won't pester any body, I'll fix that if I'm not interfered with, and I hope I wont be, though there's a chance." He was thinking of Mucia and my remark in the cabin, as he paused, and looked as if contemplating a confidential disclosure. I suppose he concluded to approach the subject in a more roundabout manner, for he at last asked: 
                  "What was your motive in acknowledging our fictions as true, in the cabin? That has scared Mucia. He was for having you accidentally fall overboard to night." 
                  This last was no doubt true, but Jeffers mentioned it to increase my natural ill feeling toward that person. 
                  I knew that the motive which I gave actuating me to commit that, to them, inexplicable act, must be plausible and bear the impress of truth upon it to allay Mucia's suspicion, or prevent any from arising in the mind of Jeffers. I declined. therefore, giving an explanation just then, telling him I would clear it up at another time, and hinted that I was a comrade of Van Horn's, and that we operated in company. 
                  "But how will you get rid of Miss Creighton?" I concluded. 
                  "There is but one safe way," he replied, "and my chance of managing it is better than any one else's." 
                  "How is that?" 
                  "By marrying her," and he noted the effect of his word upon me. 
                  "Well, if you can bring about a bona fide marriage, it would do better than putting her out of the way," I replied, feeling how monstrous was the falsehood I uttered, for it would be far better for her future hopes if she went to rest now than to be linked to this debauched and now utterly abandoned man. "But it must be a genuine marriage," I continued. No sham would he safe," for I am experienced in these sort of things. Nothing but keeping her a respectable woman will prevent her blowing on us all when you and she had a flare up, which would be probably the first time you got drunk." 
                  "You have the correct view of the matter," answered he, gratified at my ready concurrence. "And she must either marry some one of us four, or-be put out of the way. The last is shocking to us both. Whom will she marry with the best grace and the least trouble? is now the question. Macao Joe? that's idle. You have already enough," and we both smiled, though with far different thoughts. "Mucia and myself are the only two available candidates for matrimony," he proceeded. "He may, for all we know, have a lawful wife already. In that case what would be Fannie's course when she discovered it? It is not necessary to tell you what a woman like her could and would do under such circumstances. It's very evident. Now, again, whoever under-takes to marry her must not be interfered with by the others. Any girl would hold off and play one against the other, till she saw an opportunity of escaping, and then we all would have to stand from under. I assure you, I know her well. Now then, no time must be wasted, after we commence, which must be soon. She must see that she is entirely without protection, save from the one offering it to her; and with a priest ready, I don't see as there is any special criminality in it at all." And he glanced around, evidently not liking somehow to meet my gaze. 
                  "No, it is a perfectly straightforward transaction, in my view," I replied. 
                  "There is another point," he said slowly. "It wouldn't do to kill old Creighton. He's old; he'll soon die, and then whoever has Fannie will see that the rest don't suffer," &c. 
                  "What will you do with him? It's a delicate matter to manage. How will you keep on any sort of terms with the daughter, while her father's fate is unknown, or threatening?" 
                  "That is the very point I wish to arrive at with you. This business must be handled without gloves, you understand; and, mark you, there must be no interference whatever, from first to last, by any one. This condition is imperative for the safety of all. When we commence I will candidly tell Creighton that I want to marry his daughter. He will see where he is, and may give his consent, though that last is doubtful. I will explain to him just what is before her without mincing it. If she does not comply, and if he still remains obstinate, we'll go down to a certain place that Macao Joe knows, and lie at anchor there for weeks. There's accommodations on shore, and it's a fine place. Plenty of fruit and water, and everything, and is not inhabited. It will be strange if I don't manage it there. I can do it; it's all here," he said, tapping his forehead. "I know Fannie, and the confidence she reposes in me is half the battle." 
                  "But will not that confidence be somewhat impaired," I said, in a quiet tone of dryness, "when you appear before her in the character of abductor and plunderer of her father's money?" 
                  "I can manage all that," he said; "you have only to give in your co-operation, and all will come right. In the first blush of the proceedings I shall take the character of Mucia's dupe-that is, if he will agree to it-and as such it can be managed by a plan that I have here, and he again tapped his forehead, while his gray eyes glistened with a sinister determination. 
                   
                  "You'll keep Creighton, of course, safe?" I asked. 
                  "By all means, we'll try it all ways-with him safe, with him threatened, with him in immediate imminent peril, and lastly with him"-he paused and caught my eye and finished-"out of the way. That will work out right, I know." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXI.-A CONVERSATION WITH JEFFERS. 
                  "Nice young men for an evening party," was my mental reflection at the time, I thought he must have meditated something of this character long before our departure from Putterrum. But such proved not the case; for a conference with the merchant at Putterrum a few days before we left, disabused his mind of his error in interpreting his employer's first words, and dispelled his hopes forever. He had deluded himself with the belief that Creighton intended, at some period not far distant, to sanction and approve, and even to bring about his marriage with Miss Creighton. Nor was he without plausible grounds for supposing that the merchant would prefer him for the husband of his daughter to any other man, considering the confidences that had existed between them during the previous years of hazardous but successful commercial intrigue. These hopes, which had their origin in the misinterpretation of Mr. Creighton's words twelve months before, were rudely brushed away by the proposition to furnish Jeffers with a quarterly sum of money, on the condition that he would not visit England until after his death. He perceived then, the hallucination under which he had so long labored, and it is very probable that the shock, for it was indeed a shock, falling so suddenly, completely prostrated and paralysed his whole moral nature for the time. Chance threw in his way a creature in whom he, with his penetration, perceived a fitting tool, if properly managed. The time before him admitted of no course of action but that desperate and criminal one which he chose. Once committed to the attainment of the merchant's daughter by these hastily conceived and exceedingly reckless measures, he cut loose from all moral ties, and abandoned himself to the approval of any means that would further the end. Not looking beyond the difficulties presented to his immediate view, he entirely lost sight of the thousand and one chances that were against him to prevent the final successful settlement of this outrage, after the high-handed criminality contemplated had placed him within the pale of felony. 
                  I appeared to be reflecting a moment, and then brought forward the first point of my plan to entrap the black enterprise as soon as it announced itself; for the mere announcement only was requisite, as they had possession of the vessel already, and now that I had apparently joined them there was no motive for further delay. 
                  "Do you guess what Mucia secretly contemplates?" I asked, looking him squarely in the eyes, with the air of one in possession of another secret. 
                  "Well, I hardly think he has any design beyond getting the money, and perhaps sharing in-in-" 
                  "Pshaw," I interrupted. 
                  "What then?" he asked with great interest. 
                  "Mucia contemplates making himself a cheap hero. This class have that weakness. It is a sort of disease, rather, that has its origin from reading sensation newspapers and a longing to live comfortably without working. It is frightfully epidemic in my country just at this time, and may also be elsewhere. In short, Mucia does not intend to take the money at all. He wants to pursue a safer course. His will is good enough, but he lacks the nerve, Gentry of his stripe like their ease too well to endanger it by acts which would render them amenable to the law. Mucia has not the hardihood to face the prospect of a long imprisonment and hard fare. He thinks it would kill him." 
                  "Go on," said Jeffers. 
                  "Mucia wants to be the leading spirit of the hour with you and the men, and while appearing to go with you, he will secretly assure Mr. Creighton that he will extricate him by strategy; for example, drug the men's coffee with laudanum and other narcotics from the medicine chest (for I don't think there is laudanum enough quite on board to get this whole band to sleep), or by some trickery, perhaps running away from the rendezvous. What would prevent him from running the vessel into Singapore, or some large port? He is not much of a navigator, but he might find it. You and Macao Joe know nothing of navigation, and when he made the landfall of Singapore, for instance, it would be too late, for it would be the easiest thing to come to anchor among the islands, make some pretext for sending a cutter in by a prahu, and then what a fine coup de theatre it would be for a launch and two or three cutters from Her Majesty's steam corvette 'Boomering' to dash alongside, young Lord Cocquerell commanding, his lordship himself in the boarding party? How glorious would be the effect when in the darkness they dashed alongside! The honest, clean-looking blue jackets, cutlass in hand, and headed by their brass-buttoned officer, driving your dirty barbarians down in the hold! How glorious in the lantern light would appear the spectacle of you being accused by Mucia of the whole plot, in the presence of Creighton and Miss Fannie, before the honorable officers and the middies giving way to astonishment at the rehearsal of the whole thing by Mucia! Then the sharp interrogation by his lordship, ending with the order "put him in irons." I presume that he hopes for the final culmination, in wedding cards and marriage settlements, et cetera. This is what he would rather do than anything else, and I know that I could do it if so placed." 
                  This little picture made a strong impression upon Jeffers, and he replied: 
                  "That might have been done, but could not be now." 
                  "I could do it, even now, were I in his place," I replied. He was rather incredulous. 
                  "Not in that particular manner, perhaps," I added; "but the person who sails the vessel, the others not being navigators, holds them in the hollow of his hand, unless he has committed himself by direct act of violence, and even that might be got over if it was not too flagrant." 
                  "What are your reasons for thinking that he holds any such intentions?" 
                  "I know the man as well as if I had sailed with him for years. His name, to begin with, is not Mucia; he has made a mistake in spelling it. You can satisfy yourself of that by examining the papers belonging to the vessel he pretends to have commanded. His name is Tit that is one of his aliases. One of my men knows him. And the best evidence of his calibre lies in the fact that he is a low-lived taker-in of greenhorns, and has been practising that business in New York city. If you think that a person of that stamp is a regular 'out and outer,' with stomach for the clean thing, it shows that you do not know your man. Suffer me to know something of my own countrymen, good and bad. I should not want him in any business of this sort with me, unless he dips right in deep at the start, and leaves no hole to creep out of in time to come." 
                  What I had uttered thus far in relation to Mucia I believed to be true. That it was Mucia's intention to turn to his advantage any circumstance that might offer, I was convinced, knowing full well that he totally lacked the courage to commit a bold, nefarious act. He had too wholesome a terror of the law's punishment. 
                  "I wish I had spoken with you first," said Jeffers. 
                  "I wish you had," I answered, truthfully enough. 
                  "But I somehow got the impression that you wouldn't do. You have a devilish honest look," he said, with a grin. 
                  "Yes, that's what I go upon. A man's talents would be very much crippled if he couldn't appear as 'O. K.' as the world around him; and, in fact, I feel just as honest and respectable as any man." 
                  "Yes, of course, why shouldn't you. A man may do a few little things that would look bad on the outside, but when you come to get down to the motives and the circumstances that forced him to commit them, there is natural enough excuse for him." 
                  He was saying that to stultify and quiet his own qualms of conscience. 
                  "What do you suggest doing with Mucia? We outrank you now in numbers." 
                  "Mucia, whatever be his participation in this thing, will be in the way of your marrying Miss Creighton. Of course he would want to make himself as secure as possible." 
                  "Yes, that has been in my mind some little time." 
                  "Now, the only safe plan is to declare your intentions to him at once, and if he does not accord freely, or if he winces in the least, I'll take command, and will put the matter right through without delay. I'm for having everybody put his hand to the plough, and no shilly-shallying; nothing short of that would satisfy my men." 
                  "Yes, you can have the vessel as your collateral. Macao Joe wants to get to Havana, in the West Indies, after everything is over. He has changed his plan since I sprung this scheme on him." 
                  "When shall we break the ice? Time is precious: we must be getting into the vicinity of the groups on this side." 
                  "Say to-night in the midwatch. What do you say?" 
                  "To-night be it then. I have some preparations to devise; I will continue in my present status; you go on with your part. Have some cutlasses and pistols sent into the forecastle for my men at dark. That is about all for the present; you can tell Mucia I'm all right, and get him used to the idea of four shares to the money; and, by the way, my men can't be put off with a little bit. 
                  "That I know, and they shall have more than the others," replied he. 
                  "Well, there's nothing more, I believe," said I. 
                  "No, we had better separate; old Creight will be up presently. Adios Captain," and he moved away. I went down to my quarters. 
                  "The mid-watch will tell the tale, after all," I muttered on reaching the place. There was no especial reason for the delay of Mucia and Jeffers up to this moment, as they had possession of the gold, the vessel, and the persons of the few not in the plot, who could offer no resistance with hope of success. But they were both to take the irretrievable step, with the men in the forecastle and myself upon their hands. They had hoped that we would be put ashore on some remote island under the delusion that they were what they appeared, thus greatly lessening the probability and possibility of our after interference with them. Furthermore, they were loth to proceed to the length of deliberately taking life-though their men would not have scrupled at it a jot-for the single reason that they lacked experience and familiarity with murder. But they knew that, rather than the money should slip through their hands, the gang of miscreants now cumbering the Nautch Girl's decks would commit any atrocity, no matter how great, when once set in motion. Upon them they relied for the bloody business, intending to keep aloof from participation, and leave them clandestinely in some out-of-the-way corner when all was over. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXII-ALL IS READY. 
                  After taking a cup of coffee, I went again to the forecastle, and explained everything to the men. They were to come up on deck now, unmolested, and be in readiness for the climax. I then went to my quarters, and wrote a statement which I sealed in a bottle, taken from the pantry. It was to provide against the worst, but it was well to take all the chances. The paper in the bottle contained these words. 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "On board the felucca Nautch Girl. This was is now in the hand of pirates (a mixed native crew), controlled by Sydney Jeffers, Englishman and former clerk of Ex-Consul Creighton of Putterrum; an American calling himself Mucia, otherwise known as Jack Tit, formerly, of New York and a Macao half breed, called Macao Joe, living lately as Putterrum. They have taken the vessel, and a large sum of money on board, the property of the above mentioned Mr. Creighton, who, with his daughter and his servants, is now in their hands 
                              
                                 "Signed,- -, Master 
                                 March 1st, 1865. 
                                 "Near latitude-, longitude-.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  This was placed in the air port, opening out-board from my quarters, where it would be unperceived in the darkness, and ready to be thrust overboard if all failed. After a short time I again went to the forecastle, and found those there busily engaged loading the firearms which had been supplied them, and expressing astonishment at the changed aspect of affairs, and also a fixed determination to succeed or die. I learned from Kitler that the merchant had admitted his conviction of having been made the victim of an artfully contrived plot and that I and the men were now fully restored to his confidence, but that he feared it was too late to be of avail, unless by the intervention of some unusual good fortune. He had deplored the wounds received by my men at the hands of the armed crew, and promised that ample amends should be made if he ever got clear of his present danger. 
                  On my return I met Jeffers, and perceived from his remark how narrowly my deception of him had escaped exposure. He had brought a sheaf of cutlasses himself, and handed them down into the forecastle. Kitler having returned and related what the merchant had said, the men naturally mistook the source and object of the arms, and made, in their way, some comments. These, however, happened to be so expressed as to admit of two constructions, but when he returned with the pistols, one of them remarked: "If we had had these things last night, them mokes would not have had the deck now. You tell the old chap, though, that we'll walk him out of his trouble when he sounds his horn." This was the remark that Jeffers had in mind when he said, after a short conversation on the matter in hand, "Your men think that you are in some difficulty yet; they spoke of 'bringing the old chap out of his trouble.' I suppose they meant you." 
                  Without exhibiting any change of countenance, I merely said, "I suppose so," and proceeded to speak of something else. 
                  The helmsman struck eight bells-eight o'clock. In four hours more my scheme would succeed or fail miserably. I might lose my life, and so might Mr. Creighton, in the struggle. It was a dreadful thought to die then. She would then go on to her fate, whatever that might be, with the impression on her mind of my miserable antecedents and general execrable character. The thought was so repugnant that I resolved to break through my promise to her father, the exact reason of which I could not fathom, and undeceive her while there was yet time. With that purpose, I was upon the point of descending to the after cabin, and had reached the companion-way, when she emerged from it. The night was pleasant and genial; the moonlight shone softly on the sea, silvering a pathway on the sluggish billows away out to the horizon. 
                  "You here," was her low, mournful exclamation, as I confronted her. What a volume was expressed in the tone of those two words. Her face was calm but sad, and the light from the lambs below, streaming up from the companion-way, showed me that her father was keeping his own counsel. 
                  The man at the wheel was a spaniard, who I knew understood scarcely a sentence of English. Mucia and Jeffers were below drinking, and Macao Joe was forward with his men 
                  "What can you want," she added, as I still confronted her without speaking. At last I answered, "I wish to speak with you," 
                  "I thought our speech was done with by this time. Say quickly what you have to say, for I would not be seen in conversation with you," 
                  "Mr. Creighton has obtained from me a promise, the reasonableness of which does not appear, that I will not disclose to you your present jeopardy, and my false position. But I must tell you. Mucia and Jeffers seek to obtain possession of you and the money on board, and contrived my disgrace and discharge from command as a preliminary step. My confession of their charges in the cabin, together with an acknowledgment of the truth of what the cabin boy has reported (mistaking me for the double whom you and whom I know very well,) was merely a piece of strategy, which I made use of to open Mr. Creighton's eyes to the deception practised upon him. The decisive struggle will take place to-night in the mid-watch. I am now supposed to be in the league against Mr. Creighton and yourself. The chances of success are only moderate. I may lose my life, your father may also die; and I could not bear the thought of leaving you to remember me as the abandoned wretch whom you heard openly confess his turpitude this afternoon." 
                  While I was uttering these words, a light of gladness appeared stealing back into her pale features, and at the conclusion she gasped with a half doubting inflection: 
                  "Oh, if this were only true." 
                  "A few hours will prove or disprove it." 
                  "I believe it now, and never wholly doubted you till I heard your own confession." 
                  "You can, if you see fit, acquaint your father of what I told you." 
                  "I shall not mention it. I can do no good by doing so, and am both pained and puzzled that he should ask such forbearance of you. I am afraid it bodes-" 
                  She paused. There was a shadow again upon her face as she left the sentence unfinished. 
                  "I dare not, for your safety, remain longer here. Mucia or Jeffers would suspect if they saw us; and even the helmsman has appeared to glance this way quite as often as he does at the compass. May God protect you." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIII-THE MID WATCH TELLS THE TALE. 
                  How tiresome seemed each hour. At seven bells (half past eleven) it seemed as though a cycle had elapsed. Jeffers and Mucia had been drinking freely, and an angry altercation had broken out between them several times, subsiding again as if by the pressure of the important business at hand. The unusually loud hum of conversation among the men told my practised ear that liquor had been served out to them also, and the occasional boisterous language of the Americans indicated that they had partaken of a respectable share of it. 
                  I had informed Mr. Creighton of my plan of action, which was to divide the opposing numbers by decoying about one half of the gang into the forward cabin, and securing them there while the issue was tried in a hand to fight with the remainder on deck. The interview was hurried and abruptly terminated, but he gathered enough of the plan to create in his mind a feeling of assurance of our final success, which I was far from sharing. 
                  The row began a little earlier than was anticipated, and in the following manner. 
                  For an hour Jeffers and Mucia had been in consultation in the forward part of the vessel, where a continual din of English, Spanish, Malay and other tongues vibrated on the stilly tropical night. The two leaders appeared to be at variance on some essential point; and their dissensions had drawn in the respective crews as partisans, which did not tend to an amicable adjustment of the disagreement, whatever it was. 
                  I had cautioned the Americans to keep aloof as much as might be from the others, and myself paced up and down in the waist, remote from the dense group forward, 
                  It was a dead calm. One of the lately appointed Spanish mates was pacing the quarter deck, glancing occasionally down into the after cabin. I heard Mucia say, "I'll have it all my own way if I choose. Who the devil are you, anyhow?" 
                  The helmsman struck eight bells (twelve o'clock) as Jeffers came to the main hatch, where I stood. He was somewhat fired with brandy, and exclaimed abruptly. 
                  "We've got to handle Mucia and his whole infernal crowd." 
                   
                  "Speak lower; they can hear you fore and aft," I said. 
                  "We might as well commence right now," (with emphasis.) 
                  "Wait," I replied, fearing that he was about to frustrate my preconcerted arrangements by precipitating a fight 
                        beiore
                        before
                      I had secured a portion of his men below, "wait, or you will give him a great advantage; remember our arrangement. The man that has possession of the gold can dictate to the rest. Gather over half of your men and go down and take possession of the box; carry it into the forward cabin, and place your men with it. Be quick, now. 
                  He strode forward and soon returned with a troop of his miscreants, headed by Macao Joe, the only sober one in the gang. The oblique eyes of that knave twinkled with the brutal joy of expectation as he passed in the light of the forward companion way. Down they went with a drunken growl into the cabin and Jeffers with them. I thought there might be a scream, but there was none. Up they came again, a knot of them clustering around the heavy box as they dragged it along the deck a short distance, when one burly villain shouldered it and plunged down into the forward cabin, followed by the remainder, who gave a yell of triumph and clashed their kreeses and cutlasses as they descended. Kitler and the one called Scotty stood by and slammed too the companion doors, drew the slide over and fastened it securely with its brass padlock. The Spaniards and a few of Jeffers' men left on deck had rushed to the waist, a little puzzled at this sudden movement, and blaspheming in Spanish and other tongues. I could not see Mucia anywhere. The Americans with drawn cutlasses were moving about impatiently, and such exclamations as "We're all ready, Doc," "Sound your horn, Doc," "What are you waiting for, Doc," rose above the noisy scene. 
                  At last Mucia appeared. He had remained forward probably with a view of refraining from participating in the actual outbreak and violence, but hearing his own men in loud commotion, came aft to see that he did not get outgeneraled in any way. 
                  "Get back from about that companion-way," I exclaimed to some of Mucia's men. 
                  Hearing this, Mucia rushed across the deck, and levelling a pistol a few feet from my face, shouted: "Are you captain of this prahu, or am I?" 
                  "I am!" I shouted, trembling with rage and hate combined, recollecting the last night's scene. With a sweep of my cutlass I knocked his pistol overboard. 
                  Not comprehending the situation, he shouted: "Knock him down there some of you, beat his cursed head off. 
                  His men and the others that remained on deck ceased their jangling, and stood stolidly gazing upon the scene, viewing it as a fight between the leading spirits, which did not demand immediate partisanship; and, in addition, there were the American men, armed and among them. They knew it would be altogether a different sort of fight from the preceding one, as the odds were largely diminished, and their late antagonists now well-armed. 
                  "Get hold of a cutlass, Jack Tit, and take a fair chance, for I'm going to settle with you," I called out to him, in the true melodramatic style. 
                  A light flashed over the scene. It was the steward with a lantern, standing on the closed companion slide. 
                   
                  "What does all this mean," he exclaimed, grasping, with trembling hand, a cutlass from one of his men, who appeared loth to let it go, apprehending instinctively that something dire was about to take place. Meantime there was a thundering on the companion doors from the inside. "Hurry up, Doctor," shouted some one, impatiently. 
                  "It means that you are baffled, taken in at last, and in a bad way. Remember last night, and make the best fight you are able." A sickly pallor overspread his face, and he prepared for the onset. That was the battle cry. It was followed by a clash of cutlasses, curses, yells, and pistol flashes. At the end of some pushing and shoving, intermingled with groans, blows and cries for quarter, the Spaniards and others broke away and fled for the galley, the forecastle, and the fore hold. Those taking refuge in the galley were hunted out of it, and driven into the forehold with the others, and the hatches were put on and the hatch bar fastened down. The forecastle scuttle was secured also. In the meantime, those in the forward cabin thinking that the struggle going on was only between the Americans and Mucia's men, commenced at the instigation of Jeffers for the purpose of maintaining the latter's ascendency, supposed that the companion doors had been fastened by Mucia, for his party were tolerably quiet considering all things Jeffers coming from the cabin where he had been having a violent scene with the merchant, comprehended at last the true nature of affairs on deck. Rushing to the companion-way he shouted: 
                  "Break your way out Joe, or we are all ruined." 
                  "What you say?" shouted that worthy from within. 
                  "Burst out, break out, through the cabin bulkhead, or we are all gone." 
                  Hearing him shouting thus. I ran from forward, calling ont, "Lay aft here, everybody, they are going to break out." Jeffers, on my approach, pointed a pistol, but it missed fire, and he darted away. The noise of heavy blows now resounded in the forward cabin, and the crashing of planking told that the thin bulkhead was yielding. Rushing into the merchant's cabin just as several of the splintered planks had been torn away from within, I saw Macao Joe and two others crowding themselves through A vigorous drive or two with the cutlass point cleared the breach. A pistol was fired on the inside, and the bullet made what sailors would call a "blazing star" on a large mirror above the transom. 
                  "Better go on deck, Miss, they ain't a going to give it up easy," said one of the men. 
                  I looked around. Miss Creighton, pale and a little agitated, was beside me. 
                  "Are you hurt?" she asked. 
                  "Not much." But I felt the smarting of a flesh wound upon my arm, received some time in the fight, from the point of a kreese. 
                  Bang went another shot. 
                  "The next bloody willain that shoots shall be crucified," shouted Speed at them. 
                  "Surrender in there." I called out. 
                  "Don't surrender, Joe; it's a gone case if you do. Make a charge out," shouted Jeffers, looking down the after companion-way, with pistol and cutlass in either hand. 
                  "Let me git at that bloody sar-pint," and Speed dashed up the stairs. There was a pistol-shot, followed by the clattering of cutlasses and a deal of hard swearing. Then there was a cry, and the sound of the combatants running. 
                  "Do you 
                        infernai
                        infernal
                      scoundrels surrender, or shall we massacre the entire party?" I called out. 
                  "What for we surrender?" said Macao Joe. 
                  "To save us the necessity of breaking all the ship's crockery with pistol balls." 
                  "You tink we care dam bout de ship's crockery?" he answered. 
                  "Answer quickly, your time is getting short." 
                  "You put us ashore, pose we surrender?" 
                  "No, I make no conditions:" 
                  "Come up here one or two o' ye, and help me fetch this man," cried Speed from on deck. Two men went. 
                  "If Mista Jeffer surrender, we surrender. He no surrender, we no surrender. Burn up de ship fust." 
                  "Burn away; we will take to our boats, and let you all burn up like cockroaches." 
                  "If you're waitin' for Jeffers, you needn't wait; he's about to go to his long home." 
                  There was a movement in the rear of us as Speed said this; and turning I beheld the two men supporting by each arm a pale, ghastly wretch, with his face bloody and his moustache saturated with and dripping blood. 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED.) 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. It can be obtained from the Druggist of your city, or on receipt of 10 cents the publishers will mail a copy regularly to your address. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  Try Dr. Crooks Wine of Tar for Coughs. 
                  Try Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Colds. 
                   
                  A. I. Durling, Lehighton, Carbon Co. Fa. writes: "Our minister says he has found nothing so beneficial for Clergyman's Sore Throat, (of which 
                        diesase
                        disease
                      he is a victim,) as Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar." 
                   
                  Use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Consumption. 
                  For Bleeding of the Lungs use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                   
                  For Bronchitis or Asthma use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  For Whooping Cough, use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                   
                  For Sore Throat and Breast, use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  For Catarrh, use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                   
                  For Dyspepsia, use Dr Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  For Liver Complaint use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                   
                  For a Weak Stomach use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  For Diseases of the Kidneys, use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                   
                  For Urinary Complaints, use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  For General Debility use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                   
                  For rejuvenating the system, use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar invigorates and regulates the stomach and bowels 
                   
                  Weak and delicate children should use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  Try Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                
                
                   
                  Send for the Dayton Patent Safety Bridle Bit. 
                  The prices are as follows: (Bits sent by express on receipt of the money.) 
                   
                     Japanned Bit and Straps, $1.00 
                     O Plate Bit and Straps, 1.23 
                     Sliver plated Bit and Straps, 2.00 
                   
                  Saddlers supplied at low rates. County Rights sold very cheap. Address: 
                  OLIVER CROOK & CO. DAYTON, O. 
                
                
                   
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no work of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him to try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Baking Powder, 
                     Or to fill your can with Coal Oil, 
                     Or to purchase a new Lamp, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  John Russell, Skowhegan, Me. 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 11. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIII.-(CONTINUED.) 
                  "He pinted down here, and wanted to come down here, sir. Nothing else would do him," said one of the men with him, apologetically, as the merchant looked at them with a stern expression of inquiry. 
                  There was a hum of voices inside as, looking through the cracks made by the started planking, his men saw the condition of their chief. 
                  "It-is-no-use-Joe. We-are-gone up," slowly articulated Jeffers. Then turning his gaze toward Miss Creighton, he uttered in a deep broken tone the single word "Fannie". At this the young girl bowed her head upon her father's breast, and wept as if her heart was breaking. I do not think I ever witnessed such an outburst of sorrow. Nothing was said; even the wretches on the opposite side of the bulkhead were hushed. Jeffers was laid upon the transom, and Miss Creighton went to him. 
                  "Spose you put us ashore, all right; if not, we bust open dis box and trow de money out de air port," said Macao Joe, after a pause. 
                  "Let them do it! Let them do it!" said Mr. Creighton. 
                  "There is no need of that. It is a cowardly, disreputable act in us to permit it. Stand by everybody to follow me." 
                  Mr. Creighton said, with an expressive wink, "Let them do it; tell them to go on and do it." Then speaking to the Portuguese, "Go ahead and throw it out, Joe." 
                  I thought of infernal machines, noxious gases, and caged 
                        rattlesuakes
                        rattlesnakes
                     ; but never hit upon, the right solution. 
                  "Come men, stand by, we'll not allow that if we have to kill every thunderin raskil in there," said Kitler. 
                  Mr. Creighton, however, interfered, and with a sign endeavored to explain something. We were all puzzled and stood back. 
                  "Bust opin dat box dere," Macao Joe was heard to exclaim. "Take de second mate hatchet." 
                  There was a continued thumping for a while with a splitting sound following it, and to that succeeded a general yell of surprise and disappointment from the men within. A running fire of native execrations followed, and Macao Joe's voice was heard announcing his willingness to surrender unconditionally. They were led out one and two at a time, disarmed, and marched on deck where they were tied to the rail in a row. The bulkhead was knocked back in its 'place, and' the wreck generally cleared up. I stepped in to look at the contents of the box. It was sand and buck shot, loosely mingled in a stout looking bullion box made of teak. And all this misery was for that. The merchant explained that he had provided it for any occasion that might require a heavy bribe. For example, detention in the harbor by the patrol boat; or peradventure "the thing was possible-treachery on the part of any whom I had trusted"-were his words. I felt that I myself was included among the possible recipients of the prospective black mail. I also was seized with the conviction that Mr. Creighton must be a very wealthy man. 
                  On looking for the bottle containing the statement alluded to in a previous chapter, I found it in pieces on the floor, but the paper was no where to be seen. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIV-AFTER THE 
                        BATTTE
                        BATTLE
                      ROYAL. 
                  Those of the first party defeated, who fled to the forecastle, were ordered up, and came with but little delay. They were badly out and stabbed, some of them dangerously. Those also from the fore hold were brought up, and all not mortally wounded were lashed to the spare spars, the rail, ring bolts, or any secure place that afforded room without interference with working the sails. The felucca presented a very queer appearance, with the crestfallen gang strung around the rail or down at the ring bolts by the hatches and at the guns. 
                  Moved by feelings of common decency, I examined and dressed the wounds of those most seriously hurt, after ascertaining that my own men were but little wounded this time. Coming back to the waist just as the natives had been secured, I saw men gathered around a prostrate man. 
                  Scotty said "That man's a dyin', gentlemen." 
                  "Where is he hurt the must?" 
                  "Stand back, men, and give the man air." 
                  "By granny, they musn't try to run over people." 
                  "Now what good did it do you to say that to a dyin' man?" 
                  Scotty-"That man's a dyin', gentlemen." 
                  "You'd better toll him that again. it'll make him feel good." 
                  And so on. They placed him on a mattress and I examined the groaning wretch carefully. He was not dangerously wounded, but severely cut upon the head in two places, and had a thrust as if with the point of a cutlass in the chest and abdomen. However, no large blood vessels were severed. I closed the wounds with sutures, and placed a pledget of lint under a loose bandage, and left him to such comfort as he might take. 
                  Some of the others were as badly hurt. 
                  Jeffers, however, was not anywhere near his "long home," as Speed had thought, but was only faint and weak from the loss' of blood and his own miserable emotions. Miss Creighton, now entirely oblivious of his dark treachery toward her father and herself, watched and attended upon him with the pity and solicitude of a sister. Those acquainted with the sympathetic and somewhat inconsistent nature of a warm-hearted woman will not wonder at this. Upon consultation with Mr. Creighton, he was, I found, strongly inclined to the measure of landing them on the nearest island. To this course I made no objection, not wishing the trouble and delay which the delivery of them to the authorities would occasion. Besides, I did not wish to have any detention in relation to the cruiser affair, which would most assuredly follow. Mr. Creighton's indignation toward Jeffers was great and he would have retained him for further disposal, but his daughter pleaded so long and earnestly for the only brother of her childhood's days, that he consented to release him with the others. A day passed away, and the next brought us up to a small uninhabited island, where the greater portion of the day was consumed in landing the entire gang of pirates, and some stores for their subsistence. The water being shoal for a long way out, the passage to the shore with a few at a time occasioned delay. A mattrass was put into the boat, and Mucia placed upon it. The suffering wretch found his tongue at last, and muttered, as the boat was lowered into the water: 
                  "I'll come up with you, yet," addressing me. 
                  Jeffers, when his turn came-he was the last of the wounded-said: "I am a miserable man. I wish to die." Miss Creighton leaned over the rail and bid him good-bye, in tears. Macao Joe sullenly got into the last boat, saying: "Well, dis is one dam bust all aroun'." On the return of the boat it was hoisted to its place, and the Nautch Girl's sharp bow was pointed for the Straits. How far I had implicated myself in releasing these criminals I did not precisely know, and cared still less. The Spanish boy that was with Mucia's men took occasion to leave them and remained on board by permission. From him I gathered a tolerable account of Mucia and his men, which I will hereafter relate. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXV-COMING TO AN UNDERSTANDING. 
                  Many were the pleasant moments that fell to my lot even in the short time that elapsed before the Nautch Girl entered the Straits. We passed through the groups of islands and inlets that gem and endanger the thoroughfares of these eastern seas. Like the sirens of old, they enchant with their beautiful exterior afar off; and woo the passing mariner with the spice-laden breezes, that sigh tunefully among the nodding palms. But beware! A broad reef fringes and encircles them with its dangerous deceptive loom of distance, and its sunken branches make far out beneath the fair emerald surface. In many of them pestilence and death lurks in the still rustling jungles at the waterside, and what have been poetically denominated the 'spicy breezes blowing soft o'er' Java's isle, are but the aromatic miasma floating away from them laden with death. Not all, however, are so to be considered. Many salubrious sea-washed Edens reveal to the presence of the delighted visitor all that has been spoken of them in story and song. Stretching away to the horizon like a panoramic creation of the scenic painter, lay those emerald peaks glittering in the sunset glow. 
                  "We soon shall be in the straits now-too soon," said Miss Creighton as we stood gazing upon such a scene. 
                  "Mr. Creighton appears very impatient to get there, of late particularly." 
                  "Yes, I know." And she was thinking of something that brought a shade of seriousness upon her features. "Where are you going with this vessel when we leave it?" she asked. 
                  "I don't know now; perhaps to my own country." 
                  "Have you got a home there?" 
                  I did not want to admit that the door's of my childhood's home were not open with a welcome to the returning turning wanderer, and attempted to evade a direct answer; but who can deceive a woman interested in knowing all about one? 
                  "Poor boy, you are a homeless wanderer," 
                  "I am not a poor boy by any means. I have hope and a will to do, and the world is before me." 
                  "But any one is poor, indeed, who has no one to love and long for their return." 
                  "'No one to love, no one to caress,' as the song says." I answered, lightly. "But I have been happy in the thought that I did have some one to love me a little." 
                  She blushed, very slightly, but answered calmly. 
                  "I meant other love. The warm, pure affection of a mother (I have longed for that myself), and the hopeful pride that springs from a father's heart." 
                  "I have neither," I answered. 
                  "Your mother is dead?" 
                  "Yes, years ago." 
                  "And you had a step-mother?' 
                  "Yes. You are good at guessing." 
                  "I thought so. When did you leave home to wander?" 
                  "Oh, a long time ago." 
                  "And have not returned since?" 
                  "Yes, several times." 
                  "And wouldn't stay?" 
                  "I could not. There was no place there for me. And I pleased them best when I spoke of leaving." 
                  "What kind of man is your father.' 
                  "An iron man." 
                  "Ah! yes. And you are not going back home again?" 
                  "No, never. Not till I am called home, which will be never." 
                  We conversed of other things, her life at Putterrum; our first meeting; and by natural sequence arrived at the first night on board the felucca. I thought of my dream which had passed till then from memory. 
                  "Were you laughing or crying when you sat in my chair by the chart table just after your bewildering conversation with me on the night of our departure?" 
                  "Why, it is not polite to investigate a lady's emotions." 
                  I related my dream. 
                  "Your dream was correct, then; I was weeping, though I cannot tell why. I do not know why." 
                  "The second part has also come to pass. The struggle and even the waking presentiment of evil was a true harbinger," I returned. 
                  "Yes, you would do well to write a dream-book How interesting all this would be to my old Ayah at Mauritius. She had the most unbounded reliance on all sorts of superstitious signs and omens." 
                  "But the figure in the bridal dress has spoiled the completion of the other visions," I said. 
                  "You must hope for the fulfilment of that also. There was no limitation of time, was three?" she answered naively, and turned away. 
                  Mr. Creighton had come on deck and commenced with his morning promenade on the quarter deck. It seemed even now that a lurking glance of distrust was in his eyes when regarding me, at least the look was not friendly. Whenever he addressed me, the tone was cordial, but after a generous explanation on his part, touching recent events that seemed in justice to demand it he spoke to me but seldom, and then only on subjects requiring a conference. 
                  As soon as her father retired below, which he did after a short promenade, she again introduced the subject of the dream, saying. 
                  "There was one part of your dream that will, I hope, not be fulfilled. The chains! You said that you were loaded with heavy chains. It is a pity that you should have dreamed that, for you cannot hope for the other part being true without fear that it will be too true." 
                  "I begin to feel the chains now," I said: "and they are not light, as Cupid's chains are supposed to be." 
                  "Why, you are speaking very gravely about a trifle," she replied. 
                  "I have noticed that you seldom speak to me when your father is on deck; and when we are in conversation his appearance is a signal for your withdrawal." 
                  "I must tell you something. It is what I alluded to when saying I had something to tell you, if the steamer did not catch us. I am afraid that he has taken a dislike to you for some cause. He has said nothing; but I know him so well that in whatever relates to me his manner and ways betray before he speaks. If not increased by what he would view as further grounds for his dislike, it will pass away. I hoped it would have done so before now; but since the exposure of Mr. Jeffers' treachery, it has increased somewhat, notwithstanding all you have done. Now papa is very distrustful of any one whom I like. It is not very flattering to be sure; and I was going to tell you that morning of this trait of his, that you might not appear too glad to see me, or too anxious to improve the miserable little time that I shall be on board. Papa dislikes every one that I like or that likes me; and I don't see how I am ever to get a husband comfortably," she concluded, with a slight pout. 
                  "Why did you not speak of it before," I asked. 
                  "There was no need. You appeared intuitively to understand it; so I would not run the risk of hurting your feelings by saying such a thing. We were not so well acquainted then, you know." 
                  "And are we much better acquainted now?" 
                  "Oh, yes, I feel as though I had known you for years." 
                  "Must I continue to think of you as one whom I may hope to obtain only through the working of a miracle?" 
                  "How?" she asked, a little startled. 
                  "Why, with all respect to Mr. Creighton, the eradication of a deep seated prejudice from an Englishman's mind is a miracle." 
                  "Oh, I hope not. There is something that greatly increased his dislike to you since or at the time of your exposure of Mucia and Mr. Jeffers. What it can be I do not know. But it cannot be anything but what will give way in time, as he knows you better." 
                  I knew what it was, and felt that it would never give way. 
                  She continued: "Papa considers that I am only distantly acquainted with you, and would, if he knew how well I like you, insist upon a 
                        discontinuanee
                        discontinuance
                      of our moonlight talks on deck. Now he is so afraid that I will fall in love with some 'unsuitable person,'-that is his phrase for those whom he dislikes-that any one whose society is at all agreeable to me, meets with but small cordiality from him. I am loth to deceive papa, for I love him with all heart, but-" 
                   
                  "But what?" 
                  "I don't know what else to do," she answered slowly, with a sigh. 
                  "If you will find a paper that I handed him on the day of my 'confession, it will show you that there is but little use in attempting to deceive him, or little hope of his dislike to me ever giving way." 
                  She soon after went below, to search for the paper, I thought; and I also, to look for a letter that I had written on the day preceding my accusation by Mucia. Being called on deck just as I had finished it, I forgot to seal the envelope, and thrust it into the pocket of my loose grasscloth jacket. Some time afterward I thought of it, but it was gone. The more important issues then at hand caused me to forget it; and now I sought to find it again, though I had 
                        mada
                        made
                      some previous search for it. This search, like the first, was fruitless, and I concluded and hoped that it had fallen overboard, little thinking that the unfortunate letter was yet on board, to rise in my path like a cobra. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVI-IN THE STRAITS. 
                  From the boy that was with Mucia's party, and whom they treated very brutally, if his word was to be taken, we learned that Mucia was a runaway sailor from the American bark Oscar, and that at Guam, a port in the Philippines, he got possession of the papers alluded to. These papers were left in a room which had been used as a consul's office, and which was afterwards taken for a gambling den. Mucia, following his instincts, sought for a gaming establishment while on liberty at that port, and obtained the papers there. He afterward ran away from the vessel at an island near the place where we found him, and, speaking their language, fraternized with some Spanish sailors whom he found there. These latter were wrecked seamen from a small Manilla trader. After their vessel was taken charge of by a wrecking tug, they having unwarrantably broken bulk, that is, broken into the cargo, left it. After Mucia's arrival, the plan was concocted of passing themselves as crew and captain, the better to obtain a passage away from the island. Mucia told them boastingly that he had been obliged to leave the United States for some misdemeanor, but the truth probably is, that he became destitute, and shipped on board a whaleman, as many do. 
                  We drew near the Straits. Sails innumerable dotted the water in all directions. Fleets of gaudily painted junks rolled sluggishly on with the wind free in their uncouth-looking ribbed sails, and 
                        picturesqe
                        picturesque
                      prahus skimmed along on the wind, overshadowed by great triangular wings of matting that swept them over the billows like gulls, their outriggers kissing the curling billow tops, or splashing the white spray from an occasional one higher than the others. Lumbering merchantmen, from all quarters of the globe, bound in, freighted with articles of a nation's handiwork, passed by; others returning homeward, laden down with the rich products of India's prolific soil. Beautiful clippers, from my own great land, cleft the seas with the characteristic eagerness of the race that sent them forth, and straight built war-ships ploughed sternly outward, urged by the flukes of Vulcan and swelling canvas. Blue on either bow, the lofty outline of the mountains trended away into indistinctness, while the horizon line ahead dotted with sails, spoke sadly to my heart of the approaching farewell, for it was the entrance to the Straits. 
                  "I want to get a passage in one of Greene's ships, if I can," said the merchant. "I thought at Putterrum that I should not be at all particular, so that I got aboard of one that flew the English flag; but as we have a choice it's as well to get a good, comfortable ship, while at it. 
                  I was gratified at that decision as the time for the dreaded farewell would, perhaps, be stayed yet a little while longer in waiting. Right ahead, then, was a large English Indiaman; bowling along in our track; but by the mark in her foretopsail she was not one of Greene's navy. The merchant, looking at her in the glass, said: 
                  "I've a strong mind to go in her, and not wait, she is a large ship." 
                  "No, papa, I know she is not a comfortable ship. I can see that without a glass. See how she pitches about." 
                  Miss Fannie had evidently something of a sailor's eye, though her objection might have been prompted by another motive. 
                  "Speak her at any rate, and see if any of Greene's vessels are close behind." 
                  We lulled into her track, and made preparations for speaking her. The coming ship hauled up her courses, clewed down her royals and topgallant sails to decrease her headway. As she came within hail I shouted through the trumpet: 
                  "Ship ahoy!" 
                  "Aye, aye!" 
                  "Are there any of Greene's ships behind you?" 
                  "Yes, three. They will be along about to-morrow noon if nothing happens." 
                  I waved adieu with the trumpet and she passed on her voyage.-Another day, and then-then what? I had no purpose for the future now but to face and overcome one rising obstacle to my hope of happiness. I felt that it had already risen, and, like a genii of the fates, stood barring the avenues to rest and tranquility, saying, "Thus far and no further." 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVII-A SHADOW. 
                  The Nautch Girl, with her stores, armament, small arms, and ammunition, was formally made over to me. After this was properly completed, a check was drawn for myself on Singapore, and another for an amount which was to be divided equally among the crew. 
                  "I will now furnish you with certain letters and credentials that will greatly facilitate the obtaining of new papers for this vessel. You see the propriety of so doing, don't you?" I assented, and thanking him, withdrew while he wrote them. I had stood off the land to lessen the possibility of accident, to make a tack on again at daylight. While gazing over the ship's side, Miss Creighton came softly to me. 
                  "You are going to change the felucca's name, from what you said in the cabin, just now?" 
                  "Yes, if it can be done. It is often a very troublesome matter to change a vessel's name. Not so easy a thing to do as for a 
                        womon
                        woman
                      to change her's." 
                   
                  "What do you think of calling her?" 
                  "I know of no prettier name in the world than Fannie." 
                  "Ah, in remembrance of me?" 
                  "Yes, in remembrance of you." 
                  "Then you will have"-she paused. 
                  "Two Fannies to think of. Yes, and between them both, I shall have enough to keep head busy and heart sore," I replied. 
                  "But one will not stay in your thoughts very long," she responded, with a certain tone which did not imply a strong belief in her own words." 
                  "Does every woman like to be told over and over again how much she is loved?" I asked. 
                  "I don't know, but I suppose they like to feel sure of it," she replied, quite naively. 
                  "Well, my letter at Putterrum you told me was very explicit in that way." She smiled the mischievous glad smile that I first saw on the hill road, and exclaimed: 
                  "Well, that was a simple letter." 
                  "I thought it was rather carefully got up." 
                  "Oh, I dare say. Did you ever write to a young lady before?" 
                  "No, I never did." 
                  "I thought not. It said in every line as plain as one could wish-" 
                  "What?" 
                  "Oh, it is too good to tell," she answered in a smiling tantalizing manner. 
                  "Come, what did those few formal lines express other than what I intended them to?" 
                  "They told how utterly miserable you were at the prospect of leaving Putterrum, and how much you feared that I was in some way connected with the mysterious departure of the vessel, and how certainly you would have returned at the risk of your life if-" Again she stopped and I finished the sentence; 
                  "If you had not turned out to be on board. Yes, I will admit that such were my feelings and intentions. But there was nothing in the letter that expressed so much." 
                  "Ah! you wrote a very foolish letter; with all your quickness you don't comprehend how thoroughly a woman can analyze and dissect a man's thoughts on paper." 
                  "If that is the case I would not have it extant. Did you destroy it?" 
                  "No, I have it here," she said, taking it from her pocket and holding it up. 
                  "Will you give it back to me?" 
                  "By no means; I shall keep it forever. I have another specimen of your literature." 
                  "Where did you get that?" 
                  "I took it from papa's jacket pocket," and she held up a crumpled bit of paper. It was my hurried penciling in the cabin. 
                  "You had better destroy that, at any rate." 
                  "Never! I shall keep these two little bits of paper as a memento of my first and last and only real love affair." 
                  "Are you certain it will be your last?" 
                  "I am certain. Whatever ill-fortune may interfere to prevent our happiness, there is no fate that shall take from me the sweet reflection of having kept the faith, waiting for God's own time." 
                  How noble and beautiful she looked saying this. Glancing at the paper her eyes filled with tears. 
                  "Poor Mr. Jeffers," she said in a low voice. Her eye had caught his name and my revelation of his love for her. 
                  The cabin boy came with a message from the merchant, desiring his daughter's presence in the cabin. I waited for her reappearance on deck, as it was a glorious moonlight night, and seemed created expressly for all the lovers of that hemisphere, but I waited in vain. 
                  The Nautch Girl slipped gracefully along before the 
                        moonsoon's
                        monsoon's
                      steady pressure making only a crisp whispering with the waters as her long sharp prow divided the sluggish groundswell. 
                  The helmsman stood gazing meditatively into the binnacle, as with one hand he slightly moved the wheel at intervals to keep the felucca on her course. 
                  Around us glimmered the lights of distant vessels, and above the felucca's broad wings loomed through the moonlight in spotless whiteness the reef points whispering with the friendly breeze that wafted us forward. 
                  The lead was hove, and I went below to note the chart. 
                  The swinging lamp shed a dimmed light upon the soundings registered thereon, and I went to the locker in the steward's pantry to get another. A murmuring sound of conversation was audible in the after cabin, and after the getting lamp, as I turned to go back to the chart table, I heard Miss Creighton,s voice, heretofore inaudible, utter with a wild sob of anguish and despair, certain words that sounded like a knell to our hope of happiness. 
                  Those words I will place at the termination of a conference which preceded them, which conference Mr. Creighton had called his daughter to participate in. 
                  How I obtained the elements of this conversation between the father and daughter, without listening, is not pertinent to this narrative. It is sufficient to assert that I did obtain nearly the exact words, and in an honorable way. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII.-PUTTING THIS AND THAT TOGETHER. 
                  When his daughter reached the cabin he motioned her to a seat, and said: 
                  "Fannie, I wish to have some very serious conversation with you, and I trust that the abundant love and filial regard which you have always from infancy manifested will enable you now to truly appreciate the motives that prompt my words, and not forget that your real happiness is what I live to promote." 
                  "Oh, papa, what 
                        are are
                        are
                      you going to say?" 
                  "My daughter, I miss a paper from my pocket which I think you have probably." 
                  "Yes, papa, I wanted it." 
                  "Very good. We can come at once to the point. By that paper you have seen, if you did not see it before, (which of course you did,) that the young gentleman who has done so much for us makes a pretence of loving you." 
                  "A pretence; why, papa?" 
                  "Very well. Admitting that he is perfectly sincere and devoted, that's reasonable enough, too. Admitting all that, now, what do you or I know about him?" 
                  "We know what we have seen." 
                  "And what have we seen? Look at it now without the prejudice of his faithful works to bias you, or any transient and fleeting affection that you may have permitted in your heart; look at the circumstances as a young lady should do, and what will a calm scrutiny reveal? It will reveal this much: That the young man is a very unsuitable person to claim an acquaintance even with a respectable, virtuous young lady. Had it not been that his bravery and zeal entitled him to claim respect and consideration at our hands, I should have forbidden your speaking to him at all. When at Putterrum, our critical position demanded that the most qualified 
                        persod
                        person
                      in our party should ascertain certainly his trustworthiness and suitableness, before placing ourselves in his hands, I consented that you should see and have speech with him. Your indiscretion the day previous afforded you a good opportunity 
                        witheut
                        without
                      excuse for renewal on his part. Our circumstances and the general exigencies of the situation would justify so much; but there it should have ceased; and when you came on board this vessel it should have been as a stranger to him. He never would have presumed to seek a renewal of the acquaintance himself. But you have gone and fallen foolishly in love with him at first sight-a most monstrous, unheard-of piece of indiscretion and indelicacy, and totally without precedent in decent society at least The like was never heard of before out of the novels. Now, this would be a very simple matter to rectify, if this were all; but his late courage and devotion-noble conduct, I will admit-have so complicated my position in this matter that I am forced to call upon you to do for me what would otherwise be a very simple and evident duty. I want you to send him about his business." 
                  "Papa, do not ask me to say an unkind word to him, for I could not do it." 
                  "Well, my dear daughter, it is only an act of evident justice, after what he has risked for us, that he be undeceived, and not left with a foolish hope to distract him from whatever career in life he seeks. That much he is justly entitled to at our hands, and he must be treated like a man and a gentleman." 
                  "You appear very much prejudiced against him, papa." 
                  "I am prejudiced, my dear, deeply prejudiced, I will admit, and not without sufficient reason. Let us now examine him from a calm disinterested standpoint. What were your impressions respecting him on the occasion of the fight with the steamer? Remember now his extreme youth, his not having been a naval officer-at least he does not admit it, and if he has, and conceals it, it is a very bad sign-and but little acquaintance with his men and vessel. Yet there he stood during that fight, with a very queer expression in his eye, coolly and quietly managing the affair with all the air of a man used to such scenes of strife and danger; the air of a man used to running fights, either from or toward his antagonist. He seemed to know all about it. He seemed to know altogether too much about the business he was engaged in. I say, what did you think then of him?" 
                  "Why, papa, I thought he was a here." 
                   
                  "Now, my dear, that is just the difference between youth and age. I formed a very had opinion of him, I can assure you. I then from that moment formed a suspicion of the straightforwardness of his antecedents. Now let us look further. He comes to Putterrum unknown, with no apparent business there but to get away again immediately. He has a double there; that looks very bad. He knows no one, but comes hunting about the beach for a speculation. He knows no one, but he can put his hands on a very good fighting crew on the very shortest notice. Macao Joe could not get together a crew as easy as that Then he seems never surprised at anything, and ready with an expedient in the most critical moment of danger. Look at the first night out there with the bangkong; the quiet manner of ridding himself of that, his coolness in the first fight with those precious scoundrels Mucia and Jeffers, the frightful nonchalance of his deportment in the cabin next day; the utter disregard of his wound. I don't think he has spoken of it yet. I havn't heard him mention it; I've been waiting to see if he would. The only change that is observable is the changing of his pantaloons. Then the facility and ease with which he affected to join the plot against us, and deceived them so thoroughly. All these things, my dear, say to me in most unmistakable terms, that he is a very unsuitable person to be on terms of any sort with my daughter. Now there is one more point that I have reflected upon much, since my mind was 
                        trauquil
                        tranquil
                     , and I would not harbor an 
                        ungerous
                        ungenerous
                      suspicion against him after what he has done, for I want to 'speak well of the bridge,' you know; but I merely call your attention to it that you may look at these things without unreasonable prejudice. Do you think that I and my supposed gold, and you my dear, would have been so heroically defended and so safe if the chances in his mind, for his future welfare, had been more promisingly set forth by a different course-if you had treated him with coldness and reserve, holding no speech with him whatever? I am afraid it is ungenerous, apparently, for me to say so, but I think not." 
                  "Oh, papa, how ungenerously you are speaking of that poor, noble young man! I would not have him know of your sentiments regarding him for the world. I do think that he would have striven as conscientiously and honorably to protect you if I had treated him with scorn, or had never been in existence?" 
                  "Well, you are talking exactly as I feared you would, my dear, but I shall go on. You can defend him, and I hope I may be wrong. To return, this person given but a very meagre account of himself. He says he lives somewhere in America, on the banks of some river, I've forgotten what." 
                  "The Susquehanna, papa, I know all about it." 
                  "You know all that he has told you, no doubt. But to proceed. He does not say who his connections are, or what they are engaged in, or what he is doing out in this part of the world. Jeffers, with his faculty for sounding people, could not get at anything on that head, and from some business cards and a commercial envelope, with a medalion on it, left in his room at the Sicundar Bagh, and a few other stray facts, I am nearly convinced that he is the son of a very wealthy man. A firm that I happened to have known of incidentally, while at home, corresponds to those business cards exactly. His name was identical with that of the leading member of that firm, evident from the simple fact of his signature at his consul's where he got money. The name that he bears now is fictitious, and put on for occasions of this adventurous kind. Jeffers hunted him out as thoroughly as he could, and his characteristic report was: 'All right for our business, but something very wrong about him.' 
                  And without doubt there is something very wrong about him. Pay attention now. This wealthy firm are one of the heaviest exporting houses in their port, and employ a number of young men, in various departments of their business. Not one of them, I'll venture to say, has more talent, taste, or material ability than this man. Now, then, as I said before, the father of this young man I know incidentally to be a fine, upright, staid old gentleman. His name was often mentioned in connection with benevolent projects, and he is well known and widely respected in his extensive circle of acquaintances, both business and social. Now, if this is his son, and I think it is, what is he doing away off here, concealing his name, and making a living by roaming about, if his record is as it should be at home? Wait a moment till I am through. You and I know that he is smart, temperate, apparently industrious, anxious to get on in life, has a very honest look generally, and on the whole, is exactly such a son as any man would be proud of, and happy to establish in life to keep him at his right hand, if there was not some dark, mysterious something or other 
                  (TO BE CONTINUED.) 
                  The interesting romance of "The Nautch Girl" will be published in serial form for twelve weeks. It can be obtained from the Druggist of your city, or on receipt of 10 cents the publishers will mail a copy regularly to your address. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  Liver Complaints, Weakness, disorders of the Digestive Organs, all require the Great Tonic, Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar to effect a speedy cure. 
                   
                  Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar aids digestion, and gives tone to the system. It is invaluable to those having weak appetite. 
                   
                  What diseases are more fatal in their consequences than neglected Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats or Lungular Affections? The remedy recommended by all is Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. A trial of one bottle will cause you also to recommend it. 
                   
                  "Col. A. G. Dennis (Attorney) says that Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has given him more relief than any thing he has ever tried, and thinks by the use of two or three bottles he will be entirely cured of Dyspepsia, with which he has been troubled for years." Thus writes J B. Johnson, Druggist, of Henderson, Ky. 
                   
                  "A Mr. Fallon, (of firm of Johnson & Fallon, Carpenters), says that one bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has completely cured himself and wife of a severe Cough, and his child of severe croup." So writes J. B. Johnson, Druggist, of Henderson, Ky. 
                   
                  While waiting for a Cough to go as it came, you are often laying the foundation for some pulmonary or bronchial affection. It is better to get rid of a cold at once by using Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, which will speedily cure you, and prevent more dangerous consequences. Try it. 
                   
                  A. Packham, Prestonville, Ky. writes as follows: "I can conscientiously recommend Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar as a perfect remedy for Asthma. My wife was afflicted for years, but has been entirely cured by taking it." 
                   
                  The best remedy for Indigestion' Billions and Liver Complaints, is Dr. Crook's WiNe of Tar. Try it. 
                
                
                   
                  WHEN A PERSON TAKES COLD, 
                  The lungs become charged with phlegm, which, oppressing the constitution, a natural effort is made for its relief. This effort is a Cough. The only safe and prudent remedies to be adopted are those which assist nature in her work. Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar promotes expectoration, eases the breathing, loosens the phlegm, abates the fever, allays the tickling which occasions the cough, without tightening the chest; and for all temporary and local affections, such as wheezing, irritation of the throat, hoarseness of the voice, influenza, &c. affords immediate relief, while in more chronic disorders, as periodical coughs, or inveterate asthma, it is equally valuable in its effects, though, of course, longer perseverance is required 
                
                
                   
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar, pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no work of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him to try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Baking Powder, 
                     Or to fill your can with Coal Oil, 
                     Or to purchase a new Lamp, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on 
                   
                  John Russell, Skowhegan, Me. 
                
             
          
          
             
                
                   
                   
                     THE NAUTCH GIRL! 
                     A ROMANCE OF THE INDIAN OCEAN. 
                   
                  BY WASHINGTON CHANTER.
                   
                  PRICE 3 CENTS.] 
                  No. 12. 
                  
                     PUBLISHED BY OLIVER CROOK & CO. 
                     Philadelphia, Pa. and Dayton, O.
                   
                  [Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1868, by Wm. C. Bryant & Co. in the Clerks' office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York.] 
                
             
             
                
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII.-(CONTINUED.) 
                  that is silently deplored, and carefully concealed, while he is bidden to take another hemisphere for his abode, to avoid sullying the honor of the rest of his family. In short, there is crime there, my dear child; and I should be but a poor father to you, indeed, if I did not plant myself squarely in your path, at whatever cost of present suffering, and turn you back from a fate that I can see would only end in a slow, wretched death in life. No, no, my dear, no outcast can have the guardianship of my child's happiness. When your mother was dying, she said, 'David, pray let Fannie's life be made happy, and do not neglect her in the struggle for wealth.' I feel that I have not altogether been faithful to that dying injunction, out under Providence, from this time to my death I will make your happiness the paramount thought of my life." 
                  "But, papa, I can wait till something is known definitely of him. I can't believe that he is so bad. I know that he has committed no unworthy act. He has told me the reason of his being a wanderer.-He has a stepmother, and his father is a stern, selfish man. If I-" 
                  "All those statements of his prove nothing, but that he wants to work upon your sympathies. Another evidence only against him. That story of a stepmother or a stepfather is as old as the everlasting hills, and the stock excuse made use of by every wanton and every young scamp of a thief, when forced to give a starting point for his or her career of knavery. I am done with this part of the world, and I am going to wash my hands of it forever, and it the young man was well known as a respectable, upright and wealthy young gentleman, I even then should be loth to have him for a son-in-law, simply because I want to cut loose completely from this side of the earth, leaving all acquaintances here that were made here, and am determined to do it. It is reason, prejudice and superstition, all in one. The idea of your picking up an unknown and questionable lover on the flight out of Putterrum-a man whom I hired to risk his neck for pay-is repugnant to my sense of decency to the last degree." 
                  "You did not hire him, I know that much. The last words I heard him speak in Putterrum were to the effect that he had reserved the right to withdraw from the business at any time, and that it was appearing to him as he proceeded very disreputable, and that he would abide entirely by what I advised. He was glad to meet with one upon whom he could rely for such advice. If I had told him to abandon it, we probably should not have been safe now." 
                  "Well, well, I can't see anything good about him but his fidelity to us and his bravery. That goes a great way with women, who always make the great mistake of thinking that because a man is brave he is a Chevalier Bayard as a matter of course. The greatest miscreants we know or hear of are fearless of death; and, in fact, to an upright man life is dearer than to one whose life is already forfeited, and who sooner or later must come to his doom. 
                  Now to conclude, I will tell you where I think this young man has been acquiring that knowledge of ordnance and running fights with cruisers, and all the concomitants of a nautical desperado, where he has grown so wonderfully at home in commanding reckless turbulent spirits. Do you recollect that account in the Singapore papers of a private armed league organized for the pretended object of cruising against the Chinese pirates and all freebooters, in these waters, to be self-supporting from the right-of-capture theory in the prizes? They would not have made their salt in that way, and they did not expect to. They contemplated cruising about in armed vessels, protected by the Chinese Commissioner's manifesto (and whatever documents he issued for the purpose at the time of the outlawry proclamation), to do a little plundering here and there in out of the way places, in a variety of ways, so that the onus of it would be foisted on the Chinese pirates and those in the Archipelago. Old Stott, of Foo Chow, was at the head of it, and concocted the whole scheme. The cruiser at last waked up, and displayed some little activity for a while, which caused them to hunt out of the way corners for refuge; and I'll wager my life against a rupee that this is one of the officers in old Stott's Combodia navy, crawling out to pick up a vessel for another cruise." 
                  "And, papa, why cannot he be just what he appears to be and nothing more-a poor young man tired of wandering, and anxious to go back to his own country, or somewhere else, and go to work." 
                  "Just because he is not, my dear; that's a woman's reason, and another is that he knows altogether too much for a man of his age and appearance about ships, and guns, and running fights, and surgery. Why, did you see the skill with which he probed after bullets, and stitched up the wounds of his men and the others?" 
                  "Why, that's proverbial of his countrymen; they can do a little of everything, and supply with ingenuity the place of experience." 
                  The dear girl! Her heart prompted the true solution of the matter. 
                  "Well, I have said this much to prepare you for what I am firmly 
                        aud
                        and
                      irrevocably resolved upon." 
                  "Oh, papa, do not say that, but wait and see. Let us try." 
                  "Don't talk of trying; its nonsense with me. I tried Jeffers. God knows how I wrought with him and strove, for the sake of his unfortunate early life and the frank, open countenance that promised well when I first took him up. But I saw at last that his occasional drunkenness would increase and unfit him ere long for any further confidence. He had served me faithfully, and was attached to us both. I told him that his future life would be provided for, beyond the probability of accident. When I told him of my preparations for his return to Putterrum he seemed ungratefully dissatisfied, and, as it turns out, went straight to plotting for my money and your ruin. He threatened, the night of the late attempt to take the vessel, to carry me back to Putterrum if you did not marry him. So much for trying outcast men and boys. I am done with that, whatever other follies are still in store for me. Now, here is this young devil, rising up from the ashes of Jeffers, and attempting to take advantage of the peculiarly romantic position that he has forced or fought himself into, and is trying to steal away the heart and happiness of a poor motherless girl, who has had no fitting one to seek for counsel and guidance in matters of this sort." 
                  "Oh, don't say that, papa, for I was the one who-who" 
                  "Well, well, it's all the same my dear. Whatever his motives may be, you know that mine are unselfish. I know that I must lose you in time. I am prepared for it, and want to secure only your true happiness. Rich or poor, I shall offer no opposition to the man you take for a husband, provided he be honest and straightforward; but I tell you now, forever and for good, that none but such a man will take you away from me with my blessing. Now, here is a letter picked up on deck, where he and Mucia had their first struggle. I retained it until I should convict him thoroughly of what we then believed him guilty. I have retained it yet for this reason. In handing it to him I wished to call his attention to the person to whom it is addressed, and note his demeanor under my questions. It is not sealed, but I have not looked at it, from motives of common honesty, though I believe him to be a scamp. I have deferred even speaking to you of my repugnance to him lest he should see with his infernal quickness that my money was not likely to get to him through you; and then he in his turn might want to take me back to Putterrum. There would be no self-interest counterplotting to save me then; and you would be gone forever. We have spoken a vessel here, and to-morrow I will take my child away from his presence and infernal fascination forever, and I would rather that you would save me the unpleasant duty of notifying him that he is to speak to you to-morrow for the last time on this earth, I hope, and most likely in eternity too, unless a great change indeed takes place in him. Now this letter will decide whether you or I shall do it. If the gentleman I mentioned is not his father, then I will demand some explanation of his career and circumstances; and if he can give a proper account of himself, all then may pet be as you hope. But, on the other hand, if he is the son of that gentleman, the matter is ended now forever; and nothing will induce me to tamper with the happiness of my child, by leaving any hopes on her or his mind to breed future heart sorrow. You then must dismiss his hopes. I will send for him now and give him the letter." 
                  The messenger returned saying that I had gone below to sleep. 
                  "Very well. To-morrow will answer even better than to-day." 
                  "Give me the letter. I will look at it. I can not wait. We are one now in the sight of God." 
                  She snatched it from her father's hand and read: 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              "My Father: I write on shipboard, to mail by a homeward bound Indiaman. Lydia's letter reached me at Pointe de Galle; and I see by it that you are putting forth pernicious slanders against me again. I shall live them down, though, and take a final lasting revenge upon your eldest son of all the 
                                    bitternesz
                                    bitterness
                                  and misery he has given to my life. Do you think I will tamely bear your craftily contrived aspersions, that you both may shield yourselves from exposure, and quiet public opinion? Your wealth will 
                                    suffiice
                                    suffice
                                  no longer, for I also am now on the right road to competency, and will expose your and Bernard's lifetime policy in a manner, this time, that will defy your repudiation. I send you this warning in defiance. My turn is coming soon. 
                              
                                 "Your hating son, -- --.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                   
                   
                  "There, my child, a father's instincts, when prompted by love, are seldom at fault. Let us not seek to probe into the secrets of this lost creature any further. To-morrow you can tell him of his delusion kindly, and bid him farewell forever, with a thankful heart that so much misery was averted from your future life. What is the matter, Fannie. My child, what is the matter?" 
                  Then were uttered with a gasp of agony the words referred to before: 
                  "Oh, papa, I cannot give him up now!" 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XXXIX-PASSING AWAY. 
                  On hearing these words, that smote upon my heart with a dim foreboding, I went hastily to the deck and passed along to the after companion way. There was some little movement among the servants below, and their hurried, low tones, frequently interrupted by the merchant's sharp, excited voice, indicated something unusual going on there. I listened for Miss Creighton's voice, but it was not to be heard. Then I guessed the truth. She had fainted. 
                  I waited with eagerness for the usual exclamations of the attendants when the patient is returning to consciousness. Still, nothing came up but the ayah's low, frightened voice, calling to her young mistress in trembling sobs. I was upon the point of descending unbidden to the cabin, for my suspense now had become anguish at her long swoon, when the merchant exclaimed with an inflection that I shall long remember: "She must be bled, call that cursed-" 
                  I sprang down to my stateroom where had been left the pocket-case belonging to the medicine chest, and returning met the servant. I sped past him. Reclining upon the transom cushions in the place where she had bent so tenderly over Jeffers a few days before, was Miss Creighton, pale and Madonna-like, then in her deathly swoon. Stripping up the flowing sleeve of her jaunty Indian jacket with a mingled feeling of guilt and indignation, I sought for the blood vessel. Her white supple arm rested heavily in my hands as I endeavored to distend the vein by compression. It seemed a cruel necessity that demanded the lancet's keen point in that alabaster skin. The warm blood trickled faster. I stopped the flow at length with a compress. 
                  The merchant buried his face in the pillow, and groaned, as a man so stricken only can. 
                  I bent down to the sweet white face, and pressed my lips upon her forehead. Then it seemed as if it would be a relief to die too. There was a faint, shadowy quivering of the closed eyelids, but it was transient and fleeting as a shadow. Again it returned, more perceptible than before, and the dark lashes raised slowly a little way. The ayah was crouching on the carpet, uttering a low, plaintive wail, and rocking to and fro in the untutored expression of grief. The servant stood apart, gazing mournfully at his master. 
                  I dared not look at or listen to the cabin boy, who was weeping as though his heart would break, lest my tears should also gush forth, feeling that I had no right to such relief, except alone. 
                  Fearing to call the merchant back to hope yet, lest he might meet a deeper despair, I refrained from uttering the glad words that sprung to my lips at a gentle pressure of 
                        her her
                        her
                      heretofore limp and lifeless fingers. Softly the little hand clung upon mine with a fixed, faint pressure, and the fringed lids again half revealed those eyes fixed with melancholy vacancy upon mine. How I trembled lest they should close again; but stealing slowly back into their liquid depths came the light of life and consciousness. With her eyes fixed on mine there came a smile faint and feeble, that played waveringly upon her lips, ere it wreathed itself there, in the gladdening conscious smile of life anew. She spoke slowly, and with an effort, my real name. Then all started to her side. She was safe back again to us; to me. I bent down to her ear and whispered a few words. Her eyes closed, naturally, now, as from weariness, and all was quiet. I gave place to her father and the attendants, and contemplated the calm tranquility of her rest, as the subtle life-tide ebbed and flowed feebly but steadily in its channels once more. 
                  The brave young heart was beating again, happily, for the blighting weight of sorrow and despair that had crushed it down to the dark threshold of the great unknown was rolled away, leaving the mysterious essence of vitality, till now so nearly flown, to spring np and gather life with each succeeding pulsation. My mission was done, and I left her to the sacred privacy of the moment. 
                  "Anything happened dangerous down there?" was Kitler's remark as I came to the deck. 
                  "Yes. Miss Creighton had fainted, but she is recovering now." And that was all that was 
                        knewn
                        known
                      out of the cabin of the matter. 
                  "My goodness, she was a long time away," was his rejoinder, as I went by. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XL.-A SADDENED HOPE. 
                  The father and daughter conversed long into the night. When, after all was still below, the merchant came on deck, I read in his face the indications of more difficulty, and asked him respectfully, but earnestly, if he had drawn a moral from the late painful scene. He replied: 
                  "Providence may visit upon us a swift retribution for attempting in our ignorance to interfere or control the working of its inscrutible measures, but reason is all we have to guide us in this world; and as it has sufficed to keep the world aright so far, I am not one to lay it aside in the dearest offices of our responsibility here below. Still, I am much changed." 
                  "So, also, I am much changed; and how far I might have come short of my duty, in deference to your authority and the customs of men, before my eyes were opened, I can not say; but I would now no more dare to relinquish my right of demanding the precious gift which the God of nature has said is mine, than I dare commit any other crime in the eyes of the Almighty." 
                  He looked at me with a curious expression, and had I then known what he had said but a few hours before to his daughter, I would have known that his mind was harboring a fear that I would demand his daughter then and there, under pain of taking him back to Putterrum. 
                  "I must demand time, both time and conditions. It is imperatively necessary; and I insist on proceeding very guardedly," he replied, with the obstinacy of a man knowing his power. 
                  "And what if the conditions are not fulfilled?" 
                  "Then you must wait till they are," he answered. 
                  He walked away, not in very tranquil frame of mind, I thought, and descended to his cabin. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLI.-THE FAREWELL. 
                  The morning found the Nautch Girl running gallantly into the Straits. Miss Creighton stood by my side, but the flow of word and sweet thoughts was gone. We conversed but little; and the coming separation weighed heavily. She was far from having fully recovered from what the previous day had brought to her young life. 
                  It was near six o'clock, p.m. Up to this time no suitable vessel had passed; and the hope sprang up in my breast of being yet another night in the same bark that held all I cared for on earth.' 
                  We were sitting together on a seat near the companionway. I had given orders to Kitler to notify me if anything needed my presence on deck. The sunlight was mellowing softly down to dusk. An hour more and he would plunge behind the horizon, thus securing another night of happiness and pain. She had just been telling me of her 
                        ealy
                        early
                      life, and also of the last wearying year of activity and suspense at Putterrum, where she must seem always cheerful when she felt always sad, and gay and miserable at the same and every moment of the weary, weary days. 
                  "One o' Green's ships a-coming, sir," Kitler called down the companionway. It sounded like the voice of the executioner. I felt that sad choking in the throat which all mankind well know, as I went on deck. 
                  Right ahead, plunging her gaunt bows into the billows, and then rearing them majestically again, came one of the London East Indiamen. Her bright copper flashed in the sunset as with a sidelong roll the huge lead-colored mass, cleaving through the billows, would lift its wedgelike bows and show her copper line back to the main chains. 
                  "Here comes a ship with forty feet of dead wood," said a sailor, alluding to the extreme sharpness of her bows. 
                  "That is one of Green's new ships; this is her second voyage," said Speed. 
                  "You are all ready, I suppose," I asked of Mr. Creighton. 
                  "Oh, dear me, yes! I've been looking for this moment a year." 
                  "Make ready to speak that vessel, Kitler," I said, and went below. 
                  "Come up, Fannie, your father expects you on deck, I think. We must have our farewell now; there will be no other chance." 
                  She blushed and smiled with the brightness of hope in her radiant but pale face. 
                  "I am glad to see you in good spirits. There is nothing like keeping up a show against the enemy It seldom does hurt, and many times serves a very important purpose." I continued, 
                  "How do you feel?" 
                  "All serene, as the men say," I continued in a light tone, which was far from my real feelings, for my heart was heavy as lead. 
                  "Oh yes, for I know that whatever happens you will let me hear often, and come if I send for you." 
                  The tone of these words startled me, for it was the tone of a woman trying to still with her own words a frightened misgiving heart. 
                  "My dear, there are times when it is unworthy to doubt, and this is one." 
                  The Indiaman was now but a short distance off, and observing our preparations to speak her, was hauling up her courses in like preparation. 
                  "What a great ship it is. Papa, I hope you'll be comfortable in it, as size seems to be a requisite with you." 
                  "Well, I don't know, my daughter, I think we've all made out to be tolerably comfortable in a vessel of this size. Tolerably," he repeated slowly, with a bit of dry humor in his tone and look. 
                  Nearer came the great hull, with a large Lascar and European crew clustering along her rail. Her broad quarter-deck showed comparatively few passengers. As she surged down toward the felucca's quarter I hailed. 
                  "Ship ahoy!" 
                  "Aye, aye!" 
                  "Where are you bound?" 
                  "London!" came through his trumpet. 
                  "Is that one of Greene's ships?" 
                  "Yes, the Him-ma-la-ya!" 
                  "Can you take some passengers to Capetown?" 
                  "How many?" 
                  "Four!" 
                  "Yes!" 
                  "Will you send a boat? There is considerable luggage." 
                  "Aye, aye!" 
                  She swung off, and bracing up forward and aft came to the wind with her maintopsail aback. The time that was spared to us yet, waiting for the boat, we made use of in feeling wretched and trying to conceal it. In this we were successful; for on board the Nautch Girl none but the merchant and his servants knew or suspected anything of our pain at parting. When the coming boat was near at hand, Fannie recollected something left behind in the now deserted cabin; and there was an opportunity for a satisfactory lover's adieu which I improved. A large boat filled with strangers was at hand to bear her away. 
                  She shook hands with each of the men who had fought so well for her. The cabin-boy she took a kind leave of, having furnished him with means and a letter to a missionary at Singapore. My turn came next. Her lip twitched a little, but she said in what to the rest might have seemed her ordinary voice and manner: 
                  "You must not fail to see us if you come to England," and with a squeeze of the hand the last leave was taken. 
                  Brave girl! she came through it safely, but it was the narrowest escape from bursting into tears I ever saw. And, to be candid, I was not very far from it myself. Calling me aside, Mr. Creighton said: 
                  "I will write you on my arrival in England. Remember and heed my injunctions. They comprehend all that is needful for Fannie's and your happiness; and if you have been following any pursuits that do not square with the world's view of what is legitimate and regular, abandon all such now, while there is time, so that your past can be set down hereafter as only the foolish, irresponsible recklessness of youth." 
                   
                  He stepped over the side and the boat shoved off. I watched it crawl over the waves, get alongside, and after its precious freight was taken on board, rise to its place on the cranes. 
                  The Himmalaya swung off, squaring in her fore and cross-jack yards; and the breeze wafted her away from me. I was alone with my loneliness. 
                  "You want to brace forard, sir?" 
                  I had stood forgetfully gazing at the departing ship, and Kitler's voice reminded me that I was now at liberty to go 
                        np
                        up
                      and down on the sea, to and fro on the earth, or whithersoever I listed. "Brace forward." I said, and went down to the after cabin. Throwing myself upon the cushioned transom, where she had lain poised on the verge of death, I tried to weep for relief like a woman, but no tears would flow. I gathered up what little articles she had left, a glove, a bit of ribbon, and some little odds and ends, and put them carefully away. 
                  Kitler came to know what course to steer. His question called to mind that she had expressed an earnest desire to know of Jeffers, and wished that he might be safe. It was a relief then to obey that wish; I would seek Jeffers. 
                  "I am going back to the island where we left those men, to get Mr. Jeffers. Keep her down the coast, I will be up soon." 
                  She had said, with a prescience beyond her years and sex, "Who will take care of the wounded in that crowd of baffled, selfish spirits? With no present interest to keep them together, they will quarrel over their stores and separate, each for himself, and leave the wounded by themselves. Poor Mr. Jeffers, it would be such a relief to know that he at least was safely cared for while he was wounded." 
                  I determined to do that, for I could not forget that it was he, who whatever the motive, placed the Nautch Girl and Fannie Creighton in my way. A fair wind soon carried us down to the island; as we drew dear there appeared no evidence of them at the place of landing; no living creature was visible on the beach. A boat was sent out, and further search only revealed the fact that they were gone from the island. As the boats crew were returning to the beach to embark one of them picked up a paper and brought it on board to me. It was a copy of the statement which I had placed in the bottle, but the writing was neither Mucia's nor Jeffers'. I kept it as a souvenir. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER XLII-CONCLUSION. 
                  A short run brought us into the vicinity of Singapore, and through the familiar island groups we sped till its imposing water front greeted the eye; a little more delay in the loitering breeze and the Nautch Girl's anchor held her. 
                  A new mast, yard and sail were made, and the felucca ere long was ready for sea again. "Gideon's Band" stopped with the vessel, and they, together with some new men shipped, when all was ready, made rather a heavier complement than would appear necessary, but as the voyage projected carried us into out of-the-way and dangerous localities, a large crew was proper enough, especially as it cost but little more. The cabin-boy came back a few days after leaving the vessel, and wanted to remain in his former berth. He brought with him from the mission an English boy, who, having lived somewhere in the Phillippines, could jabber fluently in Spanish, and the two had fraternized. The Spanish boy's story was in substance that the missionary treated him kindly, and proposed to retain him till opportunity should present of sending him home. However, his good lady asserted that "the house should not be filled up with ruff-scuffs from everywhere, even to Putterrum," and "what was Fannie Creighton thinking and doing, a little tom-boy like her sending sailoring people to be a nuisance and a hindrance to the mission?" It was probably some years since the good wife had seen the "little tomboy." 
                  So Fannie's protege was forth with put to work in the garden, and about the premises, which employment it is my belief he did not take to very kindly. Concluding to float around for a season before returning home, he came back to the Nautch Girl, judging her to be the most suitable vessel for his vagrant proclivities. The English lad was also anxious to ship, probably not wishing to follow gardening as a permanent calling. I suggested the impropriety of my taking him from the mission without the consent of the persons there who had been providing him a living, but with the utmost candor he replied: "What, she? Law, sir, she'll be ever so mighty glad I'm gone, that she will. She's a gallivanter, she is." I formed some vague impression of what he meant to convey by that phrase, and concluded that there would be no impropriety, as far as that was concerned; as he would answer for a powder-boy, I kept him; not, however, without some misgivings as I recalled a concentrated bit of wisdom heard in my boyhood, to-wit: If you have one boy, you have him. If you have two you have but one, and if you have three you have none at all. As I had kept also the one who came with the Spanish crew, I had three; or none. 
                  Mr. Creighton's letters and credentials procured me the requisite aid, and after a short stay at Singapore, the Nautch Girl's sharp bow was pointed for the islets of the Eastern seas. 
                  "Doctor, do you ever expect to see that Putterrum gal agin? I'll bet you never do, old hoss. You didn't play your cards fine enough, though you held a mighty winnin' hand." 
                  My rough friend uttered these words carelessly, without knowing how they sank upon my soul like a leaden pall; but as the months flew by there came little messengers to the wanderer, telling of the happy time drawing steadily on. 
                  Jeffers and his companions were taken off from the island the next day after their landing. I have seen him since; once in the crowded court room, deliberately swearing my liberty and good name away. But the race is not always to the swift. Again I sat before him for hours in the gilded hell of a Malay chief. He was dealing faro. The golden discs clinked monotonously throughout the long hours of a sultry tropical night, as I watched the man before me for an expression of recognition. It would have been the signal for our final settlement. 
                  There was with me at the table an old acquaintance, who was winning heavily and regaining his losses of the previous night. He played but to get his own and have done with the curse of gambling forever. I felt that his career for good or evil was contingent upon his success, and forebore to disturb his luck, though If he had begun to lose again, the calm unrecognizing eye of Jeffers would have served him no longer. The splendid composure of the man on that dangerous occasion compelled admiration, for none should know better than he how much mercy to expect at the hands of those he had sought to imprison, and failed. I was not alone, nor was he, for the punkas waved lightly to and fro, like vampire's wings, over the groups sitting at the tables, or sauntering along the corridors with impatient hands clutching kreeses and revolvers. Also there, scenting retribution in the air were the villain accomplices in the most gigantic man-trap ever sprung on a Malay. When one tampers with or jeopards a Malay's liberty he never gets forgiven, though he might for attempting his life. These had come at my bidding to follow in the search for the missing man, who had been the prime devising spirit in this attempt. 
                  I had traced him here and sat before him. He well knew what would follow hard upon the first word of angry recognition. I had only to point my finger and blood would drench the matted floors. Gaudily dressed young chiefs, thirsting for vengeance, sauntered noiselessly as cheetahs up and down the gallery without, or sat inattentively at the tables with dice and cards. Malay blood was up, and their tiger ferocity hardly brooked the unaccountable indecision. The stern undertone, the rattling of dice, and the clink of mohurt went on, as I waited. He knew his hour had come, but it would seem recked little if it had. There he sat, pale, wary and silent, watching the men watching me; yet never turning his head quickly or exhibiting the slightest discomposure. How little his life was worth then he well knew. It hung on a word; yet never the feeblest of those involuntary motions of the facial muscles which betray the mind, was perceptible, and the careless expression of his eye was simply magnificent defiance. 
                  My friend retrieved his losses; yet I waited. He gathered up his winnings and retired a saved man. Even then I could not speak the word. The shining columns of golden mohurs on the tables glittered in the greedy eyes of the Malay chief-tons, and all were concluding that I had unaccountably deceived myself and them. 
                  My tongue refused its office. I panted for the pure and uncontaminated air without, free from smoke and the fumes of brandy. I longed for darkness; to be rid of the sight of the human tigers that waited on my word; for all through those latter hours of apparent indecision was my purpose held by contending forces. Up before me had risen a vision of the past, a retrospect, reaching back to the night on board the felucca, when the motherless and brotherless girl sobbed over the wretch. "Where is Jeffers," was the question I felt I should have to answer. I remembered the pale lips of one speaking with a tender deprecation of his conduct; of one who could not think of him but as a brother, and hoped for his return to a better life. To add another weight to the load wearying that faithful yearning young heart was a task for other hands than mine. The sight of the rooms interior and all within grew hateful to me. The avenging Nemesis I had invoked seemed all too eager then, and as I looked at the vengeance-hungry chiefs, I foreswore the companionship of such forevermore, no matter what the errand or end. 
                  Vindictive, profligate, ignorant and rapacious, their only advances toward civilization are the ready adoption of the fashions 
                        ard
                        and
                      follies of it. Men who, in addition to their own inherent vices, have acquired and improved upon those of the better race; holding souls different from ours, pirates at heart, and bloodthirsty as their ancestors a hundred years back, yet clothed in the rich stuffs of Christendom and Asia, they are arrogant in their gold-bought association with the white thrift-getting people. Such a horde as this waited patiently, yet fiercely, for the first unguarded word of Jeffers. He had forfeited all claims to mercy, and he asked none, but calmly trusted in his kismet, and it saved him, for there came at last an urgent, hurried message for me. As I quitted the room abruptly, the movement caused some slight confusion, and the crowd came with me to the galleries. On returning, the game was going on at the table where Jeffers had been, but a native was in his place. Jeffers had fled. The others having slipped away before him, we considered it a mistake, and so it was left. 
                  Could an unfelt agency have sped from another continent, sent on the pinions of a pure child-love, to stay off the doom, and leave yet more scope for repentance? The yearning of one pure spirit is of more avail than a lifetime of perfunctory prayer. I never sought Jeffers since. He lives yet, and we may meet again; but her love is a mantle of 
                        protectiou
                        protection
                     , a panoply against my just demand, according to the old dispensation of "an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth." 
                  Mucia I have never met. 
                  This is the story of "Gideon's Band, or, The Nautch Girl." It may appear that I have made myself the hero of my own tale. If that be so, it should be borne in mind that such was not my intention. Besides, you must remember that when it is impossible to figure creditably ourselves, we are apt to leave the tale for others to relate. I have not been permitted to select the characters acters, or I should have, in some instances, 
                        choseu
                        chosen
                      more perfect ones. There was one, however, whose just delineation I have failed in. Hers was the bright picture that induced the attempt to reproduce it, to satisfy the yearning of a soul that has no other solace but to worship and wait-a devotee that knows no other idol. 
                  There is a flush upon the long-watched horizon that tells at last of fruition near at hand. This may be, like the other false lights, but a delusion, though a heart-balm never felt before promises with a truer prophecy that joy and tranquility is to come to me. 
                
             
             
                
                   
                  Loss of appetite speedily prevented by the famed Tonic, Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                   
                  INDIGESTION is the cause of nearly all the diseases to which we are subject. Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar is a medicine so uniformly grateful and beneficial for this complaint that it can with justice be called the "NATURAL STRENGTHERER OF THE HUMAN STOMACH." It is the best Tonic known-a gentle aperient, and safe under any circumstances. TRY ONE BOTTLE. 
                   
                  FREE LIVING is unfortunately a prevalent habit in our country, producing Indigestion and many other disorders. Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar produces a healthy tone in the stomach, increases the appetite, removes flatulence, restoring the stomach to a healthy and vigorous condition. 
                   
                  
                     Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar loosens the phlegm and prevents violent fits of coughing.
                   
                   
                  For Nervous Complaints use Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar; it is a valuable remedy for those in delicate health. 
                   
                  
                     Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar assists Digestion.
                   
                  "A Mr. Fallon, (of firm of Johnson & Fallon, Carpenters), says that one bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar has completely cured himself and wife of a severe Cough, and his child of severe croup." So writes J. B. Johnson, Druggist. of Henderson, Ky. 
                   
                  A. Packham, Prestonville, Ky writes as follows: "I can conscientiously recommend Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar as a perfect remedy for Asthma. My wife was afflicted for years, but has been entirely cured by taking it." 
                  Dr. CROOK'S WINE of TAR Is noted for its healthy action upon the Stomach and Bowels, regulating chem and removing Costiveness or Diarrhoea! 
                   
                  Nervous Affections ARE ALL CURED BY INVIGORATION AND AS Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar Is a prompt restorer of the vital energies of the system, all suffering from Nervous Complaints will find this Tonic to have the desired effect. 
                
                
                   
                  Why Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar cures so many diseases. 
                  Every one knows that Tar is one of the most powerful modifiers of the mucous membrane, and this membrane lines the Stomach, Intestines, Throat, Lungs, Bladder, &c. &c. and it is its action upon this membrane which gives "Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar" such great success, and gives it the prominent place it now has in the world. "Dr. Crook's Wing of Tar" is a clear fluid, divested of all foreign matter, rich in the medicinal properties of Tar. pleasant to the taste, and endowed with efficacious properties. Try one bottle. 
                  A farmer living in Zell Township, four miles west of Boonsboro, Iowa, named Harrison McCloskey, contracted a severe cold early in the Spring of 1868. He could get no relief-grew worse, spit blood, had severe pain in his side and breast, night sweats, loss of appetite, and could do no work of any kind. He was completely cured by the use of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, and has gained twenty-five pounds in weight, no cough, good appetite, and able to do any work. 
                  A gentleman in West Cornwall, Conn. named Hamilton B. Howard, writes that he has used Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar for Bronchitis, and it has entirely cured him, although his family physician pronounced his case beyond cure. A friend who knew the merit of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, prevailed on him to try it, and he sends permission to publish his statement. 
                
                
                  FACTS FOR THE PEOPLE. 
                   
                     When you want Drugs, 
                     Or in need of Medicines, 
                     Or some fancy Toilet Article, 
                     Or a good article of Baking Powder, 
                     Or to fill your can with Coal Oil, 
                     Or to purchase a new Lamp, 
                     Or get a bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar, 
                     Or desire anything kept by Druggists generally, call on John Russell. Skowhegan, Me. 
                   
                
                
                  We trust you have been interested in the story we have furnished you, and, in return, claim the privilege of impressing on your mind the GREAT MERIT of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  One Bottle of it will do you good 
                  Aside from its great curative powers for Coughs, Colds, Croup, Whooping Cough, Sore Throat, or any disease of the Throat and Lungs, it is also remarkable for renovating and strengthening the digestive organs. 
                  You need one bottle of it to rejuvenate and give tone to your system. 
                  Your Druggist will tell you it is the most popular remedy he sells, and it always gives satisfaction. 
                  Buy one bottle of it and at the same time leave your name with your Druggist to obtain for you a copy of our next Story which we shall publish in a few weeks. Try one bottle of Dr. Crook's Wine of Tar. 
                  The romance of the Nautch Girl (complete), will be sent to any address on receipt of 10 cents by mail. Address orders to OLIVER CROOK & CO. DAYTON, O. 
                
             
          
       
   
