
    ----CITATION----
        De Lesdernier, Emily Pierpont.. Hortense .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6249 wright2-0720
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               HORTENSE.
               THE LAST OF A NOBLE NAME.
               A ROMANCE OF REAL LIFE.
            
            BY EMILY PIERPONT DE LESDERNIER.
            
            
               NEW YORK.
               WENTWORTH MAXWELL & CO.
            
            1867.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867, by EMILY PIERPONT DE LESDERNIER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York.
               JOURNEYMEN PRINTERS' COÖPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
               166 William Street.
            
         
         
            PROEM.
            It was a bright October morning, and the new day flooded with splendor a city of the Southern seaboard, as it lay in half Venetian loveliness, lapped in a water as warm, and glassing skies as beautiful, as those circling above the Adriatic.
            The leaves were all alive with busy comers and goers, and heavily laden drays were seen hurrying through the streets to deposit great bales of merchandise, to be in readiness for exportation, for cotton then reigned king in unrivaled and uncontested might.
            The palatial homes of this city on the sea, built in the old Huguenot style, presented an imposing picture to the eye, with their elegantly gantly ornamented French entrances, having the family arms quartered above the lintels, and with their almost eudal grandeur of appointments.
            One of these noble mansions was escutcheoned with a name that stood proudly in the archives of a nation's history; albeit the present bearer of those time-honored trophies had achieved nothing worthier the envy of men than the amassing of a colossal fortune.
            The dwelling stood nearly in the centre of a spacious square, enclosed on all sides by a high wall. The traditionally fabulous embellishment of these grounds, the passer by could only guess at. There were more than hints of orange groves, and murmurs of fountains, and gushing songs of happily imprisoned birds, and stray sprays of exquisite things climbing, as if by stealth, over the heavy abutment; but only the favored few might be permitted to enjoy the fullness of the inner glory. From either side of the mansion were trellised verandahs stretching out like great brooding wings, and from them tendrils of the loveliest parasites went swaying, and clinging, and embracing, into the very midst of the luxuriant foliage; and, overtopping all, a belt of lofty palmettos waved majestically, fanning into accelerated motion the breezes, always fresh, swelling in with the tides from the Gulf.
            Within the precincts of the picturesque garden, a lovely girl, in the first blush of young maidenhood, was culling here and there, from the world of flowers blooming around her, whatever suited her dainty fancy. An Italian greyhound followed her flying steps, evincing in short, rejoiceful howls, a keen relish of the pleasure of the time. These canine expressions of glee really sounded more like the magic of a happy laugh than some human creatures ever attain to in that direction; but if brute reason is transient, Zip had a soul that looked out of those faithful brown eyes, watching for the approval of his sweet young mistress.
            The air was filled to sensuous ravishment with blended fragrance of magnolia and teeming orange trees, whose delicate branches were laden at once with silver blossoms and with golden fruit, a revelation of beneficent delights. From the house there issued a gentleman of haughty bearing, and icily aristocratic cast of features. He was closely followed by an ebony-visaged servitor, carrying a salver with cups, coffee and biscuit, to furnish the morning repast. These were placed upon a table glittering with damask and silver.
            The gentleman called out, with an imperious tone, one word. It was a name.
            At the sound of his voice, the maiden has tened to take her place beside him, with her arms full of the sweet plunder of the garden, that all her care could not prevent from scattering by the way as she moved, she herself the fairest flower of all the clusters there. Her complexion concealed a rose-white, suntinctured light, that seemed to shine through the delicate texture of her veins like an immortal fire, not ruddy, but pure spirit-flame. There was an arch mobility of the handsome features, which were not too regular to be expressive. The eyes, large and lustrous as stars, held a wondrously penetrating power, in their sea-blue depths. Her hair, a peculiar golden brown, waved and rolled into large, soft curls, veiling her slight figure with their luxuriousness.
            "What are you going to do with all those flowers, grand-daughter?"
            "It is the birth-day of Aunt Agnes, and I am going to make her room beautiful, if you please, grandpapa."
            "Humph," he murmured, and a slight sneer lowered the corners of his sarcastic lips.
            The young girl quietly arranged her flowers in rich bouquets. There were jasmines, red and white Bogonia, all the variegated hues of the tube-shaped jewel, "fuchsia," moss rose-buds, scarlet passion-flowers in their mystical splendor, and multitudes of velvet-eyed innocents, with the dew-drops glistening like diamond tears amid their fringed petals; and as the maiden plied her exquisite task, 
                  
                     "Her glance
                     Spoke something past all mortal pleasures,
                     As in a kind of holy trance,
                     She hung above those fragrant treasures.
                     Then hasten we, maid,
                     To twine our braid,
                     To-morrow the dreams and flowers will fade."
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Hortense
            HORTENSE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               The first thing that I remember as an event in my life, that had been up to my eighth year an unmixed dream of simple childish pleasure, was the arrival of my maternal grandsire from several years of travel in many distant lands. I had selected a special favorite from among the Bible patriarchs, and studied over the face, believing grandpapa would prove the prototype of this; and it was quite a shock to my childish faith, to find no resemblance whatever to the benignant silver-bearded hero of sacred writ. He seemed to me rather a strange old man, when he coldly greeted me, but cousin Pierre, who was four years my elder, he caught up in his arms and held in a long embrace, then setting him upon his feet again, he turned him around and looked at him studiously, exclaiming facetiously, "how you are grown, to be sure; it is high time I came home to look after you, my little man:" and then the two walked off together, to examine some articles of virtu that had been unpacked in the courtyard.
               At first I thought I would follow them, although nobody asked me; but bethinking me how often Pierre had said, "now don't tag," I feared he might say so now, and I knew I should cry if he did. It was rather dismal to be so overlooked, to be sure: even my sable attendant was gone, with the others, to assist at the exhumation of the foreign trophies.
               Our house was very large and very lonely, because there were so few persons in it. My joyous child-nature was often quelled by my own voice's echoes, that I still liked to waken in the large, uninhabited chambers and state reception rooms, in which nobody was ever received now, for we were a very isolated and nearly extinct race. The family had intermarried immemorially, and consequently were dwindled to the fewest possible shoots, until there were left of the name, only grandpapa, my cousin Pierre, who was the hope of it, an invalid aunt, and little I, so insignificant as scarcely to be counted.
               My parents had passed the first year of their married life in Italy, and there was I born. Upon their return to the paternal roof, they brought me with them, still an infant; but before I had attained my third year, I was an orphan, unable to recall a father's love, or mother's tender care. My only knowledge of them, when I was old enough to comprehend, was gleaned from the painted canvass, where their portraits were warm with the coloring of life. Before them I often stood with such fixed earnestness, as to produce a magical effect, for they, at first silent and unresponsive to their child, under the nerve-light of my concentrated gaze, seemed to glow and live, and reply to my askings, in voiceless whispers and unsyllabled words; and, when older grown, often have I startled from the reflection in the mirror, for a moment uncertain of my identity, so closely did mine resemble my mother's pictured face.
               During grandpapa's long absence, he left in his place a northern gentleman, as overseer of the estate, who acted, also, as tutor to cousin Pierre, while aunt Agnes had a nominal supervision of the whole; but her health, which had been delicate for years, entirely failed her a few months before her father's return, and she became at last little better than a mere automaton.
               I have thought since, in recalling my saddened thoughts of my only female relative, that some sharp trial must have come into her life, perhaps in early girlhood, long before I was born. It might have been, that grandpapa exercised his will-power upon her, to some special end, as later he attempted to do with me, and so, crushing her nature, her heart and hope and health gave way under the tension.
               Aunt Agnes never complained, but took silent refuge from the cruelty and hopelessness, in her darkened chamber and on her invalid couch.
               So now grandpapa took up the burthen of parentage, and tried, as well as his nature would let him, to supply all to us. It was much easier to direct Pierre, than myself. He was of a dull, heavy temperament, constitutionally indolent and careless, good-natured, as indifference is often termed, because it was less trouble to agree with, than to contend against even an injustice.
               
               I had always shared his amusements. We both had ponies, and a wide circle for exercise within the garden walls—for it was a law, that I must not go outside at all, except by special permission, and only with proper attendance.
               The first time grandpapa saw me ride, which was a few mornings after he came home, he laughed heartily, called me a prodigy, an infant phenomenon; whatever that meant I had no idea, but obeying the laws of activity, and using the facilities of supple limbs, together with a natural excellence of poise that made me perfectly at home on horseback, whether standing or sitting, though my pony flew like the wind. These untutored feats pleased grandpapa greatly, and he often let me go out with him and Pierre into the wide country, evidently proud of his young equestrians. These rides gave the only glimpses I was allowed to have of the great world outside our high-walled grounds.
               Grandpapa had some strong dislike to women about the house, therefore Aunt Agnes's plea to get a governess for me was disregarded; and as it was time to commence my book-learning, if I ever expected to acquire any, I was thrown upon the hands of Pierre's tutor, who had already amused himself, to a certain extent, with my precocious mentality. He was not a brilliant scholar, but was conscientious and thorough in his training.
               Thus the time went on without the occurence of any particular event, until I reached my twelfth year, when Pierre was placed at a university somewhere at the North, our old instructor desiring to leave us; and I was left to the utter loneliness of the great desolate house, to the communion of those voiceful echoes and pictured faces, with the mysterious sympathies which they engendered.
               But I loved books; they made me happy for a season, and the garden was a world which I peopled for myself. The fountains were seas, over which I built bridges to cloud-land; the pyramids of flowers were cities, whose capitals, standing on the apex, flamed with iris-like splendor—and I gave them names which no cities ever received before, for my imagination was more far reaching than that of the dream-king of "Kubla Kahn."
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               Pierre Bravoure, senior, was a man proud, beyond precedent, of blood and birth. A scion of Southern aristocracy completely imbued with the prejudices, so powerfully integrating root and branch of the Southern mind; and more than all, he, by inheritance and temperament, held a strictly family conservatism that had set fatally at naught all physiological laws, and these already revenged themselves by denuding the geneological tree, one by one, of the fair blossoms of expectation; yet he saw not, or seeing, would not heed the error of his generation.
               If methods of training ever are anything but false, my rearing was nothing else; worshipped and indulged by the family slaves, petted and snubbed, as I was, by grandpapa, just as the caprice of the moment impelled him. It seemed to afford him diversion to teaze me to exasperation, then laugh at my proud, silent rage, while I shrank from the whistling knout of his sarcasms. I have heard him exclaim—
               "The girl has a glorious spirit; the blood of her race is regnant in her being." And so it was, as he afterward learned to his amazement and regret.
               The value of property, of course, at that time, could have no definite claim on my understanding, though it was sometimes forced into my thought by others; and when I was particularly defiant, or dignified, or self-asserting, under grandpapa's contumely, he would finish the onset by informing me that I was only a little beggar! I sometimes felt as though I would starve myself, rather than touch another morsel of food at his table, and my self-imposed abstinence had, no doubt, a most potent effect on my mental condition, at that particular epoch.
               One day, in rummaging through a drawer containing old letters, I chanced upon some written by my mother while in Italy. I pored and brooded over the glowing pages, and a passionate yearning came into my soul, to see what was there described. I longed for the friends of whom she wrote, that I might make them mine, and cling to them, as I would have done to this beautiful mother, had fate not robbed me of her. I fled to my ideal realm, and conjured up the ghosts of that delightful past, and made them talk of things I loved to hear. Thus I fed on spiritual manna, which I gathered for myself, while yet a mere child.
               The months went over my young head, happily or otherwise. Pierre had been gone nearly a year, when grandpapa became more than ever unendurable—more freakish and severe. He was so often positively unkind, that my faithful slave attendant, who had nursed my mother, as well as me, was all the more wont to indulge me, as far as she dared. She could never seem to do enough for me to show her love and devotion—anticipating my wants, and watching over me with almost paternal care.
               Although it was unusual, at the South, to whip the nurses of children, yet Marco had been forbidden, "on pain of whipping," to indulge me in visiting certain localities, where it was still my pleasure to go. I did not know of the impending punishment, but was aware of the prohibition. I made a strong plea for indulgence, which was to go, mounted on my pony, Marco following on a donkey, transporting suitable vesture for the occasion, to a bit of secluded beach, where I delighted to bathe in the salt sea. I had often been there with cousin Pierre, and could swim like a Triton. Perhaps grandpapa had his reasons for interdicting these marine amusements. It was an innocent and desirable pleasure, and I insisted:
               "Just this once, mammy—Zip wants to go, too." Zip barked right gleefully; he understood every word I said.
               "Now, look yere, dear little Missy, what for you want to go, way down yonder? I aint gwine to let yer go down dar—can't no ways!" and mammy plumped herself down with a dogged determination of manner, that left me little to hope. Still persisting—
               "But mammy, I like it so much—more than I can tell you."
               "I aint gwine to do no sech thing; sides massa said—
               "What?"
               Marco recovered herself, resolving to tell me only that "Massa said I shouldn't go no ways." I was perverse, and after that statement, was more than ever inclined to wander at my own sweet will beside that sea-washed beach. I gained my point and had great rest in my wilfulness; but Marco was whipped for daring to disobey her master's orders. When apprised of the fact, my indignation knew no bounds. I bewailed my own helplessness, while administering consolation to poor Marco, whom I found crouching in a corner, smarting from the lash, that had been laid on with no sparing hand.
               "I wish they had whipped me, instead of you, Marco!" I cried, passionately.
               "O, no, little Missy; you is too tender for dat."
               "Why did you not tell me this had been threatened, if you went with me?"
               Marco only shook her head, in reply. It was a silent though unintentional reproach, at my persistency in setting at naught her master's authority.
               "If they ever touch you again, I shall kill somebody, or run away!"
               "Hush, Missy dear; don't talk so."
               I caused Marco to lie down on a mat beside my bed, and dinned my childish griefs into her tawny ears, with a vague notion that this would be the surest method to make her forget her own sorrow; and so it proved, for presently the poor, kind creature fell asleep, and gracious angels took her spirit into their white hands, and bathed it in the fountain of happiness, that springs in crystal beauty in the far-off fields of Elysium: in that joyous world of dreams, poor old black Marco was as white as the whitest of God's children.
               We rarely think why sleep restores us to youth and freshness; we say we slept well. It is because our Father has given His angels charge concerning us.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               I lay long awake that night, devising how to break loose from a thrall that curbed me too keenly. I hated the terrible walls that closed us in; the monotony and irksomeness of this prison-like existence were appalling to me. The grandeur in which we lived could not shut out the prime truth, that little by little our isolation was becoming more entire: the barriers that shut us from outside sympathy more firmly fixed, as one of the very conditions of this lordly fastidiousness on the part of my grandfather.
               I stretched impotent hands, and looked longingly into the blank before me, yearning for something I had not yet found in life, but knew no name by which to call it. It was for companionship, sympathy, freedom, or perhaps, more than all, for occupation. My mind was on the alert, making powerful demands for nourishment requisite to its proper development. Pierre Bravoure, senior, still refused to comply with the expressed wisdom of Aunt Agnes, that he should furnish me a suitable person for my instruction. She saw something of the urgent need of a change for me, but grandpapa was inexorable, and aunt said "he was so positive, so inconsistently eccentric, no one could expect anything but discord by attempting to reach his better feelings."
               "This man," I said, "must be checked in his exercise of a force that is rendering our lives perfectly miserable, or I must escape from the conflict."
               The sense of justice was morbidly excited in me, while my pitiable insufficiency made me frantic in the wish to do something to make him know the thing he had trodden upon, could turn. I believed it would hurt him to lose me, and I had a great mind to kill myself, if I had the courage; the next best thing would be to take myself out of his way. Yes, that may bring peace to others, if not to me. I thought again of Aunt Agnes and her dreary state of living death. My heart beat fast, and a voice seemed to call to me out of the darkness: "What you are now, she once was—what she is now, you will become, if you act not in your own defence." I suppose I must have been dreaming, for I saw a lustrous hand, that beckoned me, and the voice, distant and thin, yet clear, cried, "away, away, else the serpent whose coil has stifled her young life, will crush yours also." A spirit of quick resolve burned in my heart on the instant. I sprang from my couch, exclaiming, "I will avenge you, Agnes. I will avenge you, Marco!"
               "But how?"
               That very day, as if in answer to my dearest wish, my grandpapa went to the rice plantation, for a short visit, and I, glad and almost as free as a bird, cruised out on a voyage of discovery—a stolen one, of course. With my long hair closely bound inside a black net, and covered with a rude bonnet of one of the servants, I escaped special observation. I learned the names and destination of several of the ships at the quay; one was bound for Leghorn, to leave port the next day, and in her I determined to be a passenger, no matter what the consequences might be.
               I was well aware that I could not get away, except by stealth, and thus took my measures accordingly, despising the dissimulation that must nevertheless be practiced, to carry out the plan.
               I had taken some pains to learn that poor white girls sometimes carried baskets of oranges anges and sweetmeats upon the levees to the sailors and among the shippers. I feared nothing, except being discovered before I could get away altogether. The slaves were less vigilant during their master's absence, and, by keeping watch and ward, I at last found my opportunity.
               I kissed a good bye to Zip, the only creature I dared trust as far as the low gate. On the eastern side of the great wall, from which I made my exit, there was a small lodge beside it, where I changed my dress. Equipped and armed with a basket of fruit, I sallied forth, walking quickly to the particular part of the levee where lay the ship of my choice. It was high noon. Nobody noticed me as I stepped on board and stole quickly toward the forecastle, and descended the horrible ladder and lost no time in stowing myself securely away out of danger of immediate discovery.
               Bye and bye I knew by the creaking of ropes, the rattling of chains and various other indications, that we were moving out to sea—and I believed myself safe for the voyage. Ah, me! how slender were my experiences.
               I pass over the disagreeable sensations endured in that den of horror, the ship's hold; the nauseous smells, the rolling and tumbling, and the deathly sickness that prostrated me, but not my resolution, for with a Spartan firmness, I forbore the utterance of a single moan that might betray me. However, it happened in a short time, that I was discovered, "overhauled," nautically speaking, "and brought to," to answer for the misdemeanor of being among the ship's freight uninvited.
               I stubbornly persisted in making no reply to their questions; but there was some one on board who was acquainted with my family, so I was identified, laughed at by some, and soundly lectured by others, for my temerity. I did not care a straw for all that. My great grief was the threat to countermarch me, by the first opportunity, back to Charleston to my grandfather. I saw there was no alternative. These men I believed to be a convocation of the most cruel monsters, on sea or land. I think that I have never quite forgiven the sex that first-crossed purpose. It would have been so easy for those strong many, it seemed to me, to help the weak one to her wish.
               We were but a few miles from port, when a steamer from New York bound to Charleston, was hailed, and in an incredibly short time, I was looking from the deck of the steamer at the inhospitable ship from which I had been so summarily ejected; however, I was sufficiently heroic not to lament over that affair. A written explanation had been conveyed veyed, along with myself, to the captain, and the history of my little escapade went the rounds, and was the subject of some mirth to several would-be wits; and such appellations as "Peri," "ocean nymph," and "youthful Venus," struck my sensitive ear very disagreeably. I would have been glad to get out of sight, but could not. I strove to appear indifferent to the quips and cranks of these gentle as-sailors. I looked beyond them, and fastened my attention upon a group, drawn apart from the rest, comprehending a gentleman of highly distinguished appearance, standing near a lady who was seated upon the deck, and who somewhat resembled him. By her side was a young girl, about my own age, and from a place between these two, partially hidden by their wrappers, peered the head of a boy, with a quaint little red velvet cap set jauntily upon the close curling hair. The face of the child was peculiar, yet lovely. The large eyes beamed, with a half melancholy lustre, through the long fringes of the eyelids. The pale olive cheeks lacked fulness, while the brow seemed a little too fall; but this was redeemed by the form of the aquiline nose, and the full, affectionate lips. Still there was a lack of character in this old-young face, that distressed me with its mystery, as though nature had nipped off the point of beauty, leaving it in some indistinct fashion, blunt and marred: a face that might have given the lie to the most plausible theories of the physiognomist, through an unsurmised temperamental defect.
               I drew nearer this interesting party, with a timid, apologetic step, until the strange boy, observing me, rose to his feet and commenced singing in a language I knew not; but it sounded very sweet. My hair seemed to attract him, which was tumbled about by the wind in unusual carelessness, and also lacked Marco's faithful attention. I felt sorry to have some so near, when I discovered the boy's form answered not at all the promise of his face, but was dwarfed and deformed. Blushing, and shrinking back, pained and ashamed to have intruded upon so sacred a sorrow, I turned aside and met the eyes of the gentleman fixed upon me.
               He had just spoken with the captain, about me, as my painful self-consciousness interpreted. I felt terribly disconcerted; but as he bent his deep regards upon me, my perturbation subsided, as if by magic. He was full of power, august, all-controlling. From lack of ideas, I could not then divine the meaning of that ascendancy. A certain loftiness of carriage made him appear taller than he really was—his presence was majesty itself. Masses of hair, black as night, swept back from the full, wide forehead, smooth as ivory, except between the brows, where the lines of justice lay deeply defined. The prophetic fire burning in those glorious eyes, illumined the heart instantly with the light of perfect confidence.
               "They tell me you are the grand-daughter of Mr. Pierre Bravoure; is it so?"
               Deeply surprised at being thus inquired of by a stranger, I at once acknowledged kinship with my awful grandsire.
               He then said a few words in his strange tongue, to the lady, when taking my hand, he led me to her and said, "This is my sister and these are her children."
               The lady made room for me very sweetly, between herself and her daughter, by the side of the young boy.
               The gentleman continued, "I may call you Hortense, for I held you in my arms when you were a little infant."
               "In Italy?" I said; "that is where I was going."
               "Do not regret that you are detained. It is far better so. I was honored with the friendship of your parents, during the whole time of their stay in my native land, and since they died I have felt always a romantic interest in you, carissima; but I fear you are very unhappy, since they tell me you have eloped from your home."
               Something in his voice touched my long pent-up feelings, that now found vent in a perfect flood of passionate tears and bitter sobs.
               They let me weep a while, then began sweet soothings and comforting suggestions; and this splendid friend, (whose name I now remembered, from dwelling upon it in those letters of my mother's,) informed me that he had seen much of my grandfather when abroad, and that he was now an invited guest to that home I had flown from but yesterday. This was enough. I cared for nothing more, then.
               The steamer was getting into port, and I, who had stolen away but a few hours before in despair, was now returning, crowned with solace, and glowing with happiness and hope.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               Grandpapa manifested greater forbearance than I had given him credit for, in commenting but little on my attempted escape. He only remarked, "Had you been wiser, you would have known you could not get away from me; and if you and Agnes had been content to wait, you would have seen that I had already made provision for your education, after my own fashion. I do not choose to be called upon to give an account of myself to you two impatient ones, nor will I. I think you may be an honor to me—for you have pluck, if it does not run away with you—and I cannot bear namby-pamby women." This was all. He had a lesson—so had I; and he treated me with much more consideration from that time forth.
               The occupancy of our house with guests, made an agreeable change in the entire establishment. Grandpapa was, with all his faults, a gentleman of true hospitality, and peace and harmony reigned throughout our household.
               The Count di Molina, a hero of many battles, both of pen and sword, was really one of the grand seigneurs of Italy, but now an alien, the victim of a faction, accused of conspiracy against the government. He only escaped a prison, perhaps death, by flight, his estates confiscated by his political enemies, and thus, from the pinnacle of wealth and great personal influence, he was reduced to the necessity of accepting patronage in a foreign land, to support himself and those dependant upon him, until justice should recover the balance of power, and he should be reinstated in his rights. The husband of his only sister, a Tuscan of some rank, lost his life in one of the first revolutionary insurrections rections under Garibaldi, and she too, was stricken down from eminence and power. It is ever the misfortune of oppressors that their necessarily unjust mandates must sweep away their strongest bulwarks of defence. They are blind to the fact that even their rebel patriots may be cherished for noble uses.
               The great inconvenience of the Papal Government seemed to be that it had subjects. It executed a great many. It imprisoned as many as it could, until there was no more room; and it exiled not a few. There were fertile measures always on record to rid the Papal territory of thinking men. Alas, for the bleeding wounds of Italy, when it exiled such noble heroes as Count di Molina.
               His sister, Madame Biancha, being a woman of superior education, had determined to try the new world, in the capacity of a teacher, and grandpapa espoused the cause warmly, although desiring them to remain his guests much longer. But brother and sister were anxious to lose no time in testing their scheme. The season was propitious, and all promised well. Arrangements were put actively on foot, and Manse Holm, a beautiful place a short distance out of the city, was engaged. It required small effort on the part of the distinguished families of Charleston, whose warmest sympathies were aroused in behalf of these amiable foreigners, to make the school a success.
               The brother would assist in his sister's enterprise, and herein appeared the sweet nobleness of his character, accepting the work at hand, though far beneath his merit, until something of greater importance should arise.
               Grandpapa, as if to make amends for past neglect, early notified me that I was to be one of the pupils at the Manse, and I could scarcely keep myself within limits until I should arrive at that enviable point in my destiny.
               It arrived at last, that happy day, that blessed hour, when I was to be domiciled at Manse Holm with my dearly beloved friends.
               The immediate surroundings possessed all the natural beauties of a southern homestead. It was about an hour's drive from the city, and situated pleasantly on the river bank. Hedges of the Cherokee rose bounded the extensive lawn, while beyond, it was remarkable for the glistening darkness of its llex groves and clumps of swaying palmettos, the ever abounding magnolia loading the air with its heavy fragrance.
               At a convenient distance from the old mansion were the quarters of the negroes, lacking nothing of the usual picturesqueness which distinguishes the homes of those lazy baskers in the sunshine.
               As the carriage that bore me to what I conceived to be a second Eden, turned from the road into the avenue leading up to the house, a most agreeable picture presented itself to my view.
               My friends stood in the vine-covered porch, waiting to receive their first pupil. The master, Molina, his dark, grand face sublime with an expression of lofty endurance and unquelled courage; and as he smiled a welcome to me from those splendid eyes, I felt myself elated to the highest point of happiness. Madame Biancha embraced me warmly, and "Fiél," from whom I had been parted but twenty-four hours, fastened upon me, declaring, in her imperfect English, "I shall never, not no more you leave; I am have too much chagrain for these long times." Parting the blue-black hair from her spirit-pure forehead, I kissed her again and again. I loved her very much. I believed there never was, and never would be more, anything so pretty as this lovely young companion of mine.
               Tito, the boy, claimed his share of attention, from where he sat within the porch, dallying with the vines that shot through the lattice work and tumbled about his head till he looked like a young Bacchus crowned from the vintage.
               This singular child was endowed with a wonderfully precocious genius for music, both vocal and instrumental, which seemed to be the only faculty heaven had vouchsafed him. When failing to receive from any one the notice he thought his due, he would burst forth and sing some charming "aria," in such a pure, sweet, though immature voice, that one must, perforce, draw near and bless him for his song, which had often a quaint meaning in it, from his special adaptations. He had a peculiar practice of stringing a few words together, and ringing all sorts of musical changes upon them, in a low, rythmical chant. He had been going on with his sweet clamor, "Molto bello," to the air of "Ah non giunge," after I went in. As soon as Fiél would release me, I flew to the child, and he was directly quiet, for I stopped his mouth with a bon-bon.
               
               In a few days the other young girls were duly installed at the "Holm," and then the business of the school commenced in earnest.
               We were not trained in the hackneyed forms indigenous to schools in the abstract. Indeed, ours was not so much a school as an elegant social circle, where conversation and habits were regulated by perfect example—where excellence of quality became the source and summit of emulation.
               We were shown, by a daily recognition, that diet and raiment had much to do with amiability of disposition, by their effects upon the health; and in order to be a thorough gentlewoman, all these matters must be duly deliberated upon, weighed and measured with nice distinction.
               We were inducted into the intricacies of physiology and the simple philosophy of breathing.
               The breath is the sentinel, and the lips the valves of life, and whenever we breathe with the doors ajar we lose vital power. Behold the clumsy gourmand drinking the air, with half open mouth, as if he could in no other way take in enough. Observe the coarseness of his features, the slouch of his gait, and the contrast with the refinement and quiet power of one better taught, who closes the lips and inhales the air as a sacred flame, breathing it through the nostril already prepared for the purpose, with super-sensitive delicacy of formation. By this means only can the clay form become a living soul, and the created image of God remain among us undesecrated.
               The master had special days for his classes, or rather lectures, and the hours during which he presided at the desk, were perfectly glorious.
               The electric power transfused among his eager pupils, the magical effect of his voice, and, as I may say, the diaphanous quality of his illustrations, caused all he showed us to appear as active, vivid principles. These principles, he taught us, should be made our own; be integral in our being—not merely lessons of the hour, to be forgotten or dimly remembered, but engrafted in the soul—our daily bread, the foundation of daily action, inculcating discipline, and ending in power, which is still power, though it be used in submission or in sovereignty.
               He spoke of the source and infinity of words, of the first possibilities of lingual expression; he led us through the dim arcades of the primal utterance of nature, and around the vast arena of vocal thought, and paused, bidding us listen to the ringing rythm of the first prophecies of time.
               It is seldom that a foreigner so perfectly masters the English tongue; but by him it was spoken with a grace and perfection rarely equalled—never surpassed. We listened while glowing creations were presented, illumined by the conception and perfect delivery of our preceptor. Enthusiasm knew no bounds. We crowded to his side, if happily we might touch the enfolded wing of the angel of eloguence, and receive virtue thereby. He said, "words are but the receptive vessels that hold the thought and feeling; and by thinking truly, we may fill the word with the spirit of the thought, which, when touched with the torch of action, the thing expressed is painted or sculptured on the imagination by the eloquent combination of all the attributes of perfection."
               The lore of sages was not omitted in our instructive schedule. Our elastic minds, fresh and keen, took up the burthen of research with wondering delight.
               Religious truths formed the topic of an hour each day, when we listened to the meaning of the divine words, from our master's lips. He touched the chords of conscience to their profoundest depths, by his discourse; but while he made us feel, he directed us to the All-Healer, by prayers of simple faith.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               It would be tedious to dwell upon mere details of school life; but here and there points must be touched, in order to transmit the sense of the story. Many months of uniform happy activity rolled calmly on, and not the slightest incident, as yet, came to ruffle the harmony of our routine. We had progressed fast and far in our studies, as might be inferred from the indwelling with fine scholastic minds, solely intent on our advancement. I had made a few flying visits to my aunt and grandpapa, but all my preferences were at the Manse—not that I cared much for the society of my school-mates, but had an insatiate thirst for that class of study and thought that brought me nearer my master.
               I was allowed to be greatly in advance of the other young girls, for it must be remembered that I had chopped logic with my cousin's tutor beforehand, and the seeds of his planting, under the new system, had cropped out luxuriantly, speaking well for the ground where they had taken root. I had grown too, and was "quite a woman," grandpapa said. I loved to sit alone in some quiet nook, out of study hours, where I might indulge in "sweet and bitter fancies," to which my emotional nature was awake, but which I understood only in a very limited degree.
               I was told, "you must think less and amuse yourself more;" but mere pastime had a wearing effect.
               My master took a still deeper interest in me than ever. He could construe my whole nature, and it was happiness to me to know that some one understood the phases of my being better than I.
               He spoke sometimes of my parents, of their home in Italy—of his linked life with them there; at other seasons he appeared to live in abstractions only, that veiled him in an impenetrable reserve.
               I knew his soul was solitary, and I longed, with the whole strength of my spiritual might, to release him from that spell of darkness—to cast out the demon that dared for an instant to cloud his benignity. This sense of incapacity to realise his profound sorrow and minister to it, induced a morbid condition in me, that finally merged into silent, sleepless misery.
               Madame Biancha was gone, one evening, with the young ladies on a little excursion to the river-bend, which the golden light of a full southern moon rendered particularly agreeable and inviting to my pleasure-loving companions.
               I placed myself behind the silken curtains, in a window of the large library, where I might muse undisturbed in the twilight solitude.
               I had not the least idea of the length of time I had dreamed away, when the curtains were put aside, and the master stood before me.
               "Pensarosa, you must not keep yourself so much alone."
               "I thought you were in town, sir," was my half breathless response.
               "Ah, then you wish me farther," he said, smilingly.
               "No, indeed," I replied; "but I was surprised to see you."
               "Well, be reconciled, for I am going to give you my company for a while. Now tell me, what do you seek in the depths of your soul, that you keep so much alone with it?"
               "I cannot easily put thoughts into words, as you know, my dear master, but I seem to perceive a difference in my nature from that of others; I fall into strange reveries; the air in one long sigh whispers sibyline secrets to me, and I am possessed with the sense of something mysterious always about me. When I move in the dark about the halls or staircases, there comes a great rushing sound and I feel as if upborne on unseen wings, for I am moved without moving, and, in this terror of delight, am placed in my own room—when with a rush like a mighty wind, the sounds, for which I can discover no cause, appear to depart, and the door claps too without hands."
               "You say, 'in this terror of delight;' are then, such sensations as these agreeable to you?"
               "I cannot say so; yet there is a feeling akin to the deepest that can stir the soul. It is an awe-born thrill."
               
               "Do you sleep?"
               "Not much; I seem to be constantly expecting some weird presentment.
               "It is a strange imagination," said the master.
               "How can it be imagination?" responded I. "How could imagination transplant me bodily from the foot of the stairs to the middle of my own chamber?"
               "We will not combat that point," said he. "I have taught you something of odic laws. For many years it has been a favorite pursuit of mine to watch for and counteract the variations to which persons of your temperament are more or less liable. You must faithfully obey the rules written down on this bit of paper, and take, as prescribed, the liquid contained in this phial." He handed them to me; "and more than all," he continued, "you must exercise the whole power of your will against these fancied visitations of your invisible visible friends. I have noted the enthusiastic tendency of your mind—your instinctive delight in unusual manifestation of sublimity, beauty and virtue—and it is for truth's sake you suffer, because you cannot make your real equal your ideal. Ah, if aspiration were also inspiration, how grandly we might soar! When your judgment shall have expanded in power, you will be able to direct the poetical enthusiasm of your heart to noble and majestic uses. It is only in a state of deep serenity that the soul is capable of perceiving truth."
               I was aroused from the soothing effect of his voice and words, by the grating noise of approaching wheels on the carriage drive. Glancing from the window, I saw a strange face—a woman's face—of a ghostly pallor—bent earnestly toward the house. It passed quickly, and soon after there was a slight silken rustling at the half open door. A lady entered, and advanced toward us as the master stood with his back to the door, and neither saw nor heard her, until she approached near enough to lay her hand upon his shoulder. He started, as if stung by that light touch—turned—and confronted the woman. For the space of a second, utter stagnation of the faculties seemed to be the result of their mutual gaze. Then a simultaneous ejaculation of "Molina!" "Julia!" escaped their lips, her's in an accusative tone, but his one of pure surprise, and evincing the betrayal of a sudden weakness at the memory of that name; but instantly recovering himself, he said, with freezing dignity:
               "May I inquire what can be the singular cause of the presence of the Viscountess Julia here?"
               The lady did not reply at once—she seemed sinking with emotion. The master handed her to a chair. She clung to his arm after she was seated, and through sobs and tears I heard her exclaim—
               "Why, why, did you leave us?"
               She addressed him in Italian—he answered in the same sweet, flowing tongue, but with a tone of great bitterness.
               "Let me know, rather, why you have followed me, thereby invading the peace I have gained after the cruel turmoil in which your jealous machinations involved me?"
               Many answers and questions followed in quick succession, some of which swept by with a force and quickness that left me in doubt of their full import.
               This much I gathered at last out of the confusion of contending tones:—
               "I have come to tell you that all is forgotten—forgiven. You are free to return, your innocence fully established; and now suspicion can no more attach itself to your name. In expiation of the wrong I did you. I make this pilgrimage to convince you of my penitence. I only, am culpable. Pardon, pardon!"
               She slipped from the chair and sank at his feet, with clasped, outstretched hands, and such a power of tearful tenderness in her face and voice, that I wondered how he could do less than pronounce forgiveness and absolution for all the sins she ever might have committed against him.
               Yet he was unbending, and regarded the contrite, kneeling suppliant with terrible sternness.
               He folded his arms coldly upon his breast, as if disclaiming all sympathy with her, or utter disbelief in her assertions.
               "Rise, Countess," he said, in his deepest tones, "and learn that of which I should never have betrayed the knowledge to you, but for this rash surprise. There was one in the palace that night you wot of—two years ago this very day—at the hour of the visit of your powerful protector, who saw and heard all that transpired, along with the plan to have me assassinated on the road to Rome, and to ascribe the deed to Maritzetta, who fell, a victim to his blind trust in you. It was no fault of mine that you lost the power you then possessed. There was a time when I thought you were pure and untainted. That time has passed! Your own hand cancelled everything between us long ago. Depart! Where you inhabit, I never more will dwell—and he turned his back upon her.
               She rose to her full height as he ceased speaking. Every glow of the softer sentiment that had veiled her face with the tenderness of contrition, now vanished, and left no trace behind. Her features were distorted with rage. Her complexion paled with the dull glare of inward passions that rent her heart.
               Quick as lightning she put her hand to her girdle. A premonition of what she would do next had already induced me to move some steps nearer to my master. She, blind with rage, could not see me in the deep shadow where I stood; but I saw her purpose. Her lifted hand held something that glistened as cruelly as if plucked from her abominable eyes. Quick as a flash I threw myself into the space between them, and with the same impulse grasped her descending arm that aimed a blow at my master. The dagger's point just grazed my shoulder, but he was safe, and while sustaining me, he wrenched the murderous weapon from her hands. She dashed toward the door with an unearthly laugh; but, turning upon the threshold, her eyes blazing with passion, she hurled back, in imprecations, a threat of vengeful malice so dire that it curdled the blood in my veins.
               'We know," she continued, "why you have come here—to this place of all the spots on the face of the earth. There are tales still told in Florence of the fair American whose home was known to be here—what sway she held over a certain nobleman, whose name—
               "Silence!" thundered Molina. "Dare not to sully, with your vile thoughts, the purity of one who is now an angel in heaven. Begone!"
               The space was empty: and in another moment her carriage was heard driving rapidly away.
               When I knew she was gone, nature could endure no more—I fainted.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               That night, or rather the next morning, for it happened after midnight, an awful hurricane swept the land, spreading desolation in its furious march. The trees were uprooted, and whole fields of rice, sugar cane and cotton were buried in the universal debris; houses were unroofed; whatever stood in the path of the whirlwind bowed before it! The sun rose next morning upon a scene of wide-spread ruin.
               The effect of the tornado upon "Manse Holm" was so severe that it became necessary to quit the place while it underwent repairs. The young ladies returned to their respective families, and the Molinas went home with me to grandpapa's, who would not hear of any other arrangement. My slight wound was a little troublesome at first, but Madame Biancha soon healed it with the application of some delicate nard prepared by her own fair hands.
               Grandpapa was highly pleased, and not a little proud of the progress I had made in my studies during that year of steady work. It was his good pleasure and my master's delight, to say nothing of mine, that we should continue our course exactly as before, until the school was resumed, if that should happen, which nobody apparently doubted.
               I cared for nothing so much as to do my master credit, and was never so happy as when in the recitation room listening to the wisdom of his words; yet, after all, it was not so much the matter as his manner of presenting it. The music of his voice, the subtle eloquence of every intonation, the magnetic interchange of thought through streams of light that seemed to be poured from his brain—as it were, photographing the ideas upon the mental camera.
               Where are all those negatives existing, I wondered!
               The hardest tasks and deepest analysis never wearied; on the contrary, during lesson hours I enjoyed a sense of vigorous refreshment. The master's medicine had its due effect. I was not now visited by those transporting powers. A new sorcery displaced the old. I used my will certainly, but yielded only to one influence, where before I was possessed of many a one. The fewer spheres I encountered, the more reserved power attended me. I was wrapt in the light of the master's countenance. It was extacy to yield to this intellectual domination. It was like floating in some etherial substance, not so light as air, not so heavy as water. I had no conscious body, no thought, no dream of any material texture, but in a sublimated aura, like a blessed spirit, stood side by side with him who held authority by right over every particle of my nature. I fancied that he could have quenched the flame of thought, and have relighted the lamp at his own pleasure. I heard, believed, was in complete rapport with him, and pliant to his will.
               Could this good man have completed the moulding of the mind so ductile, it might have proved—ah, who may conjecture what "might have been."
               Can any one exactly apprehend the degree of mental labor, or the process by which we work up into our intellects the feeling that spontaneously arises in, and pervades our entire natures?
               Feeling is the basis of all the senses, as sight is the sum and apex. The pyramid is built with a broad foundation of many stones, each layer being reduced in regular ular succession of unifying refinement, until we arrive at the top, where one admirable, single, perfectly-wrought stone completes the form and limits the outline of its beautiful body. The plan is adhered to—the body is perfect. So in nature, the Primalia are the base, and man the apex of the organic structure on this planet. The order, classes, genera, species, and varieties being more abundant, occult, and practically innumerable in the base, but finally culminating in the single genus and species homo, in unitary type in man, the apex.
               By going one step below the Primalia, or feeling, and one above man, or sight, we are enabled to produce the section of a complete human sentient centre or the exact formula of mental operation. Chaos (matter in its strictest sense,) corresponds by antithesis to knowledge.
               "Dear master, I have a question to ask you."
               "I am glad to hear it, my child. What would you know!"
               "I looked into one of those strange books of yours that I found in the library. It was the disquisition on the physiology of the blood. After dwelling at some length on the philosophy involved in the subject, as you may remember, the author remarks that 'this being so, pure blood would produce pure life, and this must annihilate death and make life perpetual.' What do you say to that!"
               'The conception is in itself not only the prophecy, but the proof that it is possible, and will certainly come to pass, just when the conditions of an absolutely pure and perpetual obedience to the laws indicated, shall have been attained."
               I sighed and could have wept, feeling so far from the beautiful eternal fountain of truth. He resumed:—
               "Alas, the scientific mind is steeped in the senses, and is the drudge of their limited sphere."
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               Three months had passed by since we left the "Holm." It might have been three years, or three days, as far as my consciousness went with it, as a matter of time. They told me it was so, and I cared not. Why did they wish to realize this fact?
               One morning at the breakfast table, two startling pieces of information came to me, as distinctly fatal to all self-possession as the bursting of a bomb shell at my feet, or the admonition of an approaching landslide.
               The first was that Madame Biancha was about to be married to an Austrian gentleman, who had been a fellow-passenger with the family from Europe, as far as New York, and that bud of acquaintance then made, time has ripened since into a full blown matrimonial rose, although I surmised at the time, that Madame Biancha was sacrificing herself for the sake of her brother, who she well knew had hesitated to accept advantageous propositions, fearful of leaving her with two children to the mercy of uncertainties. The algebra of chances has many an unsolved problem.
               But the burden of the refrain of this intelligence, when it came to be repeated in my hearing, I refused in toto to accept. It was thus stated: Signor Molina, my master, was engaged to go out on a scientific exploring expedition into the great desert beyond the Colorado.
               What was I but a waif cast upon the wind? Questions were useless to which no satisfactory answers could be given.
               Nothing could reinstate me in the steadfastness of faith that I owned, as it were, but yesterday.
               In about three weeks' time the wedding came off—a private one. Fiél and I were bridesmaids. I did not like Madame Biancha's husband. To be sure, it was not incumbent on me to do so, and I felt I had many reasons to hate him, of which he was innocent. He was the blast that blew me from the shining shore! He was the rock on which my bark, freighted with so much happiness, had broken up. He was the sun whose fervent heat had melted off my goldentinted wings. He seemed to be the demon who had spoiled my life, and often, when I tried to be reasonable and forsake all prejudice for the sake of those I loved, whom I supposed he loved also, I could not find in him the good I sought. He had flown his country to escape the law which required of every man, noble or plebeian, to serve a certain term for her defence, or glory. The law may have been oppressive, but I could not positively respect any one so selfish or so weak as to defy it in that mean way.
               I made my silent comments then, and results brought proof to witness that my intuitive perceptions regarding his character, were true.
               I think poor little Tito's verdict would have tallied with mine, had he been gifted with a more rational method of explaining his mind. As it was, he expressed himself graphically and belligerently, in making the most pertinent selection from "Don Giovanni," "Der Freischutz," and "Robert le Diable." It was very funny, though sad, to listen to his musical predictions—for that was what it all meant—of this union.
               The marriage ceremony was performed at eleven o'clock; the wedding breakfast, a princely one, at my grandpapa's, was sat down to at high noon, and at three o'clock in the afternoon Mr. and Mrs. Karl Brodden, with my darling Fiél and Tito, (unwilling to go, to the very last,) took their departure for a home in the West, where the bridegroom had established himself in a flourishing business, that brought beaucoup d'argent, and we hoped it would continue for their happiness.
               Marco distinguished herself on the occasion, by flinging some old slippers after the carriage, and one fell inside, which Tito seized upon, declaring it was "Bella Angella's," as he often named me, and he carried it off with him. "They were thrown for luck." This little episode formed a pleasing diversion in the parting scene, for those who went, and those who remained assumed the event to be a happy one.
               When we were partially settled again—though the gap made in our family circle could not be filled, and I never forgot for a moment there was to be another departure—then calm reflection, reason and judgment decided that this was, after all, the best possible disposition of affairs for all parties directly interested.
               It released the Signor Molina from great anxiety about his family, leaving him free to pursue some larger mission commensurate with his ability, without considering immediate needs. It secured to his beloved sister a protector, and to all appearance, a generous father to her children. So far, all promised well.
               The master had not particularly favored this marriage, neither had he actually disapproved of it; but a shadow fell upon him after they were gone, as though it were the gathering cloud of some dread, impending calamity.
               I prayed in silence that the cloud might pass, or be driven away by some fresh onset of the battling hosts that invest the mind.
               And I was answered, if not in kind, yet in degree. He was restored to me mentally, for the little time he was yet to remain, of which I counted every instant as it passed.
               He lent himself again to all my questionings. We read and talked, diving deep into the lives of heroes, poets and sages. The magnetism of his presence still held its mystic influence over me, until I almost tasted inspiration. Busy fancy brought her Tyrian purples and crimson dyes, warming up the lights and shadows of her dream-pictures filled with glowing shapes called up from the magic web in tissued splendor, by the swift flying shuttle of intricate art.
               My master rarely commended me; but when he did so, however, it was for my industry and earnestness, rather than for finish.
               "It is to you I owe all, dear master, if possessed of worthy attainments. No other could have opened my mental sight as you have done, and I am sorry my schooling days are over."
               "Your schooling days," he replied, "are yet to come. I have striven to lay the foundation, but the energy to finish this must be born of your own nature. The process of refinement of material may be oftentimes wearisome; but by such process alone can you ever fulfil the design of your being."
               The master came home one day, deeply disturbed. I questioned him of Biancha and her children.
               "All well. But there are evil tidings from other sources for me. That woman has her hunters upon my track again. I ought to go to Italy at once, yet have no confidence in their assurances. I am not afraid, but have no wish to make myself liable to the tragical accidents so often occuring in the Papal States. Familiarity with an administration that plays lightly with human life begets in me not the slightest hope of good faith in their most generous promises. I have no trust in the Antonelli policy. She is one of its emissaries."
               "Oh, my master; avoid, I implore you, such dangerous proximity."
               "Ah, carissima! I can never forget that you risked your precious life for me. That life would be devoted to you forever, but for a sacred league to which I was vowed before that day. But if I am spared after that, I lay the life you have saved at your feet."
               I was overwhelmed, and could only murmur, "dear master, speak of that no more, but tell me, who is this woman so powerful, so fearful? To think of her, even now, makes me shudder!"
               "I owe you a confession. When I was younger than I am now—although I have but reached my thirtieth year—I was dazzled with that woman's charms. I thought her as innocent as beautiful, and loved that appearance with all the ardor of a first passion. We were to have wedded, but on the eve of the performance of the rite, a discovery was made! I woke from a lover's rapturous dream, to find her that I believed a true woman, proved to be the base intriguant for the Papal party, and something worse beside—I cannot speak it to you. Since then she has played various parts in a nation's vicissitudes—always the villain's part. Her beauty has in some cases made her a most desirable agent. She has failed twice of late in accomplishing the designs of her party; a third failure may bring her into serious disrepute."
               I shuddered as I said, "once I know, dear sir—when, else?
               "Not twice by me, carissima. Sathanes—but at a certain imperial court that shall be nameless. Her art and beauty failed to entice the royal victim to her treacherous arms. It was not his virtue that saved him. The imperial lion scorns not to assume the cunning of the fox—and the wisdom of the subtlest beast of all the field is coiled within his arch intelligence: so much for him. The beautiful agent of the 'politicians' failed for the second time."
               "Oh, my master, how can you escape this human fiend?"
               "I must bide my fate. As I told you, I am a member of a secret order, whose code of laws is as immemorial as immutable. I might as well attempt to evade drawing the air into my lungs, as seek to liberate myself from the oath constituting me a member of the cabal. I have taken their pledges—my name is written in the golden book of the accepted. They have become my vouchers, and the shame would be worse than death, should I refuse or hesitate to co-operate in their designs. I hold a peculiar office in the society, no less binding in honor than the vow of the Knight Templars of old. I am sworn to my 'devoir.' Whatever command is issued, I must obey without cavil, though it meet me at the deathbed of one dearer than anything in life, to whose failing senses mine were the only lips that could speak a soothing whisper; yet, even in that supreme moment, a knock at the portal might withdraw me instantly, in obedience to my oath. Though I stood with a bride at the altar, a word, a sign, or a written missive, might compel the relinquishment ment of the first and last hope of my heart."
               "Oh, terrible power," I cried, "that sets at naught all human ties. It must be wicked."
               "Nay, condemn not what you do not comprehend. I am only showing you absolutism. But if it pains your gentle nature, I will conceal it from you."
               "No, no; go on."
               "I have yielded to this body the right to command my life, if need be. We, the younger members of this organization, do not always recognize each other; but the elders know us all—how, we may not ask. We have no option, once entered in for a certain, term, the days of which are numbered, but their number is unrevealed to the hierophant. The particular secret sign, known only to the initiated, is the warrant of our obedience. Now, dear child, I give you thus much of my confidence as your right. I know it is safe with you, and I have betrayed nothing in the recital; but from this you will understand, when I leave you this evening, or to-morrow, or any other day, and return not within a given time, that word has been spoken, or the sign manual given that calls me to my solemn duties."
               "And the name of the society, would it be right to divulge that?" I asked, shiveringly. I was possessed with an inconceivable fear.
               "We have many names—sometimes Absolutists, Positivists, or are called the Sons of Light."
               He bent his head and remained silent. As I looked up, there were great beads of sweat upon his forehead, that gathered but fell not. These were spiritual tears.
               I realised an excess of ghostly terror from this confession of the master. It put us so far apart, I felt thrust back upon myself, helpless, defenceless, now that human refuge I had trusted failed me so signally. He was sailing out upon the element, whither I could not follow, for the obstacles were insuperable. The wild night darkened around me. I was lost in the blinding, choking mist, driving inland from the dismal sea.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               "Carissima, remember,—Ah, you are pale—your hands are cold as ice."
               His voice recalled me, but its sound was distant and thin in my ears, and I was fain to cry out like a child in the dark, "where are you?"
               "Here, close beside you, cara, carissima. Tell me that you forgive me."
               "Forgive you, dear sir? What have I to forgive? You were explaining something, were you not?"
               "I have agitated you too much already; but I wished to impress this fact on your mind. This subserviency is but for a season. It is possible I may be permitted to go out with the expedition as I have purposed. If no intervention takes place, I shall go along with that party. I am not bound to my vow until the word of command is given. If I had prepared to go West to-morrow morning, and that order said East, East it must be. You see, my child, discipline is a great lever!"
               "Great, indeed," I answered "when your powerful will is held in abeyance to that of others."
               "The mental magnet loses none of its power by use, my child. A feeble soul would not dare espouse such entire relinquishment of will—such utter self-abnegation."
               "And on what food then has your soul been nurtured, that you are able thus to abstain from the every-day feast of humanity?"
               "I would emulate the virtues of that one sublime model for whom no renunciation was too hard."
               "Ah," I sighed, in tearful weakness, "the bitterness of the cup is more than I can bear. Does Biancha know?"
               "Yes, all, and approves. Take comfort in the Highest; have faith and believe, although we see not with material eyes, the spiritual is never shut. If your nature requires, it is possible by abstraction to commune with me whenever it may be your choice. Name the hour when you will absorb yourself in solemn contemplation with that desire, and you shall have evidence of this truth."
               He talked long of this to me most vital theme, and we parted for the night.
               I was spared the pain of formal leave taking, for on the morrow the master went out with grandpapa, and returned not again. When I asked for him, the answer was full of meaning.
               
                  "Called suddenly away!"
               
               Grandpapa seemed unusually depressed. I am sure he had never in his life before a companion so agreeable as Signor Molina had been.
               "Gone!" The fact was obvious. The unoccupied chair, the book untouched—but each spot that had been familiar with his presence, was sacred to me. With my own hands I arranged the rooms he had occupied. It would have seemed like sacrilege for any alien step to enter there. I kept them ever adorned with fresh flowers, ready at any moment for the master's return. Within them was my secret meditating retreat, and here I held communion with my departed!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               At fifteen I was tall and womanly, far beyond my years, and reigned like a queen in my grandfather's house. He was proud of me, in his own way—that is, as long as I ran in no wise counter to his will, which I had no wish to do, since he merely desired me to preside elegantly over the household, and sustain the rank his granddaughter was entitled to in the great social allotment.
               Worldly wealth brought the meed of admiration, and so gradually influenced me out of my love of seclusion. I became almost a votary of fashion. My "coming out" was an event in society. I omit commenting on the sensation created by my beauty. I esteemed it no more than a handsome veil lent me by nature for a little while, when its freshness, tarnished by time, would be perhaps altogether withdrawn. I could not pride myself upon anything so evanescent. If it made any one glad, I felt grateful to the bountiful mother of the universe for having entrusted to me so valuable and delightsome a treasure; but conscientiously I could not call it mine, only lent, as are other gifts, to be restored with usury to the Divine Author. It was no credit to me that I was too frank to finesse with the admiration that flowed in upon me. I did not know that I had a heart then. Holding an unusually independent position, as the only lady of my grandpapa's establishment—for Aunt Agnes never appeared—I felt it incumbent upon me to fill the place with becoming dignity.
               Grandpapa was eminently satisfied with the kind of control exercised over his household. We had ceased to have differences on matters of small import. He treated me with marked consideration, and I was comparatively happy.
               A party was arranged for a northern tour during the approaching summer, to meet my cousin, as it was his graduating year at Harvard. Mr. and Mrs. Routledge, pleasant friends of ours, were to accompany us, and we were sure to meet others of our acquaintances at the fashionable watering places during the season.
               I was in an exalted state of delight at the prospect of having my darling Fiél with me, for there had been a letter written by grandpapa's express authority, inviting her to join us for the summer. But, alas for my hopes, I only received by return of mail a hurried answer, stating that Madame Biancha's health was so feeble as to require her daughter's constant care and attention.
               This was a great disappointment, but there was no help for it. I thought of my dear master's discipline, and tried to accept it in that light.
               In the last days of that sweet month of June, I found myself for the first time in the Metropolis of the Union, the City of New York, where we met my cousin Pierre. But the heat soon drove us thence to Saratoga, which, as far as heat was concerned, was little behind the burning and scorching of the city. From thence we passed to Niagara—then back again by a pleasant route, to look at ourselves in Lake George. Of all these places I might give glowing descriptions, only that so many tourists have made every rock and tree so well known, there is nothing noteworthy left to dilate upon; and as we met with no remarkable incident during our transits from place to place, I will reserve all small talk for Newport, the final scene of my adventures in that never to be forgotten August, 185—, Going early, we lingered long at this delightful seaside resort, where all the beauty and fashion of the Union make head-quarters in the proper season, bathing, lounging, driving superb horses, admiring each other's dresses, and gossiping about the world. Some how society suited me less and less each day; but having nothing deeper to occupy me then, I danced and sang "charmingly," everybody said, chattered gaily with the butterfly men and women about me, to their entire bewilderment, and I believe partial satisfaction and as it is a rule, that what is least understood is most sought after, I became the special admiration of the whole set of exquisites.
               At this time, too, was made apparent the fact that my cousin Pierre was aiming at awaking in my heart a special interest for himself, and to my utter confusion fusion I found he was strongly seconded by grandpapa.
               This was what it all meant, then: the family wealth was to be consolidated by marrying Pierre and myself together as yoke mates. I plainly told grandpapa I had no idea of anything of the kind, and he said simply, "let it rest—you will be wiser when you are older." They did let it rest. My cousin, with a feeling of entire security, that as I was a part of the family wealth I could not well escape him; and as it seemed the interest was increasing every hour, Pierre was doubtless encouraged by our mutual relative, that whatever he wished must be.
               I had agreed with my beloved preceptor, that a half hour after sunset each day I would meet him in thought. I lovingly and religiously adhered to my promise, and was conscious of an increase of power, from the exercise of those deeper faculties of the human function so seldom permitted to do their part in the being of action.
               I allowed nothing to interfere with these withdrawals from the material world at the appointed holy time, for I knew that I was then en rapport with the master. I enjoyed the same species of mental extacy as when he was present.
               This endured for a season; then an abnormal condition ensued, and the delightful sense of intercommunion grew weaker, and at last faded from my spiritual grasp. I shrank from the icy dimness of the presence invoked. It appeared as if the hand of mortality had drawn its solemn curtain between our souls. I could but believe he had passed the final veil; and ceasing to be permeated by his warm, living magnetism, the reflex effect of the mundane sensorium upon my invocatory spirit was deadly. There was no violence of emotion, for I had, as it were, anticipated this result. I only wondered how many of the thousand years that are as one day, might be counted out of heaven's fullness, before his immaterial part might be allowed to walk the earth again, and if to me it would be made manifest. Such thoughts as these had little to do here; but by this means the kingdom was being prepared for the reception of its sovereign, unguessed by me. Nature often uses strange measures to prepare the soul for new impressions.
               After many days we became weary of the seaside, and I longed for the purple-breasted hills. It seemed to me, amid the rugged grandeur of their gloomy heights I should find something that my nature craved, but what, I could not tell.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               It was our last day at the beach—for we had decided to set out on the next morning for the mountains—when an incident occurred of mighty portent to me, since it opened up the vista of my unknown future.
               We were a large party, at a table by ourselves in the grand dining-room of the Ocean House. Wit and mirth, and sparkling repartee filled up the intervals between the courses. My cousin had just sent me a glass of wine. At the instant some one took a seat a little above ours, in such a position that as I bent slightly forward, intending to acknowledge Pierre's compliment, my lifted eyes beheld a face that stirred in me the most unaccountable emotions.
               I saw, in as brief a space as the sun takes to make a picture, a singularly pale countenance; wavy brown hair, massive and bright about a finely formed but rather receding forehead, with that glistening light upon it which bespeaks genius. I noticed the hidden depth of meaning in every feature: eyes of that uncertain, varying shade that rendered it difficult to define their positive color—but there was no uncertainty as to their expression. Heaven's stolen fires burned behind the opalescent lids, and the angle of whiteness shone with a faint prescience of red light, veiled and softened by the long lashes, which, when the eyelids drooped, filled the violet circle beneath them!
               Had I reached enchanted ground at last? What ailed my heart? It throbbed incessantly. It would not let me breathe. In those eyes, on that pale forehead, lay the prophetic leaf, and thus I read its characters: "Thou art no more thine own, but linked and bound to this, thine other self, for weal or woe, forever. The links were forged by that one lightning flash, when first your eyes encountered mine." I trembled—the glass fell from my hand! What omen in the shivered crystal and the wasted wine?
               I felt as if I were about to faint. An electric touch revived me. I was conscious of a presence holding near my face a handkerchief wet with some pungent aromatic perfume. The kerchief was pressed between my hands, some one holding them in his own. This tenderness, so sweet and delicate, I no more thought of refusing, than would a starving infant the maternal nectar.
               I was presently able to give him simple thanks, and, seeing me fairly restored, he bowed and retired.
               We directly left the room, and, to my sorrow, I saw him no more at that time. The thought of him haunted me continually. I wondered what he did with his hands—so graceful, fine, white, muscular and slender, so powerful and flexible. They had a language of their own, could I have found the key to it. What vigor in the sensitive, rosy fingertips; how refined the smooth, shell-shaped nails! I thought some magical revelation was yet to be made to me. When, and where? Ah!—
               Poor Pierre was frantically devoted to me all that afternoon, and I was pained by his mistaken ardor. There was to be a grand musical concert that evening. A celebrated pianist was to perform. Our party had already secured seats. I went with more alacrity, hoping with girlish eagerness, among the many, to behold the one unnamed to me. The crowded assemblage was as brilliant as wealth and fashion could make it; but I looked in vain for the enchanting stranger.
               
               The overture commenced. I yielded myself passively to the delicious sensation produced by the music; the nervous shock so lately experienced, instead of depressing, seemed to have brought my whole being into fuller accord, and harmonized one part with another as would have been a freshly tuned instrument.
               My vital system still thrilled with a new delight, the vagueness of emotion, without determinite ideas, leading through a lovely vista of indefinite but beautiful possibilities that I felt sure were awaiting me.
               There was a pause in the entertainment. Grandpapa handed me a programme. Looking over it at first carelessly, having felt no especial interest in the personelle of any of the performers, I was not prepared for the arresting force held over me as I read "Fantasia, by the celebrated pianist and composer,—
               The name was on the paper in illuminated letters, and the moment had come when the great feature of the evening was to appear. There were whisperings expressive of the feelings of the auditors, as they strove to arouse brilliant anticipations in the minds of such companions as had never been awakened to enthusiasm by beholding and hearing this renowned performer.
               Young hearts beat high, bright eyes sparkled with delight, and rosy lips were humming dulcet praise of airs from his romantic repertoire; all this followed by the hush of attentive expectation at the instant of his presence.
               Could it be he? Yes, the immortal syllables declared the king had come who was most fit to reign. I was constrained to look up. There were the royal hands and the princely face gleaming with inspiration. He was bowing from the stage to an applauding audience, with his eyes centred on me, conveying his soul by that electric flash, to the inner recesses of mine.
               It was then I heard for the first time, in a sort of delirium, the true effect of precision and delicacy of touch. The piano spoke through the whole length of its magnificent key-board, like an orchestra.
               Later he gave an original composition, bold, dramatic, passionate and varied. Now it was the sound of the lonely sea breaking on a desolate shore, and the lamentation of the fitful wind piercing the blank dark of the lowering clouds with its mournful, dirge-like "miserere." Anon we heard wild cries of ocean birds fleeing in terror of the blackening gloom. Then the weird majesty of the storm in its might upheaved from the fathomless rolling sea, and the wrathful wail of the spirit of the deep; and in the pauses between the thunder roar and tempest crash, comes the faint booming of the minute-gun from ships tossing in helpless plight upon the surging main. Then came the "Peace, be still," calming the wind and waves, followed by softer sounds—the silver ripple of the tide, the merry peal of far-off bells, and near the mermaids' plaint, pensive as the nightingale's song, stole out from under the sea. The music ceased—my Tone king, disappeared. Mrs. Routledge clasped my hand with a firm pressure, Pierre walking on the other side, and thus we returned to the hotel, when I withdrew to my chamber.
               There I remained, silent and motionless. Mrs. Routledge entered, exclaiming, "I have secured such a treat for you, ma belle. Now am I not a dear, fairy godmother? I have arranged it all so nicely. I was introduced to the superb creature after he came from the concert. Why did you run away?" She talked on, not waiting for me to answer the question. "I told him how much I desired to hear him away from the crowd, and the light and the people. He gaily replied, 'that is easily granted. Come down to the saloon at one o'clock, and I will play for you as long as you like to listen; but it must be a secret between us.'
               "I replied, 'I shall tell my husband, and may I not bring my young friend with me, also?'
               "'The young girl who nearly fainted to-day? Yes, but not another, beside.'"
               "So we parted. I am going now, like a dutiful wife, to inform my 'conjugal half' of this pretty caprice, and do you hold yourself in readiness when I come." With this she vanished.
               It was eleven o'clock by my watch. Two hours to wait for an infinite pleasure! Impatience asked, how shall I bridge the space? The minutes tripped lightly away. I gave to each a joyful farewell, and soon the hours were finished. My conductress came to lead me to the banquet. We descended to the large saloon, in which there was only moonlight. He was already at the instrument. He gave us each a hand as we slid silently into a chair placed on either side of him. The effect of that scene, the hour, the music, the artist, it were vain to attempt to describe.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               Hortense Bravoure and her friends made the projected mountain trip, and in the autumn returned to their southern home.
               
               For several months after the marriage of Madame Biancha with Karl Brodden, the home of the new married pair appeared to be the bower of domestic happiness. The stepfather was exceedingly kind to the beautiful daughter, and endeavored to be the same to the unfortunate step-son, but the boy evaded his regards. This child's evident discontent with the new relation was the one drawback to the mother's happiness.
               As time wore on, certain traits in the character of the husband were developed, that hurt and puzzled his wife, but nothing of sufficient importance to make any very profound impression on her amiable mind.
               On a summer afternoon, in the heart of one of the great western cities, in the private sanctum of his counting house, we find Karl Brodden, the husband of Biancha. His face was flushed, and he appeared to be laboring under some unusual cause of excitement, evidently not of a business type, for letters and account books were carefully bestowed in their appropriate places.
               Whatever the subject of his engrossment, it seemed at last to be permanently decided, for he suddenly started to his feet as if about to carry into effect some hasty determination.
               In that resolve had he yielded to the prompting of the evil genius always ready to invest the mind and heart of those human beings who disregard the admonishing voice of morality or religion? Alas, how few are able to regulate the ruder passions, whose secret currents flow with desperate and returnless impulses.
               The health of Madame Brodden had become so precarious, that her physicians had advised a retreat from the lake shore as a hopeful experiment. This she could not be induced to try, for obvious reasons, but had consented to go for a short time on a visit to an acquaintance, about ten miles from the city.
               It is in a drawing-room of Madame Rippoon's residence we again meet Madame Biancha. She is very pale, but not less beautiful than formerly. Tito was there, listening sharply to the conversation carried on between the two ladies.
               "Ma chere amie," said Madame Rippoon, "listen to reason. Your husband and your physician are both anxious you should try the air of this region. You have left an excellent housekeeper; your daughter is with her young friend during your absence, contented and happy—nothing then, can go wrong. Try to disabuse your mind of these tantalizing and bodiless creations. Let your imagination cool in the calm of this quiet scene. Dismiss these chimeras."
               "Ah, madame," replied Biancha, "there is the difficulty; they will not stay dismissed. I am not free for one instant from this frightful presence. I regret to disappoint you, but I must go."
               "Eh bien. If it appears to you so significant, I will urge you no more; but not now, ma chere. To-morrow morning, at an early hour."
               "Nay, it must be at once," interrupted Madame Biancha. "I am almost ashamed to affirm," she continued, "that a dream of the night has rendered me so unhappy, so restless, that I shall not know another moment of peace until I find myself once more at home."
               "Tell me the dream, chere," said Madame Rippoon, soothingly. "It will not appear so formidable, when once you have communicated it. These shadows will vanish when two look upon them together."
               "The dream I cannot relate," replied Biancha, "but I will tell you this: I have been stricken of late with a sense of approaching danger, a kind of prescience of evil about to befall me or mine. It uprises like a doom—unembodied in any precise form, but fearful and intolerable."
               Tito was listening with unusual interest; perhaps he too, had his dreams.
               "Oh, put away this fatal gloom," exclaimed the sympathetic friend. "Think no more of going home to-night."
               "Cease to persuade me against my instincts," pleaded the other.
               "Eh bien—leave Tito with me, and return to-morrow."
               "I am willing," replied the mother. "He can be put to bed," she whispered, "and will not miss me. I will return to-morrow," she added, in a lower voice.
               Tito had taken his measures. He let himself be put to bed, but his cunning plans were laid so adroitly, that without exciting the suspicions of any one, he followed his mother on her departure for town. On the train he eluded observation by clambering into the baggage car and hiding himself in a corner. He had watched his mother enter a car, and now, at the point of destination, he watched her out, and again followed silently and warily on her track, as she threaded the dimly lighted streets.
               As Biancha drew nearer to her own house, she tried to convince herself that she was the victim of an extravagant fancy, or at least, but a weak and nervous woman; but it is ever in vain to attempt to reason ourselves out of the soul's prophetic impulses and convictions. Intuitions carry us a long way beyond the outward senses. Why do we ever strive to hush down the voice that bids us on, or shrink from the unseen angel who would lead us to salvation? We fear ourselves. But this mother heard well the warning voice—followed swift the beckoning hand.
               She is at the threshold. No light was visible, except a faint glimmer from the window of her daughter's room. An almost mortal fear fell upon her. Applying her latch-key to the door, it opened noiselessly. Precipitately she passed up the unlighted stairway. She reached the door of her daughter's chamber—it was partially open.
               Was she dreaming still? It was like the dream of last night! She involuntarily dropped into the bewildered movement of one walking in sleep. Biancha was too much absorbed to notice that her elfin son stood close beside her, as intent and as noiseless as herself. She glided through the narrow opening, followed by the misshapen child, and placed herself in the shade of the curtains, at the side of the bed opposite the door. The young girl appeared to be sleeping. In all this the mother's dream was being reacted, and she seemed aware of what would happen next.
               A moment later the husband entered with stealthy guiltiness. Closing the door and turning the key, he approached the bed, unconscious of the antagonism of the contemplative forces of those abhorring eyes. He believed himself beyond the possibility of audience, having sent the housekeeper away on some plausible pretext, and thought no power stood between him and his most questionable proceedings.
               A hideous fire flashed from every pore of his mendacious countenance.
               As he stretched out his hand toward the sleeping girl, it was arrested by a firm repulse, and he saw through the dimness what seemed like a phantom. The guardian mother was shielding her treasure from the marauder's touch. He stood spell-bound. A freezing shiver shot through the hot heart of the perfidious dastard! Then, shrinking back with a cowardly doubt, that it might yet be possible to deceive a woman and hide his moral turpitude under a mask of innocent anxiety, he ventured his pitiful subterfuge in these words:
               "The girl was ailing. I thought it better she should be at home: a soothing potion was administered—I am much surprised at the effect upon her!"
               "I perceive," said the mother, "she has been in danger! Your astuteness is no longer required here."
               He slunk from the presence of the outraged woman, and shut himself in a distant chamber. Perhaps he bethought him of the old time adage, "Not the adamantine tunic of Ares, nor cumbrous armor of the strongest link, nor any brazen shield, nor herculean strength can guard a man from one defenceless woman's quiet hate." Perhaps it was an hour of repentance and remorse. Perhaps there were lights brought by invisible hands into that midnight chamber, by which he read the account of the avenging angel, and shuddered in horror at the perusal.
               The girl still lay wrapt in death's deep counterfeit. As the faithful mother watched, she was made aware of a firm hold upon her gown, and now for the first time beheld the boy. His being there was its own explanation nation. She took him in her arms, seeing the need of withdrawing him from excitement; but he was fearfully unquiet. There was a lurid light in his great wide eyes, that seemed as though they would never close; but at length he fell asleep, and when the tension of the nerves relaxed, the mother found his hands were bleeding where the nails had been crushed into the tender palms.
               "Poor child," said the mother, "he at least should have been spared, for the effect of this excitement will fix its evil on him to his dying day."
               She spoke truer than she knew!
               When the housekeeper returned, she was greatly surprised to find the family all at home.
               Madame Brodden made no explanation, except that she intended, at an early hour in the morning, to return to Madame Rippoon, and that both her children would bear her company. Fiél aroused from the effect of the potion at about day-dawn, bewildered to find herself in her own room, and her mother with her.
               "How glad I am you are here, mama. Yet it is rather strange. I ran home in answer to a note from father," (the mother shivered as she spoke that name,) "saying he wished to speak with me. I asked him if he had heard from you, and now I remember something seemed odd in the room. I felt dizzy and queer. That was last evening, and now it is morning. Dear mama, what has been the matter with me?"
               "You have been ill; but I am sure you are better now—rise therefore, and make ready to go with me!"
               The affair of the previous evening had been too much for Tito. He was attacked by one of his most violent seizures, a sort of epileptic fit, to which he was temperamentally subject. There was no hope of relief for him for several hours, and Madame Brodden, anxious to remove her daughter as speedily as possible, was, although much against her will, compelled to leave him behind in the housekeeper's care. A note was dispatched to the friends with whom Fiél had been staying, informing them of the change of plan.
               They arrived at Madame Rippoon's, to whose care Madame Brodden solemnly confided her daughter, saying, "for myself, I shall come back again as soon as some matters are settled that require my attention." But in the very act of departure, overcome by the pressure of late trials in her present weak state, she sank fainting on the bosom of her friend, and was unable to leave the house for that day.
               Verily, she might exclaim, "Calamities there are around us; calamities there are all over the earth; calamities there are in all seasons; but none in any season, none in any place like mine."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               Tito came out of his fit greatly debilitated, and moaned for his mother. He seemed in some way to attribute her absence to Karl Brodden, and would not accept her illness as an excuse for her non-appearance.
               Whenever the step-father came within view, points of repulsion seemed to bristle from every nerve-fibre of the boy's small frame. He gasped for breath and ground the sharp pointed teeth into his white lips till the blood settled blue from the pressure. The terrible paroxysm passed. His state changed. The large forehead appeared to emit flashes of white light, his great eyes peered with a weird solemnity into the empty air—while from his throat, for his lips moved not, came that peculiar gurgling laugh, which if accepted as an expression of pleasure, made one shudder at hearing it, from its total inanity.
               Yet there came over him some flashes of perception. Ah, to what act might they lead this half-frantic child, so guiltless of discretion?
               It is possible, from his evident possession, if the days of witchcraft were still believed in, that Tito might have fallen an instant victim to fire and faggot.
               In a remote room, not larger than a closet, there had been thrust a variety of nondescript articles, and among them a little ebony chest, that appeared to be of no earthly use except to encumber the shelf where it stood; but Tito had ferreted himself into this place, intent on some embryo thought, too crude to be instantly digested.
               This child, ever watchful, once saw his mother take from that chest a paper, from which she shook a portion of a white powder, upon some bread. He questioned, as any child would have done, the wise or the foolish, and was told it was to drive away mice, that made a great deal of mischief about the house.
               The closet was re-locked, the key put away, and that was supposed to be the last of the matter.
               Tito now grappled with some fitful memory—again that terrible laugh. He has found the key. He opens the chest; he selects one of the folded papers, and then replaces everything just as methodically as one having all his faculties could have done.
               He then sat, regarding for a long time, with a painfully imbecile stare, a tiny watch his mother had given him.
               It was a curious study, at this crisis, to note the numerous variations in the features and conduct of this irresponsible child, awakened to stretches of thought that had never before visited his consciousness, filled with that energy, that a natural instinct of revenge for an incomprehensible wrong, had aroused within him—struggling with a mortal sorrow that came in snatches and gleams across the disk of memory, reddening and paling like lights in the northern sky.
               He was always allowed to wander about the house at his own will—he did so now. He asked but little respecting his mother after the first explosion of feeling subsided; but resorting to his favorite instrument, he improvised his grief in such pathetic tones, that the wayfarers lingered, listening to the wild music; nothing could have been more touching than that sweet child-voice ringing out its pain and grief, not now in borrowed words, but by a simple, tremulous murmur, a rising and falling of melody, as though some dumb creature had found in the pitches of vocalization a sound for the utterance of every human emotion, breathing it from the fountain of an intellectualized despair. He listens now for a step. Karl Brodden enters the door!
               The child's mood is instantly changed. He bursts forth into the "Brindisi" of "Lucrezia Borgia."
               Karl Brodden, as was his custom on coming home, advanced straight to a chiffonier set invitingly forth with sparkling goblets and well-filled decanters. He poured a glass of favorite wine and drank it off. The music ceased for a moment. The boy turned half around and looked, with a strange pale glare in his face, at the man. Again that curdling laugh! He sang no more, and never touched the instrument again!
               The next morning Karl Brodden complained of having passed a very bad night, and some alarming symptoms induced the housekeeper to send at once for a physician, and also to dispatch an express for Madame Brodden.
               Mr. Brodden would not receive the physician, preferring, as he said, to attend to his own malady.
               When Madame Biancha arrived, late in the afternoon, she found her husband in a very critical state. She sent directly for her own physician, who promptly answered the summons; but the case was utterly hopeless. Mr. Brodden was failing fast. "Asiatic cholera," the doctor said—"there are several cases in town." He looked at the patient a moment, and remarked, "he sinks apace; he is purpling already in the clasp of the fatal collapse!"
               
               Madame Biancha was alone with her children, irresolute and undecided what her next step should be.
               The affairs of the deceased were found, on examination, to be in great disorder; and had it been otherwise, Madame Biancha had her own reasons, which the world might never know, for preferring to remain independent, as far as possible, of whatever means he might have left. She longed for the protection, counsel and advice of that beloved brother, from whom no tidings had been received for many weeks.
               What subtle and mysterious influence was that infecting the air? Whence gathered the doubtful cloud, not larger than a man's hand, with an insidious, murmuring sound like the first low notes of the wind before the advancing tempest? Whence came this terrible blood-chilling whisper of suspicion, linking the name of Madame Biancha with that of murderess, breathed low, at first in fear and trembling, but gaining force as it flew, until it fell at last like a thunder-bolt in the midst of the community?
               The origin of the vile calumny might never be detected; but it ended in the arraignment of Madame Biancha for the murder of her husband, her incarceration in a horrible prison, and final appearance in a public court of justice to be tried for her life. There was no delay; the trial came on in a month. Closing that door upon the harrowing details, the ignominy, the shame, the wrong, the everlasting injustice, that made her name and fame to be bandied from mouth to mouth in accusation or condemnation, which was opened after the long weeks of her trial were ended to set her free again, acquitted, pronounced not guilty by judge and jury—but alas, not free from the bane that was destined to blight her life. The passing through the fiery furnace was not enough—never was, never will be—so ruthlesss is man in his mistaken zeal for what he calls justice!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               On our return home late in the autumn, we found letters from Fiél, incoherently alluding to her mother's trouble, as cited in the last chapter. We had expected no letters, consequently had left no orders for forwarding, and these were dated more than two months back; and this was the first intelligence we received of their great anguish.
               I besought grandpapa to go to them at once, but he also received a letter, of a later date, from Madame Biancha's counsel, stating that the unhappy trio had disappeared at the conclusion of the trial, and could not be traced; perhaps they had conveyed themselves to their friends in Charleston. Grandpapa returned a polite answer, and caused to be inserted, without delay, in all the principal journals an advertisement, delicately worded, beseeching the beloved fugitives to come home; but hours grew into days, days into weeks, and weeks into months, yet no sign, by tongue or by pen, broke the seal of silence between us and our deeply deplored friends. Meantime the clouds lowered dark and threatening on the horizon of my hopes and happiness.
               The inevitable struggle between grandpapa's will and mine, had commenced in earnest.
               A lady-like persistence in an even course of denial of my cousin's claim to my affection, was as strenuously set aside as though I had no right to my own personality.
               It was no disparagement to Pierre, that I was cold to him. I could not counterfeit.
               Grandpapa challenged me to the contest.
               "Hortense."
               "Sir!"
               
               "Your cousin is waiting for your answer. I desire you to accept him as your husband."
               "Grandpapa, you must allow me to decline this suit of yours on his behalf."
               "I will not allow it. Do not for one moment flatter yourself that I will be thwarted in this match between you. I have decreed it."
               "Well, grandpapa, your decrees are not like those of the Medes and Persians, are they?"
               "This one is, you saucy baggage."
               That he was very angry, I knew by the red flush over his face, and the choking in his voice. I was anxious to conciliate him if I could, by gentle reasoning.
               "Grandpapa, hear me, in mercy. I do not regard my cousin as a woman should love the man she marries."
               "Where did you pick up this nonsense about love and marriage? What do you know about it? Few marriages in high life are the results of love. Stuff! Love, as you call it, comes after the knot is tied."
               I gave him credit for being sincere in his argument.
               Grandpapa was a fine chess-player; but this time he had chosen vivified subjects for his puppets, and one at least was found intractable.
               I answered, "the love that is supposed to come after marriage, would not satisfy the one who sought a true tie."
               With that indrawing of the breath between the teeth, and suppression of all muscular action of the face, that betokened excessive rage in him, he continued—
               "I do not wish to be severe, or proceed to unpleasant extremities, but once for all, I command you, on pain of my everlasting displeasure, that you accept your cousin."
               "Grandpapa, I do not wish to displease you; but this is a point on which we must ever differ, while you attempt to coerce my will to what it turns from with disgust and repulsion. I certainly never can, never will, marry Pierre."
               "Be not too positive! There are methods by which stubborn wills have been broken."
               I shuddered visibly, for I thought of Aunt Agnes.
               "You must choose either to consent to the united wishes of your family—you may wait your own pleasure as to the time, six months, a year, or more, if you will, and can gain the consent of your lover to so long a delay; but your promise I will have to this effect, or cease to consider yourself a child of this house. Think of it well! Is it good to throw away my favor? Remember, the inheritance you can command from your father's estate, is but a trifle, and held at my discretion beside: compare that to the wealth that shall be yours—aye, a princely fortune awaits you, if you will but honor my behest in this matter."
               All this was urged right feelingly, and I am sure, at that moment grandpapa really believed he was forcing me to do myself a favor.
               I replied, "how ignoble you must think me, that I would relinquish all sense of right, give up my principles," sacrifice truth on the altar of your ambition, and constitute myself a toy for my cousin's amusement, when you know, grandpapa, a fine horse that you could buy for him, would please him just as well, and suit him a great deal better. I do not love this man."
               "And you do love another, of whom you know nothing, except that he is a vagabond musician, and possibly an alliance with him will be more in keeping with your fine-spun theories of love and marriage! But to such a mesalliance I will never consent. I would rather see you dead!"
               Grandpapa's perceptions of possibilities were painfully acute. He was becoming more and more exasperated. He leaned back in his chair and drew his hand hastily across his brow. I pitied him—but where was his pity for my father's child?
               A very unexpected message from Aunt Agnes brought this painful interview to a speedy close. I flew rather than ran to her chamber.
               Pale and listless, she lay propped up by pillows in her snowy bed. She spoke somewhat hurriedly, as though she were doubtful of so much life as might finish what she had to say.
               "Father has told me, in substance, of the exaction he sees fit to put upon you. I desire to tell you that, powerless as I am to aid you, I am your friend, and while I would advise you, for your mere temporal benefit, to accept the proposition, yet you have my fullest sympathy in what father calls 'your insane resistance.'"
               I kissed her thin hand, in token of appreciating her kindness. She continued—
               "If you have the fortitude to sustain yourself through the siege—if you can bear the breaking up of all the associations of your youth, and can resign the luxury that from habit has become a necessity, and be turned adrift penniless and disowned upon the world of which you know nothing—I say, if you are equal to this, stand firm in your resolve. In case of the worst, for father's anger will stop at nothing, come to me. I will do what I can, if I am alive, to help you over the crisis; but go not, under any inducement, to the rice plantation—it would be fatal. I am too weak to speak more. Retire now, my child, and heaven be with you!"
               
               Astonished beyond measure, I slowly went to my own chamber, where a vague terror was added to that astonishment, when I found Marco unpacking an entire trosseau. I quailed before this display suggestive of compulsory measures. There was something fearful in the uncounseled preparations, of which I had been in no way apprised. In New York stuffs were bought and bridal robes fabricated without my cognizance. I felt as some ensnared creature might. The more I fluttered, the more I was involved. My spirit faltered.
               I believe something was put into my daily cup, to gradually weaken and break me down, for from a state of perfect health, I became nervous, irritable to an inexplicable degree—my appetite forsook me—I lost all the desires of life, and wandered up and down the house and garden, like the ghost of my former self. In a sort of apathy I wondered if I should yield to circumstances at the next onset of my tormentors.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               I saw little of my cousin at this time. I think he was glad to escape from the insufferable dullness of the house. All visitors were denied, by grandpapa's express commands, and it was reported among our acquaintances, that Miss Hortense Bravoure was spending the season at the North.
               I passed much of my time in the master's room, my old, praying retreat. I had long ago ceased to rely on him, as clouds of darkness and doubt as to his fate still encompassed me. Everything was drearier now, than at that season in my bitter childhood, when first, sent by the angels, he came to rescue me. Where is he now? Oh, for some token, or at least a recognition from him; but none came in answer to my infinite longing.
                     
                        "Where shall I find him? Angels tell me where.
                        You know him, he is near you; point him out
                        Shall I see glories beaming from his brow,
                        Or trace his footsteps by the rising flowers?"
                     
                  
               
               Did the lingering earth possess him, or the crystalline heavens above?
               My very flesh crawled with horror, as one day I heard grandpapa's step at my chamber-door. He came to see if I was sufficiently tractable for his purpose. I had been lifeless and indifferent to all things, but the sight of him stirred the smouldering fires. I felt this was to be the deadly combat between us, in which one or the other must be vanquished.
               "I have come for your answer," he said, abruptly.
               I replied slowly—
               "My mind is unchanged—my answer the same as before."
               "Very well. We will let the subject drop for the present," said he. "You are not well—you require a change. We will go to the plantation to-morrow."
               If he had said, "you will have your head cut off to-morrow," I should not have been more startled. I knew it meant death, or coercion even to my soul's death.
               Forewarned, forearmed!
               "Never!" I exclaimed. "If it is my life you desire, take it; but do not compel me to die by slow torture. I know the effect of the pernicious air of that region. I am not to be deluded by any of your speciousness, pretending to care for my health, when you would ruthlessly destroy all healthy volition in me, rather than be defeated in your design. I demand the right and permission to depart. There will be room in the world for me, and I will earn bread for myself."
               This unexpected thrust drove him completely out of himself. There were no bounds to the vociferation of his passion. He literally blazed upon me in a violent shower of the most terrible abuse.
               "Yes, you would hurry to your disgrace. And what do you expect to be able to do in the world? You who have never so much as robed yourself unassisted by your maid? You to get your own bread?"
               
               The sarcasm of his manner petrified me for the moment.
               He continued—"I dare say there will be room in the world for you, and you will find it in dishonor and to your destruction. Do you know," he said, gorgonizing me from head to foot, "what handsome women do for support, when thrown upon the world's cold charities? I will tell you." And he then, in a paroxysm of rage, rushed towards me, conveying, in an intense whisper, maniacal words, which pierced my ear and abashed my womanhood. "Go! Sell yourself to the highest bidder! Beg, starve, or die, where you will. I wash my hands of you forever!"
               The storm of insult and invective spent itself at last. He left me, and I went directly to Aunt Agnes, as she had bidden me.
               "Dear Aunt, I am utterly annihilated!"
               She comprehended all in a moment.
               "You will-risk the world, then, rather than yield."
               "I will do my best to be true to myself; but there is left me no option. He drives me out at last."
               "So, the worst already. Hortense hand me my writing desk."
               I did as she bade me.
               "Take this letter, and this purse; it contains little, but even that little may save you in some imminent hour. Quit the South tomorrow—stay not another day here. Go to New York, present this letter according to its direction. You will find in that lady a friend, whose counsels you may trust implicitly. I may never see you more, Hortense—last woman of our race. If I were not vastated of all feeling, I should deplore the condition that has prevented me from being to you all that your only female relative should be, or might have been. I will not say that I regret your non-acquiescence with my father's plan, for I am, as I said before, bereft of feeling; yet it might have been a solace to the little remnant of my days, to know that you were safe. I can only pray for you, my poor, beautiful one. God help you and keep you."
               For the first time within my memory, Aunt Agnes kissed me with passionate tenderness. My forehead, my hair were wet with her tears—a baptism that consecrated my life to the service of high-hearted truth.
               
               Justice requires that I should say for my cousin, supremely selfish as he was, he had nothing to do with the finale of the affair. He tried to make peace between grandpapa and me. It was, of course, useless.
               At mid-day I went on board the steamer. Pierre insisted on seeing me off, and he assured me at parting, that all would be arranged in time for my interest. "Hang it," (all the college cramming in the world would never cure Pierre of indulging in slang,) "hang it, I say, if you are not disposed to marry me, I don't see why the governor should be in such a rage about it. He takes the wind completely out of my sails. For your sake, cozy, I'll try to love and marry some one else, though I know I shall never find any one like you, my pearl. Never mind; we'll settle it yet, and you shall come home—that is, if you will. Good bye, dear. Forgive me, if I have seemed cruel. You know I worship ship the earth you walk over. I am afraid it's chronic, and I shan't get over it in a hurry. God bless you."
               He brushed away a tear—the bell clanged, and the steamer slipped from her moorings, and out she went on her course. Through the seething billows she steams her pathless way, and as they receive her and toss her from crest to mound, the voluptuous swelling waves seem to embrace her graceful form, and the foam from her infinite throbbings, stretches out like a snow white banner unfurled on the deep blue sea.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               In spite of all my preconcerted cheerfulness, or the doubtful charm of adventure, an uncomfortable sensation overcame me, when I left the ship for the shore, at New York.
               Up to that moment the cable had not parted that united me with that other portion of my life—its happiest memories over-shadowed by this horrible sequence. To a young girl reared as I had been, in the heart of luxury, it was not certainly at the first blush a very inviting prospect to find myself adrift on the great turbid tide of humanity, reaching timidly my unaccustomed hands to grasp the common, and as it appeared at every step, disputed necessities of existence in the environs of an unknown city.
               I found Mrs. Lacy, as my aunt had said, a lady, yet without fortune; but she was one of those ministering creatures of God's providence, prolific of good works, who had great experience in ways, if not in means. The purse that my Aunt had given me, being my only monetary resource, I saw the wisdom of economy, as well as of seeking a specific for poverty in labor. I commenced by writing articles under a nom de plume to several of the popular magazines, and began gradually to supply the deficiency made by necessity in my resources. Thus favorable opportunity furnished me occupation, strengthened my mind, and renewed my courage at every fresh attempt.
               Now that my condition was so changed, I began to perceive the value of the subtle agent that had played so conspicuous a part in my young life. I had dim perceptions of why souls were bartered for gold, why riches
                   were honor, and the lack of them tantamount to disgrace; and I almost blamed myself for having assumed the yoke of that worst of tyrants, poverty. But not all my self upbraidings could induce me to accept the overtures now being made by my grandsire.
               Why he so soon relented, I never knew. I think he could not bear the keen remorse that must have haunted him when the frenzy subsiding, left his mind at liberty to ponder on what he had done. His letters harped on the one discordant note.
               "If you will confess you have been in error, I will send you a remittance."
               I made no answer. Again—
               "If you will write, and tell me that you want money, I will send it."
               I still replied not. A third letter was received, that contained an iteration of what grandpapa had said to me at our last interview. It was still more insulting now, than then. That letter I returned without comment.
               I liked Mrs. Lacy exceedingly. Under her motherly care I began to recover my ordinary health and spirits, for I had not passed through the fire scathless. She encouraged me in my pursuits, and by her practical faculty increased the sources of income, by procuring me work in translating Italian and French, which were as native tongues to me. Our united efforts in this way, just enabled us to "keep the wolf from the door."
               Mrs. Lacy knew something of my family affairs, and of her I gained valuable information respecting my father's will, which contained an unusual clause, namely, that I had the right to control the income without regard to my coming of age, of which I still lacked three years. It seems my guardian withheld this, under grandpapa's advice. Becoming acquainted with these points, I contemplated instituting legal processes in order to compel justice. I waited yet a little, patiently. The contempt with which I treated the advances for a reconciliation, no doubt convinced them that I understood my own right. At all events, the next mail brought me a check of the value of the exact amount of my quarterly income, informing me that that sum would be payable to my order every three months.
               This was great news to two impoverished women. I had determined never to part from Mrs. Lacy, not only because she understood everything I did not, and loved and cared for me in such a way as I never had been cared for; but because I knew Aunt Agnes meant more in sending me to her than merely to make of her a friend du convenance, but rather committing us to each other, that I might find in her a mother's, and she in me a daughter's love, so peculiarly requisite to each. Therefore we set about making ourselves comfortable, as far as physical comfort may be commanded through a very handsome income.
               We established ourselves in accordance with elegance and taste. Mrs. Lacy took care of everything, evincing perfect competency for the position. We emerged from our painful trials, chastened and subdued, and entered upon the social forms of life, under the accepted regulations of society.
               Mrs. Lacy was greeted with delight in circles from which she had been missed to which her presence added a fresh charm, and the beautiful granddaughter of the southerner courted and copied by the best sets in the city.
               I heard of him, my artist wonder, at far-off intervals. The news of distant lands brought occasional tidings of his art-triumphs, and frequently there were rumors that he was again coming to America. I was much happier now than ever before in my life, excepting always that one year of study with my master; and now brushing from my eyes the cobwebs of long anxiety, I recommenced a perusal of the themes of my former delights. From these I was led to a study of occult philosophy and the deciphering of primeval symbols, and searched the libraries for books or manuscripts touching these subjects with an avidity that brought its own reward. Mrs. Lacy commended my hungering and thirsting after knowledge, to our Pastor, who cheerfully helped me in my studies; and through his means I became possessed of many choice volumes of great value. The so-called spiritual science, with which the world is now rife, commanded a good share of my attention.
               The greatest of spiritual truths are always of lowly birth, and for that reason mostly, are scouted by the self-sufficient, and listlessly stared at by the frivolous, while the small thinker doubts, with the old question "can any good thing come out of Nazareth?"
               Thus the shallow many, but the comprehensive few investigate, and winnow the kernel from the husk, by the light of the well-stocked record of experiences of progressive minds carried by their perceptive ability up to higher, clearer fields of survey. Spirit manifestations, as they are termed, are as old as time. It is the religion of the universe, and yet we ask each other, "do you believe in spiritualism?" What is it then, to "believe?"
               I had not forgotten Madame Biancha and her children, and in the flush of generous prosperity did my best to discover their whereabouts. I had recourse again to her counsel in the city of her trial.
               
               His statement was the same as that originally rendered, with the addition of some faint grounds of belief, that they were in New York.
               What more plausible than that the persecuted woman had flown to the vast hive, within whose cells honor or shame may alike be buried. What the heart wills, the brain achieves! Mine was set on finding them.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               How much of the earth's surface is there peopled, inhabited, dwelt upon—made into human hives and ant-hills?
               If some being, having the power to ply in the flighted clouds, or sail with "the sightless couriers of the air," should give this world a moment's thought while gazing down, these little ant-hills would be the first to stir his celestial wonder.
               Here, for instance, are half a dozen, twelve, or twenty spots upon the earth, where men have agreed to live; and at these spots they burrow into the ground and build upon it rows of cells, tier on tier, one above the other, and into these are human beings crammed; and whether the cells are made to accommodate the human beings, or the human beings the cells, finally becomes somewhat difficult to determine. And around about these burrows that they call cities, the air is heavy with groans and sighs; and the cry of pain is forever in being—an endless and continual wail—the wickedness, the sorrow, and the wanton indifference to each, that is worse than all: they are all upon a plain in this, even the hilliest of them. These spots, I think, such a being would look upon as stains on the fair face of the earth.
               From the rag picker's paradise—where men, women and children are by organization beggars and profligates, where decrepit vice and prurient crime herd together—to a first-class residence in Fifth Avenue, there is but a short distance in the ground we tread; but the difference in the air and surroundings puts the price of souls and bodies at a great advance. A round turn of the wheel of fortune, and peradventure these and those change places as the years grow into centuries.
               At the extremity of the alley leading to the "Paradise," although "Purgatory" would be the more suitable appellation, dwelt Hans, the son of Snyder, who every day sent out a gang of lazzaroni, who tramped up and down the hundred streets, to and fro the wide avenues with bag and hook, seeking what they might find amid the filth and garbage left out for transportation to the public offal ground.
               These dry scavengers and dirt sifters are of every nation under the sun, and of all ages and both sexes. Juvenile, adult, and often senile deformity halted with a chuckle of cupidity, as they raked out from the mass of refuse trifles of more or less value, which might or might not find their way into the bag of commerce, for these misérables were not to be suspected of too much honesty.
               
               Mid-afternoon drew on, and Hans sat at his post in the Ragpicker's Paradise, waiting the coming of his "Pirates," as he facetiously termed them, with their ragged spoils. Hans did a great amount of business and was known to have supplied several large paper mills, and comb and knife-handle makers, ad libitum.
               
               He was raw-boned, cadaverous and hirsute, with a hooked nose as sharp as a blade, and a gimlet eye—he had but one, poor fellow. He was totally undignified by common cleanliness of personal apparel.
               Yet, even this man, coarse and degraded as he was, had his redeeming qualities.
               A female came down the alley; the bag at her back was stuffed with the booty of the gutter, with the shreds and sin of the city. There was prevarication in her very attitude, as she sidled toward her employer with a sinister manœuvre. "Turn 'em out," was the order, gruffly given in a harsh, grating tone.
               The woman answered by lifting and shaking out the contents of her sack on the ground, a few steps distant from her employer.
               "Hem! no good. Sort 'em!"
               All about lay immense bags, filled and destined for the paper market; piles of bones and bits of hard trash, intended for another branch of trade, lay huddled promiscuously in front of the orifice—for door there was none. The fume arising from these conglomerated masses of stuff, before they could be transferred to their respective destinations, can be more easily imagined than described.
               Big Kate proceeded with the sorting, as her employer had ordered, depositing the various articles upon their kindred heaps, then going up to Hans, said in a whining voice—
               
               "Sure, you'd be giving me saxpence the nicht?"
               "'Tain't worth it," responded Hans. "Any perquisites?"
               The woman shifted her eyes. Hans knew the tricks of the trade—he fixed that green gimlet orb of his upon her face, repeating his former question.
               "Never a one," whined the woman. "Sure now, you wouldn't be hard on me."
               But Hans did mean to be "hard on her."
               It was expecting too much of common human nature, and that one of these wretched creatures would readily resign any little valuable he or she might have stumbled upon during a day of wearisome tramping, unless this keen rag merchant actually bored the secret out of them with his single eye, as he did now, for the woman began to fumble among her personal rags, and presently produced a heavy silver spoon that she had hooked up during the day.
               Hans took it, and gave the successful purveyor a shilling. This thrifty rag merchant rewarded his employés according to desert, as he reckoned its value. It might be three-pence, or sixpence, but a shilling was enormous, and was only to be coaxed out by a heavy load.
               One after another of the motley crew dropped in, and then came their carnival season, for Hans was a generous old customer. For all his apparent niggardliness, he doled out to his "pirates" as long as they worked for him, a ration, night and morning, of bread and beer, a penny-worth a head, enough to stop the cravings of hunger—and a certainty is a certainty, after all.
               Near this ogre-like den was an old house, swarming from garret to cellar with tenants of every description. The ground floor was occupied, in one corner, by a gin-shop, and in the other, by one of the poorest description of apothecaries.
               The basement of this wretched abode was kept as a dance-room, where nightly entertainments were free to all who promised to obey the rules. And it is sorrowful to record, there were many dances, many drinks taken, and many rows that ended in broken crowns, and many calls thereby ensued to the said apothecary, and so he made his perquisites.
               In the street, nearly opposite to this noisome hole, there was a stable, where a fast man kept his fast horses; and he came sometimes to look after his live stock, not entirely trusting to the groom: besides, he had traced a beautiful young girl to that very retreat.
               Robert Houston's heart was like a bunch of tinder. It caught fire with the slightest flash of a bright eye and a red lip.
               The ballet girl who bivouacked in the Ragpicker's picker's Paradise, met him in the neighborhood one evening, as she flaunted forth to exhibit herself and her ankles on the boards of the Institute in the Bowery.
               She was all in a flutter, poor girl, when this elegant man accosted her, flattering herself she had made a "successful hit."
               "Good evening, miss."
               "Good evening, sir."
               "Where do you live?"
               "I have a room in that house, there," pointing to the gable mansion.
               "Does any one live with you?"
               "No sir."
               "Do you know any of the people living in the house? I saw a very pretty girl go in there just now. Do you know who I mean?"
               The woman's countenance fell as she said to herself, "It is not me he wants, after all. I never do have any luck. It is always some baby-faced fool that attracts these men."
               Robert Houston was holding out his hand to her, with a bit of shining gold in the palm.
               That was the unguent to heal her wounds and to conciliate her affronted pride.
               "I have seen her," she answered, somewhat stiffly, weighing the douceur with a considerate eye. Another was instantly added.
               "Will that make you see her again?"
               The doubloon overcame her hesitation, and she was retained for the decoy.
               "The girl is as timid as a young fawn," said Houston.
               "Never fear. I'll bait her for you, sir." "If," she continued, sotto voce, "she is as great a fool as other women."
               They parted. Robert Houston's susceptible nature was ablaze that night with hope and expectation, and as he contemplated himself in an elegant, full-length mirror, he decided, for the thousandth time, perhaps, that it was quite impossible for any woman to resist him, if he should choose to make himself agreeable: particularly one whom he would rescue from such a den of poverty.
               The ballet girl was as good as her word. She lay in wait for her prey.
               They met on the ricketty staircase.
               "Good morning, miss. How these stairs do shake, to be sure, when one goes up and down. I am afraid of my life to mount them. Don't they frighten you? Oh, my!" she exclaimed, "do let me look at your embroidery."
               The young girl, smiling at the earnestness of her neighbor, yielded the piece of work at her request.
               "Dear, dear, how pretty it is, to be sure—and then you have such hands for embroidery—just the right sort of taper to your fingers, and the nails so neat and smooth—mine break terribly. Just come in a minute, and I will show you a piece I am doing—nothing like as nice as yours, though; come in."
               Thus solicited, the young girl entered the chamber of the plotter. The door opened off the hall, just at the head of the stairs. The small room was far better furnished than many others in the house.
               "Sit down in the rocking chair," continued the loquacious hostess, "while I get out my work," which she proceeded to do.
               So the acquaintance commenced, in a natural way, and the two talked together—the young girl betraying to her quandam companion the secret of her necessity for labor, and that she worked for an establishment in Canal street; and that she was obliged to leave the price of the materials, in order to take the work home, because her mother was an invalid, and her little brother very sick, consequently they could not spare her long.
               "Oh," said the ballet girl, "I could tell you something so much better to do than that, where you could make ever so much money."
               "Ah, but mother and brother would not like me to leave them."
               "No, I don't mean for you to leave them; that is, not exactly—"
               She had time to say no more, for the young girl rose suddenly, saying, "I hear my little brother singing, and that is a sign that he wants me. Good day to you."
               "Come again."
               "I will, thank you."
               In a moment more she had mounted a second flight of stairs, and entered a room close at hand. A flood of sweet melody greeted her incoming—"I know that my Redeemer liveth."
               
               Upon a poor pallet, in a corner of the meagre chamber, lay the boy Tito. Madame Biancha, pale and tearful, leaning tenderly over him, looked up, with a sad smile, at Fiél.
               And has it come to this? The peerless Biancha, with her daughter, the pearl of beauty, held at bay by this flock of misers, beggars, and profligates!
               What availed it, that the voice of judicial authority had set this woman free? By the very act of the trial, she was as much dissevered from her kind as if the judgment had gone against her. The lines of demarcation from the usual routine of life were as strictly drawn. Instead of the sisterhood of love that should have surrounded and enfolded her with their protection, after passing through the terrors of such an ordeal, she met only the scowl of horrid doubt and suspicion—to a sensitive soul, far worse than death.
               Mother and daughter both felt this, and they said to each other, "Let us go and bury ourselves and our sorrows where none can know or guess their source."
               The waves of the great ocean of common humanity had ebbed and left them on the barren sands alone; but only to cling closer to one another.
               Recently a remarkable change had become apparent in the condition of the boy Tito.
               Prostrated by utter physical helplessness, his former imbecility was replaced by the most painful mental acuteness.
               He realized fully now the terrible part he had so unwittingly enacted in their household tragedy, and the sorrowful Biancha, in accepting his confession as a verity, was forced to admit the fact, that her poor, simple boy, by providential allotment had been the elected instrument of an avenging deed that had so nearly cost her her life.
               
               The struggling soul of the child, in awaking to new responsibilities and terrors, awoke also to new hopes.
               Fondly, tenderly, the gentle, pious mother instructed her dying son in the sweet, calm truths of religion, pointing him to the Consoler of the disconsolate, until the gloom of doubt and despair was superseded by a cheerful confidence in the love of the All-Father.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               To one accustomed to carrying everything by storm in affairs of love, the amount of labor, time and money wasted on this new flame, rather astonished Robert Houston's former self. It was a mystery to him why matters did not come to a crisis. He was becoming impatient. The ballet girl could not lure her intended victim as rapidly as she anticipated. She met with no repulses, and yet did not succeed in attracting her pre-occupied neighbor, until once when she again besieged her at the head of the stairs, inviting her into her small parlor to look at a new pattern, and to show her how a certain figure should be finished.
               The cunning one, reading the obliging amiability of Fiél's character in her face, knew that to ask her help, would be to command her attention.
               The pattern and the colors were duly discussed.
               "Don't you find it dull, always working at that?" inquired the ballet girl of her guest. Then, not waiting for an answer, she went on. "There is a lady living just around the corner, in the other street, in that large, handsome house, you know, who desires to engage a young girl as companion for her daughter, and I am thinking how nicely you could fill the situation."
               "But I could not leave my mother and brother."
               "Oh, the lady would pay you so well, you could hire some one to take care of them, and you need not fag yourself to death, as you do now. You could earn ten times as much as at this," she concluded, touching rather scornfully the materials which previously excited her admiration.
               "It might be possible; but I could not leave them," said the young girl, motioning toward the chamber, half listening, as if for some indication that her presence was required in that quarter.
               "Well," exclaimed the other, "we poor girls have a sorry time of it. We must either work our fingers off, or starve. Let us make a league together, and see if we can't do something to bring in gold. You are so pretty, you might do anything with that face."
               Her guest gave her a glance of astonishment.
               The woman continued—
               "Do you know, that one of the richest and handsomest men in town has fallen desperately in love with you? See, he has sent this purse of money, to be yours, all of it! Think, how comfortable you might make your sick ones with this. It is for you."
               "For me? No!"
               "Yes, for you. He is so sorry for you, this gentleman. He will be your friend, if you—" She leaned close to the young girl and whispered something.
               The maiden blushed scarlet to the nape of her snowy neck, and paled again as quickly; then, snatching up the work that had fallen upon her lap, she quitted the room.
               The temptress laughed long and loud, as the girl took her flight.
               Fiél sank upon her knees beside her mother, and there sobbed out her heart-breaking, passionate grief.
               Biancha groaned in bitterness of spirit that she could not save her gentle daughter from the danger of such contamination, and contemplated the dreamy sweetness of that perfect face thus rudely disturbed by the mind being forced to take cognizance of the existence of a debasement in nature that never before had shocked its purity.
               From the time of their arrival in the great city until now, the whole care of providing for the family had devolved upon this good child. For the first few months they had lived in a better locality, and to sustain their position, they were obliged, from time to time, to part with every article of value they had possessed. Nothing now stood between them and abject poverty, which was rendered tolerable by the small amount received from their united labors at embroidery.
               "Sister, what is the matter?" murmured Tito, in a faint voice.
               "Nothing, dear brother; only a foolish word that grieved me."
               The large eyes of the sick boy looked unutterable things. The singing was nearly over now. The poor little lungs were too weak for such effort. In painful pantings came the laboring breath. The hectic cheek and hollow ringing cough told the rest.
               "Mama," he said, faintly, "put your dear, soft hands against my shoulders; they ache so—just there," placing them with his own feeble little fingers, adding, in a playful, yet plaintive voice, "just where the wings are beginning to grow."
               The mother at once complied, soothing the sufferer, and he continued talking in a kind of solemn whisper.
               "Mother, dear, I am going soon, for I begin to see the angels. There was one here a moment ago, upon the pillow beside me, and its face looked just like yours, so sweet, pale and clear. Mama, shall I find in the other world an angel mother, with a face like yours?"
               "All that can make you happy will be there, my child."
               In the chamber next to theirs, another scene was being enacted. In a corner of the unfurnished room, upon a heap of straw, lay a fainting girl. But she was not alone.
               Her companion, a young man of perhaps twenty years, or thereabouts, was bathing her temples. She began to revive—
               'Where am I; Harold, is it you?"
               "It is I, Zillah; I found you drenched and dying in the street this dreadful, rainy night, and I have borne you in my arms, as a brother might a sister, to share this miserable shelter. Be not offended. You are safe with me, though you deny me still. Take this restorative I have prepared for you."
               He held the cup to her lips, and gently compelled obedience.
               "Oh, Harold, I sought to die. Why will you lure me back to life?"
               'Are then, your accidents so fatal? Give me your confidence, and let me share at least your sorrows."
               
               The girls face looked half Egyptian, in contrast with the Saxon fairness of her companion. Her long hair, of lustreless black, was bound up in its luxuriance, about the finely formed head; here and there heavy straying curls, having broken from their band, clung lovingly around the delicate throat, and down over the slender shoulders—modestly draped in a thin robe—all that was left to decent poverty.
               "Tell me, poor lamb," he continued, "how came you out of the fold? Wonder, love and pity fill my distracted soul, while gazing on you."
               Zillah replied that her story was a brief one, and continued: "We were four, mother, father, brother and I. The abjectly poor are invariably improvident, and in the long hard winters on that northern shore where we dwelt, we suffered for the want of every comfort. Father was an habitual drunkard. He stumbled from honor and competency, into the horrible darkness of a drunkard's despair, and the clouds were never after lifted. My mother became morally weak, and I was shamed by the children of the neighborhood with my parents' faults. That gave the first wound to my heart. We had a trade, that, poor as it was, served us in lieu of a better. We were pickers of oakum used for caulking the seams of ships. The raw material consisted of junk or bits of rope drifted landward from wrecks at sea; but sometimes, in the coldest weather, we were deprived of it by the ice, that ghastly child, born of the north wind's breath. When thawing days came, we made our harvest; we loved the stern old winter in his relenting moods. At such times, we went down to the beach, with large baskets strapped across our shoulders, that we might fill them with the spoils of the flood-tide. We clutched at things, which but a few hours before, perhaps haps, had been snatched at by some perishing one, in the wild, ineffectual death-grasp. We children never thought of that. Our's was a surface commerce, that went no deeper than the foam on the wave. The beach furnished us with fuel, too, in slabs and pieces of spars, which we eagerly bore to our dwelling. Father's habits grew more and more unendurable. With all the efforts made by us, poverty was scarcely diminished. So brother was sent to a trade, and a man came to talk to my mother about me, desiring her to sign a paper that would give me to him till I should be eighteen years of age, a customary proceeding, when poor girls were bound out to service. This man came out to the porch where I was sitting. I loathed something, I knew not what, in his nature."
               "'How do, Zillah,' was his salutation, and he dared to lay his hand on my bare neck. I struck it away. It seemed like the touch of a slimy snake. 'Mother!' I screamed. She stood between us in a moment."
               "'Go, now,' she said, hastily; 'Zillah is timid; you have frightened her.'"
               "'Timid!' he roughly exclaimed; 'she is an obstinate little fool. I'll tame her.'"
               "The look he gave me, as he turned to depart, made me desperate."
               "'Mother, will you sign the papers binding me to that man?'"
               "'Zillah, yes; I am obliged to do something with you, and that is all that offers at present. Be patient.'"
               "Good bye, mother."
               "'Where are you going, child?' she asked."
               "To die! I said. As I opened the door to go out, my father staggered in across the threshold, with an open letter in his hand, exclaiming: 'Good news for you, Zillah. They want you at the westward, as soon as you can be got there. Captain Brice will take you. He sails with the next tide. So make haste with your female trumpery; and your mother and I will go down to the shore and see you off.'"
               "This was a rescue, as it seemed. A well-to-do relative of my father's would give me a home. My mother was glad and sad by turns, while I sang 'gloria,' in my heart.
               "There was a touch of nature at parting with my parents, but indigence has few tears.
               "After the voyage, I was comfortably housed in this city, with my relatives. I had been with them but a short time, when a young man, who was a frequent guest at the house, began to pay me particular attentions, which I was very far from readily accepting, as I perceived he was already beloved by a young woman who boarded with the family. That she hated me for being involuntarily an object of admiration to this man, was discovered ered later. I was very reticent on all subjects, and pronounced odd by the people of the house, who never sought to conciliate my bashfulness. Annie professed more kindness to me than the others, but I trusted her doubtingly.
               "She was a girl of some property, but very plain in appearance. She had handsome dresses and jewels, but I did not envy her. After a time there began to be complaints of things missing. I was untroubled, because innocent; yet no one lost anything except Annie.
               "One day, at last, I was forced to recognize these cruel facts—some jewels and lace were missing from her wardrobe, and to my utter consternation, a charge was made against me. I was suspected of purloining them. Secure as I deemed myself in my innocence, I led the way to the little room where I slept, and pointed to the place where the key of my small box was de posited.
               "In that box were found not only the jewels and lace, but each article that had been missing.
               "In vain I asserted that I was guiltless In vain I expected to be believed. There was a parley whether it were not wise to have me arrested and locked up; but Annie said, 'let her go.' There could be no appeal. They shut their doors upon me. Thus I became an outcast, helplessly disgraced, homeless, friendless. Do you wonder that convulsions of terror seize upon me—that I am urged to escape from this world of pain and shame, where even space to suffer in decency is denied me?"
               "Zillah, I am young and strong. I will work for you, protect you, love you always, if you will accept me."
               "Harold, you know not what you ask. I could not consent to see you compelled to submit to years of unbroken bodily toil for me. It would be insufferable pain to get license through such means to hold the heritage which every beast of burthen owns in common with us—license to breathe the air, by yielding patiently to whip and spur, bending beneath the yoke of circumstances. The few days of my life have been so full of sorrow, that I distrust the possible adequacy of compensations."
               "'Tis well, then. You decide my destiny also: 
                     
                        "Let from our shoulders drop the common load,
                        And hand in hand we'll tread the shadowy road."
                     
                  
               
               "Hasten, then, to light the deadly carbon, lest mortal tremblings overtake the fluctuating will; shut close that aperture, stop up each channel of the wholesome air, that all may be complete. I would not crouch, maimed and limping, back to life after once knocking at the portal of the silent land."
               "To do your bidding is my highest pleasure, now; but let me tell the world the story of our innocence."
               He wrote by the glow of the kindling charcoal these words—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "We two love each other so well, that no sacrament but death sufficeth us. We pass in humble trust, that in the city of our God, where there are many mansions, we may find room to dwell together in sinless joy.
                           
                              Zillah, Harold."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The writing was placed where it could be readily seen by whomsoever should enter the room, when their locked lips could answer nothing to the curious inquisitor.
               Harold then seated himself beside the drooping girl, who did not now refuse his supporting arms, and thus in silence they awaited the coming of their self-invited doom.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               The bleak December night closed in, sullen and drear. The winds mingled their pathetic wail with the beating of ceaseless rain.
               As darkness deepened, the cloud-consorting storm stalked relentlessly abroad. The unchained tempest roared in turbulent bitterness as it rushed on to spend its mighty force upon the helpless denizens of earth.
               Terrible is the voice of nature, when she speaks in her wrath. It must have been some hero mighty as Fingal, or some savior of the poor and suffering, who would on such a night confront and brave the murky terrors and gross gloom hovering in the atmosphere about the Ragpickers' Paradise.
               "Who goes there?" challenged the police. man, who kept at a most respectful distance from the outlying purlieus of that doubtful domain.
               "A friend of peace," was the instant response from a rich, manly voice.
               By the glimmer of the mist-veiled lamp might be seen a majestic figure, wrapped in a kind of loose robe, such as is worn by ecclesiastics, upon his head a broad-brimmed black hat that nearly concealed his features. He looked about him with observant eyes, that seemed as if they would pluck out the innermost mystery of those questionable intricacies. He drew near the old gable house, and after a moment's reconnoitre he entered the apothecary shop, and could be seen through the window, as he held a short colloquy with the man of pills and potions. He came out again directly, having gained some required information connected with the apartments above. He pushed open the ricketty door and disappeared peared, lost in the sinuous windings of that wretched abode.
               Ever, in the pauses of the storm, might be heard the sound of revelry from the dance room the scream of the fiddles and the coarse voices of the bacchanalian crew, mad with their orgies. The two up stairs, slowly inhaling death from the carbon fumes, drew nearer to each other, closer clasped their true hands, and smiled faintly but brightly, as angels safe up among the stars, while these vain and earthly utterances slipped by them, growing less and less distinct as their life was sepulchred in death.
               In that other chamber, Biancha and Fiél watched beside the dying Tito.
               "The room is so close," sighed the child. "Mother, don't go away, I did not mean you, but the air. I can't breathe—keep near me, mother, sister—I shall die—to-night— your wearying watch—will be all done—before to-morrow morning."
               He sank for a moment into that half-slumber which brings no rest to the dying. For a space there was a lull in the severity of the s'orm.
               "Mother," said the child quickly, "I hear again voices, that seem to come from heaven, bidding me hasten to the summer land. I can see the emerald fields of Paradise, and I scent the balmy odors of its healing balsam trees. The Lord loves little children. Let me hear your voice, my mother; it mingles so sweetly with those angel tones."
               The mother murmured a soothing promise of Holy Writ. She saw that the spirit was passing. He turned his face a little, put up his lips for a farewell kiss, then clasping the shadowy hands across the quick-heaving breast, softly closed his eyes to mortal sight, and breathing his mother's name, without a struggle, he went to stand before the great white throne!"
               The wind raved with four-fold fury. There was a stunning, rumbling sound, and a cry of mingled voices in the extremity of terror rang through the place—
               "Fly for your lives, the house is falling!"
               Fiél grasped her mother, plucking her wildly away from her dead child, and hurried with her down the stairs and out into the narrow court. It was almost too late. The furies had finished their work. The old centre chimney, weakly supported by the rotten lumber of the building, had toppled and fallen, smashing the decayed roof, hurling destruction and death upon the unfortunate dwellers. As the two women issued from the door in their flight, a policeman's lanthorn flashed on their faces; in an instant a pair of mighty arms folded them both in one embrace, and a dear familiar voice, tremulous with feeling, spake in their native tongue, words of tenderness, names of endearment; and the two wept upon the manly breast of Molina.
               
               With careful exertions the body of the child was recovered from the ruins, and borne along with them to the home prepared before hand by Molina for his loved ones, in the event of discovering them. There went into the mansion with them, three guests, sorrow, thankfulness and joy.
               
               There were among the silent forms exhumed from the ruins two that excited an extraordinary degree of interest in the beholders. Unscathed, they lay side by side, as though the angel of death, in passing, had folded his wings to keep perfect the beautiful forms of Zillah and Harold.
               What could be more pathetic than this picture of life's despair? What mournful retrospectives we cast into the darkened abyss of the soul, as the wearying footfall of time beats out with its ceaseless tramp the paling glow of some sweet but evanescent past. Oh, thou terrible unknown, yet constantly unfolding future! How we ever invoke thy coming, yet shrink stricken at thy revelations!
               For the fate of others who lost then lives that night by the fall of the roof of that old gable house, little pity was evinced. The owner of the premises knew nothing beyond the money which his agent wrung from the poor tenants' pittance. "Collect every farthing, and for the vagrants who can't pay, turn them to the windy side of the wall," was the fiat of the landlord. He, the man of munificent public charities, never soils his clean hands, or offends his fastidious tastes by dealing directly with such canaille. What cares he? Wrenches must be housed some where. Though the roof be leaky and broken, and the walls and windows shattered, yet the old shell will yield something worth having. Time enough, five years hence, to pull it down, if it fall not before! What matters a crushed beggar or two, more or less! 
                     
                        "Rattle his bones
                        Over the stones,
                        He's only a pauper,
                        Whom nobody owns."
                     
                  
               
               Society will have its contrasts. So long as men and women aim to gain by their appearance that which they are not entitled to by their cultivation and honest self-respect, the distinctions which mark the differences between classes must exist, and the poor will always be forced to bear more than their fair share of burthens.
               The hope of bettering these conditions by some general measure, has long been exploded. All Utopian dreams have failed, and the rich exact, with peculiar cunning, the resources which pamper the affluent.
               If the policy of knavery were fully exposed and made clear to every mind, we should realize that half of the evil afflicting society is caused by the abuse of power exercised by those who should be guardians of the helpless.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               In my home the golden lamp was burning, and precious things were upon the altar of devotion, and that faith which is above reason, comforted me with the assurance that those "first fruits," "and the tithe of time," were pleasing to the Lord of sacrifices: not that the holocaust is needed to add to the Infinite Glory, but in consequence of the memory of His covenant by the eternal signs of its continuance, and of our acceptance evinced in the act of adoration appointed at the rising of the typical Star of Bethlehem, guiding us to the gracious fountain of All Light. Yet I heard the clarion peal of the world, and as "obedience is better than sacrifice," I inclined mine ear to its sonorous call, for mere pastime is also essential, and should draw us in equal proportions befitting the behests of our more exalted conditions; and though we love more the low, soft echoes "of the still, small voice," that speaks in the deep chambers of the soul within the soul, we must allow ourselves to be brought down from the mountain of holy abstractions—carrying with us the sweetness of the spice-groves where we have walked, to furnish delights to the lesser deities on the lower plains. So the perpetual law of Providence exhales from soul to soul. Thus, ascending and descending on the ladder of life, we can help one another up the shining rounds.
               I had promised an evening to some very dear friends, who had stipulated that I should ask no questions, but entrust myself to them to provide what form of entertainment they should think proper. I assented, but was rather surprised on arriving in the house, at being seized upon with gentle violence, and compelled to assume a masquerade dress, certainly too elegant to be despised. It was composed of most superb silk, of a sea-green color, very richly embroidered with seed pearls. Every part of the exquisite toilet matched, and the curls of my long hair looped too, with pearls, completed the grand effect of the costume. I held up my hands deprecatingly, but it was useless, for my friend exclaimed, "If you say one word against this, it will break up all our plans and end all our pleasure. Besides, I know you are up in the part."
               
               I surmised their drift, from that crumb of "stage slang."
               "Very well," I cried, "What am I? Let me know quickly what part you wish me to play."
               "Look in that mirror. Does not your eye inform you that it is the fairest and most impassioned of all Shakspeare's creations?"
               "Juliet?"
               "Of course," said my friend, "You were born for it."
               My mind became at once engrossed with the emotions of the part; so much so, that I did not even ask "who is my Romeo?"
               The amusing point of the affair was, that those who played the several characters, were not to know each other until they met on the stage; and I believe they did not fail in the anticipated amusement from this cause.
               When the masked Romeo approached, saying: 
                     
                        "If I profane with my unworthy hand
                        This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this—
                        My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand,
                        To smoothe that rough touch with a tender kiss,"
                     
                   a subdued fire flashed over me at his voice and touch
               Although mine ears had not yet drunk a hundred words of that tongue's uttering, yet I knew the sound. It was my Tone king, and as he slipped the mask aside, I saw again the face that fixed me—my artist wonder, Alexo R. Is there an eighth beatitude? If there is, its divinity enfolded me then.
               What wonder if the incipient heart-fires, already kindled for him, should burn and glow, fed and fanned each instant by the ardor of the poet's ideal. We were young and fond, and did not that night fulfil the tragic destiny of our impassioned prototypes.
               After the tragedy, everybody came in en masque, and in the mingling delusion nothing was, and everything was not. The pranks of these maskers, the airy charm of the assimilations of some, the grotesque mummery of others, and the clumsy attempts at witty mimicry of many, afforded a pleasing diversion. Other counterfeits displayed poverty-stricken erty-stricken natures and feverish necessity for excitement at whatever cost.
               My Romeo had given the slip to tragedy, and found "a case to put his visage in"—the simulated features strongly expressive of a merry humor, while the least little tip of a pair of mimic horns sprouting just over the organ of mirthfulness, lent a cunning Mephistophilian air to the satyr-like vizor. I was still his chosen companion in the gay procession although I wore no veil over my face—and some one was vulgar enough to remark, that "Miss Bravoure and that fawn mask are very sweet upon each other;" while he thrust and parried witticisms so adroitly, and apostrophised his brother shapes with a sparkle of words and a grace of manner so inimitable, that he became the cynosure of all eyes—the centre of that glittering circle.
               Peals of laughter echoed his drolleries. There were moments between his swift repartees tees when, with the mask partially removed, he would speak in my ear an "aside," that I answered with thrills, as the harp when its strings are swept by the song-bard. I longed to be away, alone, where I might reflect on my sweet emotions. The morning's rosy beams saluted us as we stepped into our carriages, and thus ended the carnival.
               I was happy in my dream of love, and he came every day, and every day we loved each other more and more.
               The serenity of my soul was not disturbed, but rather deepened at this time by the resurrection of an agreeable sympathetic consciousness, indicative of the drawing near of my beloved master.
               Nearer and nearer swept the force of the tractile fire, and I became aware of the close approach of a familiar aura. The air seemed to bear his individuality, and all apart from the full sentiment entertained for Alexo, I felt a quickening of the inner sense, as though the immaterial principle had leaped into flame, until my whole body was full of light. This was no superficial increase of the activity of the vital function, as some might argue, but touched the whole being with an irridescent glow, or rather eliminated the "odic fires" which are known to be facts. By this peculiar exercise of the faculties of my organism, I was certain of the master's coming, and though to others he appeared as one risen from the dead, his presence was scarcely a surprise to me.
               The priest and the neophite stood once more face to face.
               Molina told me of his far wanderings, and how at length he had consummated the keeping of his vow—how he had been compelled by the imperial severity of an order from the royal chief, whose wisdom holds in awe "the Sons of Light," to abstract himself from every former experience of life, for a sacred purpose connected with the welfare of the Commandery. He added, that having now accomplished his work, he was free to resume his usual pursuits.
               "There was a weary time," I said, "when my mind was no more congnizant of thine, and I deemed thou hadst passed to the kingdom of silence."
               "It was essential to the perfecting of my trial, that I should divest and sever myself from every thread of attraction that had bound me to the common sphere."
               "Did you not fear it might never be again conjoined?"
               "Fear would have been a stumbling block in the way. I could by no other means attain to the condition needful for finishing the mission of the sacred order, that immured me for months in the depths of the silver mines of Potosi. Immersed in closest calculations, of vast importance in gross, as well as detail, I there learned to conform in purity, seclusion and simplicity."
               "Then no thought of us ever glanced across your mind?"
               "I do not say that, but having mastered the ability to efface from memory, for the time being, all claims engendered by the laws of clay, I resigned myself, 'under direction,' to spell by interlight, the illumined texts inculcating obedience. Thus the voice of wisdom alone reached me. I lived in the Infinite. Beautiful and serene is the state of the soul in sympathy with virtue."
               The master's words affected me almost to tears. I saw he had attained to the height of spiritual repose. It seemed that all human inconsistencies had been winnowed from his mind.
               "Alas, for me!" I cried, "I am still subject to the varying passions that struggle in me, for human recognition."
               "Then," I resumed, "you were, as far as common sympathies and emotions go, absolutely dead!"
               He half smiled, and replied: "I am accounted faithful as they of old, in the camp of Thermopylæ."
               I remained silent, deeply impressed.
               "Hortense, you have not asked for them."
               
               "I know, dear sir, I have been forgetful of all else, while wondering at you; but till you came, I have thought of them every day, every hour. Tell me, have you been happier than I, and have you found them?"
               Waiting but for the one word, "yes," I donned my bonnet and shawl, and, under his escort, I flew to pay the tribute of never dying affection at the feet of these dear friends. As we wended our way, he succinctly related to me the adventures of his search, and of their strange accidents. There was unspeakable joy in all these re-unions. There were a thousand things to be asked and answered, and still our tongues were busy. I found their plans already made. Madame Biancha was about retreating from the world, to begin the novitiate of a conventual life, within the peaceful shadow of the "Convent of the Sacré Cœur."
               "And thou, Fiél—I trust thou art not for the cloister! Come and swell with me; I will endow thee richly as a bride; thou shalt be to me as an only sister."
               "Nay," replied Fiél, "that may not be. Loving thee no less, Hortense, I will go with my mother, and within the convent fold, will pray for thee."
               An interior glory lighted her beautiful face with a celestial radiance.
               I could not but pause, and ask, were it not better that I, too, should present myself a living sacrifice unto the Lord? But the world had its charms for me still. There was Alexo!
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               A black-edged letter from the South announced that Aunt Agnes had passed to the realms of peace. She had nobly fulfilled her promise to me, for it was through her influence, in the last hours of her life, that grandpapa was brought to see how wrong he had been; and she exacted from him a solemn promise that he would reinstate me in his affections. I made no formal mourning for my Aunt. As my raiment was ordinarily black, there was no need, even for custom's sake, to make any important alteration in my dress.
               Surface people saw only the ripple on the tide of incidents. The deep under-current was hidden from all but those who had the means of knowing my true character. No tender father could have entered more delicately into the interests of a dearly beloved child, than did my high natured master, in weighing my relations with Alexo.
               He said: "You do not realize, Hortense, that this matter is the key-note of your entire future."
               "No, dear master, for I love; and reflection belongs to a different state of being."
               "I must reflect for you, then. You believe that you love Alexo. He declares that he loves you. Both of you may be deceiving yourselves, while entertaining some truth. Wait! That is my advice. Whatever is good will lose nothing by deliberation. Give me leave to say, that from my knowledge of you and of Alexo, I do not feel that your happiness can be secured by the proposed union. I grant all you would urge in favor of your heart-hero. Yet his genius and enchantment of style, may be of the earth, earthly. I have not perceived in him any spiritual impulses. He never yet, in inspiration, has risen to the Absolute."
               "But oh! he is my absolute," I cried.
               The master said no more.
               As our acquaintance progressed, I gathered from Alexo much that it was natural for me to desire to learn—the history of his parentage and his home. His father was of Spanish origin and a native of the Island of Canary. He married an English lady, and Alexo was their only offspring.
               His forefathers had occupied posts of honor under the Spanish crown, and he was much attached to his birth-place and to the memory of his mother—the only parent spared to him up to his sixteenth year. There was little left of the family wealth, except a portion of the estates, and a barren title, which he took no pride in. His mother had been an admirable proficient in music, and she herself self had trained her boy, who seemed to live only in that beautiful art and in the harmony evoked from the ringing chords, until his twelfth year, when she took him to Paris, placing him under the first masters of execution and composition. In the latter he had already displayed decided talent, and had been styled the young art-magician.
               He related all this to us, with a naïveté quite enchanting, until he came to the sad moment when that adored mother was compelled to return to the Island home, after three years' residence in Paris, leaving him to finish his studies. Alas! soon after she left him, a malignant fever proved fatal to her. This was told with broken voice and quivering lip, and bore witness to his deep love for her.
               Alexo was occasionally absent from the city for a few days, but he himself was rendered more palpable to me by that very absence sence, for his letters made me feel as if I were holding his heart in my hand. They are transcribed in the tablet of my memory.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Cher Hortense. Were a merely sentimental friend to write thee, fair girl, if at all sincere, he might imagine himself miserable at being separated from the angel of his soul, not realizing how sweet his cup, or how glad his heart—mistaking joy for sorrow, sunshine for clouds, wine for water. Who writes thus, could, in reality, feel naught. To thy Alexo these hours of absence flit by like a single tick of time. He heeds or knows it not, for he lives in thy light; he sees thee every moment. Forgetting all else, he quaffs thee in the air, and sings thee always from his full heart. Thou art his life and being. Thy lover is like an innocent flower, with its warmth and glow, and its gushing soul, laughing out the living fragrance. Thou sun and giver of my life, could I but fold thy spirit within mine own, and flood it with the sense of the felicity one single thought of thee inspires, I could be well contented.
                           
                              Thine,
                              ALEXO."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               I had no language to convey my thoughts to him.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           I said only, "The expressions of tenderness and love—in every language known to me—those words which others use, I never can repeat. I detest their feebleness. Thou art Thou to me, as God is God,
                           
                              Thine,
                              HORTENSE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               We were betrothed; but it was arranged that the marriage should not take place for a year. Alexo came often to visit us. He and Molina were friends. Mrs. Lacy admired him, and all went placidly on. My happiness was almost boundless. Its expression took a thousand different forms. My heart beat high when applause greeted him and the ovations of admiring crowds were tendered in homage to his genius, as he arose from the execution of his melodious inspirations, during which brilliant trills and dazzling octave passages wrought his auditors into ecstacies. Thus, surrounded by enthusiastic friends, breathing the atmosphere of passion, I looked up and worshipped. My lover was beside me, while composing some of his most exquisite works.
               "Vous étes l' inspiration, cher Hortense." But the severe cold of a northern whiter suited neither of us, and agreed with him less than with me. His poetic fancies took wing sometimes, and he raved of balmy breezes and the perennial blossoms of his own tropic clime. 
                     
                        TO HORTENSE.
                        How sweet were life—this life, if we,
                        
                        (My love and I,) might dwell together
                        Far beyond the summer sea,
                        In the heart of glowing weather!
                        With pomegranate on the bough,
                        
                        And with lily in the bower,
                        And a light of distant snow,
                        Rosy in the sunset hour—
                        With a silver sickle moon
                        O'er a garden red with roses,
                        And a window up in June,
                        For serenades when evening closes!
                        And a chamber cool and simple,
                        Trellised light from roof to basement,
                        And a gentle breeze to dimple
                        The looped curtain at the casment—
                        Where if we, at midnight wake,
                        A green acacia tree shall quiver
                        In the moonlight, o'er the lake,
                        Wher enightingales sings songs forever—
                        Seas beyond, around, beneath,
                        Seen through flowery wildernesses,
                        Not so remote but that their breath
                        May softly fan my darling's tresses—
                        Her thoughtful mind a wake to catch
                        The hues and forms of vale and mountain,
                        And one lone evening star to watch
                        When all is still, save some low fountain!
                        Ah, ah, alas! time lures away
                        Our souls with fond delusive fancies,
                        Our dreams are of a brighter day,
                        Within a land of sweet romances.
                        
                     
                  
               
               So, my Tone-king wrote and sang. Spring was now approaching, and we hoped to enjoy some seasonable repose. An artist has no season of rest. When he has once entered upon a career, it is incumbent upon him to pursue it, for various reasons. Small trials are woven, more or less, into the web of the happiest existence. In the midst of this full and delightful life, I was called upon to bid adieu to Alexo.
               "Hortense, to-morrow I depart!"
               "I have learned of it."
               "I see plainly you will be quite desolate without me, but you know, my angel, it is only for two or three months, at most. I wish it were not so! Yet it must be!"
               "You have no right to wishes in the case. You are appointed to a certain great work. It would be a shameful thing if the feelings of a woman whom you love could dissuade you from accomplishing your high destiny. I must bear the pang of parting as best I may."
               We sat a short time in silence, I dreading every instant to hear him say good bye. In a little while he was gone.
               
               Where was the master? This good man, one of the few who possess the qualities of true greatness, had formed high designs for the future of his long-abused, down-trodden Italy. He was filled with the spirit of patriotism, with the indomitable resolution of a leader, determined that his countrymen should share in the blessings which civil and religious liberty have secured to more fortunate nations.
               He now devoted a large portion of his time to the direction of measures tending to ameliorate the condition of the numerous exiles becoming residents in this country. He received them on their arrival among strangers, provided for their immediate needs, and found for them occupation and means of support. Temporary blessings for his country and countrymen were not all that he contemplated. The future of Italians and Italy was his incessant study, and he hoped for all the benefits that spring from human freedom. To overthrow the system of tyranny, which is the source of all the sorrows of Italy, not by inciting men to take up arms against the authorities, but by the enlightenment of the people and the instilling in them a knowledge of the gospel of free government, was his task. Having laid down the sword that he had been forbidden to use, he had grasped the pen, and by its power an irresistible influence was spread throughout all Italy. By these unequalled appeals, that found their way, despite the watchfulness of sbirri, into the very Vatican, and read by Pio Nino, whose agitation was testified by frowning brows and knocking knees. Full of courage, and confident of his country's ultimate redemption, this profound man devoted himself to such pacific measures as promised to hasten that glorious sequel so enthusiastically expected by every lover of true Republicanism.
               
               I felt that I was elevated by the friendship and affection of this man, whom I beheld treading down all obstacles that misfortune and exile had thrown in his path—rising superior to every circumstance, in his love of doing good to others. Comprehending his lofty and unselfish aims, is it strange that he should have appeared to me so colossal in divine proportions as to cast a shadow over most, even the most brilliant, minds?
               Molina was out of the city, and I missed his sustaining power, on the one side, while, on the other, even the music of Alexo, usually so inspiring to me, wholly failed to console me for his absence. Then doubts and fears began to take possession of my imagination. Restless and unreconciled with all things, I disputed with myself on my right to demand either the one or the other of these men, as essential to my happiness; for I began to perceive that the soul dependent on another for its joy, is in jeopardy at all times, and subject to distressing and even fatal illusions. Yet how difficult to make reason of any use, where the feelings are supreme. Philosophy, thou art an infant in the grasp of the emotions, which thou wouldst vainly analyze. Passion will defy not only true happiness here, but even that in the Hereafter! How seldom can admonition change the current of the heart's desires! Selfhood cherishes its own conceits, and like Ajax, defies the lightning!
               It was one of our reception evenings. I was languid and nonchalant, although some of those present were so gracious as to attribute my manner to caprice. The truth was, I was dying of ennui. In the midst of the conversation, there were sounds from the doorbell, and it seemed to me that they vibrated in a mingled dissonance with my heart's beatings. I knew my master was waiting at the door, and he was soon in our presence. I was glad that he had come, because I could talk to him of Alexo.
               As he bowed, with his courtly foreign grace over my hand, saluting it, I was aware of the same peculiar effect of his touch and of his eye, that had so often before impressed me, as if he ruled the whole of my spiritual nature; but it was Alexo who governed the plastic life of my heart. Nevertheless, Molina's arrival was beneficial, by awakening my mind to its wonted efforts. I attempted to rise to my former heights of inspiration, but was not satisfied. Repinings would have vent. Like a child, I babbled for the moon.
               In answer to some remark of his, I said: "I recognize a singular disunion in the three parts of my being. My heart rests upon Alexo—my spirit flies to you, and my body is unquiet under its impulses to recover its errant harmonies. The triple garment is rent, the soul left unclothed, and the body deprived of its aural life, that impels to mental action. How far, at best, can the body project the soul on its way, or the soul the body? Is not each a half to each, or does one drag the other down? Can it be that the physical nature is equal in nobility to the spiritual? Unanswerable enigmas! Oh, dear master, what can be done to change this unbearable condition? I know I am wayward and petulant, perhaps rash, but you have a mighty influence over me. Oh, exercise it for my good, and counsel me how to act."
               "You require such influences, dear child; what would you?"
               "If you were not here, I would at once set off for Mexico—alone, if it must be so—but go I would. As you are here, I can only say this to you."
               His large, lucid eyes flashed down into mine, as he responded: "I can accompany you, if it be your wish. In a certain sense, I belong to you, and you to me, more entirely than either ever may to any other. I have just completed some needful arrangements, and now I am at your disposal, and, child of my soul, as far as lies in human power, I will remove every obstacle to your happiness. Command me as you will."
               "Your goodness overwhelms me. I would go, because I love Alexo, and at this season, fear for his life in that most inauspicious climate. I see him by the soul's vivid light, but not clear enough to satisfy. I feel that we should never have been separated, and my first duty seems to me to be, to put myself within the orb or circle of impressibility. In my present state of high sensitiveness, there is nothing I would not dare, to draw closer the electric chain of our existence. Aid me, dear master, invest my soul with that affluent, fiery vigor and saccharific power that may flood and envelop every particle of his sentient faculty, that so I may be able to guard him, if danger approach, when angered nature threatens to afflict him."
               "There is no treason in a love like that. You may, by the power of your beauty and accomplishments, hold this man forever, but the secret magnetic compulsion can only affect souls on a similar plane, those who are less positive, in the aggregate, than you. Your nature and that of Alexo are diametrically opposed to each other on the spiritual plane; and, my child, although I am not surprised at the mutual attraction you have for each other, I see little happiness in your projected union. Do not mistake me. I have no wish to displace one iota of your regard for him. Try to recall the half forgotten lessons of your early school days. Accept the grand philosophies you then so crudely trusted and so eagerly sought to appropriate for your rule of life. Trust not too much to the illusions of the dreams that now haunt you. My greatest happiness must ever be to know that you are blessed!"
               Tears filled my eyes, for I discovered something in the cadence of the master's voice, like an unexplained sorrow—an echo of "too late," in this accord, that pained me.
               "I can deny you nothing," he continued; "make ready. We shall go."
               Through those many days of travel I was buoyed up from all sense of fatigue, not only by the shining delight at the end of the long vista of my journey, but by the vigilant watchfulness of my idolized master. It may seem a strange thing to assert, but during the whole of that memorable pilgrimage, I can truly declare that I was scarcely conscious of a body. Can we, from three ones, recognize the self-existent unit that sustains and pervades vades all? These mental questions were a source of curious conjectures. I was I; Molina was mine; Alexo, I believed, was mine; I was his; yet I seemed to be Molina's. To attain to the bliss of Alexo's presence was really all my desire; yet it would have pained me extremely to lose sight of this other one, who had borne me so tenderly through the roughness of the way. I looked up to him, worshipped him. I had proffered a prayer, and he was answering it.
               To be human—to adore Alexo, to worship Molina, were mighty trials of the heart. If it were possible that the desert could be swept contrawise by two simoons at once, so my impulsive breast seemed heaving to the rush of two great airy fires, meeting and overwhelming every spark of individual independent power. Yet Alexo was the solar light to me.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               A religious house received me on my arrival in the city of our destination, for entire sequestration from social intercourse was a part of my plan, that I might have the advantage of knowing, without being known.
               I saw that my Alexo was safe, well and cheerful, and as insensible to my sphere as though miles of land and water were still between us. The subtle spirit-influence of personality did not move him. It was through the material only that he could discover me.
               I was chagrined and disappointed that no impressional effect was perceptible, although I trembled with the effort to prove such a result possible. There was despair in the reflection that no responsive emotion apprised him of my propinquity.
               I went home to the convent in a state of complete distraction. Yet again the soothing magic, streaming in rays of sublimated coolness from Molina's large dilating eyes, prepared me for repose.
               The next day the master did not come early. Unequal to enduring the silence of thought and the tumult of memory, I went out into the air. Walking up and down the prado, unheeding, my lagging steps were arrested by an approaching figure. How easy was it to recognize my Alexo! My heart beat rapidly—my limbs trembled, and a sense of suffocation nearly deprived me of motion. He passed so near me as to touch a portion of the drapery of my disguise, for I wore a convent robe and veil of the religious house where I was making my retreat. He was unconscious of me still. Not a turn of the eye—not a flash through his veins, indicated that I was there. For an instant I doubted everything—identity, sympathetic attraction, and the inner forces governing humanity. Wandering still, I came to the pasado, where I saw Molina, whose disguise was familiar to me, and with him walked a lady veiled. I knew she was no other than the cantatrice, as he had spoken of his intention of visiting her, and I could not mistake her remarkable contour, which many persons insisted, by way of compliment to me, was the counterpart of my own. They entered a volante, and the postilion, spurring his horses, drove rapidly away.
               I now observed some one, in the habit of a monk, halting in the neighborhood. A sudden start, as Molina turned his head, convinced me that he was known to this person, and it occurred to me that the habit worn was a disguise also. I went carelessly down the street, still taking note of this incognito.
               The figure was short and slight, and I did not fail to detect that the step was neither manly nor priestly. I was directly on the alert. I felt danger. I must investigate. The figure moved on with a quicker pace. I, too, walked with greater speed. We entered, almost together, a beautiful private park, surrounding the castle. There a carriage was in waiting, at a little distance. Toward that point the monk directed his steps. Not anxious to attract attention, I walked away, but did not lose sight of the carriage. The light of day was fast declining. I withdrew a little within the shadow of some trees, and saw the person in the monk's habit enter the vehicle. Presently it rolled by the spot where I was standing. The same person who entered it was still its occupant; but, instead of the robed and cowled priest, I beheld a woman. It was the Countess Julia! I had good reason, now, to be startled. That woman boded danger to my master. I hurried back, and after a brief space Molina was ushered into the convent parlor. I instantly communicated to him my discovery. He seemed, at first, somewhat disturbed, but observing my apprehension, smiled at my fears, based on what he treated as a slight foundation.
               "So you doubt that I saw the Countess?"
               "I do not doubt that you think you saw her. You may have been deceived."
               "Never, in that face! It surely is she!"
               "If it be so, I shall soon learn."
               "Heaven grant you may, and before it is too late?"
               "Amen!"
               I begged him to change his disguise; and to comply with my request, he presently left me.
               I myself, dressed in the common obscurity of a Spanish skirt and veil, attended by a proper escort, furnished me by the good mother, was soon located in a shady corner of a private box at the opera house. There I saw and heard my Alexo once more, and longed to make some sign which might awake his consciousness to a perception of my nearness.
               There was hovering in the air a new element of danger, destined to become, alas! a powerful agent in driving many an actor from the world's wide stage.
               The pestilence was in the city! I never thought of danger to Molina or to myself, but trembled every instant for Alexo's life, and sought by all the efforts of my spirit to interpose the influence of my watchful love, as a shield to guard him from the baleful breath of the malignant and hostile powers that might destroy his life.
               
               All my amphi-mundane resistance was aroused to combat the imperceptible and abhorrent mediums of fate, ever at war with the more material dwellers of the earth. These are always seeking ingress through the dim shadowy walls, so easily displaced by what is termed imponderable substance, which is only spirit force. Thus they assault shrinking humanity, making bloodless incisions by impalpable blows, levied not only against the happiness of man, but aiming their subtle weapons at the very life of defenceless mortals. In our better parts, we are but better spirits. The essence of things, either for good or evil, is more potent than eliminations. Hence, the powerful possibilities of the secret effect of those who have passed over the river of death, shades unfit for heaven, yet not evil enough to be condemned to the outer darkness and Hadean gloom, longing still for the things of the senses, which can only be grasped by them through the agency of those loves to which they attach a web-like attraction, formed by an unrealized violence and held by force over men and women, whose temperamental peculiarities make them liable to this kind of possession.
               These disconnected thoughts occurred to me on a subsequent evening, when seated in the same place. In the box next to mine there were low tones, in Italian. One of the voices, it seemed to me, had an echo in my memory. They became louder in the earnestness of their discourse, and I was sure that I caught the sound of a familiar name. It was Molina's, and more guardedly spoken, I heard that of the Signora. The faintest possible hush was uttered by a female voice, and still I was haunted by something displeasing to the ear.
               
               "A gift fit for a queen. Make sure this reaches her to-night."
               Something else was added that I did not distinctly hear. The person went out. I looked after him as he passed into the lobby, more anxious than curious. I saw that the man held in one hand a small morocco jewel-case, that I supposed might contain some gift for the cantatrice. I returned to my seat, persuading myself that no evil could arise from such a cadeau.
               
               Molina joined me shortly afterward, and I could not forbear recounting to him the little incident connected with the occupants of the adjacent box. He smiled at my misgivings, and appeared somewhat absorbed in other matters, so I refrained from interrupting him farther. There had been an intermission. The music now was resumed. There was a splendid passage-at-arms between king Alexo and the monarch piano-forte, eliciting repeated bravos and bravissimos from the excited and delighted auditors. Then the beautiful singer came forward to do her part, and I noticed upon her exquisitely modelled arm a magnificent circlet of brilliants. I thought to myself if that were the gift, it was indeed "fit for a queen." She was greeted with rapturous applause, and on its subsiding, the tones of her melifluous voice filled all the place with beauty; but she suddenly paled and faltered, smiled faintly, and recovered her powers. Then she sang on. This lasted a few minutes, when it became evident that she could no longer conceal the bitter suffering preying upon her. She sank, all at once, helpless upon the stage. Instantly, alarm and confusion spread through the house. Molina left hurriedly, and word flew from mouth to mouth, with garbled statements of the cause of the attack. The vocalist was borne away, and the theatre was soon deserted.
               
               Joined by my escort, I went home to any dormitory at the convent, only to change my habit du théatre for that of a sister of mercy. By permission of the good Abbess, whom I acquainted with the incident of the evening, and in company with a sister of the order, I went at once to the residence of Madame S—— and being admitted without difficulty, we joined Molina beside the couch of the suffering lady. She was already rigid and nearly pulseless.
               Awed and appalled by this terrible episode, I whispered, asking Molina: "Is it death?"
               "I fear so."
               "The malady?"
               "A very singular case, if it be," was the reply.
               Kneeling by the insensible sufferer, I wiped the sweat of anguish from her fine brow, wetting the parched lips with the cooling drops which had, alas! no power to recover the lost forces of her life.
               The fear of infection was so general, that we three were left to ourselves in this labor of love. In a few hours that beautiful and gifted woman breathed her last. Another of the convent sisters arriving at that time, charged herself with the performance of the last offices to be rendered to the sacred dead. I retired with Molina from the distressing scene, where friendship or love was of no more avail.
               There could be no serenity in the over active life I had now imposed upon myself, and when Molina left me at the convent gate to look for Alexo, he suddenly returned with the intelligence that my love, alarmed at the death of the prima donna, and the terrible increase of mortality in the capital, was making speedy arrangements, and would be, in a few hours, on the sea, bound for New York.
               
               His way was mine, too, and the ultimate of my desire was accomplished when I welcomed him once more under the roof-tree of my home. What wonder is it if recent experiences had stamped upon the brow of each the signet seal of solemn reminiscences!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               Soon after our return our drawing-rooms were again thronged with friends! Each one congratulated me on the improvement in my appearance, after my seclusion in the country, where, as it was believed, the term of my absence had been passed. I accepted these flattering remarks with that suavity and graciousness which society and the occasion demanded. I could not avoid reflecting that these partial friends pronounced me perfect before. If I so far exceeded my former self, after the real fatigues and excitement of a long journey, what might I not have seemed, had all things contributed to the realization of my desires!
               Apart in the library Alexo sat, looking at a newspaper. I felt, rather than saw, the astonishment he displayed, and in sympathy with his emotion, without being in the least aware of its cause, my heart throbbed painfully. What could he be perusing with such avidity? By a look I questioned Molina, who had just come in.
               In answer to my silent appeal, he exclaimed: "There is an article in this evening's paper touching the death of Madame S——."
               He had spoken very slowly, his eyes filling with that magnetic expression that was so remarkable a feature of his manner towards me. Somebody had just entered the room, to whom it was my duty to speak, so we were interrupted. I returned the greetings of the visitor, spoke some deferential common-places, then, with an imploring glance at Molina, who understood my wish, I left them—crossed over to Alexo, and leaning upon his chair, looked at the paragraph that so engrossed grossed him. It ran thus: "A rumor is circulating, and suspicions have been aroused in the minds of many persons, that the late lamented Madame S—— whose death we have recently been called upon to record and deplore, did not die, as was at first supposed, of an epidemic. There was a story current there concerning a magnificent bracelet placed upon her dressing-table on the evening of her last concert. She thought that it was a gift from her husband. Naturally delighted with this elegant piece of gallantry from him, she clasped the jewel upon her arm. Several times during the evening she complained of dizziness and languor, and while upon the stage giving her last song, fainted before its conclusion, and was conveyed to her hotel in a state of insensibility, from which nothing could arouse her. She lived only a few hours. Terror and alarm spread among her immediate attendants. From the first moment of the attack they fled, and she was left to the care of the Sisters of Mercy.
               "As the loose robe that wrapped her form was removed by those who received the body for embalming, the bracelet was observed; and the arm, swollen and discolored from the wrist to the shoulder, indicated the existence of some mischievous extraneous substance under the clasp, which was removed with difficulty, so closely did it adhere to the flesh. On a careful examination, it appeared beyond a doubt that the lovely lady had perished by fiendish treachery, that did its venomous coil under a shining and seductive exterior—and pierced her unsuspecting and most innocent heart with the secret fang of death. Search was instituted to detect the vengeful contriver of the deed, but the indifference to any single death then pervading all classes, through the fatal progress of the pestilence, made the apology for the inattention to the facts in the case."
               Oh, heaven! what thoughts rushed over me! I was ready to drop with the over-whelming horror! Molina was at my side in a moment. He led me through the open window to the balcony, where the air partially restored me.
               "You were right!" said Molina to me. "That evil-minded countess was there. Her accomplice blundered in bestowing the deadly gift that was intended for you—you, Hortense!"
               "I know it now," I answered, wringing my hands in a sort of hopelessness. for what might I not have still to fear from the malevolence of that woman's spirit?
               
               One day Alexo said: "I never knew any one whose judgment has seemed to me so sagacious as your own. I have often remarked that if you, Hortense, say a thing will be thus or so, it always happens just as you yourself predict; and then you are so fortunate in wishing! It quite startles me, often, to know the luck you have in gaining your desire."
               "I do not know that! Usually we make some effort to compass a point deemed desirable. Why do you speak of this now?"
               "Because I would have you wish something for me."
               "With all my heart," I replied.
               "Thank you, dear angel of my life. I cannot explain to you now, the precise nature of this wish; but, dear one, imagine something, next to yourself, of vital importance to me, and make its attainment your earnest prayer."
               At a later hour I sought a book from the library. Molina and Alexo were there, but they did not perceive me, and I remained long enough to learn, from what Alexo said, that he was in danger of losing his family estates. A forfeiture was impending, and unless a certain amount of money could be at his command within a short time, the whole labor of his youth would be lost. His words were like fire in my ears. Molina's answer afforded no relief.
               I went to my room, and considered my resources, but all was unequal to the emergency. I had energy and power that I would gladly have devoted to his service, but it might take long to convince the world of talent that presumed to claim price in the market. Gold, gold, gold! fruitful medium of evil—divine instrument of good, could I but grasp enough of it to save him! Strong and urgent the wish rushed from my heart. In the midst of the intense prayer for his benefit, I could not but recall our late conversation. This, then, was what he meant. How could I do else than wish, with all my heart, for blessings on him whose image was ever mirrored in its living tide? And yet, in anatomizing Alexo's character, as I was sometimes led to do, I wondered why I so loved him. I caught glimpses, now and then, even with my love-anointed eyes, of traits in his disposition that betokened excessive variableness. He showed a propensity to trifle with the heart he professed to prize, while, at the same time, the charming duplicity of manner attending these alternations of condition betrayed itself in simple hair-lines of cruelty, which fretted me with their delicate, yet tormenting attrition. At such times there was a panther-like light in his eyes and the footfall of the pard in his gait and gesture, as he stealthily circled around, encompassed and fascinated me, even amidst the exquisite tortures which he involuntarily caused. At one moment he would exalt my soul to the very pinnacle of happiness, then, as suddenly, hurl it down, through some freak of his ever shifting fancy.
               Can it be that an inherent weakness always accompanies extraordinary power—that nature, as if in caprice, sows poison-seeds along with the genuine grain? It is a pointed fact in the histories of great geniuses, that some of those possessed of the most transcendent qualifications have undermining characteristics, leveling them to the common herd.
               Alas, yes! There exists, even among the gifted, this tendency towards debasement, and those most highly endowed by nature, become easy victims of temptation, and allurements of the senses are more enticing to the finely wrought organization of the poet-musician than to his of coarser mould. The moral ruin of a common mortal we regard with some pity, but with more indifference. A star shot from its sphere excites our wonder; but the story of an angel's fall from heaven awakes emotions of astonishment, of horror and despair for ourselves, since one on whom the light of God's countenance shone has forfeited his holy place, so far above us, to tread the downward path to the murky abyss.
               Alexo was now anxious to hasten the period of our marriage, that he might take me with him on his proposed European tour; but unavoidable delays, the adjustment of many matters, a thousand unexpected contingencies, hedges of thorns, blushing with roses, intervened to prevent.
               My unexpected insight, from the conversation overheard in the library, into the condition of Alexo's monetary matters, assured me of the necessity of a further postponement. I schooled myself to feel that I could allow him to go alone on that journey from which we had anticipated so much delight, and I wished him to realize his golden expectations, and thus save that prized estate—his childhood's home.
               On explaining my feelings to Molina, I begged him to confer with Alexo on the new position affairs had assumed.
               After their conversation together, Alexo joined me. I could ill bear his tender reproaches, or his attempts to controvert my resolution, adopted solely for his best interests. I was fixed in my purpose of resigning what my heart almost died within me to relinquish.
               At last he taxed me with lukewarmness. He had no pity on me—perhaps no perception of the character of my self-denial.
               "Ah," I replied, "the coldness that you charge me with finds its existence in your imagination, or, shall I think it? in your heart."
               
               "Angel among women! No!"
               Mrs. Lacy entered the room at this moment, having consternation depicted in her face. She handed me a telegram. I read—
               "Pierre has been thrown from his horse and instantly killed. Come to your poor old grandfather."
               My first feeling was horror at my cousin's timeless fate. Then the quick sorrow of blood-sympathy overwhelmed me, and in an instant flashed upon me every incident of our child-life, and I seemed to hear him again, in his own blunt fashion, bidding me that last, for him, sad "good-bye."
               Then other thoughts rushed into my mind. The present claimed me. I was now sole heir to an enormous fortune. Gold! yes, that is what Alexo needs! Poor Pierre, I felt myself so wicked, because I could, for a moment, entertain the thought of his death as a benefit. Poor Pierre! he might have been a more useful member of society, had he been born a poor man's son. This wealth had done harm enough already; but should I direct it with more wisdom?
               A tearful outburst of feeling kept me silent, and when I was more composed, I told Alexo of the vast difference that a few hours and a fatal accident had made in the prospects of his Hortense.
               For the second time since our engagement, Alexo and I were at the point of bidding adieu again, for a long period, for he must fulfil his European contracts, and I was called in another direction. He was like a one distracted at these two necessities, outfacing each other with inexorable positiveness.
               "There is but one way to circumvent destiny, Hortense. Come with me now, and let us be united before we part; let me call you my own dear little wife, and I will resign all claim else, until the ruling of more auspicious stars."
               "Alexo, I cannot."
               My heart wavered a little, but that he could not see. I knew it would be harder to part, after the fastening of that subtle chain; I knew in my own soul, I could not let him go. Therefore, I refused his wild, passionate entreaties. I would not, even for my love, be so selfishly ungrateful as to disregard the old man's prayer. The sorrows of my family were much to me. I would requite my grandfather's mistaken zeal for my happiness, in the time gone by, by devoting myself to him now, in his sorrow and loneliness. I was the only one left to whom he could speak of the familiar faces that smiled no longer in our stately halls. I felt all the drawing cords of those secret ties of relationship prompting me pitifully, lovingly, to my grandpapa's side. There could be no more contention between us now!
               Everything was arranged in a few hours with Molina, and after appointing trustees for my business matters, which began to assume the shadow of large proportions, I made a transfer of whatever was then available to Alexo's order, to be devoted to the rescue of his patrimony.
               Oh, what joy, for me to be able to do this! No tongue can tell, nor heart of man conceive, the preciousness of such bounty. The trustees charged me with frightful extravagance, even with prodigality. Well, it was true! I had expensive tastes, and had found something to do with a quantity of money, that was gloriously expensive—deliciously prodigal! The money was mine, to do exactly as I pleased with it. It pleased me best, just now, by this small token of real generosity, to show to him I loved, the boundless stock of molten gold my heart would coin for him.
               
               And was this generous? No! This was the quintessence of selfishness, when properly named and appreciated. I could exclaim with Portia: 
                     
                        "Though for myself alone,
                        I would not be ambitious in my wish,
                        To wish myself much better; yet for you
                        I would be trebled twenty times myself,
                        A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times
                        More rich:
                        That only to stand high on your account,
                        I might in virtues, beauties, livings, friends, exceed account."
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               More lonely than ever in its unpeopled splendor was the desolate abode of my ancestors. As I drove through the porte coterie, the faces of the Ethiopian servants looked pale in the dull twilight of the dim courtyard. Within the portal reigned the solitude of death. Grandpapa lay sick in a distant chamber. I marked the tessellated pavements of the floors, and the frescoed fancies on the walls, the statues in the corridor, in the niches, and all the costly adornments of the magnificent rooms; and yet, there, helpless, lay their owner, about to render up the account of his stewardship. The robes of purple and fine linen were slipping from his feeble grasp, to leave him at last naked and shivering. And in a kind of supernatural natural state there seemed to come a train of indistinct and vapory forms, thin, evanescent as dreams, yet still the shadows of my kindred clad in robes of air. One after another they approached me, and gazing on me, glided by with noiseless undulations, while some low strain of distant music breathed a wail that seemed the key-note of each separate mortal life, and I was pained to know how each was unfulfilled.
               I found grandpapa greatly changed. He had been failing for months. The stroke of the merciless axe, descending on the one branch, destined to bear the long-time trophies of his name and fame, had stricken to its core the stately tree. Few could realize how grandpapa's very life had been wrapped up in my cousin. He was the only child of an only son, and the first-born of his children. So the trunk fell sapless and dead when the green bough was lopped from its breast. How changed, indeed! But once the old nature got the better of him, and crept out in a reproachful speech.
               "Oh, Hortense, had you but married your cousin, I should not now be childless; our name had not then gone down with the dust to the tomb. In your union I should have found consolation for the closing of my day, and I could have died contented."
               He had not yet found that peace that passeth all understanding. He drowsed almost all the time, while through the dead watches of the night, I sat holding in mine and warming his chilling hands.
               Once he raised himself, looked up at me, and asked quickly:
               "Did you marry that man, Hortense?"
               I was glad that I could say: "Not yet, grandpapa."
               Then he seemed to forget the question almost as soon as it was asked.
               
               I was withdrawn from all outer things, watching eye to eye, with most interior thought, as we who walk at the bottom of the atmosphere seldom can do. We are not permitted, in this meretricious age of cavil and hypercriticism, and of judgment according to the common standard of the senses, to trust to the "Eons" that teach us most wonderful things; but there is in man a spirit, however the truth may be contradicted, which affects whatever is in him, or can proceed from him in an invisible way, just as the magnet conceals an invisible power; and this absconded power in the magnet, man, which is the lesser, seeks always and is always attracted to the universal magnet hidden in nature, and will not rest until it grafts itself upon it.
               The alarum of mortality rang in the loud beating of the sick man's heart, and the rustling of the death-angel's wings smote the ear. Thus I watched with him day by day and night after night, and heard the faint footfall of life trailing across the sands of time. As he drew nearer the unseen shore, his love for me was augmented, and through that love I came nearer to his soul. He became more resigned, and the promises of heaven seemed to open upon him with a fresh meaning. He would awaken from sleep, with a smile kindled from the new hope in his heart. Moments like these taught me more than I had ever before known of parental responsibility.
               I was able to send a hastily written note now and then to Molina, and once or twice I wrote to Alexo. He seemed so far off I felt an indistinctness in the quality of our love which it was impossible to account for, except from the compelled concentration of my faculties to the plane of my present surroundings. Molina's letters were imbued with a rare strength of thought and fineness of expression.
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Cara figlia—With extreme joy I receive your communications. Your admirable constancy to your sick relative fills me with gratification. Trust always to the powerful and delicate energies of your soul, and you will never be led far into error. We cannot escape the invincible appointments of heaven, but the superlative endowments of the mind may so prepare us as to make us invulnerable to their effects.
                           "It is pitiful to know that degenerate man has lost the finest instincts with which he was enriched by nature. He is no more able to understand either its language or that of sensation, but, like a deaf idiot, looks on and wonders in unconscious ignorance.
                           "In youth we think little of the future, and age surprises us with what we had to do unaccomplished; then, overburthened with sorrow and sin, each strives to reach the fountain of his faith, to wash away all stains in its pure worship, ere he go hence forever. One weary with myriad steps, taking him father and farther from the spot where his sacred temple was overthrown, now mindful of his life's early vow, as he sees his latest sun deepening into that night which knows no morning here, turns sighing and suffering upon the path, setting his face toward the Orient, and after a long pilgrimage, feeble and sad, he drags his tired limbs to the 'weeping stone' at Jerusalem. There he laments, with many prayers and tears, invoking Jehovah to hasten the coming of the promised Messiah, pouring vain oblations upon the altar stained with the life-blood, shed for man, in the enacting of the high Hebrew tragedy, thousands of years ago.
                           "The Mahomedan devoutly tempts the dangers of the desert-track, to reach his Mecca and the Prophet's tomb.
                           "The Christian toils on to the majestic pile encompassed by the walls of ruined Rome, and bends the knee before a lamp-lighted shrine, fixed in the vast cathedral aisle, under the lofty dome of Michael Angelo. Beneath that mighty firmament of marble, peasant, priest and Pope, all alike appear transfigured in the unimaginable splendor streaming down amid a thousand rays of glory.
                           "I am not surprised at what you tell me of the earlier condition of your grandsire. The apprehension of death is always terrible to those whose hope is only in this life, and, alas! not only do they stray themselves, but lead others to taste of the tree, Zacon, whose roots are fixed in the depths of the darkest Hades. I cannot enough rejoice at the change of which you tell me. Commend him to that grace by which he may at least gain access to the skirts and borders of the endless region of light. Every atom shall find its Paradise at last; but no words, no thoughts can reach the Infinite above all Infinity—nothing but pure, unembodied mind.
                           
                              As every, yours,
                              MOLINA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Soul sympathies reach through the breadth of heaven and up amid the stars, in the diviner light, divinely touching. Such thrills roll back and overwhelm the being with unutterable emotions. Feeling is royal, then; eloquence is in the blood. Its ruddy torrents surge and pour felicity throughout the palpitating frame; and, for one breathless instant, the spirit lives, as it will eternally.
               At this time I was more than ever sensible of a wonderful exaltation of mind, an almost miraculous extacy, that raised me above all human needs. I felt no bodily fatigue, although, for days and nights together, a watcher with and soother of sufferings I could only alleviate, but could not repress.
               The reserved power that had so long sustained tained me, suddenly gave way, and I fell into a trance-like sleep that lasted for many days. I had been removed from grandpapa's room, and my first waking effort was to return to it.
               I found it empty. He was gone. "The places that knew him, should know him no more forever."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               It was only during the season when the pall of gloom and sadness settled down upon our house, that the enthusiasm of my love for Alexo was diminished; but it was restored, when that cloud was dissolved. Then my dreams were all tinged with the bright hope of his speedy coming. At this point, however, I was doomed to meet with a most perplexing contretemps. His letters, which were always irregular, had ceased; yet the public journals, which I examined with care, frequently contained allusions to his somewhat erratic course.
               Rumors were in circulation that he had been disabled by an injury, and was obliged to abandon his continental engagements, and had even departed for his home in the beautiful Island.
               Gone, without me! Alone in his discomfort! Ah, why?
               I grieved in deep bewilderment over these strange tidings, and was as incapable of thought as of action upon a theme so vital to me, until a letter from Alexo pointed out to me the duty of my life.
               Although deeply hurt by the brusqueness of his epistle, that betokened some dreary change in his nature and feelings, I conceived that I was called upon to make a concession to him.
               Much that was wild and uncertain in expression, I passed over; but there were portions which gave firmness to a resolution that I instantly formed. How unfortunate that he should be jealous of Molina! He might as well have been jealous of the sun that blesses us all with its gracious beams! It appeared that Alexo believed that it was to the master's influence that he owed the recent postponement of our nuptials.
               This was as great a fallacy as the delusion that aroused his jealousy. He then explained his ideas thus:
               "Any wife should set aside all friends, however dearly prized, and allow no one even to interfere, in the smallest matter, between herself and her lord—that it was incumbent upon her to follow him whom she loved, to the world's end, if need be, to prove her devotion and constancy." He said, "I am at present in a state of despondency, bordering upon despair. My disability is disastrous, and I may never completely recover from the injury I have received. My right hand has lost its cunning. It would have been better for me, if I had lost my life. I do not ask you to fulfil your promise. Now that I am a wreck, I set you free. Nevertheless, if you love me, Hortense, as it once seemed that you did, what may I not hope from your affection! I say affection—and not through considerations of honor."
               I believed, also, that affection held high responsibilities, and though circumstances had prevented me from becoming his wife at the time proposed, yet I felt not a whit less bound to him. He was suffering and despondent. My place was by his side. Though tempestuous oceans, whose barriers the stoutest hearts might dread to tempt, rolled between us, yet I would have ventured all, to gain or lose all, that I might be faithful to my vow and prove the singleness of my attachment to him.
               Promptly summoning my men of business, I entrusted to them matters to be put into immediate legal process, in furtherance of my intentions. Molina wondered at this precipitation, but, not even to him would I speak of my decision, until the time should be ripe for final action.
               Speed on, oh winged minutes, that now seem so long, till the white sails of my tossing barque shall woo the swifter winds to waft me over the sapphire sea, to one who waits and watches for my coming! The voice in my heart swelled louder and clearer at closing of each laggard day.
               I wished, before parting with these good friends, to contribute to their happiness and comfort, by securing to them, out of my plenty, an easy competence. Hence, day after day must be passed with men of the law and its insufferable delay, among deeds and instruments, and heaven knows what, of money arrangements.
               All, at length, was satisfactorily adjusted, and fixed as strong as pen, ink, paper and red tape could do it.
               I now communicated to Mrs. Lacy and Molina lina my purpose. Thanks to the nobleness of these friends, they placed not a straw in the way of my progress, and Molina even urged me to allow him to escort me to the destined port. This I affectionately, but most peremptorily denied him, for obvious reasons.
               "Hortense, how can I permit you to go alone?"
               "Dear master, a journey, nearly all on shipboard, does not demand the same care that was formerly bestowed on me by your kindness. You can confer upon me now a much greater favor, by remaining here, to take into your guardianship my home affairs. These large estates require a faithful custodian. You will find that in those documents, nothing has been omitted which my judgment, though still unripe, has deemed to be best for us all. In words, dear master, I can never tell how much I am bound to you for many, many kindnesses; let us ever remain such friends as may increase and not diminish the obligations of love and gratitude."
               Molina was deeply moved, and it was painful to see him suffer.
               Mrs. Lacy was speechless with amazement when told that I would not, on the voyage, have even a servant to wait upon me. I felt that I could not incur the responsibility, bound as I was, on an uncertain mission. However my courage might sustain myself, I was not sure, in the face of possible danger, that it would be sufficient for another.
               I suspected that my feelings towards Molina had undergone a change since Alexo had betrayed his jealous fancies to me. Did I feel anxious to be out of the reach of those lustrous eyes that had watched so faithfully the unfolding of my young life, now beaming on me more earnestly than ever, with hallowed lowed benedictions and steadfast looks, which seemed silently to reproach my selfish nature?
               I sometimes trembled lest a command from him might force me to remain, and yet, in my deep heart, I knew none would ever be given. His philosophy leaned to the side of free individuality; he preferred that I should live out my own life, in accordance with inclination, desiring nothing on his behalf, except it should arise from my spontaneity. He understood my nature better than I did; and he had a more correct estimate of Alexo than I myself had ever entertained.
               He said, at the moment of parting: "Cara figlia, nothing can dissever your spiritual life from mine. I shall hold you forever dearer than it is in the power of any other human being to prize you."
               I knew all this was true. I felt it in my heart of hearts; but the spell of romantic passion that bound me to Alexo, was more alluring to my youthful fancy, than the sense of awe and lofty reverence that I entertained for my high souled master. Thus I departed alone on my journey.
               A steamer conveyed me to England, and without delay I re-embarked at Dover for those far Indian Isles, of which so much has been said and sung by the eloquent Fénelon.
               Of many a hypothesis respecting them in the traditions of ancient oracles, the most singular is that of the existence of a great continent, extending from sea to sea, as mentioned by Plato, under the name of "Atlantis," reputed to have occupied the ocean that now divides Africa from America. On the voyage to the Island I began to perceive how change makes change. I became came vegetative rather than meditative—more alive to material than spiritual conditions. Mental excitement took the place of the loftier fervor that I had experienced. This was often a source of regret, for I missed the sweet delirium of spiritual delights. I was prospectively happy, and sometimes an infantile joy possessed me, as "rocked in the cradle of the deep," we steered across the summer sea. No adverse winds, no beating storms retarded our fast-sailing ship. I indulged in reveries. My world was my own heart, and Alexo its sole occupant.
               There was a small but pleasant party on board the good ship Orient. Books, music, and the occasional reading of a play or of an original poem, agreeably varied the usual monotony of a voyage.
               My thoughts flew forward always to him, and I could not refrain from pouring forth in song my full, innocent, earnest heart to my beloved: 
                     
                        Love me, dear one, love me,
                        As stars love the night—
                        Love me as the dawn loves
                        Aurora's presence bright—
                        Love me as the bird loves
                        Its mate in summer bowers—
                        Love me as the bee loves
                        The honey of the flowers.
                     
                     
                        Love me with all sweetness,
                        And all delicious praise,
                        Love me true, for love's sake,
                        And all its pretty ways—
                        Love me in the morning,
                        And love me all the day,
                        Love me when you sleep, dear,
                        Love me when you pray.
                     
                  
               
               This song formed itself into a melody in my brain, and thus its music ran:
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THE SONG OF HORTENSE.
                           Music by THOMAS BAKER.
                           Moderato.
                           
                              
                           
                           
                              Love me, dear one, love me
                              As stars love the night,
                              Love me as the dawn loves Au-ro-ra's presence bright;
                              Love me as the birds love
                              Their mates in sum-mer bow'rs,
                              Love me as the bee loves
                              The honey of the flow'rs.
                           
                           
                              2. Love me with all sweetness
                              And all delicious praise;
                              Love me true, for love's sake,
                              And all its pretty ways;
                              Love me in the morning,
                              And love me all the day,
                              Love me when you sleep, dear,
                              And love me when you pray.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               We were now in the Indian Archipelago. The sky so serene, the waves so calm the mild and genial air, combined to recall the smiling word-pictures of poets drawn from the scroll of nature opened in southern latitudes.
               At length we saw the snowy peak of Teneriffe, piercing the deep blue heavens, its sun-illumined summit towering above the clouds, clothing its broad base with the majesty of darkness.
               While our eyes were fixed on this stupendous mountain, ranking among the loftiest in the world, we were fast approaching port, soon to cast anchor in the bay of Los Palmos. My excitement for the few preceding hours, it were vain to attempt to depict. Beautiful boats were coming from the shore to meet the ship's passengers. Would any one come for me? I doubted not. I gazed as one after another reached the vessel, and now there was his dear face! All I remembered for the next few moments, was that some one restrained me from going over the ship's side, up which Alexo hastened. Then, by turns, I wept, fainted and laughed with wild joy upon his breast.
               "We will go home, Hortense," he said; "everything is arranged."
               How glad it made me to hear his voice again.
               Paying little attention to the words, I accepted their meaning as significant of his honorable disposal of one who confided in him so entirely. The tropic moon shone nearly as bright as a northern sun. I felt all the beauty that surrounded me as I looked from cypressed terrace to pale olive-crowned hills, where the green vines were dark on the plateaus, and clung in full fruitage to the sides of the adamantine rocks. My eyes were chained to Alexo's face, so I could not more than glance at the glory of the surrounding scene. We were engrossed with each other. We had driven some distance from the town, and our carriage stopped before a dwelling, half house and half fortress, as its battlements seemed to indicate. It was situated on a fine elevation, and was encompassed by rich native as well as exotic foliage. The architecture of the castle was a combination of the Spanish and Moorish style, and was highly picturesque. We entered an arched gateway, that led into a kind of pavilion. Having passed through this, there was a court, partly occupied by the bamboo huts and other dwellings of the servants. We proceeded up a lofty, well-lighted archway, leading to the entrance of the main dwelling. I was conducted by Alexo through the vestibule across the threshold of his home.
               The first room that I entered was very grand. The walls were covered with magnificent cent hangings of crimson silk, wrought with gold. Large mirrors, with gold and ebony frames, repeated the splendor of the apartment. The carpets were of Turkish velvet, of colors to match the hangings. There was an endless variety of ottomans, covered with crimson satin, heavily embroidered in most exquisite patterns. There were, also, several massive carved étegéres of ebony, which corresponded with that of the mirror frames. These were laden with silver plate, and glistened with the rarest china and crystal.
               Curtains, like the hangings, separated the apartments from each other, and they were opened by some noiseless magic. Through these, Alexo still leading me, we advanced into rooms more beautiful. At last we paused in one of them. The arras was blue and silver. A gorgeous bed, curtained from floor to ceiling, with a cloud of finest India muslin, so thin and mist-like as to be nearly impalpable in detail, occupied the centre of the apartment.
               "My bright-haired angel," said Alexo to me, "the color of this room just suits your complexion; this is your own chamber. I will now leave you for repose, as it is very late. I shall sleep in town. We will meet to-morrow." Then we bade each other "good night."
               After his departure, two girls brought me water for bathing. An amber satin drapery at one side of the room was withdrawn, and discovered an arched recess, containing a curious basin of ivory, inlaid with mother of pearl. It was shaped like a shell. Upon the walls within this recess, were exquisite paintings by some of the early masters, representing Venus, the Graces, the Loves, and other subjects in heathen mythology, which I was then too fatigued to admire. In the morning, after chocolate and a bath, I arrayed myself in a suitable toilette, then seeing Alexo from the window, I ran into the garden to meet him. It was such joy! We had an earnest interview, during which he told me our marriage must be postponed for a few days on account of the temporary absence from the Island of some one who was needed for the occasion. Meantime I must be contented to remain his guest.
               I was somewhat surprised, but, under the circumstances, could not question the matter. Yet I made known to him what I had arranged about business, mentioning to him my will, made in case I were lost at sea, or that I should die before our union. He now knew that I had secured one-half of my entire fortune, without reservation, to him, and I then gave to him a copy of the will, that he might see how I had disposed of the remaining half. I remembered afterwards how confused he seemed at my declarations. But he was my own Alexo! I thought he loved me, and I trusted him so fully, that though a week went by and we were still unmarried, I entertained not the possibility of his breaking faith with me.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               Alexo preferred to live in town, yet came to visit me every evening. Two weeks passed, and he said nothing further of our union. I expected before each parting, to hear him say: "To-morrow, Hortense;" but my anticipations were not realized. My modesty took alarm when reflections arose on the position in which this inconceivable negligence on his part placed me. I knew not what—perhaps the very proof of my love that he had received by my journey to his home—in some inexplicable manner, might have uprooted his affection for me. And now, the longer he refrained from speaking, the more difficult it became for me to solicit an explanation. But O, I languished for the simple truth.
               I trembled at every thought, lest my self-love love should wrong him, even by the shadow of a doubt. Native delicacy shivered in defenceless terror, but protecting arms did not yet wrap about me the downy robe that should have comforted me.
               The experience of each day was all that was vouchsafed as reason's guide. At the third week his visits became fewer and shorter, and afterwards he came only at rare intervals. There was no provision made for me to leave the castle. Indeed, I had no real wish to go out, unless he proposed it. The empire of mind was not shut to me. In the wide domain of literature and music, I found a solace for the uncompanioned hours. The vivacity of youth is not easily repelled. I waited patiently for him to make me free. Under the dazzling brightness of the tropic moon I murmured hymns and simple songs of "long ago," to beguile the weariness of hope deferred and heart-sickness that was creeping upon me. Yet, the climate of the Island was so deliciously invigorating, that I was often agitated with a superfluity of life, such as took away all my powers of resisting the importunities of impulse, which urged me to dash out into the open country, for one of my famous old flights on horseback, but was checked from exposing myself among a strange people, lest I should bring about some crisis I might afterwards repent. Molina's predictions about Alexo, spoken months ago, then occurred to me, and I sighed: "Is this the ending of my felicitous dream?"
               I was closely and almost constantly attended by a tawny old woman, who for many years had been a servant of Alexo's mother. I liked her on that account. In many respects she reminded me of my faithful old Marco, and to be reminded of anything that loved me, was precious to me then. This attendant tendant slept on a mat before my chamber door, and was as easily aroused as a watch-dog, and would have had as little compunction in flying at the throat of an intruder. So she constituted herself my guardian. I found her well-informed and capable. She accompanied her mistress to Paris when she went there with her son, but she would never talk to me of Alexo. She never praised him as old servants are apt to speak of their young masters, but looked very serious when he came, and was sad and silent when he went away.
               "We can only arrive at a knowledge of the infinite of human nature by suffering," Molina had said, and often I was so depressed and faltering, that I could not help weeping, as I thought of him—my dear, kind, good master—ever tender, ever watchful for my happiness. Alas! in this dreadful season of grief and shame for another's faithlessness, I could do no less than recall his counsels, and act with that moderation, self-control and reliance on the divine power that he had taught me how to reach.
               The will of a woman is feeble, and the evil waxeth strong. The time had come, when if I ventured to question Alexo, he gave me abrupt replies, and seemed to have forgotten even the external deference due to me as a lady. He whom I had so loved, so trusted, who should have been, at least a friend, became a dreaded contemplation.
               At each visit, which was less and less often, the refinements of his matchless cruelties were almost past belief. He tantalized me with just so much of the leaven of his former affection as to keep me in a fever of hope as to his ultimate action; but this was quelled by frequent bursts of malicious rudeness. The old theme about Molina was renewed. I found he still clung to that idea with all the tenacity of a Spaniard. These pretences, at such a time, filled my mind with indefinite terror. Having nothing to refute, nothing to extenuate, my ardent fancy conjured up a thousand excuses to palliate his singular conduct; but I drew from them no reconciling assurance. As the months grew, the flush of the exquisite cloud-phantom of love faded from my sorrow-suffused eyes, and left me staring out, with blinded vision, upon a sullen sea, with scarcely one ray to brighten the gloom.
               On one of Alexo's rare visits, he brought with him a gentleman, whom he introduced as his friend, and said to me: "I wish you, Hortense, to make yourself agreeable to him." His tone was one of command; but as I was still foolish enough to be almost happy when he was with me and like himself, I consented to do my best, and accordingly played upon the harp and sang as though my heart were as light as that of a bird.
               Reflect, I was a woman, under the dominion of an ill-extinguished passion. Besides, I believed conciliation better than reproaches, and was inclined to be forbearing, that I might, if possible, reclaim his heart.
               As the evening advanced, my spirit arose in arms against this innovation, and the attentions of Don Alvarez were, to me, like so many insults. My endurance was unequal to the situation; and, taking advantage of a friendly moment, I escaped from the room. Alexo soon followed me.
               "Your dignity or prudery, Hortense," he said, "becomes you amazingly. You almost convince me that there is such a quality as virtue in the world, and that you have, by accident, stumbled into possession of this enviable treasure; but you have also exposed yourself to wholesale condemnation, by coming here to join me."
               "Alexo, forbear," I cried; "you wound me. Did I not come in acquiescence with your covert invitation?"
               "You should not have come at my asking. Your compliance with that desire has raised a spirit in me—I believe I am possessed of a devil—that recoils from you. I know you adore frankness. Well, I have changed my mind; and yet, at the end of a year and a day, if a woman could be constant and were worth the trial, I still might love you more madly than ever. Meantime, you must undergo all the pains I may cause you. Why, Hortense, if we were married to-day, I should inevitably make you miserable tomorrow. Such is my unfortunate temper; but I believe still, that you are an angel. If you are not one, you must hate me, and if this happened pened, it were better before, than after marriage."
               I would fain have questioned him as to this strange mood—I would have prayed him to let me go home; but, in a kind of frenzied haste, he rushed away, and presently I heard the clanging of the heavy gate as it closed when the two departed.
               It was a relief to have them gone. I wished to think on Alexo's words, harsh as they were. He had not before deigned to make any explanation, and startling, insulting as it was, it was better than silence. It seemed to me that I had really fallen into the hands of a monster.
               It is easy for man to degrade woman in her own estimation, because man is by nature woman's oracle, and although she may be fully conscious of the rectitude of her own heart, yet he can so humiliate her by words seemingly trivial, thrown at random, perhaps, in moments of irritation, that they sink with deadly force down into the finest texture of her soul.
               My first intent on the next morning was to leave the house forever, as I could no longer esteem it a safe shelter; but I found escape was rendered impossible. I was a prisoner. Who is able to cope wisely with this phenomenon of existence? I saw the light of my love slowly sinking, leaving me in utter darkness, and reason and judgment were warped to that degree, that I saw by lurid flashes shooting across the vista of my darkened thought, the ashes of hope's holocaust scattered by cruel hands to the savage winds. The moral night was near, that would shut up, as in a sepulchre, the beauty of my day. To my eager, sanguine temperament, this eclipse was endless night. Oh! that the snow from yonder mountain would cover and cool this burning anguish. As I looked upward, the soft, lustrous gray of the olive leaves, that seemed to be spread like a veil over the rugged undulations of the hills, arrested my attention, and, by some occult charm, my thoughts reverted with a sense of refuge from despair to Him, the Holy one of Nazareth, in the garden of Gethsemane.
               "I will try to be the reed and bend to chastisement, trusting in all humility the bruised spirit to Him who remembereth mercy. Oh, benignant voice of heavenly peace, when shall I hear thy accents calming the troubled waters of my soul?"
               Late one evening, Alexo came, bringing with him a party, and my old attendant told me there was a lady among them. From my chamber I could hear the bustle in the adjacent apartments. The hum of voices and peals of merry laughter rang out on the soft air, discordantly ruffling my unstrung nerves. The night wore itself away at last, and the searching eye of day aroused me from my restless somnolence. The sultry morn and noon went by. No visit and no message from him! Suspense was horrible. I must—I would have audience of him—demand my release. Freedom must be achieved this day, or I should die. I crossed the vestibule, which was empty. The curtain of the entrance to the grand hall was partially withdrawn. Tapping with my fan upon the frame-work, there came in response a rustling of silk and the flutter of light robes. I saw in the mirror, confronting the space where I stood, a female glide in hasty retreat into another apartment. I saw not the face. It was turned aside. Then Alexo's voice bade me enter. I went toward him with tottering steps, caused by my extreme agitation.
               "What troubles you?" he asked, with a composed sarcasm that nearly overthrew the modicum of fortitude I had mustered for the occasion. He looked as though he really enjoyed my sorrow and confusion.
               "You have something you wish to say to me?"
               "I have."
               I was about to weep, and shortened my answer, that I might repress the choking in my throat.
               Should I ever be firm enough to say what I must to Alexo?
               He spared me the effort.
               "I see you are ill, Hortense; so am I, sick to death of the sameness here. I go to England. Your state of mind is evidently too unsettled to allow me the pleasure of your company. I shall leave you behind to complete your conquest of Don Alvarez."
               "Oh, spare me!" I wailed. I could not forbear that one cry for mercy; but he heard me no more than the blast hears the moan of the broken flowers.
               
               'Hortense, your untamed spirit must be lessoned or you are lost. So far a la maestro Molina."
               Oh, the bitterness he hurled out in speaking that name! He went on to say:
               "You come to tell me you wish to depart. I know that you desire to go back to America and marry Molina. Hortense, passionately as I have loved you, and as I still do—although that you cannot understand—I would kill you rather than see you his wife. I shall take care to prevent the possibility of such a result; but were it otherwise, I would murder you both at the altar, if my own life paid the forfeit in the next minute."
               Never was a face so capable of expressing fiendishness as his. Its very beauty seemed to aid the metamorphose.
               "Are you mad?" I exclaimed, "or what means this awful revenge that you are taking on me?"
               "Hortense, I am sane. I wish you were as much so, or that you would listen to reason. You would have been quite as unhappy in being my wife as now. Thank me that I have not claimed you in that capacity. I do not embrace the whole of the conventional idea of what is called marriage. I believed in what you once said, while mortifying me with your stubborn refusal—that you were mine as faithfully as though the legal knot were tied. Did you not say so?"
               "Yes."
               "Well, through your obstinacy we parted. That was your first error. To prove to me your affection, you came here. That was the second error of an impulsive mind. No matter. If you are mine, as you said you were, may I not do what I will with my own? Did you say you were mine, with a selfish reservation, which is the common way of plighting? 'I give myself to you,' they of the world say, 'provided you in return bestow yourself on me; and my affection and duty as a wife will continue just so long as you strive to please me.' Hortense, you know as well as I, that is not love. It is barter. I know it is the accepted fashion. I do not receive it, but will take you at your word, and dispose of you as I would any other gift of which I have no present need."
               I could not but acknowledge a certain amount of truth in what he said, but remonstrated:
               "Alexo, have you the heart so to estimate our relations, and abandon me thus, because you have me in your power?"
               "Oh, I don't mean to be cruel. I leave you here with the best of attendance, and if Don Alvarez succeeds in his suit, as he hopes to do, I shall come back one of these days, to admire you—most beautiful of women—as his wife."
               I was in a whirl of distraction. Did this man love me once—this man, who now so afflicted and tortured me?
               "Alexo," I cried, "I will ask nothing of you, for I read in the volume of your face the utter hopelessness of any prayer of mine ever reaching your heart."
               Staggering upon my feet, I turned to go, when a woman's voice startled me. I had forgotten her. With one hand upon my heart, as if to press it back from bursting, and, with the other, grasping at the nearest support, I looked upon the intruder, meeting the flashing eyes of the Countess Julia. I stood aghast!
               "So, madame," I exclaimed, "you have found me. Alexo, know you not that this woman sought my life, and would now make you an instrument to sate her deadly vengeance against Molina and me. Infamous woman, beware! The judgments of heaven will yet overtake you! Oh, Alexo, break away from this Circe who would lure you to ruin by her baleful influence. Poison is in her "breath."
               The violence of my emotions overcame me, and when I was again aware of what had passed, Alexo and the woman had departed. I thanked God, silently, for the removal of so much of evil out of my path. The delirium of fever pursued me for weeks afterward, and each day was like a torturing dream.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               Don Alvarez came often, so the old nurse informed me, to inquire concerning the health of "La Bella Americana," and when I was able to leave my chamber, he made pressing demands for an interview. I knew, in my dilemma, that it would be requisite for me to grant it, sooner or later, and I decided to do so at once.
               Don Alvarez entered the apartment displaying a gleeful satisfaction and self-assurance, and an air somewhat like that of a conquering hero who had come to take possession of the trophies of victory.
               With a most courteous salutation, he seated himself near me.
               I responded to his demonstrative address with an easy volubility and affected unconcern cern of manner, dwelling upon his kindness in allowing me to remain his guest until Alexo should return.
               The Don was extremely puzzled by this course. Encouraged by the first success of the stratagem, I proceeded to greater lengths in a fantastic design I had undertaken for his mystification, until I positively made him afraid of me. He was convinced that I was crazed, and as long as I could keep up such an appearance, I was safe.
               Had those who watched me with such lynx-eyed scrutiny been versed in the language of human nature and the secret workings of the mind, instead of pronouncing me the victim of imbecility and of a wandering intellect, they would have perceived the intensity of a fixed purpose. The aching heart, the passionate pain, and the frenzied wish to escape, kept me in a perpetual state of unrest.
               The old nurse continued faithful in her adherence. I grew to love her dear, old dusky face. I had explained to her a part of my sorrowful mischances, and she was full of sympathy, but unable to aid by so much as the unbarring of a single door for my release.
               My apparent malady was looked upon by Don Alvarez as something that required other ministrations than had yet been bestowed.
               Of course, I was not consulted as to the mode of procedure he thought expedient for restoring me to health.
               Phœbe, one of any attendants, informed me one day that a doctor was coming to pay me a visit, at the invitation of Don Alvarez, and she had heard it stated that he would bring with him another from "home"—they all called England "home"—who, it was expected, would be skillful enough to check my malady, for she said: "He is talked of as a man of great wisdom."
               My heart leaped in my breast, for her words recalled to me one who was equally wise. The woman's eyes were bent upon me. She was to report to Alvarez how her communication was received. I looked sharply into the vacancy of the shadowy realm, and made no reply. They could not pluck out my thoughts. Perhaps kind Providence would send me a preserver in this hour so imminent with despair.
               I argued with myself, striving to catch some comforting hope from the anticipated visitors. Amid fluctuations of doubt and fear, the long night wore away in fitful and fragmentary dreams. Neither the new day, nor glory of the sunshine, nor the soft stirring of the luxuriant foliage, as the plaintive breeze whispered through it, nor the bright plumage of the tropical birds, winning my ear with their joyous melody, could work any lasting charm to my sick fancy. The grandeur of the snow-clad, cloud-capped mountain-peak brought no realization of freshness to my fevered brain. I was in a feud with nature, and heeded not her loving calls. I seemed to be beyond the reach of all that was wont to appeal to me as grand or beautiful.
               On that morning, I felt more than ever listless and dejected, when the nurse came in to ask if I was ready to see company, the physicians having arrived. "Ready?" I was always ready, at any moment of the night or day, to take advantage of the slightest opportunity that might open the way for my exodus.
               I heard the double footsteps on the marble floor, passing over the vestibule of the hall of entrance. I put aside the curtain, intending to pass into the reception-room, but was stayed upon the threshold. A scream of joy burst from my panting breast. Was I in a delirium? No, I did not dream! There was Molina, a little in advance of his companion, with his finger upon his lip, commending me to secrecy. I obeyed the sign. I was now distraught indeed, but it was with happiness. The two discoursed together respecting my condition.
               "It seems," said the stranger, "that sudden reactions of enthusiasm and melancholy have overstrained the mind," and, in technical phraseology, he made his diagnosis, regardless of my presence.
               How I wished he had taken himself and his wonderful knowledge away. Meantime, I watched the master. He had pencil and notebook in hand, and having written something, handed it to the loquacious disciple of Esculapius. The remainder of the paper he cast carelessly upon the table, glancing significantly cantly at me. They then left me alone. I seized the paper, which looked blank, but, on holding it up to the sun-light, clear black lines gradually appeared before my impatient eyes.
               "I know all! Fear nothing. Be tranquil. In three days you will be free."
               I rapturously kissed that precious token of re-assurance, and almost wondered at the spring of sweet delight welling up from my torn heart. I, who just now had believed that an eternal barrier had been reared between me and every dream of happiness, found myself restored to all the desires of life, and emotions of gratitude toward that faithful one, who had journeyed so far to save me from the machinations of the fugitive, faithless Alexo, almost displaced the memory of my trials.
               Molina ingratiated himself so thoroughly into favor with Don Alvarez, by his flattering ing opinion regarding me, that he gave him carte blanche to treat me precisely as he thought best.
               The same afternoon the master was at my side. We were alone, and I succinctly recounted to him the terrible ordeal that I had been made to pass through.
               There was scant time for long confessions. In a few words he imparted to me how impossible it had been for him to rest, while uncertainty hung over my fate. Therefore was it that he came.
               "Angel sent," I suggested.
               He responded: "I have been on the Island several days, and for your sake, have been at some pains to make myself a favorite with Don Alvarez. Your physician is a brother of our order, and that may account for the confidence with which we act in concert; but my plan for escape I have not entrusted to any one—not even to him. There is no need of it, and it might be destructive to his interests here."
               I was in the midst of doubting and trembling at every moment of delay.
               But he continued. "The easiest plan is the best. We do not desire to cause an exposure or commotion now, if it can be avoided, as that might compromise you both here and at home. There is a deeper design in this matter than merely to hold you a captive through caprice. Having put your hand in the lion's mouth, the more quietly it can be withdrawn, the better."
               "What you say is ever best and wisest. Pardon any impatience of mine, and set it down to the score of the pain I have suffered."
               "My dear child," replied the master, "put on your veil; the carriage is ready for our drive.'
               I looked the delighted astonishment I felt.
               
               The master continued: "I have stated to Don Alvarez that exercise, change of scene and amusements are the essentials for your complete restoration, and he has put all the means at my disposal. I am to attend you."
               What words could I find to make known to him my feelings? Molina directed the postilion to a road leading to a part of the Island least inhabited. What exquisite pleasure was it to breathe the free air once more, and to feel the continuous vibrations of the rolling phaëton, while the flowing manes of the swift horses waved from their arched necks. O, life, how I loved thee! What a rapture was existence! How beautiful was the face of nature! I could never be sullen with that good mother again.
               Our road wound around the rock-girt shore, and when at some distance from the castle, Molina, pointing outward to the sea, bade me take notice of a beautifully modeled yacht, having the American flag streaming from her mast-head.
               "Behold," he said, "the bird of freedom, whose pinions shall bear you to your home. Do you remember," he added, "young Gordon, one of your warmest admirers, Hortense?"
               "Oh, yes; an agreeable gentleman."
               "That yacht is his. It is the swiftest sailer of the seas. She was ready manned and provisioned for a cruise, lying in New York harbor, when I sought her gallant master, and expressed with great earnestness my wishes, explaining, to some extent, my apprehensions for you. He needed no spur, I assure you. In one hour after, we were steering, with all sails set, across the ocean."
               There was nothing I could do, except to ejaculate my joy, so blissful had become the reaction from misery.
               
               He continued: "To prevent any mortification, our best course will be to conduct with secrecy your departure, in concert with our friends in the yacht. So far as I can learn, and by very cautious inquiries, your existence here has been little known."
               The master here ordered the postilion to turn the horses toward the castle. I shuddered. The sunshine and joy seemed all at once to die out of me, and my heart was again chilled.
               "Do you doubt me, cara, carissima?"
               The sweet old words, that none but he could speak with such tender tones, restored my confidence.
               "It is necessary to return to-day, my child, that we may not be suspected of any coalition, or endanger our friends yonder. It is my belief, if driven to desperation, this private buccaneer, Alvarez, will stop at nothing to secure his prize. Remember, you are among Spaniards, in an insular place, and that they do not live exactly in a municipality. There are few officials, and every Don is his own advocate and judge, and takes and makes the law to suit himself. We must be wary, you see."
               "I do not doubt you. That would be infamous ingratitude, after all your perils on my account."
               "That is right! Have a care, though; you do not know how I mean to dispose of you—how I intend to thank Don Alvarez, and even to reward him for his kindness. Observe—we are now upon a cliff that justs broadly seaward. This table rock is crusted with the volcanic alluvium of ages, and a cave of stalactites, of wondrous beauty and unexplored vastness, is beneath. Visitors to this curious subterranean cavern are few, for more than once there have been victims of the fearful spring-tides, which, rising suddenly, form a confluence of the waters within and without, making destruction inevitable. You would hesitate to descend into it with me, would you not, Hortense?"
               "Oh, no! It were less to he dreaded than to return to that detested abode."
               "Fear nothing, cara. Be patient till tomorrow. I will watch all night at the castle. You are more precious to me than life."
               "I fear no more," I cried; "I trust in you as in heaven."
               Having returned to the house, supper was served immediately, and I forgot, for the time, all Alexo's treachery and the repulsive persistence of Don Alvarez. The serenity of the master's mind diffused itself throughout my whole being, and listening to his delightful conversations. I was soothed by the familiar magic of his contemplative eyes.
               "Who is equal," I asked myself, "to my grand cavaliero, lending his strength to my weakness, devoting all his powers to my service?" I was humiliated in my own nature, that I should have placed myself in a position that exacted so much from him. What right had I to disturb, and perhaps retard his life's labor with my perpetual catastrophies? I had a paradise of sleep that night, the first real rest I had taken in months.
               Molina greeted me at breakfast with compliments on my improved appearance, and after a happy hour, I saw him depart, not without misgivings, although I believed he would soon return. Oh, how anxiously I awaited him.
               About mid-afternoon he came back and ordered the carriage. With what joy I left my prison-house! Soon we reached the shelf of precipitous rock that rose abruptly from the shore, where the cactus, the aloe and palm, interspersed with fig, olive trees and vineyards, extended almost to the water's edge. After a time, as we drew near the spot where we proposed to dismount, Molina asked the postilion if the tide served for exploring the cave. The reply was, that it could be but about an hour from low ebb. It would be safer to wait till to-morrow. "At best," he grumbled, "it is but a perilous chance."
               The perilous chance was precisely what we were anticipating. So we made our way down the cliff, leaving the man in care of the horses. Again he cautioned us: "Beware of the tide."
               We slowly descended the circuitous path. An irrepressible buoyancy hurried me on. I could scarcely limit my steps to the proper pace, but my careful guide still held me back. We reached, at length, the mouth of the abyss. I had no eyes for its dazzling wonders. A boat was there—a bridge to my heaven. It was swinging within the shade of the grim, rocky jaws of the precipice.
               Molina lifted me into the yawl. I heard, far off, and at first as in a dream, portentous sounds—then the swift, in-drawn breath of the men in the boat—"The tide is coming." Again and again, a faint shout echoed along the cliff. It was that of the postilion.
               Next followed a scene of terrible grandeur. The boiling seas came pouring into the rocky cove, lashing in their fury the jagged walls, and reverberating the dismal thunder of the conflicting tides. The dashing, rushing waves flung the frail boat from side to side. She shivered-between the formidable forces, and every instant was imminent with peril. A new kind of terror confronted me, but it was to be met with firmness, of which Molina gave us a grand example. His quick eye and swift judgment directed every movement of the boatmen—how to avoid the whirlpools and vortices swirling around us, and to meet and party each successive avalanche of waves as they were hurled headlong against the craggy sides of the impending cliff.
               "Brace by the rocks, boys! Hold her steady, there! Reverse the tiller!" He gave these orders in trumpet tones, that rang clear above the voices of the surging waters, and still he hovered protectingly over me, defending me as far as possible from the numerous showers of spray thrown out from the crests of the mighty surf. My spirit was made strong by his heroism.
               An hour might have elapsed before the danger was sufficiently passed, and it was dark enough for us to escape unobserved. Then our boat shot from a cleft in the rocks, through the swell of the surf, and struck boldly toward the yacht that was already weighing anchor in expectation of our coming.
               When we found ourselves on the deck, Molina directed my reluctant eyes toward the land once more. Flambeaux flitted along the shore near the point we had left. It was evident that the servants of Don Alvarez were in search of us, whom they must have believed had perished, since Molina's scheme for my escape by the yawl was unknown to any one on the Island, and the boat could not have been seen even by the postilion.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               The flush of the first enthusiasm of joy faded, when I recalled Alexo's heartless abandonment. What was the nature of his influence over my heart, that could not be uprooted even by cruelty? With pain and with shame I was compelled to acknowledge to myself, that no being in the world had the attraction for me that he still held. The hunger to behold him increased day by day and hour by hour. A species of real insanity seemed upon me at that time. The heavy strain upon the mental powers for months, left me not only weakened, but a victim to fallacies and flightiness of which I was perfectly conscious, yet over which I could not exercise any control. In these gloomy vascillations a doom came upon me. My motives of action were different from others, because of the peculiarity of my condition, and through this peculiarity I was rendered independent of ordinary earthly considerations.
               It must involve a series of singular sensations to be walking about among the living and know that you are accounted dead. Was I then born for no other purpose than to make acquaintance with unheard of experiences? It appeared to be so. The secret manner of my exit from the Island was the means of nominally robbing me of my existence. The distressing account of a young lady and her escort having been drowned in the great cave, while on an exploring visit, was largely animadverted upon in the English journals, and, unlike a rolling stone, in its easy transit to America it gathered much. My name was published in full, and it was connected with gossipping particulars, embracing both truth and falsehood—the latter, as a matter of course, abounding. In the state in which this news found me, it produced the worst possible effect upon my mind.
               Nobody doubted a word of this intelligence, except the very few who knew to the contrary, including those on board the yacht, who were bound to secrecy. It seemed to be the wisest course not to contradict these absurd statements.
               Soon after our arrival in New York, Molina received a letter from Alexo, filled with incongruities. It stated that he had been called from the Island by unavoidable business, leaving at his home Hortense, who had been very delicate in health, and was too ill to undertake a journey. He touched very briefly on the "tragic close." as he termed it. The writing of this short letter was, no doubt the most disagreeable duty that Alexo ever performed. He would soon embark. That was distinctly set down. He must come to attend to the business affairs.
               "What are your wishes, Hortense," asked Molina, "should he claim the property in accordance with the instrument drawn up by you?"
               "That all remain as it is. Let him have possession. What can it signify to me?"
               I could not explain to Molina the danger that he stood in, if Alexo became aware of my safety and of his instrumentality in promoting it. I had not forgotten the outpourings of his jealous threats, in case of an imagined event, and to which, in the widest scope of possibilities, no chance, as he thought, could ever conduct me. I said to myself—
               "Not yet! I will wait! I will watch! I will follow Alexo as day follows night, as light follows darkness, as the wind pursues the cloud. So, invisibly, as an unburied ghost, my feet shod with the silence of the tomb, I, an unguessed presence, shall encompass him, till the hour of repentance shall come upon him, and he calls on my name—the name of his murdered love. Yet how can I force Molina to desert me? His nearness may unwittingly betray me to the keen scrutinies of Alexo."
               "Hortense, you are most extraordinary in your moods. Let me recall you from this waste of life. Let reason curb, for better purposes the agitations of your soul. Forget that recreant one. Let the holy dews of peace settle upon you and bring the sacred calm an inborn deity would diffuse."
               "Urge me not! I must see this to the end."
               "What is that?"
               "To the finality."
               "What finality? In heaven's name, what do you propose?"
               "Not an act that will injure one hair of his head. Yet the spirit of invincible justice hovers above us. Heaven's wrath must be appeased. I see in visions a fate we go to meet—we two alone, Alexo and I. Your path and mine, Molina, henceforth diverge inexorably, as once before. It was your mission, then! It is mine, now! Trouble me not in its performance, but leave me."
               "Hortense, why would you drive away your only protector?"
               "Dear master, I would it were not needful, but it is. Fear nothing on my account. However much you may mourn, you never shall have cause to blush for your Hortense."
               Unwontedly disturbed, he went away and was lost to my sight for a season.
               Alexo was again on our shores, and magnet-like, he swayed me. Resistless as the sea under the influence of the moon, I followed where I might behold him, and knew by the ashen shadows on his face, by the droop of the heavy eyelids, and a slight muscular contraction about his expressive lips, that he was unhappy. He suffered from that sickness of the soul, born of disappointment, and that plague of helplessness which feebly wars with conscience. God knows, I pitied him.
               Something in my air or step challenged his attention. He stopped and eyed me with a kind of dreamy curiosity; but the plain black robe enveloping me, defying his scrutiny, each of us went a separate way, to meet again, and yet again to part—and it was always thus. Wait and watch—watch and wait—ghost of the living dead!
               Among the elegant loungers and insipid dilettanti who thronged the temples of art to catch a glimpse of the graceful woman, so richly but plainly dressed, there were a thousand conjectures, but she was visible only at the musical soirees of Alexo. She always wore a magnificent camel's hair shawl, the finest, softest and most beautiful in color ever produced from an Oriental loom, and was completely concealed in its voluminous, trailing folds. A black lace scarf was wound negligently around the head, yet refused to betray a single thread of the masses of hair crushed beneath it, and a green silk shade, tied simply across the brows, as if worn to protect the eyes from too much light, precluded all certainty as to that most expressive portion of the face. These articles of apparel, so carelessly worn, did not appear to be, but made a most effectual disguise.
               "Who is she?" "Who can she be?" "A romance, decidedly." "Some princess, in love with our Alexo," were the exclamations passing from lip to lip. Some said that the refinement and nobility of manner, the dignity and unapproachable aristocracy of her mien, were sufficient guarantees of superiority. Rumor, that professes to be cunning in deciphering enigmas, in this, was at fault, and the world was no wiser at the end of the brilliant concerts than at their beginning. Meantime, if any little scandals were Get afloat and blown abroad, it made no difference to the public. Society, sometimes, is very good natured, and the indiscretions of genius are readily overlooked. The illusive scene presents a fair exterior, and the world always delights in a charming mystery. The applause of the multitude still followed Alexo, and his peccadillos, if he had any, were drowned in the tide of popularity.
               From the zenith of his glory, in this season of brilliant success, did he sometimes pause to think of Hortense?
               What if he should fall, now, like a meteor from the blue dome, and be extinguished in the illimitable void?
               Did the projection of the phantom-sphere cast a shadow upon the musical plane? Did Alexo believe it? He heard, also, of the fair unknown, and made some inquiries, in the hope of solving the mystery. He was met with the same reply that silenced others. "A young English lady, nearly blind, passionately fond of music, attended by her father and mother."
               Yes, I, so forlorn, facing solitude in its profoundest sense, had bought, for so many pounds sterling per year, a father and a mother—good people in the main—well enough in style to be parents while the necessity endured, and, knowing nothing of the why or wherefore, they were satisfied to live elegantly, and to obey my wishes implicitly, asking and answering no questions, holding me as precious as the apples of their eyes. Well they might, for I was the good fairy to them.
               
               It was thus that I became a feature of the triumphal career of the Tone-king, like a slave chained to his chariot wheels, yet dark to him as a Nemesis. Alexo began to feel an influence like that of a cold, mysterious shade, which froze him.
               Even now his art-dreams were less vivid. His fingers were uncertain with the terror of the invisible, merciless power. What meant the inequalities and inexplicable failures in his performance? They were puzzling to his critics and admirers. The silent will-magic was supreme.
               Are we, then, subject to be thus played upon by unseen agencies? Aye, we cannot see the wind that rides upon the blind careering clouds, yet we feel its weird, wild strength! Are there subtler forces still, at work—less boisterous, and as viewless as this? Are we clouds, night and darkness? How little do we know! A few contradictory tory myths of the past, a few shallow experiences of ourselves, since sensation has possessed us, but nothing of where the next breath of time may launch our immortal part! No attainable knowledge can show at what moment the clock-like mechanism of life may stay the silent indicator behind the dialplate that marks a—"stop!" We assert our right to life, as if it were an immemorial inheritance, and stalk as sulkily to the end, as though we had a right to its everlasting continuance.
               Alexo betrayed, in his private life, of which I took care to know the main points, that he believed himself haunted by the ghost of a lady, whom, as he confessed, he had not treated well.
               The repentance I looked for was beginning. He said: "I see always her face, with the massive, pale golden hair around it, as she leans like a sorrowing spirit above me. I hear her sweet voice ringing above the music I would evoke, and I shiver with the cold kisses she rains upon me."
               The list of Alexo's engagements was nearly completed. There were a few demands still hanging in the balance for decision. These were from the great world in the west, over the vast lakes, beyond the billowy prairies, on the borders of the broad Mississippi.
               He was recommended to go, as the season and the change might relieve him from haunting visitations.
               East or west, what difference could it make to Hortense? She would be there!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               It was with something of his former elevation of spirit, that Alexo hailed the distant bourne. It seemed possible that he might again be strong in the light of the star of his destiny. When man wilfully puts off the robe of purity, the immaculate orbs estranged from him, retire. My fate was so closely interwoven with his, I could as well have made a world as to stay where he was not, or to delay upon the path he traveled. Away from the possibility of his presence, I was merely a shattered instrument, but the certainty of being where I might behold him, at a precise time, fixed my wandering senses.
               "Was this, then, madness?"
               No! Madness forgets, but I too well re membered the calamity that had befallen me. Did it happen ages ago, pricked into my blood with so keen a venom that there could never be lost a single tone of the mournful coloring? Far off seemed my love, yet so intensely near, I hugged it to my heart, though tortured by the cherishment. Day by day my desire to look on him increased irresistibly. It was like the yearning of the mother over the body of her dead child, as smiling through her tears, she sees how beautiful is the perishing clay.
               In the very desperation of the desire to escape from his spectral visitor, Alexo only intensified the evil. As well might earth strive to roll beyond the burning eye of day, or escape the close embrace of the allpervading ether, as he to attempt the evasion of fatality. His fame had gone before him, and on the evening of his debut in that wide western city, the hall was packed for his reception.
               For the first time, I went to the concert in evening costume, dressed as he had seen me many a time. I waited on purpose until he was about to perform his most difficult morceau. My "parents" had preceded me, taking possession of our reserved seats, in a prominent position near the stage. He was at the instrument when I entered, my father having returned to the door to conduct me to my seat. I was proud of my Tone-king on that night. Seraphs might have hearkened mutely to the rapturous melody. He almost climbed to inspiration. Recalled, he bowed, as was his wont, and his eye-glance searched the house, then flashed with a lightning doubt. He paled, visibly trembled, still gazing at me. The applause was deafening, and aroused him so that he was able to assure himself that no ghost was there.
               
               He rushed from the stage. His manner had attracted the attention of others toward me, and leaving the hall, we speedily retired to our hotel. I knew he would attempt to find me, and had secured myself against that possibility. He renounced his engagement. He was fired with the conviction that as he had seen me, there I must be. Repentance had come, and now was my time. I knew we were close upon that "finality" of which I had spoken to Molina; but in what form it might meet us, my most prophetic moments failed to reveal to me. I longed to be at peace with him. Therefore I wrote—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "You seek in vain one whose name is blotted from the index-page of life. Would you retrieve the past, stay not where you are. One will be waiting for you for a farewell word at the house that was once the home of
                           
                              HORTENSE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Alexo hastened to the trysting-place, and I, also, at the same hour, by the same train.
               I slept uneasily, and dreamed of things most hideous. To escape them I strove to flee away into the hereafter. At length my drifting barque was moored on the confines of the celestial shore. By a subtle force, I was carried on and came into a place full of rivers, whose springs took their rise in the bottom of the rock of eternity. All else was desolation.
               I searched, with trembling eagerness, trembling for a cloud—for the faintest shadow—to come between me and that piercing and incomprehensible light. Not a motion, not a sound greeted my wishful, wondering senses—not the slightest rustling of a leaf, nor soothing murmur, even from the glistening waters. That mother of countless worlds slept stirless in her golden bedded fountains. The motionless glare of brilliant gems streamed up through the translucent stillness, piercing my innermost soul.
               Every particle of matter seemed to be infused with an esoteric power. I trod the soft air, tireless, as if I were walking upon marble.
               No words of accusation reached me. All was voiceless, as if sound and motion had never existed. I could not bear the terrible void, and I fled fast and far, yet my footsteps gave no echo as I moved along the empyrean way, until, at length, the very silence seemed to congeal and coalesce around me, and I became a part of that vacuity. My conscious, sentient being was entombed in immaterial density.
               For myriads of ages, that monstrous desolation seemed to encompass me, like ice, like fire! Yet it was comparable to nothing! I knew that I was drifting in the chaos of orbs yet unpronounced by the fiat of eternal will, and that this was a punishment for wandering from my place on the earth before the angel of God had called me.
               The days and years were countless in their procession. Still was I in the measureless immensity of inconceivable woe. Then a far-off sound thrilled the air, and there came the vibrating thunders from the march of gigantic action. Anon, a Titan's arm hurled me forward to a new destiny. A breathless pause was followed by a crashing din—and lo! I was awake and upon the earth.
               I had dreamed of destruction, and it was all around me, for a terrible collision had demolished the train! Cries of anguish were on the air. The maimed, the dying and the dead strewed the bare earth, a ghastly spectacle. Where was Alexo? Distracted, I sought for, and at last I found him. With cries that might have ascended to heaven and claimed its pity for my anguish, I lifted his mutilated form. He was dying!"
               I hushed my cries to catch his last whisper. "Oh to redeem the past!" he said, and the words echoed from the depths of my affliction—"Oh, to redeem the past!"
               Too late! too late! We kissed each other in token of forgiveness. I drank his lingering sigh, and received into my brain the last faint tremor of electric light that flitted from his expiring soul. With convulsive strength I clasped him in my arms. I could not believe that he would speak no more. How could I live? The settling frame—the head drooping heavily backward, and the rigid repose of death revealed the truth too palpably.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               There was an interim in my life, during which neither memories nor hopes had place.
               From an unconscious state, I awoke to almost infantile recognition of the present, and gradually looked for the routine of daily attentions rendered by gentle hands, while mild faces bent lovingly over me. Yet they seemed to be like faint remembrances.
               I was more helpless than a babe. That can cry out for succor; but utterance was beyond me.
               They laid upon my smileless lips drops of nectar, that melted upon them, and nourished and strengthened me, refreshingly, from day to day. So, bruised in heart, I was struggling back out of a dying state that had been long protracted. As the ability to resume sume thought returned, I wondered if I really had died, and if mine was a new being in some bright mansion of the blest, beyond the old grey twilights and rosy dawns of that other rolling sphere, called the world! But, oh! it came full soon! Reason resumed her empire! A flood of painful recollections, toils, duties and failures thrust themselves on my affrighted memory.
               The heroism of life does not altogether consist in living through heavy and bitter trials. It is seen in the ability to endure, when the crisis has passed and the fires have burned out, nothing remaining but charred cinders and choking ashes. In the awful lull and sombre solitude that succeed the storm, we realize the uses of adversity, and profit by the terrible lessons graven upon the memory.
               I was self-rebuked for my utter uselessness. I had done nothing in these twenty years of what might have been beautiful life, with its host of opportunities, except to follow my impulses, and to be swayed by the devices of my own restless heart.
               Thus had I been led to the brink of the grave, and the ruins of wasted years would be vast impediments to my returning feet, while seeking the better way.
               I had been carried to my southern home by those who hoped that the scenes of my childhood might serve to arouse me from my deathly apathy. It was months before their anticipations were realized. Then, the old common mercies of life, so frequently overlooked, began to awaken within me a renewal of every-day interests. Yet the languid limbs refused their office.
               There came a moment, when I seemed to have a prescience of something doing—some thing to be done. The magnetic links of outward things thrilled through my torpid brain. What could those sounds portend—the booming of cannon, the ringing of bells, and shouts of an excited multitude? I arose from my languor for the first time in—how long I knew not! It seemed that it might have been years, instead of months. Volition so far aided me. Then my hands were strongly clasped, and both the gentle faces I had found difficulty in recognizing, flashed at once on my recollection.
               "Dear master, dear Mrs. Lacy—what day is it? What is the world about?"
               Mrs. Lacy endeavored to turn aside the inquiries, fearing the effect of the news at such a time; but my master, who well knew that sudden effects sometimes are beneficial, argued that a shock might be the very thing to change the whole current of my feelings, and make me whole again.
               He was right. It was the day of the passing of the secession ordinance in the city of my forefathers. So, the reign of revolution began.
               Molina, with his republican soul on fire, was anxious to act according to his highest conceptions of truth. He who had already been baptized in the blood of revolution, had been waiting patiently for me, an invalid girl, to re-assert myself and give him God speed.
               While we talked, there broke ever between the pauses, mingling shouts and acclamations, and the brazen throated bugles pealed out the glorious strains of the "Marseillaise."
               I fell back on my pillows and rested for a moment. The excitement was reviving me, while the master explained many things that I had never before thought upon, or if so, only vaguely. It did me good to think; and when I saw how much I had to do, I regretted the long lapse that illness had made in my activity.
               
               "Dear master," I said, "to-morrow I shall emancipate every slave left on my late grandfather's estates."
               The master replied: "It will be a most praiseworthy and important act, Hortense."
               "Nay, although it would be selfish, mean and base to neglect it, as it is a simple act of duty, it merits no laudation. What right have I to these men and women, who do not belong even to themselves, any more than I belong to them, or to myself, since we are all simply God's children?"
               Two of the trustees of my property, as I supposed they would—fiercely combatted the determination. I was independent. Why should I not do as I pleased?
               They argued—"Do you know what an immense property you are throwing away?"
               I replied: "I suppose a few hundred thousand dollars or so, with the amount I mean to pay to each person who has been kept at work so many years for my benefit. Then each may be able to gain an honest livelihood. The feeble servants I shall pension for life, and keep them here if they wish to remain."
               The trustees finally acknowledged my right to dispose of the property as I saw fit, issuing a protest, in the shape of a declaration that it was a sin and a shame to see the splendid estate left by Mr. Pierre Bravoure thus thrown away by a half crazy girl. Thus, murmuring over my unpardonable eccentricity, they left me to despoil myself at my own pleasure, and all were made free from that hour.
               Meantime the nation assumed a more antagonistic attitude. The war commenced, amid the roar of the first cannon fired upon Sumter. I foresaw through the wreath of the battle-shroud, work for women as well as for men. There must be no more idling, no more weakness. Deep thunder tones called me to my labor, and my name was written upon the roll of action.
               The palmetto flag was waving over every turret and spire of the city of my fathers.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               While the pealing artillery in Charleston harbor went rolling across the continent, my master was preparing for his departure.
               "Hortense," he earnestly urged, "there will be severe trials to be encountered. Let me prevail upon you to go with me."
               "Dear master, by every call of duty and humanity am I constrained to remain. Here the soldier may need the Samaritan spirit and the woman's care. Should a war ensue, indeed, I would devote myself, body and soul, and substance to the needful work."
               "Ah, I fear for you, Hortense. With your electric temperament, you may experience the severest trials."
               "Where would be my justification should I shrink from any demands of the time. Ought I not to share, in some measure, and to the extent of my ability, in the toil, the task, and the pain of my brothers of men? It is but little, at best, that woman can do for the aid of a struggling nation, yet were it only to bear a draught of water in answer to the cry of one poor sufferer, in the moment of his sharp extremity, the benison breathed from his lips would be an assurance that my resolution is prompted by wisdom."
               "Oh, cara figlia, you know not what you would undertake. You are too delicate—too sensitively organized for the task you would impose upon yourself. You would faint under the incessant sympathies excited by the scenes of a battle field."
               "No, master, the indomitable qualities of my spirit will sustain me under the most trying ordeal. Trust me!"
               "I see that you are determined. God keep you, my darling. Although I leave you for the chances of uncertain war—I, possibly, for the field—you, perhaps, for the no less dangerous post in the soldier's hospital, yet some angel whispers, 'all will be well'—we shall meet again in a happier day. I would, if I might, throw around you the ægis of a husband's protection; but since you hesitate, through the most sacred of reasons, which increases both my respect and love for you, I rest in promises which smile upon me from the future."
               "In the fullness of time and by means of many orisons, a season of active and unselfish usefulness may prepare me to enter upon so high a station as that of your wife."
               Prior to this interview, I had been deeply impressed and affected by Molina's declarations, and was taken by surprise when he proposed our immediate union. I did not dote on him with that intensity of passion that had bound me to Alexo, but I owed to him an immeasurable debt of gratitude and affection, that attached me to him more closely than to any other being. Yet the considerations I had urged for delay still pressed upon me, as of paramount importance.
               Molina's military education was such that his services might be demanded at the onset of the war, and he hastened to join the army, while I proceeded, with Mrs. Lacy, who was my inseparable companion, to begin our work for the hospitals, or in whatever way woman's ministrations might be most required. In the fulfilment of our duties, we traveled from State to State.
               There was warlike preparation everywhere, and the awful but sublime stillness that precedes the eve of a great battle, found us at last patient and silent watchers for the eventful hour. The hail of fire and the rain of blood began, and those who fell wounded, side by side, friends and foes, the citizen soldiers of our common country, were borne to the temporary shelter, where all shared alike in such tender offices as could be bestowed by their faithful nurses.
               In the course of the civil strife, with the experiences which time and opportunity had given us, we were transferred from hospital to hospital, till we became identified with the Northern camps. Now we preferred to mark out our own career, and, under military cognizance and acceptance, always pursued a comparatively independent course, ever ready to do all necessary work in places where few women had the hardihood to venture.
               Whether in the hospital, preparing food for the sick, or teaching the liberated African that freedom is not the liberty of license, my life was so continuously concentrated on our work, that had it not been for strength imparted from heaven, I must have sunk under the burthen of my duties.
               
               There were farewell words, uttered with difficulty by lips almost cold with death, to be registered and sent to those waiting at home for news from the beloved husband, father or son—news to chill the young and to break the aged heart. There was always enough to do for willing hands and earnest minds, in a time when every soldier fought as though peace depended on his single arm, and every nurse cared for the sick and wounded as if she were the only woman appointed to the work.
               Sometimes, for a moment, I had glimpses of my beloved Molina, as he rode upon his charger at the head of the troops. The spirit, power and intellectual dignity stamped upon his features, made him resplendent even among the many brilliant officers around him.
               Few opportunities were ours to speak together, but we understood each other through that language, which, though mute, is full of eloquence to those who comprehend it.
               In the valley of the Chickahominy, at the battles of Cedar Mountain, Chantilly, and Fredericksburg, and along the dusky roads of Maryland, to where two armies lay facing each other on the hills that bound the valley of Antietam—in the fearful conflict of the Wilderness—there, on that waste of danger, where those who fought seemed to be rather demi-gods than men, we moved with the great army of the wounded.
               To describe those fields of blood would now be purposeless. All that is of agony I saw, and myriads of martyr-crowns glittered on my up-raised eyes, as I breathed my prayers for the dying.
               We were engaged in our labors at Petersburg, when the long fratricidal strife was brought to a close by the surrender at Richmond; and when all was done that could be accomplished in behalf of the helpless sufferers, who had fought for the great quell, we folded our tents, and returned to our old home in New York.
               There we took a long, quiet rest, and I prepared myself for the momentous hour that united me to him who had waited so long for his happiness—whom I am still proud and glad to call my master, my lover and my husband—sans peur et sans reproche.
               
            
         
      
   
